-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Skate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/skate/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Trick and control system is unique and a lot of fun.
 Good graphics and animation help make the game feel a bit more realistic.
 Decent voice acting and choice sound effects.
 Community features make sharing your exploits easy and fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some challenges make demands that are a little too specific for the analog trick system.
 Online events often clump too many skaters into too small a space.
 Load times and menu animations often get in the way of your skating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 65 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 3,953 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Black Box
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Sep 14, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Skate's analog trick system is revolutionary for the genre, but the game surrounding those mechanics 
 isn't quite as good. 

  Plenty of skateboarding games have come and gone in the years since the long-running Tony Hawk 
 franchise reinvented the skateboarding game. Most failed because they simply attempted to duplicate 
 the arcadelike fast-moving gameplay of Activision's series. After running unopposed for years, 
 Activision's got some new competition in the form of Skate from Electronic Arts. At times, this 
 simulation-styled skating game feels like it was built from the ground up to be the anti-Tony Hawk, 
 and aside from both games taking place on skateboards, the two don't have a whole lot in common. 
 This is largely thanks to Skate's very cool control system, which puts all of the meaningful controls 
 on the controller's two analog sticks and triggers. It's an awesome system that makes tricks feel 
 more involved and entertaining. Unfortunately, you'll be applying this control scheme to a series 
 of challenges and goals that aren't quite as good.  

           If you mess this trick up, be prepared to see a color-coded list of the bones you've broken. 

  Skate puts your skater movement onto the left analog stick. The right analog stick controls how 
 you move and flip your skateboard to do tricks. For a simple ollie, you hold down on the stick 
 to crouch then snap it up to jump into the air. Kickflips and heelflips are accomplished if you 
 come up slightly left or right of center. Shuvits happen when you hit down to crouch, then roll 
 the stick around to the side and up to the top. These are the basic tricks, but they get significantly 
 more complicated. The triggers are used for your left and right hands, so when you're in the air, 
 you can use these buttons to perform grabs. Once you've grabbed onto the board, you can tweak it 
 around with the right stick for different types of grabs. It's an instantly intuitive system with 
 the depth to keep you going for some time, but it isn't perfect. A lot of the tricks are done in 
 extremely similar ways. So when some goals call for specific tricks, like a Nollie 360 Flip, you 
 might find yourself attempting the trick again and again, only to have some other trick come out. 
 This gets totally frustrating in spots, especially in S. K. A. T. E. competitions, where you have to 
 duplicate someone else's trick exactly to stay in the game.  

  Grinding in Skate is as simple as lining yourself up with a rail or curb, getting airborne, and 
 landing on the grindable edge. Well, it sounds simple on paper, anyway. In practice, you'll have 
 to really work to line yourself up because the default camera is a low, off-to-the-side angle meant 
 to duplicate the look of a dude following you on his own board, holding a video camera the whole 
 time. Your skater is large on the screen, meaning he'll block a lot of your view; he doesn't seem 
 to become transparent often enough to let you get a clear view of the action at all times. Also, 
 Skate is very big on timing. The height of your ollies or other tricks is dependent on how long 
 you crouch and how fast you snap the stick up. It'll take some time before you're hitting every 
 rail, flipping in and out, or landing in manuals all over the place. The whole system is also purely 
 skill-based. You don't receive skater statistic boosts, unlock new tricks, or the like. Everything 
 is available right off the bat. The only stat that increases is your own personal skill with the 
 sticks.  

  There's a loose story to Skate's career mode. It opens with you getting slammed by a bus and going 
 in for surgery. This justifies the way you can reconfigure your skater's face and body type in 
 the typical EA style of analog sliders. Once you're back on your feet, you're out to get noticed, 
 so it's time to start recording footage and winning events. The different goals in the game give 
 you some variety, but you'll have to get good at all of them if you want to get to the top. Because 
 you're trying to get covered by two different skateboarding magazines, you'll have to complete 
 a lot of photo goals, which ask you to perform specific tasks on specific objects. Some of the 
 tasks are simple, like reaching certain point scores, while others will demand that you pull off 
 longer grinds, flip specific tricks into grinds, or land in manuals. You'll also encounter multiskater 
 competitions, such as timed battles for the most points, best trick contests, or slalomlike downhill 
 races. There are also free-form footage goals, where you're given a set of tasks that must be performed 
 within 30 seconds. The catch is that you can do these anywhere, so half of the process is figuring 
 out which part of the city is conducive to your task. Some of them require you to skate in no-skate 
 zones, which are patrolled by security guards who will push you over if they catch you. Some require 
 you to do huge grinds, do a lot of spins, remain in the air for 10 seconds, and so on. The film 
 goals are probably the trickiest ones in the entire game.  

  As you make your way through the game, you'll open up additional skate spots within the city, including 
 such indoor locations as the Plan B Warehouse and the X Games Stadium. Aside from entering these 
 indoor locations, you can skate around the city without seeing a loading screen. But if you decide 
 to warp right to a location, you'll see some somewhat lengthy load screens. The distance that you 
 can warp without loading also seems a little random. Some goals have you skate long rails or cover 
 what doesn't seem like that much ground, but if you try to warp back to the other side of the goal, 
 it'll stop and load. When you're stuck on a goal and trying it again and again, the loading becomes 
 really grating, as do the unskippable menu animations that pop up when you fail a film goal. This 
 all sounds like small stuff, but it really gets magnified when you're stuck trying the same thing 
 over and over.  

  In addition to the career mode, you can play several multiplayer events, such as jam, which is 
 a timed session that is won by the highest scorer. For these events, the city gets broken down 
 into smaller areas. A couple of jam locations are in fairly small areas, like residential-sized 
 pools. When the game sticks you into these spots and there are six players in the game, it just 
 becomes chaos. This is because there isn't enough room to skate and you're left constantly bumping 
 into other skaters, which isn't much fun at all. You can also play S. K. A. T. E., get into best trick 
 contests, races, and so on. The online performance can be a little spotty and seems to really depend 
 on the connection speeds of the other players, as well as your own. This means that one player 
 with a slow connection speed can bring the whole game down. In a game that's so focused on accurate 
 timing, it's pretty lame to randomly drop into slow motion. But when it's all working, it's decent. 

  There is also a community aspect to Skate. You can use a replay editor to capture video footage 
 of your performances or snap screenshots at any point and share them publicly. These can then be 
 viewed through a menu in the game or through the game's Web site, which is nice because the person 
 you want to show your skating exploits to doesn't need a copy of the game to see them. These items 
 can be rated and commented on, which is a sharp idea that expands on the sorts of things that EA 
 has done in the past with Burnout or some of its sports games. The only catch is that, as of this 
 writing, the Web site is sluggish and pretty buggy, making it hard to navigate, as well as see 
 the best footage.  

  Visually, Skate has a realistic look to it that fits with the overall atmosphere of the game. The 
 skaters look good and the animation is great, though a few of the up-close talking segments that 
 show polygonal versions of real-life skaters look a little weird. It all runs at a solid speed 
 that really makes you feel like you're booking when you're in some of the downhill races.  

  Like other sports games, Skate is filled with plenty of sponsored equipment and other product 
 placement. For the most part, it feels fine; getting sponsored by board and shoe companies is an 
 integral part of the game's career mode and that part never feels too salesy. But it crosses the 
 line in a few spots, like whenever you meet a pro skater. It shows that skater skating a line, 
 doing some nice tricks, but then it also zooms up to give you a very deliberate view of his skateboard, 
 trucks, wheels, and shoes, flashing the sponsor logos on the screen all the while. Also, there's 
 a weird bit of reverse product placement in the game because EA and Adidas teamed up to produce 
 some limited-edition shoes. These are introduced and advertised in the game, complete with promotion 
 codes that get you $50 off on them when you beat the skaters that endorse them. It's awfully blatant, 
 but it's actually pretty unique. It helps that the shoes are sort of rad. The game also downloads 
 new ads for billboards and other surfaces as you play, though there aren't enough different ads, 
 resulting in some cases where you'll see the same stupid billboard 10 times as you skate up a single 
 street.  

           After you edit your replay, you can put it online for others to view and rate.      

 
  The soundtrack is a really weird mix of music that doesn't actually play through most of the game. 
 On the default settings, music is ambient. This means that whenever you get close to a skate-friendly 
 spot, where skaters might gather and actually have a radio, you'll start to faintly hear music 
 coming from the direction of the spot. If you like, you can set it to directly play the music, 
 but most of the soundtrack is a little sketchy, and the way the game opens with Booker T &amp; 
 The MG's "Green Onions"  every single time  you load up the game makes you feel like you're turning 
 on some awful Jim Belushi movie rather than getting ready to play a realistic skateboarding game. 

  Aside from the weird soundtrack, the in-game audio is really great. There are lots of great skateboarding 
 noises, especially the way the wheels skid when you do powerslides or land hard and turn. The game 
 also has something like color commentary, which comes from the invisible kid that's "holding" the 
 in-game camera. He'll call out to other pros as you pass by, congratulate you on good trick lines, 
 comment when you stack and break some bones, or impatiently whine when you set the controller down 
 then walk away. His presence is pretty good and gives the game some personality.  

  While Skate has a handful of issues that hold it back, it has an absolute ton of potential. It's 
 a great first start for what hopefully will become a regular franchise. With some more refinement 
 and a few more things to do, this could probably be the best skateboarding game around. It's definitely 
 worth playing, if only to get your hands on the trick system, but if you're stingy with your money, 
 you could probably get enough out of it with a rental.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (320 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: paseko
Rating: 0
Date: Apr 13, 2009 2:34 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murj
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 3:33 pm PT
Review:  As next gen gaming cam around, it wasn't just the graphics that became revolutionised. The way 
 games are played has changed and that couldn't be more true for EA's Skate.
  
  In Skate you control a skateboarder who has just come out of hospital after suffering a horrific 
 accident while skating. Magically fixed by your doctors, you naturally go back to what nearly killed 
 you in the first place. Your goal is to make a name for yourself in the world of skateboarding, 
 which is set in lovely San Vanelona. San Van is a big, big city comprised of four main parts. Each 
 part of the city has it's own theme whether it's big hills or plazas. As well as skating everywhere 
 (which is great to do because venturing upon your own private spot and continuously trying to own 
 it is great fun) , San Van offers a subway system which lets you travel to any part of the city 
 for free. Otherwise in your backpack you can select the map to hop to any part of San Van you'd 
 like. This might eventually become your main means of transport if you don't like skating up hills.
 
  
  Advancing in this game means winning all the contests, owning spots and getting footage. By doing 
 all this you attract the attention of sponsors. This advances the game, unlocks new items and gives 
 you extra cash bonuses if you wear and use the merchandise supplied by your sponsor if you win 
 challenges, events or own spots.
  
  The heart of Skate is in it's control system where you use your left and right analog stick, combined 
 with the left and right trigger for the bulk of the controls. Your left stick directs you, while 
 your right stick controls the board. Different rotations and flicks of right stick will allow you 
 to perform different tricks, or tweak your grab moves if you're already using a trigger. Although 
 the feel is far more realistic than the Tony Hawk series, it still feels a bit exaggerated which 
 in all fairness does make the game better.
  
  Manuals and grinds are also possible with the analog sticks. By slowly leaning backwards or forwards 
 on your right analog stick, you can perform manuals. Just be careful manualing down hills. Grinds 
 are as easy as lining yourself up to the rail and ollying onto them. By holding your right stick 
 in a certain direction, you can control what sort of grind you'd like to pull off. 
  
  As with most games, you'd expect the difficulty to gradually increase as you play. This is the 
 same with Skate however, it really does crank it up. Which is where the problems start. Because 
 many challenges have specific requirements and because many tricks are similar to eachother; the 
 challenges can become quite tricky. There are no stats either, so the only thing that can get you 
 past each challenge is by practising. Practice makes perfect so they say; this should be on the 
 back of the game. If you have the time devoted to playing this game then you will be rewarded. 
 However if you do not have the luxury of playing your 360 as much as you'd like to then this game 
 may become a chore.
  
  After a while where I couldn't complete challenges I just started finding my own private spots 
 to skate at. Allow me to say this. Trying to skate the perfect line over and over again if just 
 as much fun as (if not even more fun than) completing the story. Owning in-game spots are cool 
 but when you find your own private spot it's that much sweeter. Best part is, once you've done 
 your line or had a massive bail or even something amazingly stupid you want other people to see 
 then you can edit and upload your replay to Xbox Live. Other people will be able to see you owning 
 your private spot, getting wrecked by cars or whatever. However, even this becomes a chore after 
 a while; so if you get bored of this and can't finish the story then the game can become stale 
 pretty quickly.
  
  Online play is also pretty good with different races and events for you to play, ranked and unranked 
 alike. Skate definitely has one of the tightest online communities around, although it's one of 
 the smallest.
  
  EA Skate is an interesting step in a new direction for the skateboarding genre, one which I'd love 
 to see develop. If you have enough time on your hands to practice and master this game then I'm 
 sure you'll have nothing but good times. But if like many people you simply don't have the time 
 then completing this game may seem like a distant dream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VivaKatimari
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Skate is a more realistic side of tony hawk. The game play is very innovated, you use the left 
 stick to move and then the right stick to do a trick and this actually very fun. Some times tricks 
 are very similar but you get the feel after a wile. When you bail you get to see what happen to 
 your bones witch is cool. The graphics are pretty good very detailed. The character customization 
 is not very good but that doesn't mean anything to me, there no very long hair for those kids stuck 
 in the past. The sounds are cool you can hear your bones shater and crack on impact and surrender 
 by cheap trick is in this game. The opening is Quite funny. One problem i had was this game is 
 very easy and short you could finish the missons in about 10 hours. The online bothered me no open 
 world free skate just one area like tony hawk. Overall skate. is a very good game any skater or 
 extreme sports fan would enjoy.
  The Good:
  The Graphics a Good
  Game Play is innovated
  The Opening Scenes Cool
  Seeing the bones you break is entertaining
 
  Hearing bones crack sounds awesome
  The Bad:
  Online could be More
  Bad Character Customization
  Very Easy
  Too Short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareEnixFan13
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 11, 2009 2:26 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: deonne123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Firstly i put 100 hours + just cause i rented it and played it at my friends now.
  This game is NOTHING like Tony Hawk it doesn't try to be Tony Hawk it tries to be itself and it 
 works. To do ollies, flip tricks you flick the right thumb stick.
  To move use the left thumbstick. To grab use the left or right trigger ( the big thing on the back 
 i forget what it's called) . It shows you a ''long/mini'' intro. Then you choose to do a tortourial 
 then you do whatever. You can juat skate arround or do missions, some of the missions i remember 
 are
  s. k. a. t. e - it's pretty fun and the nailed the feeling of the intencity of playing s. k. a. t. e.
 
  races - they're fun but i SUCK at them. :P
  photo shoots-they're fun my favorite mission. ( If you count them )
  lines- Idn if it's called 
 lines ( I call them lines ) but they have you do tricks and grinds in a time limit or something 
 and i DO NOT like doing them.
  
  Mi favorite thing (s) to do personly are ( In the game )
  freeskate 
  breakbones
  
  Graphics - really good 8.5/10
  Controls - they take getting use 
 to but they're better then Tony Hawk 9/10
  Gameplay - It's smooth sometimes it doesn't feel right but it's good 8/10
  Story - I can't explain 
 8/10
  Sound Effects - It really sounds like skateboarding but the voices can seem Blah somethimes 9.5/10
 
  Soundtrack - They put great music in this 10/10
  
  OVERALL 8.5/10
  BTW i didnt calculate.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjstokes85
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 1:28 am PT
Review:  I am not a real skater, although, i do love to watch, and am fascinated by real skateboarding. 
 There is an art to it, an addictive quality that when you set out to do a trick, you must do it, 
 no matter how many times you fail. Skate captures that so well. Real skating is not about nailing 
 a trick first time, it's about falling off your board 40 times, getting closer and closer to perfecting 
 that trick, then finally doing it, and feeling a huge sense of accomplishment. That is what skateboarding 
 is, and that is what skate is.
  
  Back in the day i was a Tony Hawks fan, i loved the early games, 1,2,3 and 4, but as time went 
 on, the game lost it's way. It just wasn't fun anymore. Skate brings the fun back. The use of the 
 analogue stick to do tricks is a simple, yet superb concept. It makes mastering the harder tricks 
 very tough. But that is skating! The hard tricks are, well, hard.
  
  The story in the game is predictable, your rise to skating fame from a nobody, but it is done well. 
 The challenges are varied, some easier than others, some are very hard, but that is where you require 
 patience. If you have no patience you can forget completing the story mode of this game and just 
 hit up the free skate instead.
  
  There is plenty to do, plenty of hot skating spots that can be unlocked (and trust me, the further 
 you get through the story, the better the unlocks) .
  
  The graphics in Skate are superb, the menus are solid and the sounds are particularly impressive.
 
  
  What is bad about skate? Well it is hard to find too much wrong, but the frame rate can sometimes 
 drop, and the game will stutter, but this for me has been rare. It can get frustrating at times 
 to do challenges, but for me that is part of the fun.
  
  Make sure you use your sessions marker, an excellent feature that allows you to virtually "save" 
 a spot you were stood in and instantly go back to it. This is very handy when for example you are 
 trying to grind a rail on some steps and there is no way back up to the top other than a long trip 
 around the back of a building. The session marker can be set at the top of the steps so if you 
 bail you can instantly go back to the top and try again.
  
  Skate is a game you need to play over and over to perfect. You WILL eventually be able to nail 
 those hard tricks, it takes time, practice and LOTS of patience.
  
  I can not comment on the online play as i am not a gold xbox live subscriber, but i am sure it 
 is just as much, if not more fun than single player.
  
  Skate is a masterpiece of modern gaming, anyone remotely interested in skating should play this 
 game!
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottishSk8tr
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 27, 2009 12:36 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: shahster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a fairly good game, I wouldn't say it is excellent but I will say it is a bit under excellent. 
 I'm going to explain the good and the one and only bad thing. 
  
  So, I think I've gotten tired from the tony hawk's series for around about 10 years and I've been 
 dying for a new skate game. I'm pretty much saying the Tony Hawk's series has gotten boring. Ok 
 now getting straight to the game skate. The good thing about skate is that the graphics is not 
 bad. Usually with other skating games the graphics, I haven't seen it better than skate. Another 
 thing is you get a lot of time to spend time with pros like pro challenges, game of S. K. A. T. E. 
 and pro sponsor films. You also have a lot of variety with films and getting the coverage of the 
 two magazines: Thrasher and the skateboard magazine. Throughout the game you have to death races, 
 jams, the best skate, etc... Another objective that other skateboarding games don't have is the 
 mega ramps or the X games. So that is something that people I've seen is very entertained with 
 and I agree it is very fun to play n the X games. I think that is all about what's the good points 
 that make skate a really good game.
  
  No the bad, there is only one bad thing that I get annoyed and would like to point out about skate:
 
  ...... Sometimes the game usually just freezes and that is really annoying when you are doing a 
 very hard mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnd56
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2009 11:03 am PT
Review:  I don't think I have much to say about this game, you have to get it for yourself, but I will try. 
 Tony Hawk has been the skating behemoth for many years, and it took just one EA game to take it 
 down. Skate is the realistic experience that both gamers and skaters alike have been waiting for! 
 Instead of pressing some stupid button combo to get a hardflip, you have to do it yourself, with 
 the revolutionary "flick it" controls. To get an ollie (jump for skating game newbies) you simply 
 hold the right analog stick down, and flick it up as fast as you can. You also have to flick it 
 opposite for nollie (front bend jump for skating game newbies) , and in many different directions 
 for flips. You also must just barely push the stick up or down for a nose/manual. This is hard 
 at the start, but in a while, you will get it. This game makes you feel freaking awesome after 
 a simple combo, unlike TH. In TH, you could land a 900 mctwist, and be like, "meh, what do I have 
 to do next," when, in skate, if you landed a blunt grind on a high ledge, and jumped off with a 
 hardflip, you would be like, "Oh, my gosh, I can't believe I pulled that off!" Besides the skating 
 mechanics, which are all the game is really about, it has good graphics, a good soundtrack, and 
 completely awesome levels!! Also, there is this thing that you get in career mode if you bail hard 
 enough, called Hall of Meat, which will show the bones you break. This game is currently owning 
 the sports games, incase you don't know, and it is definately the best skating game ever, even 
 if there is an annoying cameraman that folllows you all the time, and yaps all the time, it is 
 worth your money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5iveO
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 10:34 am PT
Review:  To start of with i'm not the biggest skateboarding fan but I think this game is really great, theres 
 plenty to be getting on with and a good storyline throughout... such as getting yourself sponsership 
 deals on clothing and equipment plus getting pictures of your tricks in magazines.
  I was hoping this game would be similar to the great '' Tony Hawk's Pro skater 2 '' on the PS2 
 but this game is alot better and more challenging.
  The graphics and animations are superb and there's a smooth feel to the game as you skate around.
 
  
  It is a rather difficult to master at first with the controls for flips and jumps for grinds all 
 being made by flicking the analogue stick, but once you get to grips with it , it is truly a great 
 game.
  
  I haven't had chance to try the online functions but i'm sure they wont disapoint, I recommend 
 this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamnessie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Skate definitely changes skateboarding games and put the nail in Tony Hawk's coffin.
  
  It starts out with a your skater getting hit by a bus. Then a great FMV with all of the pros in 
 the game in different roles (my favorite is Chris Haslam online shopping) all being shown while 
 you're being taken to the hospital.
  After you arrive the nurse asks you to enter all of your info into a T-Mobile Sidekick in the first 
 of many blatant products placements.
  
  The story is pretty generic for a skating game: you have challenges, contests, photo shoots, etc.
 
  But you don't really play skating and sports games for the story do you?
  
  Graphics are okay. 
  Everything looks nice from far but up close... not so much. Bushes and trees 
 are actually flat, you can't see your reflection in glass, and the 'make everything shiny' rule 
 applies here. 
  Your character looks good but not any of the people in the surrounding world. There are only about 
 8 different people models in the worlds, so get used to looking at the same people.
  The map is another thing. Pathways and areas show up on it that aren't actually there. So if you 
 see a long path, there could be actually be a wall or bush.
  
  i enjoyed most of the soundtrack. The menu loading music is a muzac piano version of other songs, 
 "Give It To Me Baby" by Rick James and NWA's "Express Yourself" are 2 examples. "Express Yourself" 
 was actually in Tony Hawk 4 if anyone remembers.
  The filmer has great comments on when you get injured an after awhile it's the same old stuff over 
 and over. But before it gets old, he does have a lot of different things to say depending on the 
 situation.
  
  Gameplay:
  the trick system, Flick It is what's really important in this game. 
  It works out perfectly 
 but it does take a long time to get used to and is nowhere as simple as other skate games. 
  One big problem is you long for the ability to get off your board like in the last 5 Tony Hawk 
 games. You get caught in the middle of areas that can be impossible to get out of. It's really 
 annoying and is nothing like the realism they're trying to portray.
  They did try making a realistic game which means you can fall 100 feet without crashing. Physics 
 are pretty realistic. If you're going fast, you can easily lose control and fly into a wall.
  
  This game reminds me alot of a new millenium version of Rockstar's Thrasher: Skate and Destroy. 
 i loved that game just because of the realism of the tricks.
  If realism without a 50 trick combo sounds good to you, try it.
  This is indeed a realistic sports 
 game like Madden rather than a Blitz.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssf4gnarlybrown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Skate is one of the most amazing things since sliced bread. I don't know what that means but i 
 heard one of my teachers say it the other day. Anyways, Skate revolutionized the way skateboarding 
 video games should be made. In career mode, you start out as a character that recently got injured 
 and had lots of surgery. Your character skates in a place called San Vanelona, which is a skateboarding 
 mecca. You first begin actually skating like your character doesn't know how to skate (because 
 of the injury) and you must learn all the basics again. After that, you start getting challenges 
 that you must complete in order to get further in the game. You slowly work your way up to become 
 a pro skater and become one of the legends of San Vanelona. 
  
  The creators of Skate also invented the Flick-It system, in which you use your right analog stick 
 to make the board flip. For example, if you are skating regular footed in the game and flick it 
 down and up to the right, you will do a heelflip. This is much simpler and more realistic than 
 in Tony Hawk where you have to push A then press X and move your stick to the right just to do 
 a heelflip.
  
  The only problems that i see with this game that aren't being changed for Skate 2 are that it's 
 somewhat difficult to get used to and when the game loads it takes awhile. The Flick-It system 
 is undoubtedly more realistic than Tony Hawk's gameplay, but it can be difficult to get used to. 
 In career mode, you must do some tasks that require you to do a specific trick like in Paul Rodriguez's 
 sponsorship challenge. You must do a nollie tre flip (360 flip) to a grind on a hubba. Luckily, 
 if you just press select and move down to the Trickbook in your backpack, you can see exactly how 
 to do tricks. In Skate, you can't get off your board, you can't move objects around, you can't 
 be a girl, and you can't do handplants, bonelesses, no complys, fingerflips, hippie jumps (hippie 
 flips are in Skate but they are very hard to do) , and some grabs. However, all of these aspects 
 have been added to Skate 2 which is being released January 21 of 2009. I have also heard that the 
 slow loading problem has been fixed for Skate 2 as well but i haven't heard of an official confirmation 
 on that yet. 
  
  Despite these problems, Skate was one of the best games of late 2007 and all of 2008 in my opinion. 
 It is extremely addictive once you get used to it. I play it all the time and i'm still not bored 
 with it, even though i can't wait for Skate 2 to come out. If you haven't played the game yet and 
 you have XBOX Live, download the demo. If you like the game and can't wait until January 21st, 
 then buy Skate, beat it, and buy Skate 2 on the 21st. If you don't have XBOX Live then i would 
 recommend renting it from your local video rental store or waiting until Skate 2 comes out. Whichever 
 case applies to you, i am sure that you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zswish
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Skate is a game that you can just pick up and play. Within a matter of hours you can be popping 
 360 flips onto feebles and get that oh-so-warm feeling of satisfaction. I don't know what it is 
 about skate. It's just an immersive, innovative experience that lets you actually nearly feel like 
 you're on a real skateboard. Being a skateboarder myself, I should be the one to judge. The online 
 play is great, and the amazing introduction of recording videos makes it feel like you're the one 
 going out there, getting footy, and making your way up the ranks. To sum it all up, there isn't 
 really anything I can complain about, except for the fact that we can't get off the board, but 
 in Skate 2 they're supposed to be fixing that. For now, just hop on the wagon, or you can wait, 
 of course, because Skate 2 is coming out in January, which will be a definite cop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skillplox
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Skate is a game that you can just pick up and play. Within a matter of hours you can be popping 
 360 flips onto feebles and get that oh-so-warm feeling of satisfaction. I don't know what it is 
 about skate. It's just an immersive, innovative experience that lets you actually nearly feel like 
 you're on a real skateboard. Being a skateboarder myself, I should be the one to judge. The online 
 play is great, and the amazing introduction of recording videos makes it feel like you're the one 
 going out there, getting footy, and making your way up the ranks. To sum it all up, there isn't 
 really anything I can complain about, except for the fact that we can't get off the board, but 
 in Skate 2 they're supposed to be fixing that. For now, just hop on the wagon, or you can wait, 
 of course, because Skate 2 is coming out in January, which will be a definite cop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philbox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  This game is way better than any skateboarding game ever made its more realisting fun and everything 
 how is this game rated a 7.5 it is STUPID!!!!!!! its a 9.5 all the way the flick-it controls are 
 way better then the tony hawk controls.... people said Proving Ground was realistic ? take a look 
 at this game. if you skate you will really like it. it would be cooler tho if you couldent do all 
 the tricks from the start you had to learn them through the game instead of being able to do everything 
 from the star. this is an all around great game if you skate BUY IT skate 2 will be evvvvvennnnn 
 betttttttttttttter and that gooooooood yehhhhhh ok im just gonna end the review by typing random 
 stuff b b b b b b bb b b b b b b b b b b b b b bb b b b b b bb b bb b b b b b b b b b bbb bb b 
 b b b b b gvbg gbg b g bgb gb gb g bg b g bg b gb g b g b g bg bg bg gb gbgbg bg b g bg b gb g 
 bg b g b gb g b 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laliberte11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I ever played for an Xbox 360, I almost cried when I saw it. This is no 
 doubt going down in history to start a new era of gaming, the reason I took off .5 of the score 
 is because of the whole not being able to get off the board thing, I can already say that skate 
 2 will be better, but I cant beleive that gamespot only gave it a 7! I mean come on, in the category 
 of gaming it is no doubt at least a 9, If it is a 7 then all the Tony hawk games must be a 4.5 
 or lower, I mean come on gamespot, think of all the nightmares tony hwak gave you, speeding up 
 while grinding, being able to do a 10 tricks in one ollie, never breaking bones, no jams, no best 
 trick competitions, tisk tisk gamespot, for the first time, I am dissappointed in your rating. 
 Everyone who gave this below an 8 obviously doesnt like skateboarding. I dont know why people who 
 dont skateboard would even bother buying this though, that would be like someone who hates Medal 
 of Honor buying Call of Duty or Brothers in arms. I guess what I'm trying to say is that this game 
 is near perfect, including the story, the worst part is having to skate uphill to get to the perfect 
 spot to do a line/trick. Skate 2 will have waaaaaaaaaaaaayyyyyy better reviews, I just hope the 
 story is good and the controls are as easy to use. THANKS FOR READING!!!
  -Laliberte11 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolaidWTF
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best skateboarding game that I've played to date, before I would play all the 
 Tony Hawk games those were fun until this game came out. Unlike Tony Hawk this game makes you feel 
 like your actually skating and not just being a button pusher. I always hated that, you could get 
 100,000's of points in a combo cause you stayed in a stall for 5 minutes. In this game you can 
 not and thats what I like about it. It is actually realistic to skateboarding and not just fantasy. 
 The whole flick stick is the best part of this game, I myself think it takes after fight night 
 which it might, but they put it to a different use. The gameplay is fun, good missions, good environments 
 and so on. It keeps true to the skate environments like the Plan B warehouse, the X Games, and 
 especially the mega ramp which was made by a skateboarder himself. I also like the whole sponsor 
 me objective of this game, your just a small skater trying to make it big and you do that by getting 
 covers on magazines and getting sponsors from desk companies to shoe companies. They is also the 
 hall of meat feature which is really cool, it's all about seeing how hard you can fall and how 
 much damage you can put your body though. So this is one of the best skateboarding game that keeps 
 it true to skateboarders and everything around it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antipunt1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Skate, for all its bad things, does many many good things. For once, it has awesome presentation. 
 It has great graphics, sleek menu/map, and YES fast travel. The animations and character design 
 is solid. Make no mistake, this is a very PRETTY game.
  
  And for the gameplay, I was astounded. I expected the analog controls to be some sort of a gimmick, 
 but they actually worked rather well. It was like... well. REAL skating. Very freaking hard. But 
 I could feel that people who were good at this game had to have good spatial perception and practice 
 similar to.. well.. real skating.
  
  This, however, is not a perfect game, take note. For one, I can imagine the controls being kind 
 of intimidating for new players. This game actually takes practice to get good at, and I can imagine 
 that alone being a turn off for many. Next off, this is, after all, just a skateboarding game with 
 a so-so story. Nothing 'epic' is expected in this territory.
  
  With that said though, after being so used to Tony Hawk storylines, I was VERY pleased to see skate 
 with its cool character presentation/voice acting, not to mention an actually involved story-style/pacing. 
 It felt.. well.. WELL put together. This wasn't some slop-job that I expected it to be.
  
  All in all, after a while, this game just got real fun. Multiplayer, single player, you name it. 
 Pulling off those 'simple compared to hawk' yet involving tricks were oh-so-satisfying. In short, 
 a skating game done right. VERY right. Beats any Tony Hawk game that I've ever seen. However, the 
 victory is not really a 'landslide' if you know what I mean.
  
  If Skate 2 can fix some of those issues (ex: running into people all the time, not being able to 
 walk off your board, making those kickflips/shove its not so dam similar) , if could potentially 
 knock Tony Hawk OUTTA the water
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LunaticSumo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is the perfect skating game. coming from an actual skater i can say that this game is 
 best. it doesn't have any late flips like THPS games, unless you try them. this game is mostly 
 realistic, 'cept for all the crazy 540 big flips down 20 sets. and 1080's busted outta no where. 
 this game is great, and i am looking forward to number two. it does have to work on the view, and 
 maybe how high you can get. Also there is no skater who ollies that early to get on top of a curb 
 or something. and no skater who can ollie that far. (or do a nollie double flip 360 on flat.)
 
  the choice of sponsors is a little weird. not many people wanna go get sponsored by Alien Workshop 
 and Zoo York. they need to get real brands, better brands. maybe Local brands like 35th North, 
 or GOODS. The pro choice is a little weird too. not maybe people know who Dennis Busenitz is or 
 Danny Way. over all this is a good game
  needs a lil work 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DCSKATER12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Alright, EA's Skate is simply amazing. The Flick It controls simply flow so well into the game. 
 Instead of pushing a button to do a trick, you use the right stick to control your board and the 
 left stick to control your body. At first the controls can be a bit confusing to work with but, 
 as you play longer and longer the become easier and easier kind of like skateboarding.... The story 
 mode revolves around a series of challenges including: Photo Challenges, Video Challenges as well 
 as Competitions. Although very well thought out the story mode may seem difficult to some because 
 of the going back and forth to find the locations of the various challenges. It all just takes 
 getting used to . The graphics are very nice and well animated, which take the game play to a whole 
 other level. Overall this game is Excellent I give it a 10.0 simply because it captures the essence 
 of skateboarding extremely well. 
  
  "If you've got 65 bucks go ahead and buy this game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindskatr156
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  This was the first game i bought with my xbox 360, and it is well worth the money. the flickit 
 controls are an awesome experience you have to try. when you start the game out, you will probably 
 be horrible at it, but if it doesnt frustrate you too much youll get used to it. going through 
 the career mode, there are missions from skateboard magazine and thrasher magazine. a few missions 
 might make you angry until you look at it another way. thats what i had to do to keep playing. 
 towards the end you compete in the x games street and big air events, and they are tough, but a 
 lot of fun. my favorite part is at the end when you skate danny ways mega ramp. this game can get 
 tough at times, and it seemed just a little short. skate is nothing like the other video games 
 youve played, and it is definitely worth a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kvon403
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Skate is one of the greatest skateboarding games ever made it's so cool when I saw it I did'ent 
 know if I should buy it so I asked one of my friends and they said buy it so I did. After I got 
 it I went home and played it and I liked it alot and i'll tell you why it's so great it's so great 
 because the graphics are good for the time it was made and the city is bigger than I thought it 
 would be (but get's a little bit repetitive) also they have reasonable sponsors and fun stuff to 
 do .I like travelling around the city and just showing up at random spots always fun but if you 
 don't like doing that there's photo shoots, pro challenge's and contests which you could possibly 
 earn big money from creating your own character is funner than being a real person which is what 
 like (customization is better than Tony Hawk games and I found the game easy but still fun which 
 is good. The online is awsome and fun if your good enoughthere are a variety of modes to play from 
 online but on one consle multiplayer is not really that fun. I can't wait for Skate 2 and will definitly 
 buy that too thanks for reading this if you are and I might start my blog soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maninatrunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Yeah I mean I really loved this game, but there are some things I really hope are fixed for skate 
 2.
  
  
  THE GOOD
  
  
  Love the realistic Controls and physics, so much better than tony hawk.
  
  Game-play is great 
 and just add's such a wonderful idea to skateboarding games.
  
  Great music mixed with great graphics also give great back-up for a game with good game-play.
 
  
  I like how you don't have stats in this game to gradually increase. Your skill gets better based 
 on you learning new tricks and the old saying, try, try again.
  
  
  THE BAD
  
  
  There are Some things that might seem like they are small annoyances. But in truth they end up 
 really stall the game from being perfect.
  
  I absolutely HATE that yo can't get off your board in the game, I mean think about it, if you want 
 to get over a curb you have to ollie it every time, which may not seem that bad but if you see 
 an awesome 12 stair and the only way to get to it is ollie the curb then some how miraculously 
 ollie UP the set of stairs, that gets really annoying it makes it extremely hard to set up for 
 a lot of things.
  
  Also traffic and people SUCK, the areas that are the funnest to skate, are the ones that have the 
 most people to get in the way, I mean that is going with the realism theme. but actually if I saw 
 a guy going full speed to hit a set of stairs I'd jump out of the way, these people in the game 
 are just FEARLESS! They won't move for ANYTHING. You'll find yourself really frustrated after running 
 into people 25 times in the same area.
  
  The next thing is how hard the learning curve is. I mean with a game that changes what your use 
 to playing 100%. That is expected, but afer you finally stop hitting the A button on accident to 
 try and ollie (For us tony hawk fans.) then you realize that the controls are SO SENSITIVE! getting 
 a trey flip (360 flip) seems like just luck for the longest time. for skate 2 they need to give 
 you just a LITTLE bit more give, because if you don't get the flick EXACTLY right (for harder tricks 
 anyways) then you end up only doing a kickflip, or you end up doing a completely different trick 
 than you wanted to.
  
  
  OVER-ALL
  
  
  This is till an amazing games but I guess the faults of this are are pretty common for a game taking 
 it to a whole new level like this does. so I'm confident in saying I cannot wait for skate 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninetailfoxmyke
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 26, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyXGame
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinge3
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Skate. is and awesome game that was surprisingly made by EA. The controls are much different from 
 any skateboarding game I have played. You use the two 360 analog sticks to move your feet. It has 
 a large learning curve, but you will get the hang of it after awile. I'm not too good at sakte. 
 right now, because people online are so much better than me as always pwn me whenver I play. Its 
 strange, they all make me look like a noob. This game has great graphics, I can spend a long time 
 simply looking at this games beautiful graphics. Its truly awesome. It looks so realistic. It has 
 so much detail and the characters look full of life. This game is good in short terms, if you are 
 a completionist like me, then get ready to be ticked off and have your blood boiling at some of 
 the games hardest challenges! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegoochpube
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Skate, in my opinion, is a game that seemed to sneak under the radar a little bit. Most of that 
 is probably because a lot of people were still hooked on the Tony Hawk series. Although those games 
 are good, i honestly believe that Skate is the best skateboarding game out there right now. Don't 
 get me wrong, I enjoy an afternoon with my Playstation 1 and Pro Skater 2 as much as anybody else, 
 but those games were and still are to easy. By easy, of course, I'm talking about actually doing 
 the tricks. All it took usually, even for complicated tricks, was to memorize a combination of 
 2 to 3 buttons. That got old for me. While the analog system isn't perfect, it's certainly better, 
 in my eyes. At first, the system is hard to get used to, and it gets hard towards the end, but 
 its still much better i think. 
  
  Also, the map is great as well. The 3 parts or districts to the city was a very good idea. It keeps 
 things a little more interesting. Plus i love the fact that you can just roll up to a legendary 
 skater and challenge his and your skills in a game of SKATE. That might be my favorite part of 
 the game.
  
  Overall, this is an excellent game that, love it or hate it, will keep you entertained for many 
 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sess1on
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk games have ruled the genre since it's inception. Many incarnations have sprung up over 
 the years and dwindled away in the shadow of the ever popular Hawk series. Up until now. Intro 
 Skate. EA's prized Hawk-killer. And hot damn is it a welcomed breath of fresh air in the genre, 
 filled with both style AND substance. 
  
  Unlike the Hawk games, Skate's gameplay focuses on realism. You feel like you're actually skateboarding 
 when playing. And not only that, you feel like you're in an actual skate video with someone constantly 
 following you around, capturing your every move in a massive sandbox, and highly stylized free-roaming 
 city filled with every skateable piece imaginable.
  
  The art direction and style of Skate is typical for an EA game, which is a good thing. The soundtrack, 
 generally, has a well compiled playlist for those who don't use there own music. Customization, 
 while something that's not nearly as in depth as it could be, is great feature that no skating 
 game should be without. The story is nothing special, but then who plays a skateboarding game for 
 the story anyway? And of course, the revolutionary new control system is undoubtedly addicting 
 and fun to use.
  
  Though Skate isn't without its flaws. While fun and addicting, the game can become incredibly frustrating, 
 and not to mention annoying at times. The revolutionary new control system can be hard to imitate, 
 especially in a game of S. K. A. T. E. Doing the same trick twice takes practice. 
  
  The A. I. in Skate is horrific. It's almost like no one on the development team bothered to go to 
 a real skate park to see how traffic in the place works. Here's a hint; people don't just drop 
 in or skate what they please whenever. There's a waiting system. Otherwise, people run into each 
 other, constantly. Now, it's understandable that the player will break this rule. It IS a game 
 after all. But that doens't mean the NPCs shouldn't abide by this rule.
  
  Skate's camera man and narrator is one of the most annoying things in the game, simply put. It's 
 a feature that could been done away with entirely. I feel bad for those who played through with 
 his obnoxious voice blabber away the whole time.
  
  One aspect, as mentioned earlier, is the sheer size of the skateable environment. Like similar 
 large sandbox games, this one shares the same universal flaw; not taking proper advantage of all 
 of it. Sometimes I find myself in an area or on a path I never knew existed that's fun to skate 
 and wonder why it's not used for anything more than just being there. A lot of great places in 
 the city exist that could be used for S. K. A. T. E. and various other online game modes but aren't. 
 
  
  Flaws aside, Skate is a solid game. And for it only being the first, the series has a promising 
 future. Let's just hope it doesn't follow the same fate as the Hawk series, which I'm hoping comes 
 back with a bang. Because, as you know, competition is good for us; the gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theguyinorange1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Skate is the best game that I have ever played. The use of the joy sticks is genius! This game 
 feels like skateboarding and can be enjoyed by those who skate and those who can't do an ollie. 
 Amazing. The challenges are hard but this is a good thing. This is a must buy and now that it; s 
 40 dollars, there is no reason not to get this if you own an Xbox 360. This game has complicated 
 tricks, but the more you play it, the better you will get. I wish that you could get off of the 
 board, but that can wait for Skate 2 which is rumored to come out in late November, December, and 
 January. Apparently i need more characters for this to be considered a review so now I am just 
 wasting space. Check out the videos for Skate 2 and if you like this, you might enjoy Shaun White's 
 Snowboarding coming out in November and it uses a similar trick system using the analog sticks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikect87
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meat-Puppet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  I love skateboarding. It's awesome. The only problem is that I fall off. A lot. And I don't know 
 if anybody has told you, but falling off of a skateboard hurts. And not just my pride, either! 
 But my knees. My poor, poor, scabby knees.
  
  The thing with Skate is, that it is just like skateboarding! Except that, instead of a skateboard, 
 you have a control pad. Oh, and instead of scabby knees, you get a big fat gut from sitting on 
 the couch all day and doing absolutely nothing except for playing this game because it is super, 
 duper awesome.
  
  Ultra super, duper mega awesome.
  
  And that's it. That is all I am going to say in this review. I could go on and on about how the 
 graphics blew my face away, how rewarding the story mode is, how I want to quit my job so that 
 I can spend all day playing it, how it is easy to lose hours of your life just skating one single 
 rail in the huge, life like city. Oh I could drag on and on for days on end about how the controls 
 are perfect for a skateboarding game, and every time I play it it brings a tear to my eye, because 
 it is beautiful, oh so beautiful! I could go on about how I want to legally marry this game and 
 make little baby Skate games with it, eventually retire and spend the rest of our mortal lives 
 living together in a small log cabin by the seaside.
  
  I could say all of that, but I won't (except I did!) . All I am going to say though is that you 
 need to buy skate right now. Or don't. I don't care. It's not going to stop me playing it.
  
  But this review kind of is, so I'm ending it so I can go play it some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  skate is the best skateboarding game and tony will never get close to be better then it ever, even 
 if they try to copy the RS flip trick style. tony cant compete anymore. The flip trick system is 
 so original and creative and fun its makes the trcks endless and the grind and grabs fun. Im a 
 skateboarding myself and it makes you wanna go skate all the time. The challenges were easy and 
 fun to do and do over again. There are only like two challenging challenges haha and its hard to 
 copy the specific trick into grind. (rob dydreks pro challenge) youll like it more once you get 
 really good at it and the graphics are insane. What i found bad was that you could always win in 
 skate if you landed a 540, cuz they wouldnt even try to copy the 540 and they would do some nollie 
 tre and it would be all funky. Multiplayer though is shaky too, cuz people are good and crazy and 
 the races are aggrevating and non fufilling. but yea that would be the only bad thing that skate 
 has. and being pro and having sposorships are freaking awesome! GO LAKAI AND BAKER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rydeth
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is the sh1t. Iam serious This Game PWNZ!!!!!!
  I maxxed it out in achievements (first game i maxxed out) Buy this For the love of all thats holy 
 BUY THIS GAME RITE FKING NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Seriously.
  
  Pros-
  Beutiful Graphics
  Amazing, Revolutionary Trick System
  10000000000000x better then any tony hawks game.
  Amazing 
 Online, anyone who says it lags is a (\) 3\/\/l8
  With sh1t internet.
  Achievements are not to easy and not to hard.
  If you rent it your gay. ONLY BUY IT!!!!, DONT 
 RENT
  
  Cons-
  None Whatsoever
  
  Add me if you wanna freeskate a little or something
  
  Gamertag: E1337wArZoNe
  
  I hope 
 you guys hav fun reading this review!!! Battlefield bad company and too human Are gay gay gay gay 
 gay gay gay gay gay gay gay gay gay. DONT BUY OR RENT IT OR SUPPORT IT IN ANYWAY WHATSOEVER! BATTLEFIELD 
 AND TOO HUMAN R SUPER GAY F@G W@DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sodney
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Skate is a game that is great for fans of skateboarding. It really captures the fun and frustration 
 of skateboarding, which is a good thing for fans of skateboarding but gamers in general might get 
 too frustrated at times.
  
  The graphics are great, the skaters are detailed and really look like the real pro skaters. The 
 movements of the skater also looks good.
  
  The sound in this game is some of the best I have ever heard. 
  
  The game has a fun story 
 that makes you want to play more. The story is kind of typical, get coverage and become a pro but 
 it is still very fun. The game also takes a while to complete. I spent approximately 15 hours to 
 complete the story but the replay value is infinite.
  
  There are a lot of cool sponsors in the game. You get a deck sponsor, truck sponsor, shoe sponsor 
 and a wheel sponsor. The cool thing is that you make the choice.
  
  Skate is definitely a must buy for anyone that enjoy real skateboarding. It is truly the most realistic 
 skateboarding game ever made. General gamers might not enjoy the frustration in the game but skateboarding 
 is supposed to be frustrating. If you enjoy the tony hawk games you really should try this one 
 out.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Large_Soda
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Typically used as a quick getaway from committing a crime like shoplifting, or vandalism, skateboarding 
 has also become synonymous with videogames too. With Tony Hawk paving the road with 9 games in 
 their series, EA is now trying to capitalize on the market with their debut series Skate.
  
  There are many things to like about Skate on the surface, things like an inventive new analog 
 controls and more realistic moves for the criminals to attempt. You won't be able to perform a 
 900-silly-mcflip-a-la-douche in this game, no sir.
  
  One of the cute things I noticed in Skate immediately was how it made me feel like I was picking 
 up a skateboard for the first time. I could barely perform any tricks and I fell a lot. That trend 
 continued for while and in all honesty hasn't stopped. 
  
  And that is what I hate about Skate, it is geared to those that want to learn, to achieve, to follow 
 the creed "if at first you don't success, try, try again". Well that isn't me. I never pursued 
 skateboarding in real life, because it was too hard and now I'm doing the same thing in Skate.... giving 
 up.
  
  One of the beauties of Tony Hawk is that it lets you be better than great, immediately and when 
 you fail it ends up being funny. Anytime I failed in Skate I wanted to break my controller.
  
  I suppose this review can be read as me "sucking" at this game and fair enough, but I would 
 expect that answer after donating several hours of my life to the game, not the tutorial stuff. 
 From the word GO this game's learning curve is drastically high and that goes against everything 
 a quitter stands for.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iWREKK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  Its nothing like doing a 360 flip/nose blunt off of a 8 set on to the rail... ea skate was proably 
 the funnest game i ever played, and me personally IM A SKATER so it was a BIGGER plus to me because 
 the thumb controll was very realistic... Tony Hawk was fun back in the ps1 and 2 days but pushin 
 x to kickflip still on a xbox 360 is pretty played out.. the reason why i give skate a 9.5 is because 
 the game was pretty much perfect BUT the only mistake that ea made was that your character couldnt 
 get off his skate board to walk up the steps or just to walk any where.... but greatfully skate 
 2 you can get off your board, you can move tables around, you can hippy jump, hand plants, and 
 u also can do a boneless ollie =)
  So skate is pretty much a mos def get game.....
  or you can just wait for the 2nd release which is going to b a definetly get game =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VentyLight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Skate by EA is a great new game in the skateboarding genre. Using the new flickit control scheme, 
 you can skate in ways that you never could in Tony Hawk.
  
  The gameplay is very true to life. You start out small and you get more and more coverage to become 
 an icon skater. You take photos, videos, compete in jams and best trick contests or you can just 
 be mellow and skate around the huge landscape known as san vanelona. The things that can be skated 
 in this game are not like tony hawk where you can grind a roller coaster or ride a pirate ship, 
 no in skate. you have to actually skate things that could be skated in real life like curbs, handrails 
 and more.
  
  The graphics in this game i thought were top notch with a little buggy bails but other than that 
 you shouold not be dissapointed. As well, the audio has a great mix of contact with different materials 
 on the ground, ramps, and rails and good voice acting seeing that the ones who are doing the talking 
 are pro skaters.
  
  Now most people say that the flickit control makes the game to hard to complete certain tasks. 
 Thats why you have to practice just like in real skateboarding. The more you practice, the more 
 you will do that tre flip over and over.
  
  So for those of you tony hawk fans out there, get ready because skate 2 is only around 6 months 
 away with new additions like handplants and you can get off of your board. 
  
  Skate is easily the best game i have purchased for my 360 so far. Great job EA and i cant wait 
 for Skate 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IZZO71
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Before I say anything, I will say skate is far from perfect. However, it is a breath of fresh air 
 that rarely comes around in video games. For too long has the skateboarding genre been corrupted 
 by those horrible tony hawk games and man are they bad. In proving grounds Ive landing on a rail 
 with my head before and somehow managed to grind it?!?
  Skate isn't a perfect skateboarding simulation ( I can do flips off 2 foot high ramps) , but it is 
 certainly light years closer than tony hawk. Just everything from the flip tricks to the grinding 
 feels authentic and like you are actually skating.
  A lot of my friends mention the camera and that it is hard for them to align themselves with rails 
 because the camera is low and off to the right. However I never really had a problem with it so 
 it is what it is.
  The graphics on the game are quite nice. The colors are very bright and the lighting is very good. 
 The textures on the ground and on objects are not really all that impressive; but the shine effect 
 that is added to the rails and the polished granite steps and floors when the lighting hits them 
 makes up for it. 
  I am glad to say that most of the flaws in this game are being fixed in the second game. The nagging 
 want to get off your skateboard will finally go away as you can now leave your skateboard in the 
 second game. Also the horrible falling animations will be replaced by your character actually bracing 
 themselves and a sense of self preservation. I also hope they tweak the flip stick a little bit. 
 A lot of times in skate when I want to do a 360 hard flip, it will end up making me do an Ollie. 
 This doesn't happen often but with the tricks being the most important part of the game, I would 
 like to see the controls as perfect as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tannerw1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  the best thing about this game in my opinion is the gameplay itself. from riding around the huge 
 city doing tricks or when you line yourself up and do an awesome grind. it just makes you feel 
 happy. the difficulty varies depending on where your at in the game but its a good challenge without 
 being impossible. it also has really nice graphics. you can have fun just staring at game the graphics 
 are so good. theres not really much of a story except your trying to get famous but really who 
 cares? the city that you skate in is huge! it can take you awhile just to see everything. so you 
 really need to consider spending your hard earned money on this game because it is worth every 
 penny. i used to be a die hard tony hawk fan but skate has changed my perspective on skating games. 
 you should definately buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peppersmith
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I went over to my best bud's house one day to study for our science test. After studying, My mom 
 said I could sleepover and study overnight. Ben then said that he got this new game called Skate, 
 so we decided to play it. We played almost the whole time! Skate is pretty easy to get used to. 
 All you have to do is flick the right joystick and you can do alot of tricks. I do admit it is 
 a little 2 easy to do tricks, but the graphics overall and the enviroment takes most of the action. 
 But the best part of the game is like Grand Theft Auto, is the freedom. You don't have to do the 
 misssons (even though there fun) so you can just skate around or my personal favorite skating and 
 olling in front of cars and try to break the most bones. The soundtrack for Skate is really good. 
 They have hard rock bands like Slayer and Valient Thor, but yet they still have classic rock like 
 Cheap Trick. A buy for anyone who loves skating and freedom of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stebner603
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 16, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstamm33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Skate has a lot of potential however it doesn't quiet live up. It's major pros are the animation, 
 the graphics, and it has a smooth framerate. When you start the game it will be very difficult 
 because the controls (the "flick") system is really great, but it will take lots and lots of practice 
 to get them down. The game itself has a good sense of humor and fun, it will also keep you playing 
 for hours on end. If you even somewhat like skating games this is worth picking up. I got mine 
 of ebay for about $20 bucks new, never opened so if you are low on money check into ebay. Ever 
 since mine came I have been playing it non-stop. The multiplayer is really fun and entertaining 
 and it sometimes laggs, but my wireless adapter sucks so you can't blame the game. If your a tony 
 hawk fan and like tapping all the buttons to get the right trick, look into skate its well worth 
 your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryrjjj
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblood54
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Prison Break Boss on Series Ending    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sub-ZeroJoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Every good game has something that makes gamers want to buy, this has it with the easy to get, 
 hard to master flickit controls, the flickit controls aren't just moving the analog stick in the 
 way of choosing, it actually has relation to real skating with the way your feet have to move to 
 nail the trick (not thp8 reference) . Even though this game doesn't have the best story, it fills 
 that need with the innovative design of how it plays, and how most buttons do nothing, the analogs 
 and the tabs do all the work to make it feel as real to skating as possible. I will definitely 
 recommend this to everyone that likes, skating, funny bails, and smooth graphics! If you skateboard 
 fan, GO GET THIS GAME RIGHT NOW!! The Tony hawk era is over.
  
  Graphics- 9.5
  Controls-10
  Story- 8.5
  Replay Value- 10
  .......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccstrauss94
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first got skate i was expecting the whole tony hawk thing with all the triple backflips 
 and the double impossibles. But I was wrong this game is beyond realistic. in skate you are able 
 to activate a map whitch allows you to see were there are skate spots. Also allowing you to see 
 were you have a skate demo, compotitions, photo shoots, also video shoots. well this is all before 
 you get sponcered. 
  
  
  See the concept of this game is to start your skate career. In the gameyou start of making a small 
 video with your friend until you get hit by this bus after you ollie this 12 stair. Then this is 
 were it begins, when you are in the ambulance you get to take a glance at all the bros from p-rod 
 to danny way to Chris cole which are all featured in the game. Then when you arrive at the hospital. 
 this nurse takes all your info including, your skate stance ,your name and more. Soon after the 
 whole hospital thing this is were you start to create your character. When you are creating your 
 character you are able to choose his hair color, eye color, how tall he is going to be, how skiiny 
 or fat he will be, also includes cloths with all pro brand names.
  
  When you are done doing that you are off to start your skate career as an ameatur though. if i 
 were to rate this game from one to 10 i would give it an 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: htotheo
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConkerAndBerri2
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: not_guilty_84
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 1, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360-reviews
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  I was never really a fan of the tony hawks games, because i had thug 1 and 2 on xbox, but i didn't 
 really like them. I always hoped that there would be another skateboarding game that would take 
 over and be more realistic. So when i heard there was a new skateboarding came coming out called 
 skate, i was immediately excited and i saw the trailer right away, and i was even more excited. 
 The storymode of skate is not amazing but its acceptable. You play the role of a skater who has 
 had an accident on a set of starirs and you have to make it back to the top, doing challenges to 
 earn sponsors, and thats basically it. You get to create your own character, so you can make the 
 character looklike you or make a completely random one. The first time i played skate i actually 
 had to think, am i playing a game?, because the graphics of the environments are very detailed, 
 and the effort that ea have put into the gameplay is very good and reflects the realism of real 
 skateboarding. The main thing that sets skate apart from tony hawks is the control scheme which 
 is called the flickit control, and it has a very innovative feel to it. So you use the right anolugue 
 stick to carry out the tricks in your arsenal, and although it can be tricky, when you have mastered 
 it, the tricks become very satisfying. All good skaters have a skate vid right?, so ea actually 
 pushed my expectations and included a feature called the skate reel, and this lets you create your 
 own clips of your character or a pro if you wish so. you can also share this with friends online 
 and any of your photos that you have taken of the skater in action. The only thing really that 
 slightly dissapointed me about this game is that there is no offline split screen freeroam, instead 
 there is a game mode called s. k. a. t. e, where you do tricks and if your firiend doesn't make the 
 trick on his first and only attempt he gets a letter. The online makes up for it though because 
 you sort of get this freeraom thing but its still only one player, and s. k. a. t. e, and races. There 
 is also a mode where you see who can get the most points in a pool. So for a first attempt this 
 game deserves credit, and who cares if you can't snap your board, or get off your board, or do 
 a darkslide, or skate in nightime, its whats there that counts, and its fantastic. P. s the mega 
 ramp and xgames are very well implemented into this game and they are a good reward for completeing 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belgygarg
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Skate. is simply the most realistic skateboarding game ever. Tony Hawk can't compare to this realistic 
 an unique skateboarding experience. The analog "flickit" controls make you feel like your really 
 skating. They are fluid and very real. The graphics are very realistic and the skating animations 
 are superb. The wrecks, though, are very unrealistic and annoying. But it isn't as unrealistic 
 as project 8 with the skaters bouncing all over the place. Though that is fun a little.
  What also makes it very much like actual skating is the sounds. The sound as you hit the pavement 
 is so real that you might feel like your really in the game. The kick flip, heel flip, and all 
 the other tricks look just like their real like counterparts. This game is a must have for all 
 hardcore skating fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Von-Dozier
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Set in a vast, vibrant, sunny skater paradise that never rains, snows, thunders, or, even has nightfall, 
 Skate takes away the gimmicky cities in past skateboard games (can you guess which?) , that always 
 somehow seem to feature perfectly placed ramps in random places, and brings a new, exciting edge 
 into skating games: realism.
  
  Skate is the 'simulation' to Tony Hawk's 'arcade' style, that throws away the silliness, and smacks 
 you in the face with a harsh dose of reality. Gone are the days of 80,000 point combos, and in 
 are the days of being hopeful to land a kickflip into a grind. With this change, also brings a 
 good deal of satisfaction on landing such things, and makes landing long lines and impressive air 
 even more rewarding. But of course, not landing your tricks will introduce you to the painful looking 
 ragdoll physics, which can make every wipeout something to laugh or cringe at.
  
  The controls are something that halt a new player instantly. Being a skateboard game, anyone who's 
 ever played a skateboard game before this know it down pat, with buttons being the main use. Skate 
 throws out all you ever knew about skateboarding controls, and introduces an innovative new way 
 to play; the analog stick. Strange, new and awkward at first, repeated playing will warm you up 
 to it, and you'll wonder how you ever lived without it. It's a dynamic system, of course not without 
 its flaws, but a very interesting take on controls.
  
  The graphics follow the next-gen formula of gritty but vibrant, dirty but real. The camera is awkward 
 at first, but 30 minutes into the game, and you're already used to it. Sound is top notch, and 
 bails are bone crunching.
  
  This is one of those games that deserves it's place in your library. It's just something that's 
 very hard to get sick of, and being such a massive game, it'll take you months to even get a taste 
 of what can fully be unlocked and explored in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  NOTE TO READERS: I've been beating around the bush with most of my reviews because they deserve 
 the time and effort to explain my experience with the game, But its very different with sports. 
 I'm gonna get straight towards the point, and not fiddling around with it, just because there isnt 
 too much to explain. The review is lengthy but not as my others. enjoy.
  
  SKATE:
  
  Skateboarding was and never will be an intergrated part of my life, I've never got into the whole 
 idea of breaking your bones over a stupid surfboard on wheels, but I dug the Tony Hawk Franchise, 
 and I love Great videogames, so purchasing this game wasn't a real struggle, even though I didn't 
 know what to expect. Honestly, the game is phenomanal, its a new innovation of the genre, as well 
 as a good start. But its still very flawed, but the experience is no where near broken. In past 
 skateboarding titles, you will spend most of your time mashing buttons. Like seen in the TH series, 
 but those mechanics are thrown out the window and EA has made a control scheme that is innovative 
 and fun, that absorbs you into the experience, and in the role of an actual skater. When you bomb 
 a hill, you'll feel it, when you perform your flips and grabs you'll have to achieve it, and so 
 on. Its not just tapping buttons and performing tricks out the boom, you actually have to get good 
 with it. There is a sense of accomplishment that I felt everytime i landed something. And thats 
 a feeling that is unexpected, the whole game is challenging, but that makes it more of a satisfying 
 achievement. The controls are the most crucial part of the game, as it is also very complex. The 
 right stick is used for your board, and the left stick is used for your body. To perfom ollies 
 you hold down the right stick and flick it straight up, by doing variations of flicking, you perfom 
 various flips. while in the air you rotate your body using the left stick, it takes a ton of practice, 
 and lots of patience cuz the game doesn't let you get off easy. Netting high scores is a combination 
 of both, rotating and the type of flip or flips, you can also enter manuals as you land, by slightly 
 tilting the stick up or down, creating a combo. Grabs are split between your right and left hands, 
 and they are associated with the obvious bumper, you can rotate, and flip using the left stick, 
 and the right stick variates your grab. Grinds are much harder to perform, because of it timing, 
 but everything will fall into place and you'll soon be dishing out comboes and achieving high scores. 
 Just like in real skateboarding, you have to practice to get good. Everything is laid out in the 
 begining with no stat enchancements or new trick aquireing, the only obstacles blocking your sucess 
 is your abilities with the controls, and reality itself.
  
  Career mode is the most best part of the game, and probaly the mode you'll be playing in the long 
 run. Its decently long, and will take up to about 30hrs to fully experience it, but its well worth 
 it. For a skateboarding title. Just like the first TH underground, EA stole the idea, or borrowed 
 the "obvious" idea of what the story is about. You are a low down skater trying to reach fame and 
 fortune, scoring magazine covers, pics, film, events, sponsors along the way. The story kicks off 
 in a hilarious cutscene, leading to reconstructive surgery, and everything ties in to start your 
 journey. The game is thankfully not bound by generic levels, but is in a very big city, it'll take 
 at least 10 minutes to skate from end to end. The world is very detailed, and you'll skate in a 
 wide range of locales and areas, such as bowls. skate parks, etc. while going to different parts 
 of town like the suburbs, the old city, downtown. etc. to get fame and money, you complete events 
 and challenges to get on exposed on either of two magazines. these challenges are fun but they 
 get a tadbit dull and have problems. Some events make you do a specific trick, but it is very hard 
 to due to the likeness of all the tricks motions, its horrible. some might even quit the game entirely. 
 but other events are very cool, such as the X-games and meeting a crapload of pros, and skate jams. 
 Best trick contest and s. k. a. t. e, not so much. You can also purchase clothes, assescories, shoes 
 and the create the look of your skater. Its much more advance than tony hawk, but too bad you cant 
 add your face.
  
  As for the visual and sound department, skate fairs well there too. The game's graphics are unbelieveble 
 comparing them to the Tony Hawk series. The world is well crafted and detailed, and the models 
 and their clothes are very much realstic, you can see the vintage details on the jeans, shoes etc. 
 And everything lights up well too. The camera is a tadbit annoying, but its zoomed in on the lower 
 body, giving a up close and personal look, but its sometimes hard to see the road ahead of you. 
 The music and sound effects are very good too. Artists and bans like nirvana, dr. dre, n. w. a are 
 all in the game, and there is nothing better than the sounds of your board. The voice work is solid, 
 and the framerate is smooth.
  
  Online, Freeskate, and replay modes are all welcome additions, online is solid, not the best but 
 its worth a try. The real worthy extra is the replay editor, find something thats deserves to be 
 displayed to the world? upload it youtube style, and save anything you do, rate videos, watch em, 
 its all possible.
  
  Conclusion: Skate is a must own title for hardcore skateboarding fans, and a good playthrough for 
 gamers. Its one of those games where it doesnt change the industry, but it improves its own genre 
 greatly. Its gonna be hard playing Tony hawk now. But the game is flawed. You cannot get off your 
 board, (yes, really!) the story has no branches, challenges and events are sometimes repetive and 
 plagued, and the controls are too alike to perfom various tricks, i still cant get that 360 flip! 
 but all problems be damned, Skate is a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  personaly i hate skateboard games but after the first 10-20 minutes while playing skate i actuallyenjoyed 
 it is hard and challenging but it is good to know that EA has tried to make this game for with 
 a bit of skill, the anolog stick system is far from perfect but is still enjoyable to use some 
 of the most simple tricks such as an ollie or kickflip are hard to pull off when you start playing 
 but if you find those tricks hard get another game.
  skate offers players a nice city to skate around in and always has some good hotspots and some 
 heavily gaurded security areas which can get you far in career if you take the risks. 
  what sets skate far apart from other skateboarding games is that it is rather challenging and will 
 require some commitment if you want to get a decent impression of it.
  all in all skate is by far the best sports game on the market and while it is far from perfect 
 if gives a shining light on the future of skating games which most have started to lose thier appeal. (except 
 Skate)
  MANUAL 180KICKFLIP HEELFLIP VARIAL HEELFLIP 360FLIP NOLLIE
  CUT SICK MATE 
  FULLY SICK TRICKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ressdude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  Skate is one of the better skater games out there. It has good graphics and a fun story mode where 
 the objective is to get as many mags and front covers as possible. The most interesting thing in 
 skate is its control system. Where instead of button mashing in previous games such as Tony hawks 
 you must use the right and left analogue sticks for the primary controls. The left stick controls 
 your general movement and some tricks but the right stick is the hub of many of the tricks. For 
 example ollieing is a lot more fun to do by flicking the right stick perfectly than say tapping 
 the A button. Players are allowed to customise there characters to a certain degree, you can select 
 from hundreds of real make clothes, shoes, skateboards and all other skating accessories. 
  
  However, skate does have it's problems, It can be very frustrating when you need to get past 
 a flight of stairs but you can't get off your board so you have to go miles round to find a slope 
 or ramp. Also doing some of the advanced tricks can be difficult because they can be very close 
 to other trick gestures. The sound is generally good but can sometimes be a bit off put.
  
  All in all I find skate a game that will keep you playing for hours. It may have just a few things 
 that will get you mad but all in all a great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djburnzy1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Bringing to the table completely different game play to those familiar with the tony hawk series, 
 skate delivers, big time. With what seems as an endless supply of challenges ranging from death 
 races to photo shoots in combination with flawless graphical tricks and gnarly goory collisions 
 with street lamps, cars and even pedestrians. Skate is one of those games you feel as though your 
 hands have literally been glued to the controller.
  
  Beginning with what looks like the opening scenes to a movie, skate brings you into it's world 
 letting you fully customize your character from head to toe and even muck around with his clothes 
 and deck. Sadly there is no grip tape customization. Which I frowned at. Although skate picks up 
 with its vast range of somewhat stylish clothing.
  
  As far as game play fairs it took me a while to pick up on the conventional style of the game itself. 
 My fingers were fixed to the idea that grind was triangle and triangle was y. So that took a while 
 to get used to. Although once you get the basics down skate begins to feel really natural and simple. 
 
  
  One thing that really got me going with this game is the fact that the skater was missing the ability 
 to WALK. I mean i know the game is called skate but could you at LEAST take the time to add a little 
 tweaking so that this player could walk instead of having to skate everywhere. 
  
  Online side of things was fairly enjoyable. Although frankly I'm nowhere as good as some of those 
 players online. It seems those online achievements will have to wait a while. 
  
  The problem with some skating games is that sometimes they miss prizes for good efforts. Like i 
 get stuck on some of the videos in this game you have to do. i. e do like a 3000 combo and total 
 20s air with 6 grabs, and once I've finally completed it after an hour due to collisions with stupid 
 computer controlled random skaters i find myself cursing at what you actually get from all the 
 work put into it. If that makes any sense to anyone you deserve a medal.
  
  Although this may be the case you do get something that seems to be worth all the hard work in 
 the end and that of course is the X games stadium. (A massive ramp leading into a absolutely huge 
 half pipe with various grinds etc.) Also various other parks that you unlock serve great value 
 when trying to do videos.
  
  All in all, skate is an excellent trademark of skating game superiority. To all the tony hawk fans, 
 this is so much better. To all the haters, you'd be surprised and to all the fans of skate... keep 
 skate'n and see you online. (hopefully)
  
  peace out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thunderlip
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is gonna have to be the best skateboarding game since the last batch of good Tony 
 Hawk games. The best thing this games does is use the Right analog stick and use it as a trick 
 stick, It really lets you feel the way a skateboarding game should be. There is a lot of re-play 
 value in this game. If you have Xbox live then you can untiluze alot of the game modes that this 
 game have to offer. You can do trick events, race events. And they are truly fun.
  
  I would recommend this game to any one looking for a good skate boarding game for the new gen consoles.
 
  
  If you get board of the game there is a great amount of clothing customization that you can do 
 to make your skater look cool and up to style when you take him/her online. So no matter what way 
 you look there will always be something to do in this game. 
  
  I will say that this game takes a a little bit to get usted to. If you get frustrated easily then 
 this game is gonna get you upset. But in the end it a solid game and should be on everyone shelf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilosophiCon
Rating: 0
Date: Jul 5, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: getthemost
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  EA officially has the best skateboarding games. In Skate you start out by getting hit by a bus, 
 having surgery, and then creating your character. You control from what he looks like, to if he 
 rides goofy or regular, to if his wheels are harder or softer! It is VERY detailed. You then start 
 out at the bottom of the skateboarding world. Working your way up. Getting sponsored by skate shops, 
 becoming an AM, then becoming a pro, then a skateboarding icon. You shoot video parts, photos, 
 you enter contests, and a lot more. The only problems are that you cannot get off of your skateboard, 
 so sometimes its hard to get to the top of a stair set, or whatever you're doing. Also, sometimes 
 the missions are nearly impossible. You may sometimes spend up to 30 minutes on 1 mission. Also, 
 a lot of people say the game has nearly no end. If you get hooked on the game, at the most it will 
 take you 1 or 2 weeks to beat the game. What i'm saying is that i wish the game was a little longer. 
 Any way, the game features people that have never been in Tony Hawk games. Such as Alex Chalmers, 
 PJ Ladd, Ryan Gallant, Danny Way, Pat Duffy, Terry Kennedy, and a few more. The only person that 
 has been in 1 Tony Hawk game is Paul Rodriguez . But you really can't have a skateboarding game 
 without 
  P-Rod! Anyway, I gave Ea Skate a 9.0. It is a great game for anyone that has gotten bored with 
 Tony Hawk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobazz
Rating: 0
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 0
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: GODofSUPER
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  A new passage to a skating game aside from the year after year Tony Hawk series, Skate. has surpassed 
 the realism of any skate game before, but is it a good thing it is more real, read my review to 
 see!
  
  Gameplay - 8.5
  The gameplay is this game is really thrilling, you'll get used to the controls after an hour and 
 once you are use to the controls you'll get better, the best thing about this game is when your 
 finish a trick you feel like you actually did in real for example in past Tony Hawk series, doing 
 I don't know a double kick flip in Skate. is like doing a one million combo, it feels sweet, that 
 what I love about this game, the only thing I hate is that its so easy to bail and you can't get 
 off your board which kinda irritated me at first but I got used to it.
  
  Graphics - 9.0
  The graphics are well done, some parts of the city look unreal but that pretty much the only spots 
 and the glow of the sun is amazing, the only thing I would change is that it would can from night 
 time to day time instead of just being day all the time, but that is mostly it as well.
  
  Sound - 8.8
  The music in the game are extreme and very good, the sounds of your board moving 
 over the sidewalk is very realistic as well, when you crash into cars you could hear your skin 
 slide a cross the glass.
  
  Story - 8.5
  The story is very well done, its about your created skater building up your fame by doing challenges 
 with pros and other stuff, the only thing I would change is that in the game missions pop up after 
 a while, so you'll have to wait for awhile. The story is pretty long, which I enjoyed.
  
  Replay Value - 8.0
  The replay is very high, just because you can skate around and have some 
 freedom, but there will be nothing really to do after you finish everything in story mode, unless 
 you try to do achievements, which took awhile for me, but overall you could play for awhile after 
 you finish the story.
  
  Overall - 9.0
  Overall the game is very well done, and I really enjoyed it, I still play it to this day, and I 
 finished the story, and now I'm waiting for Fall 2008 to get the sequel to this game "Skate 2" 
 and I heard it will be improved, but for now get this game unless you want to get the sequel which 
 is coming out soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unksea
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game. but it's made much harder then it should be by the trick system. to do a 
 tick you have to flick the analog stick. it takes a while to learn how to do diffrent tricks. some 
 of the tricks are imposible to do. i do most of my tricks by randomly pushing the analog stick 
 in all directions. the hardest trick to do is the laser flip or the christ air. theres a huge city 
 to explore witch is super fun. you can skate around the city or take a train. you get to explore 
 the hole city at the start of the game witch is cool. to change your aperence you have to find 
 the skate shop witch can be frustrating. filming can be hard like getting 2,500 points in thirty 
 seconds while having to do two other goals. and it takes to long to get up after getting hit by 
 a car. but in the end it's all worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroOrDie865
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Skate has revolutionized realism in skateboarding games and has shot Tony Hawk out of the spotlight, 
 maybe for good. Skate is probably my favorite game, and there's a good reason for that. The gameplay 
 never gets old for me. I love skating around and finding new spots. I can spend so much time at 
 a spot trying to land tricks diffrent ways, and I just love it. The story mode is great, and I've 
 played through that around 2 or 3 times (I usually just freeskate or play online with friends) . 
 The Story mode has you trying to get the cover picture of two magazines: Trasher and Skateboard 
 mag. It has you do missions along the way (no none of that bam margera drive shopping carts into 
 old people garbage) . It is a decent length and all of the challenges are fun. The multiplayer is 
 amazing aswell. You can do races or trick battles and it is just limitless fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Articfox6
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Skate does pretty well for itself being the first in the series. The innovative flick it system 
 can be a little hard to master but with time you can really do things easy. There are a few things 
 missing though such as some type of level editor and the female gender for any girls who play. 
 Also you cant adjust the height which may be good depending on how you look at it. Also the story 
 mode is fun but missing something. Maybe its the whole work your way up. Or maybe im just so used 
 to Tony Hawk games. The whole game though is basically about the core of skateboarding. No skills 
 to get higher and no special tricks. Even though the right thumb stick does all the moves, it sometimes 
 feels like there isnt that many tricks. You also cant get off your board which again leads me to 
 say this game is all about skateboarding but it wouldnt hurt to be able to climb somewhere you 
 would like to skate on. Even though skate has a few flaws or thing left out, its still a really 
 good game. The game does have possibly the best replay editor in a game. The only problem though 
 is you dont have so many camera angles. The game feels real and unlike Tony Hawk where as you can 
 do 2 backflips 3 900's and 15 kickflips and land skate is a lot harder depending on who you talk 
 to. Skate grows on you and eventually you learn to love it. But I guess thats personal taste. Skate 
 feels good and has a fair amount of things to buy. Shirts, pants, shoes, boards, hats, wheels, 
 trucks, and various accessories. Unlike Tony Hawk where you can skate around in your underwear 
 skate is more serious and realistic which appeals to real skaters. Skate is a solid game that is 
 atleast worth a rent. If you love Skate then good news is there is going to be a sequel. There 
 is no downloadable content which may disapoint some but most of the time its all overpriced anyway. 
 If you dont feel like buying or renting it then there is a demo off Market place that lets you 
 have a taste of what skate has to offer. It cant hurt to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calebkid75
Rating: 0
Date: May 8, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementality89
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  ok first off ill say im pretty biased here because im a skateboarder myself. i can be a pretty 
 harsh critic aswell and im quite picky at that.
  also i have a deep running hatred for the slackers at EA and their multiple flops (for me anyway) 
 like need for speed and their attempts at 007 recreation. ive been a long time player of the tony 
 hawk series ever since THPS1 and its always been my escape during those wet skateless days, but 
 there has always been something missing. in the games i always loved to play realistically but 
 the series could never do that for me. skate however does exactly what the tony hawk series could 
 not.
  
  (Graphics.)
  i wont even bother with graphics, it's pretty much norm for games these days to be flashy.
  
 
  (Sound)
  the sound is good, nice soundtrack, good sound effects, all real voices etc. however the one complaint 
 is the fact the soundtrack only plays in key areas of skating, which kind of resulted in me just 
 hitting shuffle on itunes. it was a nice concept but it didn't work for me. 
  
  (Story)
  the storyline wasn't as fun as tony hawk series were, all in the realism i suppose, but it all 
 boiled down a little too serious. that was expected. (Difficulty)
  the game could be frustrating enough in places, i found myself gnashing my teeth a few times on 
 goals but it wasn't crippling at the same time, so pretty balanced.
  
  (Value)
  for me, i hold this game as highly valued. this is one of those games ill continue to play until 
 a sequel comes out or my xbox breaks. it's just a fun and addictive little package.
  
  (Gameplay)
  this could be difficult to sum up.
  the gameplay could be frustrating at times, 
 with some tricks being easy and others nearing impossible but i guess once again, it's all about 
 the realism. the game world, now this has to be mentioned. san velona is a huge city comprised 
 of a few large zones, all with unique skatespots, be it stairs, handrails, slopes, sketchy suburban 
 areas or monuments that were just created subconsciously for skaters. the game world is the best 
 aspect of the game, with surroundings to suit any of your skate rat cravings. along with the flick 
 it controls, the game play is truly a unique one. overall id say this game is especially appealing 
 to skateboarders or anyone who enjoys extreme sports really. it's as much a simulation as it is 
 a game, at least in comparison to the rest of the market. i hate to say it, but EA actually did 
 a good job with a game for once instead of sticking their massive f**k-up shaped foot in the project 
 and duplicating the same thing over and over until the market is drowning in bad nostalgia. 
  
  fingers crossed i haven't spoke to soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 0
Date: Jun 2, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: NihilusReborn
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 18, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Skate, a. k. a the game that could of killed the Tony Hawk Series, the game that could of showed 
 us that Skateboarding games aren't dead and repetitive. Basically what it did was turn a button 
 mashing genre into a analog stick flicking game, the create a character system is pretty cool, 
 but the interactivity sucks. The story line isn't so good and the skating can get pretty boring, and 
 it can get pretty hard to remember all the tricks. Also, your skater never gets off his skateboard, 
 he must REALLY love it. The game's soundtrack is pretty neat and the voice overs are OK, but for 
 a mega over-hyped game, it disapoints. The pretty graphics aren't enough to make up for the stale 
 chunky gameplay and the nasty mechanics. It's a pretty good step away from the Tony Hawk Series, 
 but still not a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadlynatas
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 6:02 am PT
Review:  I think this game is to own and practise alot. I would not try and rent this game and expect much. 
 I barrowed this from a friend and i got like 20gs points from it. The game-play is nice how you 
 can skate around town desiding what you want to do ,but it can get agrivating. It never does really 
 show you where you should go to complete the competitions to finish the game. It took me like an 
 hour before i even knew how to do a manuel. Thats probly my fualt but lol thats a little scary. 
 I am not into skateboard games to so that might have been a reason for my dislike. The analog stick 
 is sometimes to tricky like you can change one little thing and it be a hole new trick. Which can 
 get crazy when playing skate with someone. The online play i must say was way to laggy and it was 
 not even me. The graphics were not bad and some of the glitches makes this game kind of interesting. 
 I would buy this game if i was to get it at all and if you were to dislike it you would have usually 
 7days to bring it back or 30 if it is used. I disliked this game but i know many of people that 
 like to play it and play it. This game for me has no replay value but my friend says out of all 
 his games he plays this one the most. So i would really think about if you like these kinds of 
 games b4 you put in your purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetSurfer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game recently along with my new Xbox 360. First off, i would like to say that this 
 truly is the Tony hawk Skate killer. The flick control is genius and the graphics are amazing. 
 Though there are some glitches here and there, EA will probably fix those in SKATE 2. But anyways, 
 right now we're focusing on SKATE. The whole career mode isn't as creative as Tony Hawk but it 
 is realistic. You basically have 2 real life skate magazines. And you have to do challenges to 
 work your way up and get coverages on those magazines by doing photo shoots and videos to get sponsored. 
 But choose wisely. You can do any sponsor challenge you want but you can only choose one of them. 
 And that sponsor will stay with you throughout the whole career mode. So it's not like you can 
 quit skating for one company and go to another. You will have sponsors for obviously the board. 
 Then you have sponsors for other things like shoes, trucks, wheels, clothing, etc. Along the way 
 you will get to do pro challenges starring Rob Dyrdek (and Big Black) , Paul Rodriguez (P-Rod) , 
 Mike Caroll, Chris Haslam, and Danny Way to name a few. After getting all these major coverages, 
 you get invited to such places like Danny Way's compound, the Plan B Warehouse, and the X-Games 
 the grand daddy of them all! The flickit control system is very nice. Almost all your tricks are 
 done on the right stick. To ollie, you have to pull the stick down and flickit straight up. For 
 a kickflip, you pull the stick down and flickit to the right, or left if you're regular. It is 
 truly amazing and a fresh breath from the button mashing days of Tony Hawk. Not to bash on the 
 Tony Hawk series because he is truly the one that set the standards of Skate games. SKATE just 
 basically took that and made it 10 times better and more modernized to fit the 2nd gen consoles. 
 SKATE. reel is a cool feature that adds to the overall of the game. Skate. reel is basically taking 
 videos that you got to edit and record on your game and upload it to the ea skate website for every 
 one to enjoy and rate. The only downside is the flickit control. As i said before, the flickit 
 system is revolutionary and fun. But the pro challenges that you do are sometimes just way too 
 specific, making your experience really annoying. Like sometimes you have to do a 360 flip to a 
 grind, you may end up doing a 360 shuvit because the flick controls are really similar. So it may 
 take you 15 tries to do a single challenge. But hey that's like real life right? All those cool 
 tricks you see in skate videos aren't always perfect, they just edit out the imperfections. So 
 sometimes it will take pro skaters 100 tries to work out a perfect grind or a perfect flip. Speaking 
 of grinds, there are also no grind buttons in SKATE. instead, you have to align yourself with the 
 rail and ollie or flip onto it like you'll do in real life. The left stick is your body that's 
 how you control how you land on the rail. Another con of SKATE is that there is no option to get 
 off your board and walk. It may seem like a small con but sometimes when you just don't want to 
 skate onto another side to just ollie of a flight of stairs you can't just get off your board to 
 walk up those stairs then ollie of it. SKATE is also missing some tricks like the no-comply, boneless, 
 impossible, and there are not much substantial lip tricks. I'm sure when SKATE 2 comes out in 2009, 
 it will fix these downsides. All in all, SKATE is a very fun game that will have you playing for 
 weeks and maybe even months because of the wide area (called San Vanelona) and the different kinds 
 of flick combos you can do. Definitely worth the 60 bux. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Beatz-
Rating: 0
Date: Apr 6, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadewon
Rating: 0
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrillyum
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  The controls of this game are what MAKE the game. If you are trying to decide whether to buy or 
 rent, i would definitely say rent or borrow from a friend. This is a really good game; WAY better 
 than all of the Tony Hawk games. It is far more realistic. And plus you dont have stupid music 
 constantly blaring in the background. The view can sometimes piss me off. It is a really good idea 
 to have it be the view of a camera-man but in reality it starts to become annoying. Also the pedestrians 
 in this game start to bug too. They always get in the way of the challenges. And speaking of challenges, 
 for the most part they are pretty crappy. The online is pretty fun but you have to be good at the 
 game or you will get destroyed. Basically the best part of this game would have to be the free 
 skate mode where you just get to roam around and do some awesome looking tricks. With the controls 
 you are a lot more involved which makes it that much more fun. So if you can, play it at a friends 
 house or ask if you can borrow it because if you buy it, chances are you might start to get sick 
 of it a little bit too soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amar93
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  It's hard not to compare Skate with the Tony Hawk series because the Tony Hawk series has been 
 the only skateboarding game available up until now. EA released Skate back in September of 2007 
 to compete the popular Tony Hawk franchise.
  
  Skate features the brand new Flick-It controls which makes the game way more realistic than the 
 Tony Hawk games. An Ollie is done simply by moving the right stick down, and then flicking it up, 
 hence the Flick-It name. The longer you are able to hold the right stick down, you'll get more 
 air as you flick it back up. It's more realistic than Tony Hawk's way, which is done by pressing 
 A. 
  
  Grinding is fairly simple. It's as easy as landing on the rail. Simply flick the stick up, and 
 land on the rail to do a grind. If you wanted to do a kickflip to a grind in Tony Hawk, you would 
 have to press A, then press X and flick the left stick left, and then press Y to grind. Whereas 
 in Skate, you move the stick down, flick it diagonally and land.
  
  The game opens up with a long movie, and you can't skip it. Your character is skating around until 
 a bus hits him. You are then put in an ambulance, and it introduces all of the skateboarders, some 
 of which you might not know unless you really follow the sport, and they play some roles. Then 
 it opens up with a customization option which allows you to create your skater.
  
  You'll get a wide variety of shirts, shoes, hats, and pants from different brand names to customize 
 your characters with. You'll also get a variety of board graphics, trucks, and wheels to customize 
 your board as well. The only downside is that the body customization is very poor. You'll get a 
 limited number of hairstyles and facial hair to choose from. So while the clothing has lots of 
 things to choose from, don't expect to make your character look exactly like you if that's what 
 you're aiming for.
  
  After you finish making your skater, you'll be taken to a short tutorial which will explain how 
 the whole Flick-It system works. Once you finish, you'll get a few challenges which are also tutorials. 
 Paul Rodriguez will teach you about nollies, Jason Dill will teach you manuals, and so on. You'll 
 also get to play a quick game of S. K. A. T. E which is similar to horse in basketball. Copy the trick 
 and land it. If you bail, you get a letter, and if they bail, they get a letter. Unless if it's 
 their turn, then it switches to you setting the trick. You'll then have to follow the same guy 
 to the elementary school to finish up with the tutorials. You'll follow a few skaters in the game, 
 and that is the most frustrating challenge because they won't just skate to the destination. They'll 
 swerve between cars, and take other routes and make it seem as if they don't want you to follow 
 them.
  
  The whole point of the game is to get noticed by the two magazines in the game, The Skateboard 
 Mag, and Thrasher. You start off as just some skater, and as you continue to do goals, you'll end 
 up making a name for yourself and get sponsors and even get invited to the X-Games.
  
  The whole sponsor thing is a great feature. As you get coverage in the magazines, you will eventually 
 get contacted by various sponsors. They'll want to sponsor you and have you wear their product. 
 The best part about it is not only that your sponsors gear is free to you, but you get paid for 
 using their product. So any event that you do that pays you, you'll get a bonus for your board, 
 trucks, wheels, and shoe sponsors.
  
  While all that may sound great, Skate is a very frustrating game. You'll often get challenges that 
 give you very poor directions and you'll end up replaying the same challenge over and over and 
 over again. Most of the challenges will make you want to claw your eyes out. You also get a nifty 
 little trick book which shows you how to do a particular flip trick, grind, or grab trick. They'll 
 show you how to do it for both stances, but it's always hard to do most. You'll flick the right 
 stick the same way that they showed you and they'll call it a different name. This is extremely 
 frustrating during the challenges where they want you to do an advanced flip trick into a grind 
 or something. 
  
  The game also has trouble differentiating between a frontside and a backside grind. If you land 
 in a grind and lower the right stick, they'll call it a backside. However, if you were to do it 
 again, they would call it a frontside. This, along with the tricks mentioned in the previous paragraph, 
 will definitely frustrate you if you are doing a challenge asking you to do a backside or a frontside 
 grind.
  
  To make the game more realistic, they added several spots known in the game as No-Skate-Zones. 
 There is at least one security guard patrolling the No-Skate-Zone and he'll chase you if he sees 
 you. If you get caught, you'll have to cough up $50. But the bad part is that most of the No-Skate-Zones 
 are really good spots to skate. But note that you'll have a lower chance of getting caught in a 
 big No-Skate-Zone than you will in a small zone.
  
  Skate will have challenges known as Jams. Jams are events in which skaters must do tricks to gain 
 the most points. But they mostly cram you in an area where you are guaranteed to hit someone. Along 
 with Jams, they also have races which really are not that fun. You have to go down a big street 
 or some other area hitting as many checkpoints as you can and being the first to the finish line. 
 You don't necessarily have to hit all the checkpoints, but it's highly recommended as you'll get 
 more time. You'll lose by either being in 2nd place or lower, or running out of time. 
  
  There is an Own the Spot feature which has you beating a preset score on an obstacle. These spots 
 are scattered all around the city, and since the whole map is open to you from the start, you should 
 be able to find all of them without even playing through the storyline. The only places that are 
 locked are the skate parks, but other than that, everything is open.
  
  Online is a pretty fun feature in Skate. There is a Skate. Reel which allows you to upload your 
 footage or photos onto the web for people to look at and rate. It's a really cool feature which 
 allows you to show off some of your best runs. You can also customize how slow you want the movie 
 to run, change the camera angles and the lighting. You basically get to mess around with a whole 
 bunch of stuff in the game.
  
  You'll also have online Jam Sessions, Own the Spot competitions, Best Trick, and races. If you 
 play one of the four events in the Trick events area, you'll gain experience which will raise your 
 rank. You start with nothing and you'll eventually go to Amateur, then Pro, then Icon. Once you 
 reach Icon status, you can't gain a higher rank. You can gain more experience points, but you won't 
 obtain a higher rank. The same applies for the Race events. To gain more experience, you'll have 
 to win the event, and if you place last, you'll get the least amount of experience points.
  
  Overall Skate is much better than most of the newer Tony Hawk games. It's more realistic, has 
 better control, and even has online. But the challenges just get frustrating and it's hard to land 
 the exact trick you want. And unlike Tony Hawk, you don't get better by assigning points to your 
 attributes, your skater will get better as you get better with the game, making it that much more 
 realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Skate is a very unique, new skateboarding game that redifines anything in the skateboarding genre. 
 It is a nice change from all of the boring and repetative tony hawk games that haven't introduced 
 anything new in the series for a long time. The analog controls take a little bit of time to get 
 used to, but feel way better in the end and you will notice that it is a pleasant change. As you 
 advance through this game, you will be taught new tricks instead of just having to know them from 
 the start. If you are an owner of tony hawk's project 8 and a fan of the series, I would advise 
 you go exchange it right now and but yourself a copy of skate, you will be not only pleased at 
 your choice, but also refreshed. This game would appeal to people of all ages, as it is both fun 
 and a little bit challenging (but not too hard) and you can also pick your favorite skate companies 
 as your sponsors for those who like some better then others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GalSinger
Rating: 0
Date: Mar 26, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Bikinis are Better in the Summer    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: richard2day15
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of Tony Hawk games since i was 7 and they were awesome. This game came from 
 nowhere and then dominated! This game delivers the feel of real skating. You move and steer with 
 the left axis and do tricks with right. You have a wide range of tricks, although you will never 
 get em' all. This game has a pretty long story line and some pretty cool lines for skating. The 
 achievements are fairly easy and your pretty much done with them by the time you beat the game 
 and played a few multi-player games. If you are passionate about skating like me you will look 
 to this game for inspiration for tricks and lines. Every kick, move and turn is real and if you 
 try it in the real world you will get the same results.
  
  The game has a few cool features like death races down extremely dangerous and steep roads. They 
 are difficult at first, but you will soon find out how to gain speed. You also have a few more 
 game types like S. K. A. T. E, best trick and many others! I promise you will never get board of this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cryptic_Shadow
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  OK skaters, listen up!
  
  Plain and simply, this game is pure skating. The innovative 'Flick-It' controls give you the feel 
 of how it is to really 'pop' ollies and cruising the streets of the huge city of San Van is hardly 
 tiring. 
  
  I was a huge fan of the 'Tony Hawk Pro Skater' series, but who wasn't? If you enjoy skating at 
 all it was the only game to play to get your fix. But when this games demo was first downloadable 
 I played it everyday for 4 months until I could affort to go out and buy the game. When I finally 
 bought the game i was completely blown away at the extreme level of detail, physics motion and 
 overall sound. The Career mode was pretty sweet too!
  
  A definate bonus for me is in uploading your replays and photos on the skate. reel site. It is something 
 that drew me into the games long term enjoyability level, since i now create my own skate videos 
 in full (not an option in the game itself unfortunately) and share them on the net. This game is 
 by far the most realistic depiction of skating to date and the more realistic your skating approach 
 to the game the better you will be, in my opinion. If you do buy this game, whatever you do don't 
 'hawk it'! :)
  
  Rhekaan (gamertag)
  aka the 'random hero' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of the Tony Hawk skateboarding games but your getting tired of the same old repetativeness 
 and unrealism that they now have to offer, it's time to move on and buy yourself SKATE.
  
  SKATE is not only the most realistic skateboarding game you'll ever come across, but the most fun 
 at that. Instead of adding stupid features like 'Nail-the-trick' that was seen in Tony's Project 
 8, SKATE keeps close to realism and pays close attention to gravity and physics making each trick 
 look so smooth. The only thing on SKATE that can be annoying at times is the whole trick system. 
 Although it works so well with the fact that you flick your right analog stick to do fliptricks, 
 use the left analog stick for your body movement and your Left and Right triggers for your Left 
 and Right hands, you'll sometimes find yourself getting stressed over landing certain tricks like 
 the annoying 360 flip where you have to swirl your right analog around and go straight up and... 
 and... well, it's just plain annoying at times. However, so is trying to land a trick in real life. 
 Practice as much as you can on the game, and you'll find yourself on the cover of magazines in 
 no time. 
  
  SKATE has lots to offer in skateboarding that the Tony Hawk series couldn't and never will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djshortbread
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I am very much enjoying this game. It is quite surprising how much it is actually like skateboarding. 
 The motions you use on the controller are very similar to the movements and flow that one would 
 really use while skateboarding. It is very refreshing as a skateboard game for the next-gen systems. 
 The graphics are very clean, and the sound effects are dead on. You ever here a skateboard coming 
 down the sidewalk?, Or someone skating on a tile or brick like surface. Props to the audio crew 
 for getting it down solid. I did find the camera angles sometime hard to see where you are going, 
 but it does feel like you are playing an interactive skateboard video. The only thing I'd change 
 would be a feature where you could pick up your board and beat down the people that get in your 
 way. (though this is a sports game that probably does not want to add any over the top violence)
 
  I would recommend this for anyone into skateboarding Especially if your bored of the Hawk series.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: better-than-U
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Skate is a nice game that is so different than tony hawks in so many ways to start its more relistic 
 no more triple melon backflips: ( which is good and bad.
  the gamplay is fun and a challenge to learn
  the graphics are quite the same as project 8
  
 the sound is great of movement etc
  good online value, overall its a great game but its leaning more towards people who are experienced 
 in skating and known how to skate so if you dont skate you migh find this a smal bit harder than 
 somone who does but you can still get it eventually it only took me about 15 minutes to do some 
 great moves.
  i would reccomend to anyone who sktaes but if you dont or arnt really interested in the sport then 
 maybe proving ground is your choice.
  sorry for the short revie
  w im in a rush thanks or reading
  gamplay:8.5/10
  graphics:8.9/10
  sound:7.9/10
  value:7.9/10
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THXiam117
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxtre6d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  The game skate by ea is a great game to me i think its a game for relaxing kind of. Like when your 
 done killing locust or destroying the flood, anyways skate is a great game because (well for one 
 reason i skate) everyone says its so realistic but dont get me wrong but sometimes "unreal" things 
 can happen like this one time i some how did a backflip of a stairset and landed it, i mean come 
 on a backflip. but the game does have a lot of exciting sponsor challenges but some are difficult 
 like the jerry hsu one at the library and u have to get like 5000 are some points, or the p-rod 
 one where you have to nollie 360 filp to grind a hubba. oh ya thats another thing you have to NOLLIE 
 360 flip, but when you do the rob and big challenge you have to only 360 FLI why do they want you 
 to do a nollie 360 flip before a regular 360 flip : ( but i figured it out. even though i havent 
 beaten the game yet im at the rob and big one and every time i do the 360 flip i never do a crook 
 its always somthing else. Oh well its a game i mean what can you do, ya anyways the glitches are 
 hilarious like when you hit a rail and go flying or somthing just happens ,whatever, you have probably 
 been wondering why havent i talked about the games quality well here you go, ill make it short 
 and simple, the graphics are ok, the characters are sexy, the security guards are a nice touch, the 
 controls are unique where you can control the board with a flick instead of freakin button mashing 
 like in tony hawk games. any ways the game overall i give an 8.5 . i usally play just cause i want 
 to beat the challenges and just cruzin around town. anyways if you like "relaxing" type games i 
 guess you call it. or if you just want to take a weee break from those first person shooter games 
 you'll like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serious06
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 28, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strife88
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 26, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: candidate0
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 22, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: blink182plus44
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXChronopolis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  EA redesigns skateboarding games with Skate. They do an incredible job at it too. All gamespot 
 can do is rag on it because why? who cares. The point is that this is the overall the best skating 
 game to date and I dont think anything will be surpassing it soon. 
  
  The flick system they use beats pressing a random assortment of buttons by far. It was about time 
 someone came up with using that as the main means of performing tricks and manuals and grinds, 
 etc. Kudos to the THPS series for somewhat introducing that in Project 8 and Proving Grounds but 
 EA has perfected this. 
  
  Not only does this game have a unique one-of-a-kind control system but the storyline and challenges 
 are not bad to boot. The challenges are not too hard but they will have you busy for awhile. The 
 soundtrack is a bit weird but that can be easily fixed by plugging your ipod in or playing music 
 from your hard drive. Even after beating all of the story and all of the challenges, i find myself 
 coming back to this game whenever I am bored. 
  
  If you are a skateboarder or a fan of skateboarding games. Check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  ... so it is a good thing that EA got that mechanic right in this game. For a rookie franchise, 
 this is actually a rather good first effort. 
  
  In .skate, you'll play as a skater working their way up the from unknown to sponsored skater to 
 skate legend. The game plays out in a sort of open ended city, where you'll be skating around completing 
 objectives like collecting skate footage and still pictures along with "Owning" special areas around 
 the city and facing other skaters in various skating challenges. Yes... the only focus of the game 
 is skating, and although I am often skeptical of games set in a single setting, for the type of 
 objectives and gameplay you're expected to execute in this game, it works wonderfully. 
  
  However, the "story" linking these activities together is pretty much non-existent, which is fine 
 for a skating game except that it TRIES to exist, and just fails with hokey dialogue and pseudo-slang 
 coupled with annoying characters and drab cutscenes that drag the overall presentation of what 
 is a really decent looking next gen title down. Still, with good character models and unique lighting 
 effects including use of several filters gives the game an overall visual design that is unique, 
 yet familiar at the same time.
  
  And the visual design is the only thing familiar about the skating in this game, because unlike 
 the Tony Hawk franchise, EA has opted for an entirely different, analog stick centric control scheme. 
 You'll be flicking the right stick to ollie and perform flip tricks, and using the triggers to 
 perform grabs. The game's controls are intuitive, but the learning curve behind the stick controls 
 are STEEP, and after hours of playing, don't expect to have learned to execute anything more than 
 a kickflip, shuvit, and other variations with any sort of regularity. The flips are all unlocked 
 at the very beginning of the game, it's just up to YOU to learn how to execute them, making a level 
 of challenge that's both a boon, and a hindrance. On one hand, it's all on you, not your character 
 or equiptment, to actually learn this games brand of skating, but on the other, if you're not nailing 
 those tricks with any sort of regularity, you're going to get very very frustrated, and that's 
 not any fun.
  
  .skate is a good first offering for this young franchise. Though it has it's flaws, it's definitely 
 got potential to be a rival to the crumbling Tony Hawk juggernaut. It gets a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGENT02
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: nwnoodle
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I grew up on a skateboard. At one point it was my way of life and I 
 still get out and poke around on the board when I can. I just have other priorities now. That being 
 said, I really enjoyed this game. 
  The only bad thing I could say about it is that the SP story wraps up too quickly. Though you can 
 go on and freeskate and finish off some film and photo challenges, it wasn't long enough. 
  The controls are great and you find yourself really concentrating on the control sticks to pull 
 off tricks. I thought the "flick-it" system was a great way to apply skating controls to a game. 
 It feels natural. 
  I can't say enough about the graphics, they are exceptional. The flow of the game feels natural 
 and anyone who has spent any time skating in thier life will find this fun. Some of the advanced 
 tricks are really tough, but they should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  Anyways solid game for someone who loves to skateboard like me. The controls are really cool and 
 work well but they involve ALOT more skill rather than Tony Hawk where u just tap a button to grind 
 and do tricks. Definately in need of a change in that department. Teh challenges are just right 
 at first but once u get farther into the game it just gets rediculously hard. some of the harder 
 tricks like varial heelflips and the map is HUGE! but i find its too spread out. If it wasnt for 
 the fast travel option id go insane. Streets are confusing and lack good spots... theres too much 
 open road. Sometimes u get lost if you dont use the map. some events dont show up on the map only 
 on your radar which makes it difficult to get to. no big deal i can deal with it.
  
  As for all the complaints about advertising in the game. I LIKE IT! who cares! the clothes, boards 
 and accessories look awesome and authentic. you don't see anyone complaining about this in games 
 like TIGER WOODS do you?! exactly. thats the worst thing to ram on this game. Its not like there 
 throwing in Coca-cola ads or slim fast. its all skateboarding related companies that sell products 
 worth buying and wearing.
  
  Sounds are awesome, the rolling wheels and grinds are crazy real. Online mode is OK... some of the 
 spots are kinda cheese but theres defintately a few good ones in there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Ive grown tired of the Tony Hawk games, its just getting a little much. I wanted to play a game 
 that is pretty realistic. And when I wished for it, EA delivered. Skate has so many good features, 
 great graphics, good online, and its just plain realistic and fun to play.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is excellent. The manner in which you perform trick is similar to the fight 
 night boxing games, utilizing the control stick primarily. It works flawlessly, and it makes you 
 feel that you've accomplished something when you pull off a hard trick, unlike the mindless button 
 mashing of the Tony Hawk games.
  
  Graphics/Sound-Both are great. This game has excellent graphics, excellent lighting and good character 
 models. The sound is good as well. The soundtrack is a little strange (Rick James and Cheap Trick??) . 
 The skating and enviromental sounds are great.
  
  Fun/value-The story mode is pretty long, and all of it is fun. The online play is good. An excellent 
 addition is the replay editor. Since the game work on real physics, you can do just about anything 
 if you fall off your board and do some crazy flips, hit your balls on a pole, etc. 
  
  Skate is a refreshing change of pace focusing more on realistic skating, and is one of the must 
 have sports titles of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: listerfiend21
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ignite2k3
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: -kazoku-
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  by former 
  
  It's time to celebrate. "Why?" you ask? The last time something of this magnitude ripped through 
 the gaming universe we were all still worried about the Y2K bug and the end of the world being 
 brought about by our excessive reliance on electronics. The world was in turmoil, which is why 
 Tony Hawk Pro Skater was such a welcome sight.
  
  Yes, 1999 was a great year for skaters who were also gamers, gamers who were skaters, posers who 
 learned 'skate' speak by playing Tony Hawk, and everyone else got their hands on the revolutionary 
 sim. In recent years, however, the series has suffered somewhat from what seems like a lack of 
 purpose or sense of direction, which brings us back to the reason for the celebration: EA's skate.
 
  
  EA's skate is a revolutionary take on a genre the Tony Hawk series has had a monopoly on for almost 
 a decade. Skate follows the story of a skater who is befriended by a videographer after a near 
 fatal accident. This accident excuses the avatar customization you'll be able to do once you get 
 done watching the hilarious intro starring all the professional skaters featured in the game. No 
 worries, though, that's pretty much all you need to know about the story. It's basically nonexistent 
 from here on out.
  
  For those of you that need it, though, I'll go ahead and lay out the game's main objective. You're 
 trying to get coverage in two real world skate magazines, Thrasher and Skateboard Mag. Your ultimate 
 goal is to earn a cover shot on both of these magazines and skate in the X Games. If you choose 
 to you can avoid all that. The game is pretty enjoyable just skating around the fictitious, and 
 ridiculously large San Vanelona.
  
  The city has four major areas each with its own unique feel. You'll start off in the Suburbs. Lots 
 of houses, back allies, hidden pools and the like. There are a lot of rewards for the diligent 
 here. Then there's the Res. If you like the idea of bombing hills and becoming roadkill, the Res 
 is for you. Old Town is home to a lot of unique areas that lend themselves to anyone creative enough 
 to visualize that off-the-wall line. And, finally, Downtown, with its rails a plenty for grinding 
 goodness. There are also areas that are off-limits to skaters so watch out for security guards. 
 Like I said, just skating San Vanelona can be a blast
  
  That's not to say that skate is absolutely unstructured either. There are plenty of goal-oriented 
 tasks to complete, should you so desire. It's just as much fun to skate around aimlessly and look 
 for places to put together a fluid line, which, thanks to your trusty videographer and skate's 
 community features, you can then upload to the skate website to be viewed by others. (More on that 
 momentarily.)
  
  Skate's trick system has got to be the most revolutionary, intuitive and innovative system yet, 
 as it strikes a perfect balance between risk and reward that most games in this genre never touch. 
 To "ollie", simply pull down on the right analog stick and 'flickit' (don't laugh, that's EA's 
 official term) upward. To perform a kickflip or heelflip, after pulling down on the right joystick, 
 simply flickit upwards slightly to the left or right, depending on your stance. More complicated 
 tricks, such as a nollie 360 hardflip, require more complicated motions.
  
  The great thing about this system is that all of the tricks are available right from the beginning 
 of the game. This means that the only thing holding back the player is his or her skill level. 
 Throw in grinds, manuals, grabs, and the ability to string all of these together seamlessly (if 
 you've got the chops) and you have one robust trick system.
  
  Now, the trick system is great but if the game didn't challenge you it'd be a terrible waste. Nothing 
 to fear there, as some of the games challenges are certain to result in at least a few airborne 
 gamepads.
  
  The different gameplay modes are great, offering a lot of variety. First, there's Deathrace, an 
 event that's exactly like it sounds. Then there are the Best Trick competitions. Players here are 
 tasked with landing the highest scoring trick at a specific location within the allotted time period. 
 Jam lets players loose in a larger area, such as a pool, or even the X Games street course. The 
 player with the highest total score at the end of the event wins.
  
  Spot Race is an online exclusive challenge that requires players with performing specific tasks 
 at certain points on a path to the finish line. There are also "spots" to "own". These are specific 
 areas that may either be difficult to get to or just plain perfect for performing tricks on. The 
 spots you've found are archived in your "Spot Bible", which also keeps track of the high score 
 for each of the spots you've discovered. And lastly is S. K. A. T. E., which is just like H. O. R. S. E. 
 except with a skateboard. 
  
  All of these event types can be enjoyed online. The only downside is the lag which can be quite 
 bothersome considering a big part of landing and stringing together tricks is timing. Maybe they'll 
 work that out in the sequel.
  
  One of the most amazing features has to be the video editor. The game is constantly recording what 
 you're doing and archives up to the last 40 seconds of gameplay. That means that if you've just 
 done something completely out of hand, you can go to the pause menu, select the replay editor, 
 and piece together your own skate video. Now, it would be cool enough if all the fun stopped right 
 there. However, EA has set up a website titled "skate Reel" where you can post up to three of your 
 best videos. You can also upload up to six photos. You don't even have to bother using a PC, you 
 can check both your videos and everyone else's right from your 360 or PS3.
  
  We could easily go on about the intricacies of the gameplay but we'd be overlooking this game's 
 stunning graphics and physics engine. EA's Black Box was so careful about fine tuning the physics 
 that you'd barely notice they're there. And that's a compliment. Both the skateboard and its rider 
 behave exactly as you think they would, which comes into play when trying to keep momentum in a 
 pool or setting up for flipping into or out of a grind. This game also has amazing sound design 
 as anyone who has played it can attest to. Add to that the near photorealistic graphics and added 
 effects like motion blur and the experience becomes very immersive.
  
  There are a few gripes I have with the game. First handplants are absent along with the ability 
 to choose a female skater. I'd also have loved the ability to place a photographer in a specific 
 area for more dramatic shots during the replays and photos. These things aren't deal-breakers though, 
 not by a longshot. I hope to see these additions in the sequel.
  
  If you haven't played skate yet because of disenfranchisement due to the latest installments in 
 the Tony Hawk series, fear not. This is nothing like it. Personally, I would recommend this game 
 to everyone who loves either skating, videogames, or both. Pick it up. You won't be disappointed.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  After what the 9th game of the series of Tony Hawk, let EA screw you up Tony and kick your crappy 
 games of the track.
  
  EA has done it again, made a revolutionary game just like they did with the Sims.
  
  I Always 
 thought some need some credit for being a good skater (unline Bam Margera who did not even deserve 
 for being in a Tony Hawk just for knowing how to do a Kickflip.) Just like Rob Drydek or Danny 
 Way. These guys that are in the game are skating is all about, just ridin'! Not like fake crap 
 we're your Jumping over helicopters doing a McTwist or jumping off a building and landing it. Im 
 sorry Tony but you got screwed!
  
  After what the 9th game of the series of Tony Hawk, let EA screw you up Tony and kick your crappy 
 games of the track.
  After what the 9th game of the series of Tony Hawk, let EA screw you up Tony and kick your crappy 
 games of the track.
  After what the 9th game of the series of Tony Hawk, let EA screw you up Tony and kick your crappy 
 games of the track.
  After what the 9th game of the series of Tony Hawk, let EA screw you up Tony and kick your crappy 
 games of the track.
  After what the 9th game of the series of Tony Hawk, let EA screw you up Tony and kick your crappy 
 games of the track.
  After what the 9th game of the series of Tony Hawk, let EA screw you up Tony and kick your crappy 
 games of the track.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpt-killa
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I love this game it is VERY FUN. Easily the best skateboard game EVER. Instead of mashin buttons 
 all you do is flick it and that is all.
  
  I mean come on Tony Hawk games are easy where skate is a little challenging and it has a cooler 
 controller system. It has a fun story line about goin Pro and getting on the cover of Skateboard 
 Mag. and Thrasher. 
  
  My favorite part is Where you go into the X-Games and do the Big Ramp (which was kinda hard) and 
 the Street Session (which is hekka fun to do) .
  
  But some challenges were kinda demanding like the Rob and Big challenge where you have to do a 
 360 Flip (which is a 360 pop shuv it with a kickflip) into a FS Crooked Grind onto a bench which 
 Big Black is Walking around.
  
  And I love how you can skate whenever you want and wherever you want , my favorite is at the hospital 
 no skate zone and then clear the gap and then clearing the huge stairset. And then My next is Bombing 
 the Hills.
  
  So overall this game is awesome and i hoped you liked my review so Enjoi
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylanisbored
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great total control, Great free roam, The X-Games are in, Great Graphic, Great multilayer, 
 Hard falls come with a Crunch!
  
  The Bad: Some challenges are too difficult, load times can get annoying fast.
  
  I'll say what 
 a lot of people are saying "This game KILLS Tony Hawk!" and it's true, this game features great 
 controls that make you feel like your actually skating! Sure there is no Tony Hawk but the X-Games 
 gets rid of that problem. The models are well put together. But sometimes when you take a hard 
 fall and land on your ankle or leg the foot goes all weird. It's not a bad glitch but is funny. 
 The really only annoying thing about this game is that the load times to see a replay are ungodly! 
 And the challenges to unlock a skater or skate zone are unreasonably hard. But besides those errors 
 this game is great and whoever likes to skate or can't skate and wants to, this game is for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAENF0RCER13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Skate has now got me rid of button mashing tricks and combos from the Tony Hawk games. Skate's 
 different. You don't just play it, you feel it. No more buttons to do tricks (except grabs) . Instead, 
 you use the thumbsticks to control your movements. The trick system is revolutionary. You flick 
 the right thumbstick a certain way and it does a flip trick. It may take time to get used to it, 
 but once you get it, you'll be skating like the pros (not literally) . 
  
  The skating enviornment is just downright awesome. You're in a place called San Vanelona and boy 
 is this place HUGE!!! A lot of places to skate from the suburbs, the city, or a skate park. There's 
 just a lot to do. The transportation fits right into the game. You can take a subway, open up your 
 map and select a location, or just do it the old fashioned way, skate there. Whatever fits your 
 style. Many pro skaters to choose from. Some of them I've never heard of. Of course, you can create 
 your own skater. A good amount of customizations. From clothes, accessories, all that stuff. Although 
 it could have done a bit of tuning. 
  
  The replay editor fits in perfectly. You can change camera angles, change the shading, change the 
 beginning and the end, the speed of the replay, go forward or backward, and take photos. Replays 
 that you've saved and photos you've taken can be published online for others to view and rate. 
 
  
  Now the only problems in this game is the load times and the online play. The load times are just 
 horribly long. It can take up to 30 to 45 seconds just to start a career or go back to where you 
 left off. You know what, it takes about that long just to start almost anything. It's just ridiculous. 
 Now for the online play. It's alright sometimes, but it can get laggy, even if you have a good 
 connection. Although waiting for the game to start is kinda bad. Players are sent to a small place 
 to skate in before the game starts so there's not that much freedom. Plus for some reason, I don't 
 know why, I got one of the online achievements where I'm an Icon trickster or something like that 
 and I only played 2 games. I guess i got it cuz i played one of the best tricksters in the game, 
 I dont know.
  
  Buy or Rent?
  If your a skateboarder, or love skating, or just looking for a good individual sports game, this 
 game is for you. So it would be a definite buy. Lots of replay and a good amount of achievements 
 to get. I would only rent it if I needed something to pass my time to wait for a new game or something 
 of the sort.
  
  Graphics- 8/10
  The graphics are alright, but nothing special. The skating will take you deeper into the game.
 
  
  Controls- 7/10
  Although the controls are revolutionary to a skating game, it can take quite a while to get used 
 to. Especially if you've transitioned from the Tony Hawk series to Skate. What I recommend you 
 would do is if you have access to Xbox Live, download the demo. It'll take you straight to the 
 tutorial where you can learn the controls of Skate and it gives you a half hour to skate one of 
 the many places in San Vanelona.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  So many places to skate, so little time. San Vanelona will practically have you traveling around 
 every single area in San Vanelona. 
  
  Story- 6/10
  Though I didn't explain the story earlier, lemme sum it up for you. You get in an accident, you 
 recover, and from then on you try to make a name for yourself in the skateboarding world. So basically 
 the story is like the same as in T. H. U. G. Sorta.
  
  Replay- 7/10
  Though the city is big, the replay is not. Once you've done every single challenge in the game's 
 story, there's not that much to do except skate, which can sometimes get repetitive. Online play 
 wouldn't really be an option for replay as it is kinda broken sometimes, but hey, it never hurts 
 to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VP-2247
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 22, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8OrSk8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  Has we know the Tony Hawk series have come way before the new game Skate. But now its time for 
 change. Skate is a revolutionary game, that puts you in the hands of yourself. You start out by 
 creating your character, and doing some training to learn and understand the controls. After you 
 finish your training you are free to go and explore the entire map. It is a huge map with an amazing 
 amount of spots to skate. You can also try missions, which are extremely fun but also very hard 
 at times. The online mode, is quite fun after getting used to. There is a free skate mode, death 
 race mode, spot battle, and a game of S. K. A. T. E. A game of S. K. A. T. E works exactly like it does 
 in the real world. Overall skate is a must have for skateboard fans, or for people who skate. Please 
 take into consideration that this game, will take many hours to learn and master, so do not get 
 irradiated, or annoyed with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volcomstoner180
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  screw old boney hawk, never play his games again! This game is incredible, best game to ever get 
 the feel of real life skateboarding. The control scheme is so good, actually like the actual movements 
 of your feet to do the tricks. Sure its 10x easier than real life skating, but if it wasnt i would 
 be way tooo hard and hurt a billion times more. Also I wouldnt ever try hitting the ramps in real 
 life at the DC megacomplex on a skate anytime anyway, those size booters should be for snowboard 
 only! 
  Complaints I do have is that some of the final goals are too tough, especially the no skate zone 
 ones. Also now when you play online goons are all dooing backflips to manuals, and getting million 
 points, which doesnt look stylish and takes the fun out of it...... so get a life you people and 
 just buy a tony hawk game so you can link all your tricks, get a million points in one trick. 
 
  Great game, still waiting for snowboardings version as that would be incredible. AMped 3 sucked. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilcupcake
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  ok i hate ea but.... they supringly made a good game preety graphics nice customization satisfing 
 game play its fun WHEN IT WORKS! but the main problem here is the chalanges when you are required 
 to film and do tasks under 30 seconds this is IMPOSSABLE later on in the game when they get hard 
 such as one where you have to score 3000 points in a no-skate zone now there are no absoulte area 
 where you can do these films its way to hard! its like doing somthing in the real world the level 
 desingers of this game suck bo half pipes no nothing i highly recomend that you dont by this game 
 because it sucks!!!! just plain sucks!!!!!!!!!!! its a waste of muney cash 
 
  -evilcupcake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Skate is the first competitor that the Tony Hawk games have had in a long time. The Tony Hawk series 
 has probably had such a monopoly because other developers were afraid that their game wouldn't 
 stand up to a giant like Tony Hawk.
  But then EA made Skate.
  Skates controls, which are very different from Tony Hawks, consist of using the right stick to 
 simulate the movements a skater would actually make in real life. The physics are very realistic, 
 but it's weird how your character will fall limp off of his board after tapping a wall.
  Another huge part in the game is the bailing. You can just sit there spending hours bailing off 
 of a huge spot trying to break as many bones as possible. And, if you make a good bail, you can 
 watch the replay from different angles, or in slow motion. And if you think it's worth it, you 
 can submit it to the "Skate. Reel" where others are able to rate and watch your videos. The downside 
 is there aren't enough slots to put all the replays you want. Also, if you break at least one bone, 
 a chart will pop up showing a skeleton that represents which bones you sprained, bruised, or broke.
 
  The "Flickit" control scheme isn't all good, though. While playing "S. K. A. T. E." (which is H. O. R. S. E. 
 with skating tricks) , you will have to do exact tricks, but alot of the time your thumb will slip 
 the tiniest millimeter and your character won; t do the trick you want him to.
  The online play is okay, but it will get boring after awhile. While doing Jams online, the area 
 will usually be too crowded and you will often creash into other skaters.
  Overall, I think this game is worth a rent. Despite its downfalls it provides a fresh, new skating 
 expirience unlike the dial-a-trick style of Tony Hawk.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: papa59roach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Skate. is an awesomeee game. At first, it will seem very awkward. especially if ur a tony hawk 
 veteran, like me :P. but after you get used to it, this game is wayy better than tony hawk. The 
 career mode or whatever it is called is pretty lame, thats why i gave this game 9.5 instead of 
 10. the challenges just arent very creative and theres really not much to it. some of the races 
 and competitions are pretty fun, though. The skating itself is what makes this game so great. You'll 
 spend hours simply, as the game's title would imply, skating. when you find a place for a kool 
 bail, you'll want to bail over and over and watch the replay. when you find a kool rail, youll 
 want to grind it over and over and watch the replay. when you find a place where you can get some 
 air, you'll want to nail out every trick and watch the replayy. the graphics are amazingg. and 
 the ragdoll (ish) physics make every bail fun to watch on the replayyy. overall, skate. is a great 
 game worth getting, whether you skate or not. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterJesterAra
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game has a different learning curve depending on who is playing it. All those people who said 
 that it was horrible and deserved a one out of ten. I dought they have ever skated before. The 
 game flows and i love the fact that you can't just manual everywhere and make a trick line that 
 is like 200 tricks long and get 19,879,858,752,544,648,947,345 points like you can in TH.
  
  When I first started playing it was weird but then again it is revolutionary so what do you 
 expect. I have always wanted a game to give reasonable points, not the stupid 75 digit scores but 
 i thought it was a little low in Skate. I was only getting no more then 500 points. Then i started 
 to catch on, the more complicated the trick and the better you pull it off the more points you 
 get. It doesn't take 50 tricks to get a 3X multiplier just a well placed kickflip 360 to a 5-0 
 and a 360 flip out. Sound hard.... because it should be.
  
  Anyone who talks about there not being good enough spots, you need to play the game more. When 
 you go out skating in the world you don't just automatically know where to go to skate and have 
 the most fun. Me and my friend went to a lot of places and having limited transportation that was 
 usually schools and other just weird stuff we could find to skate. Granted i haven't played the 
 most recent TH games but come on, how much of that stuff is put there just so that you can do really 
 insane tricks not because it would really be their in real life. Skate as far as i can tell is 
 put together in an all to real way and if forces you to think and use the environment. Also when 
 you do the Pro Challenges and the "own the spot" challenges you learn where new spots and and what 
 to look for, and not only that new moves. It takes a lot of tries because its not just a matter 
 of button combinations its actually getting your feet in the right place at the right time. Go 
 try that on a skateboard and then come back to the game and tell me the game is harder then doing 
 it in real life.... (Unless of course you already skate a lot and can do a lot of the stuff already) ... Also 
 with that go play TH and tell me how much of that you have EVER seen done in real life. I would 
 really like to know.
  
  All in all i love Skate and the way that it put together its trick system and point system. I also 
 like the fact that your not all super human and you can't just spend points to upgrade yourself. 
 You have to get better by playing and practicing. Some people say that it has a really bad collision 
 system. I think your not paying enough attention. In real life there isn't a big area were you 
 can miss the rail for the most part but still somehow end up on it, you are either on time or face 
 planting into the pavement. I think thats what makes skateboarding such an adrenaline rush. You 
 don't ever really know what is going to happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 9, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenrome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  OK, perhaps my intoduction is a bit of a lie, but it's deceptive about the rest of the game. It's 
 all very unique and competely different to anything I've ever seen before. 
  The problem is, we've only seen Tony Hawk's before, it's totally owned the genre for quite a while 
 and skate. is the first contender. 
  How does it measure up? Well, the first thing to mention is obvious- tthe control scheme. It's 
 quite honestly, flawed, yet fantastic. It's so much more natural than Tony Hawk's and flows nicely, 
 it's all very dynamic. The problems? Well, the problems come from the actaul game, instead of the 
 control mechanic. The problem is that many task will as you to do very specific tricks. On Tony 
 Hawk's it isn't any problem, press a certain combination, but on skate. it's hard to define things 
 like an ollie and a manual, and it can get very frustrating when the game expects you to do something 
 so specific. 
  The most irritating game mode confronts you directly with this problem. The game mode "skate." 
 is like horse. Usually you would think it would be a highest trick face-off, but on this you have 
 to copy the trick done before you- a near impossible task, especially at later stages in the game 
 when the computer plays flawlessly. 
  However the rest of the game is simply amazing. The main idea is get coverage from Thrasher and 
 Skateboard Mag and eventually own the X-Games. You'll go around skating contests and races (made 
 more fun by the fact that half the city is downhill) , and create videos at your choice of location.
 
  And that's the second best bit of skate. Many games have attempted success by making it free-roaming. 
 Almost ALL have failed. But in skate. it works so well. The amazing thing is that an amazing combination 
 of tricks can be conjured up from a simple street curb, anything is your tool. It may sound clich, 
 but you really can be cretive. And people have thier own favourite spots, and you can spend hours 
 just trying to find good skating spots
  You'll often find an oppurtinity and spend ten minutes trying to pull that single oppurtunity off 
 just right. 
  Skate. succeeds in so many ways, yet trips over itself is so many others, yet despite the career 
 and tasks not matching the control scheme, and the control scheme not being as 'pick-up-and-play' 
 and Tony Hawk's this is an amazing new venture into the genre, and let's just hope there's a sequel 
 with bigger brand names (maybe like vans and quicksilver) , reasonable tasks and the same sense 
 of curiosity that this original has created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattdadragan
Rating: 0
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMan001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  Yet another VERY creative game form the EA games ppl
  
  I can barely even explain in words how great this game is!!!
  
  the only thing that irritates 
 me in this game and in any other game is that when the guy falls over its not dramatic and it takes 
 like forver for the guy to GET UP
  
  but other than those little details this game is awesome on how it lets you create your own skater 
 and cruise through fun very cetailed places!!
  
  this game deserves atleast a 9.0 GAMESPOT i mean C'mon!!!!!!!
  
  its wayyyyyy better then tony 
 hawk games because i have played em all and this skate games tops them alll!! 
  
  NICE JOB!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kontaktin
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Skate dosnt deserve a 7.5. But also does not deserve a 9.0 or 10. It does however, deserve an 8.
 
  
  Skate is very fun. Flying down hills just to find out you get slammed by a car. The comps are very 
 fun. The only thing bad about skate is the challanges and spots.
  
  Challanges: The challenges, or, the Vids you need to make, are easy in some places, but most are 
 hard, because there are no good spots to fly off a ramp and get major points. Most spots in skate 
 suck and are hard to find out how to use them. The challanges give little detail. (most of the 
 time) Like when you do the wallride with the pro. He tells you to wallride off the wall. Then it 
 tells you to wallride off the wall, go over the gap and land it. Also, the one where you ollie 
 over the ledge thing and flip, manual, flip. At first, he just said flip manual flip. Never said 
 nothing about the kink. The challanges always tick you off, because it takes like, 20 trys before 
 you can do it. In real life, it's pretty easy after practice. my point is that the challanges are 
 hard and tick you off, but it is easyer to do comps and skate around.
  
  The game is overall fun in all ways. I just hate the challanges, The only thing i like are the 
 comps and the flying down hills and skateing the world. Don't take me as a fanboy of THPG. This 
 game beats THPG by a long shot, But skate is just, well, bad challanges and really bad spots. Its 
 still fun in all ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SubMachineGun_K
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Ok fellow skaters this is the game for you. Ok this game is fun I hated TH games because online 
 people would get 1 million point combos and stuff and grind a mile. sorry but thats impossible 
 and jumping 50 ft in the air. 
  
  But skate the camera angle is a cool new way it makes you tricks look very good and real. you can 
 shoot videos and post them on the internet and stuff like that. you can play online with friends 
 and theres alot of game modes. you can customize your character and board to. The story is a normal 
 skating game get famous and to the top. And its fun to crash and see hao man bones you can break 
 and fun cool spots to do it. The only thing I didnt like was the didnt have some really good sponsors 
 like Element.
  
  Graphics: 9- very well done characters and animations look very good.
  
  GamePlay:10- the thumb stick is the way to go.
  
  Story: 8- its been see before nothing 
 new but still good.
  
  Sound:10- the sound is amazing from landing the board hearing it smack the pavment to going over 
 the sidewalk cracks hearing the thumps.
  
  I recomend this game to everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIack3r
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 25, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: shizzo01220
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  This game looks impressive, and is great in the way that you can skate just about everything you 
 come across (except cars, wtf?) . The story is decent, and pulling off tricks is fun with the stick. 
 I like how it is more realistic than the TH series. You can not pull off ridiculous 50 trick combos 
 in this game. Some of the things that bug me are the camera angle. At times, you can't even see 
 the rail or box you are lining up to hit. It can be really annoying. Also, the trick stick, doesn't 
 always do what you want it to do. This can be annoying when you are trying to do certain tricks 
 for challenges. The game itself is good, but those few things really take away from the gameplay 
 and it being great. I'm sure EA will improve on these things in the next installment. Pick this 
 game up if you want to check out a skate simulation and the trick stick. It is defeinitely worth 
 it, but don't expect to be blown away unless you are a big fan of skating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Hobbit
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  ... starting with the 'WTF?' intro and the ausence of previewing your model's face, skate tables 
 and clothes on character creation, following by an AWFUL and confusing camera position, weird and 
 useless 'trick' system (c'mon, we're playing a DAMN skateboarding game and not a Street Fighter 
 one) and finishing with one of the worst collision detection system that i've seen on a sports 
 game, SKATE is the WORST skateboard game that i've played. Oh, wait, and what about the STUPID 
 damage chart showing EVERY damn time? ... i DON'T need to know how many teeths are broken EVERY 
 TIME i touch the ground.
  
  Tony Hawk's games set the standard for skateaboard games (at least until Proving Ground, which 
 is a mediocre game) and SKATE failed miserably. A complete and absolute failure. And the worst 
 of all, seeing EA typical progression, we'll have Skate 2, Skate 3, Skate 2010, Skate 2011 and 
 so on ... sic.
  
  Don't, i repeat, DON'T rent or buy this game.
  
  Being generous, 1/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tillekaratne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 4:25 am PT
Review:  I didn't like this game at first. I used to be into skateboarding years and years ago, but soon 
 grew out of it. However, since then I've still enjoyed playing skating games; mostly Tony Hawk's. 
 My brother skates, so he bought this game after spending hours and hours on the demo of it, flicking 
 away at the controls. I had a go, but couldn't get used to it - it just seemed far too complicated.
 
  
  Though when I had some spare time I gave it a go, and after about two or three hours I became quite 
 impressed. The "flick-it" system does have some flaws, but overall, it's a really good idea, and 
 EA have executed it pretty well. After spending enough time on it, you can aim to do most of the 
 tricks that you want. Grab tricks are also well done, and so are the grinds. The grinds add a big 
 variation, as you usually end up doing a different grind from the one you want.
  
  The graphics on the player are fantastic. They look really good, and so does the board. The environment, 
 however, is pretty rubbish. Most buildings look terrible, and the less said about the traffic, 
 the better. Simply, I've seen cars better animated and better presented back on the original PlayStation. 
 They truly are dreadful.
  
  But if the graphics don't bother you and you are already into skating, I'd go for it, but I wouldn't 
 pay full-price for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 19, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt9294
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: tg1413
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Well I must just say to begin with, despite it's flaws, Skate is just such an improvement on Tony 
 Hawk. There's just one thing lacking: the story .
  
  So the game starts off with a great beginning, well not exactly a beginning but a fun cutscene 
 thats actually real, and not part of the game. Anyway, you go through this to create your character, 
 there aren't many options there, apart from the hair, clothes, and accessories. Then you get into 
 the real game. If you've played the demo a lot like I did, then you can skip the tutorials and 
 get straight in. If you haven't... well then you'll have to do the tutorials anyway, or skip if 
 you're really confident. The first thing you notice is the fabulous graphics and the fluid animation. 
 Wow, they're awesome. Your skater looks so realistic and so does the world around them, the textures, 
 the lighting, everything. But the other thing is the new skate flickit system. This is just great. 
 Instead of button bashing, you have to flick your right analog stick to control the tricks you're 
 doing. This means that you have to actually think about your tricks, instead of just pressing a 
 button. The great thing about this, is that it's really satisfying pulling off a hard trick, and 
 any trick really. And you have to be precise about it, unlike on tony hawks where your character 
 would perform a trick, say a grind, with no problem at all, even if the distance and angle were 
 so unrealistic, and in real life, the trick would fail completely.
  
  But now to the bad bit. You get into your story of getting all of the pages in Skateboard and Thrasher 
 magazines, while this is challenging, it's just dull. You just have to complete different (when 
 i say different, the challenges are actually the same) challenges: photos, videos and jams and 
 best trick contests. But all of these are the same, and its just repetitive and annoying completing 
 them. And in the end, you just don't want to do them anymore. However, on the way there are the 
 good old fun pro lessons, which are a little bit different. You also have to complete different 
 challenges to gain sponsors, which is a good break from the usual challenges.
  
  Really, everything in this game is awesome, apart from the dull repetitive challenges, but if you're 
 willing to put them aside, you've got a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery_dude
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Missions: Now as I was saying the missions do get quite repetitive especially the filming and photography 
 ones. The problem is you don't do them you don't unlock the interesting challenges (which are usually 
 gap this, get this amount of points etc.) which therefore means no progressing through the game 
 and what is the point in that. Apart from missions there is plenty of other stuff to do for instance 
 just explore the world freely looking for new spots or even mixing them up and making your own 
 spots!
  
  Create-A-Character: The create a character was a bit of a let down after things like fight night 
 by EA and I know this sounds cheesy but tiger wood's and more had greatly detailed create a characters. 
 This however has about ten if that hairstyles not much customizable in the face or body. Lots of 
 clothes and things like that but once you've got a sponsor on your board wheels shoes and trucks 
 if you aren't wearing that company's trainers for instance the sponsorship relationship goes red 
 and you don't get money off of them for using there equipment. (Duh!)
  
  Multiplayer: Multiplayer on this game online is great. You must choose between levels though it 
 won't just stream the whole thing but truely it is massive. Online you have a series of modes my 
 personal favourite is freestyle. Just go around the level trying things you haven't done before 
 or want to show friends in a private server or the world in a public server. There is also spot 
 challenge mode where you're given a spot, the person with most points after I think 3 rounds wins. 
 Offline multiplayer isn't so good as there is no freestyle just S. K. A. T. E. mode also know as horse.
 
  Or spot challenge so I just hope you ain't like me and don't mind challenging all the time!
  
  Controls: The new controls in this game are amazing the flick-it is revolutionary (hence why 
 a chose the game a revolutionary!) X / SQUARE or A / X is push RT / R2 or LT / L2 is grab with 
 different hands then you use the right stick which is also used for also etc. to tweak it into 
 some form of grab. They work well with the game and are easy to get used to the basics but if you 
 are a skilled gamer its easy to pick up the advanced controls too!
  
  Skate. Reel: Now this new skate. reel thing they have done is genius even though the editing tools 
 are probably some of this simplest around. You are give 30 seconds of clip to edit with screen 
 effects slow mo speed up and a simple trimming tool. The one thing missing from it that would have 
 been easy to put on soundtrack and a bit more time for recording. That is easy solutions they could 
 have changed. One other thing I wouldn't mind would be like a master editing suite where you could 
 take clips you've saved put them into one large video with a good soundtrack of your choosing, 
 possibly even off of your hard drive.
  
  Overall: Overall it is a great game and if this is what it's like in its first year I cannot wait 
 for years to come as Tony Hawk has had 9 years to perfect it but then Skate. comes in on its first 
 year and completely laughs in Tony Hawk's face.
  Tony Hawk you should be ashamed.
  While Skate. is like -LOL- PWNED YA FACE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpo911
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  A game where you control the characters right foot with the right analog and the left foot with 
 the left analog. Do insane tricks on skate. Take part in skate competitions. From grinding, manual, flips, lip 
 tricks and olies skate is nothing like the Tony Hawks series. Its something new for a change and 
 has got better graphics then Tony Hawks Proving Ground. If your in for something diffrent than Tony 
 Hawks Skate will really give you a go although it has its problems. Thanks to those who read my 
 review and I hope there will be lots of questions at my messages.
  
  My name is jpo911 and im signing out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bojocon40
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  As we all know there has been a big named star called Tony Hawk that has laid waste to all skateboard 
 game clones. Luckily Tony can't touch this game. Why? Because it's a different view on skating. 
 Instead of combos and doing revert to manuals all the time you will now be looking for the perfect 
 line. That is what this game isa perfect line. But the line doesn't go out far enough.
  
  You start off as an unknown skater that gets hit by a bus and has to be taken to the hospital for 
 major surgery. That's when the game kicks in. You start off by creating a character. Creating a 
 character feels put together well. It feels like a less intense version of the Tiger Woods customization 
 options. You can either not go in deep or go all out. You can pull all the stops from how big your 
 skater is to size of the face. Then you go onto cloths and boards.
  
  This is where the fun starts. You get out of the hospital and taken on a tutorial. It's very simple 
 and it just teaches you the basics. You'll want to learn even more when the first tutorial ends. 
 The rest of the tutorials are spread out and are taught to you by pros in the game. During the 
 first tutorial it will also show you how to use the camera in the game. You can take pictures and 
 videos and upload them on the Internet and Xbox Live for everyone to see your mad skillsor your 
 horrible crashes.
  
  After the first tutorial you are let loose on the city which is nicely built. Pedestrians crowd 
 downtown. Cars drive by and honk horns when you get to close. You can also hear people talk on 
 their phones and to each other. The city really feels alive. I want to say it feels like a Need 
 For Speed sized city. By the end of this game you will still be finding new hidden places or some 
 bench that is in a back ally. 
  
  After the tutorial you can start taking on missions that range from you skating a line, competing 
 in competitions, competing in a game like horse called S. K. A. T. E., racing downhill and owning spots. 
 You do all these missions or events to get rep to get sponsors. You get up to 4 sponsors. You get 
 a shoe, deck, trucks and wheels sponsor. You can pick any sponsor from a pretty big list. But be 
 careful! You can only choose a sponsor once. After that it stays permanent. You can't go back and 
 change it.
  
  Basically your main goal is to get coverage so you can get sponsors so then you can go to the X 
 Games. That's right the famous X Games where you will compete in 2 events. You will compete in 
 Street and a huge "Mega Ramp". When they say mega they aren't kidding. That's pretty much the game. 
 There is no plot or twists. It's just you skating. Which is a good thing in my book. But it would 
 be nice to see some sort of plot as long as it's not like THUG or THAW.
  
  After you finish the game you are still left to skate. Which Skating in Skate pulls you in with 
 the "Flickit" controls. Yes it's one word. Basically it's what EA has been doing to almost all 
 the sports games. They integrated the right analog stick as your skateboard. Your left analog stick 
 is for steering you board. What makes this unique is that you actually have to learn the trick. 
 Some of these missions or events require precise landed tricks. You'll have learn all the tricks 
 and memorize them. I found this way more fun that just pressing a button. This also pans out in 
 game play. Say I want to grind a rail. I have to line up with the rail and Ollie at the right time 
 to land on the rail. You can land on the rail or you can shift you board around with the "flickit" 
 controls to do different grinds. . The controls in this game are demanding yet forgiving at the 
 same time. Like they say "Practice makes perfect." The controls also make it feel more like a sim 
 which is a good thing. 
  
  The camera angle scared me at first. It's down low at your skaters feet. It will feel weird at 
 first but you will adjust to like it. Just like the music. The music selection is a wide mix. From 
 classics to new songs. The weird thing is you never really hear the songs unless you put them on 
 soundtracks. The game automatically puts the music in ambiance mode. Which means the only way you 
 here the music is if you go to a popular skate area in town. The music also leads you to hidden 
 places.
  
  The sound effects are great! You hear your wheels go in between crack in the road. You can hear 
 your wheels screech to a stop when power sliding  you get the idea. Just every surface you can 
 think of your board going over you can hear it perfectly in this game.
  
  Multiplayer is a must now in almost all games. Multiplayer in Skate is great because you can just 
 skate with friends around the city or you can compete against one another. You can compete in S. K. A. T. E., 
 Own The Spot and much more. What's also cool is that you can go in and watch people skate if your 
 fingers are tired. It's kinda like Gotham TV from PGR but live.
  
  One HUGE downside to this game is the streaming billboard ads. There is nothing like seeing Small 
 Ville DVD and T-Mobile ads all over the place. You'll find yourself downloading a patch just to 
 put more ads on the billboards. Most of the ads are done right but when there is only two people 
 advertising at one time you see the same dang billboard every two seconds. 
  
  This is a good first installment of the game and I hope to see the game again. If you are tired 
 of Tony Hawk and need a new skate fix then look no further... Because Skate is here to stay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Skate from the ground up is a skate boarding game like the tony halk games yet diffrent in many 
 ways. How you wonder well it adds new realistic dynamics to the phisics and controls. The story 
 pretty much is you starting off getting footage and free skating it can keep you hooked most of 
 the time. There is also 
  online multiplayer which you can do a number of things like race have a game of skate and more 
 which can be fun. Anyway this game is very entertaining and has a good system and good learning 
 curve it ends up being a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilpinecone
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Really and truly this game is revolutionairy before skate. there was tony hawks which was the the 
 only skatebording game it made a pretty good skate game until i played skate which has some of 
 the same options like tony hawks like you can design your guy any way you want to buy clothes for 
 him and make his face look like yours then their is the trick system where you hold b to do a grab 
 and y to grind which is not that realistic but then skate came and made this whole new design of 
 doing tricks the analog sticks moves your board in the way you want to do tricks instead of holding 
 a button down which is so simple a 2 year old can do it well the analog system makes the game more 
 challenging and complex and more realistic and also theirs the fact that you can make your own 
 videos and take photos and post them online so it makes you want to play the game more and make 
 crazy videos or take wild photos and see what other people think theirs a few glitches but it makes 
 the game more fun like your guy will run into something and delay then go flying threw the air (makes 
 really good videos lol) plus it has that drive to keep you going and playing ranked online matches 
 because the game has that effect on you where you want to be better than everybody else the game 
 also has some cool places you can go like the x games who doesnt want to go down a giant ramp at 
 killer speeds plus theres also partly play where you and your friends can take turns trying to 
 get the most points at a spot or playing skate where you try to copy the trick your friend did 
 on a particular jump and theres jam where you try to get the most points in a timed period and 
 who ever gets the most points wins simple enough anyway it makes a really good game that will keep 
 you occupied for a while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dailyderek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Although this game is much harder than the Tony Hawk series it delivers way more detail. It gives 
 you a much more true to life expirence (including a luge experience :D ) and better stores and 
 stuff. Although the story is a bit thin this game delivers more than any Tony Hawk game ever could. 
 The ability to create your charecter in detail and take trams and stuff really makes this game 
 a whole lot cooler and closer to life. Although one flaw which is something we didn't see was the 
 ability to get off your board. Yes, that is in the tony hawk games, but it would make enetering 
 a store or climbing stairs alot easier. All in all I give this game 9.5 / 10.0
  
  Good Work EA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Souleater159
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Skate is such an amazing game. For anyone who skateboards, this game looks, and feels a WHOLE lot 
 more like how skating really is compared to the Tony Hawk games. In fact, after playing, i could 
 not believe how i was satified with the Tony Hawk game play because this game is soo good.
  
  The challeges are excited and get progressively difficult, while breaking bones in your free 
 time is always really fun.
  
  The only improvements i could ask for are a bit more interaction from the ai pedestrians and cars, 
 along with fixing the fact that a little half inch bump or something in the road will send you 
 flying if you are going fast.
  
  this is a GREAT game and i give it about a 9.5!!
  i really can't wait for a skate 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boxofwit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Skate is definitely better than the Tony Hawk games. The TH games just got so boring as they were 
 all the same. The new flickit system in skate works perfectly, meaning that the player gets a much 
 more realistic skateboarding experience. Almost every aspect of the game is as good as it could 
 be. the only small problem is in the online play. the ranking system doesn't work too well as you 
 are often put with skaters a lot more or less experience than you. there can also be too many skaters 
 clumped together in one place. Fingers crossed there will be a sequel and that it proves the end 
 of the Tony Hawk franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepitko
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 26, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Bikinis are Better in the Summer    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: actorvip2
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: demondeano
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR1995
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  The game is amazingly realistic. You control your skaters body with the left control stick, and 
 control the board and your feet with the right stick! you flick the sticks in different directions 
 to pull off tricks. to grind, you just land on the rail. the trigger buttons act as your hands 
 to grab. thats about it. if your a fan of tony hawk games, or just skateboarding games and realistic 
 games, you should definitely check out skate. its so realistic! missons include photo missions, 
 games of skate, races, tournaments, and video parts that need to be filmed. each one gets you closer 
 to ranking up, and competing in the x-games! you pretty much beat the game when you win the x-games. 
 so fans of skatin, or tony hawk fans should definitely check out this super cool realistic skateboarding 
 experience. calling this a game, would be an understatement! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Audio_Jihad
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I had no idea of the existence of skate until near the actual release of the game. I had gone to 
 talk to a family member about the newest addition to the Tony Hawk franchise (Proving Ground) that 
 was due to be released when he quickly snapped back that we wouldn't be playing Tony Hawk games 
 anymore, because Skate was due to be shipped and would give us the experience we'd always rant 
 on about getting.
  
  Skate revolves around the Flick-it system which can make those easy one button moves in Tony Hawk 
 much more difficult (and realistic) , but when properly landed going down a 6 set, can really be 
 satisfying.
  
  Plot-wise there isn't much there at all, just assorted tasks guided along by pro skaters and fictional 
 characters to get coverage in mags, film videos, or bomb hills in a race. There isn't an epic plot 
 with an explosive ending or anything like that, but it doesn't really need it as it doesn't seem 
 to be the point of the game. I would much rather look around for sick staircases and rails to hit 
 up (and as of this writing am still finding new spots) than deal with a storyline with flat characters 
 I won't care about.
  
  The whole city in the game looks quite good and has a good mix of color schemes, in the suburbs 
 you'll see a lot more color variety and more heavy green around than say old town, which has a 
 more toned down and, well, old look to it. The skating sounds are top notch and are quite close 
 to actually hopping on a board and doing a line.
  
  This being Electronic Arts' first venture into the skating world, the game does carry a few flaws. 
 The ability to get off your board seems to stick out. I can't count how many times I went down 
 a set of stairs and forgot to set the location marker to restart back at the top, causing me to 
 have to make a trek all the way to the nearest inclined plane to push up. Some people complained 
 about not being able to create a girl avatar, but it's humorously accurate seeing as not many girls 
 skate, and not many girls play video games. I do have a beef with the avatar system though as it 
 seems that no matter what kind of adjustments you make, your personal character will look just 
 like a friends character.
  
  I would definitely recommend this to anyone who feels the Tony Hawk series is too arcade, and to 
 any real skaters who are too lazy to go outside at the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Bozack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Ahh skateboarding
  It is my friend, it is my muse
  it is my stress reliever
  it is my tool of enlightenment
  it is my own my test of endurance
  my test of self merit
 
  and also my test of creativity
  in laymens
  if my board had a vagina
  I wouldnt talk to females 
  but anyway on with the game:
  Ea's skate is as close to skateboarding 
 as you can get via handheld controller. The "Flick It" Completely puts Mr. Hawk to bed! While I 
 personally haven't liked Tony game since Underground 1, [which is my favorite in the series] I 
 didnt expect skate to be THIS good. Every moment spent is almost like a painless susbstitiute to 
 what I love [but notice the almost, nothing could compare] tricks I do in a days work arr still 
 quite challenging in this game!
  The creation feels a bit like the Sims and leaves alil to be desired as far as facial features 
 go. but the clothing is right on par. My Skater mirrors his creator in the departments of look 
 and style. It's actually a bit creepy. The soundtrack is for every one, I love it! I am a broad 
 music lover, and this list puts a check in all my little boxes [no-homo] . Online play is nice. 
 I found that in most games I was sitting around discussing skate stuff with other real life skaters! 
 It felt like the bored/injured/boardless skater hotline. Replay editing is great aswell, man the 
 things you can lay down are well worth documentation. This game plays like the Next-Gen prequel 
 to Rockstar's Thrasher skate and Destroy. A game I frekkin loved! Basically this is what you need 
 to know if you're thinking about buying this game: IF YOU SKATE OR HOLD AND INTEREST IN SKATEBOARDING 
  
  P. S: YOU WERE WRONG AGAIN GAMESPOT !
  oh yeah, F and U! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceball69
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: OXMpimpboy14
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  after all thoughs years of playing tony hawk i thought it was impossible to make a game that is 
 better, but EA proved me wrong. this is a amazing game the graphics are stunning the game play 
 is nothing like i have ever seen and the controls a solid. i thought by trying to make a whole 
 new skateboarding game would be a failer but the idea of using the analong stick was great. when 
 u play this game it really feels like u are on the peace of wood busting out sick tricks and u 
 really have to practice to perfect this game and that is a great feeeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wattstacks19
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  it is a revolutionary video game and it is the best game i have played in a very very very long 
 time and it is down right incredible the voice acting could have been better and the look could 
 have gone further even with its short comings it wayyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy better than all the tony 
 hawk games its stylish it has great music like n. w. a it has incredible physics the challenges are 
 not to difficult but not to easy either it is the best game i have ever had the privlige of playing 
 all of my friends love it thats why im doing the review well thats all i can think of wattstacks19 
 out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamio
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I used to be a tony hawk fan but after buying skate it just blew my mind it is the definitive skaters 
 game the flickit controls are really good but trying to a 360 flit instead of shuvit is hard. The 
 graphichs are great but not the best ever. It has an o. k soundtrack but I just like to put on my 
 own music. It's a game were you'll sit down with it for an hour and just freeskate. And thats propably 
 the best part freeskating because the city is so large and theres ao many lines to pull. And i'd 
 like to praise the team who made this because is you really search you'll find some truly amazing 
 lines and spots in the smallest of alleys. I would of given this game a 10 if the campaign mode 
 was longer and had better challenges but all in all its a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elitedead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  I think its time for a new skateboarding game. The last other skateboarding game apart from the 
 TH series was simpsons skateboarding which i would rather not talk about.... 
  
  So Ea bring out this game called skate. (No prizes for guessing what genre it is....) 
  
  Skate 
 brings a new set of controls called Flickit. This is the main feature of the game that sets it 
 aside from TH. Basically you use both anologue sticks to do tricks, the left anologue controls 
 the person and the right anologue for the board. So the basic Ollie is just flicking back the controller 
 towards you and then drive it forwards. Then the Flicktrick is pulling bak and realesing it horizontally. 
 The only problem with this feature is that there are to many tricks that are so close to another 
 that you will end up pulling the wrong trick at least 30% at a time.
  
  There isn't much of a story line even though it is attempted. For example at the beginning of the 
 game there is a cutscene all the famous skateboarders (excluding tony hawk of cause) take you to 
 the hospital which sadly you cant skip to get straight to the game. The aim of the game i basically 
 to get all the sponsers and go to the xgames and be a champion.
  The map has got so many cool places to skate, just a shame the map is a bit too big to find all 
 of them. The good things about the story mode is that all the way through the game you never get 
 better, you dont get attribute points and all that jazz, meaning that it doesnt matter what player 
 you are it all comes down to skill. It a shame there is so much in game advertising, there isnt 
 a single street which doesn't say Adidas or D*C though the shoes look very good :D
  
  Onto the multiplayer.... and the first thing you notice is that you straight away get into the 
 game and play, the freeskate has got to be my favourite, just get upto 6 other players and play 
 any of the good spots in the game including the xgames mega ramp (awesome) and to danny way's mega 
 compound which is enormous..... There is also ranked matches so you can put your skills against 
 some of the best (and worst) players in the game....
  The other downside is the lag you can experience... sometimes you might get lucky and everything 
 runs smooth, or you could get be so laggy one second your on a ramp the next your eating dirt off 
 it.
  
  Extra's : Also on both singleplayer and multiplayer you can take pictures and photo's and upload 
 them to skate's website. then transfer them to youtube to get more pubicity. 
  
  To sum up this is a great start to the series and hopefully we will be seeing more soon. 
  
 
  Thx for reading, Elitedead 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcdanger14
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  As long as i can remember ive been playing the tony hawk series. so when i heard that this new 
 age skating game was coming out, i was both excited and sceptical. So i played the demo for the 
 game on xbox live. The game floored me, i spent hours exploring the game.
  
  So the day the game came out I went out to my local walmart and bought the game. The trick system 
 is one of the most innovative in this series of game. using the right analog stick u can control 
 your foot movement. the learning curve is steep at first, but once you learn it gets easier.
  The game has a fairly long storyline, so it should keep you entertained for at least 6 hours. But 
 thats just the storyline, the game is so massive that it will take at least 4 hours to find everything 
 the game has to offer.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who enjoys games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Flag
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawk really has been the ruler of all skate boarding games. As long as i could remember every 
 skateboarding game iv ever owned was Tony Hawk. Not saying they were bad, but Skate really goes 
 above and beyond compared with TH. Realistic city and suburban environments make this game pretty 
 much come to life. The trick system makes you really feel like, at least your thumb, is pulling 
 off tricks like a pro. A bit frustrating at first but you get use to it after a few minutes. This 
 can get very frustrating with early photo-shoots and events but its still really fun seeing your 
 character fall over. Speaking of that, the injury chart is extremely addictive. Trying to fall 
 off of high ledge to break all of your bones is strangely satisfying. Online play is... less than 
 wanted but exporting movies to a website is a very cool feature. Skate is a great game for the 
 skater in you (or the wannabe skater) . Great for fans of the Tony Hawk series or... just for skaters! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0cha_Bear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Skate is EAs first attempt at the skateboarding genre and it goes a diffrent route from Tony Hawk's 
 Pro Skater with a more skateboarding culture wrapped around the game. The gameplay is what everyone 
 talks about. It uses the right joystick to control the board and the left to control your body. 
 It makes for a really fluid and innovative take on skateboarding games, however to does take a 
 while to get used to. Doing certain tricks take time to get down due to having to be precise everytime 
 when preforming medium and advance tricks. Also the game is all about timing. It's key in landing 
 tricks, grinding and flip tricks... your timing is off by a few seconds you bail and hard. The 
 only true problem I had with the gameplay is you couldn't get off your board... at all... for any 
 reason. Which made it touch when you needed to off the street and on the sidewalk.
  
  The story itself is decent, you start off as a faceless and nameless guy who while taping a skate 
 video gets hit by a bus and goes through a long (and unskippable) process of getting to the hospital 
 to make your character, which is a bit limited on TRUE customization. The story then branches off 
 into basicly doing magazine photo shoot and videos. Which moves on to demos and competitions. Overall 
 the story is sorta shallow but it's better than most we've seen in the genre.
  
  The music is fantastic in th game, a perfect mix of well known artists, indie and exclusive tracks 
 done for the game. I personally loved rolling to Rick James' - Give it to Me Baby .
  
  All in all the game is fun to play but will take a while getting used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystr79
Rating: 0
Date: Nov 7, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  The first thing youll notice about skate is that the controls are completely unlike any skating 
 game youve ever played before. Whereas Tony Hawk games have always relied on button pressing sequences 
 and combos to perform tricks, skate essentially only requires the use of the analog sticks. The 
 right analog stick is mapped in a way that should feel familiar to anyone whos spent a good deal 
 of time on a skateboard. Pushing down on the right stick leans you back on the board while pushing 
 forward leans you forward, which in and of itself seems pretty simple. Tricks are performed by 
 combinations of forward and back movements, just like they are on a skateboard. For example, youll 
 pull down and then push up to about 9:00 on the right stick to do a kickflip (assuming youre in 
 normal stance) , or pull down and then slide the stick around to 3:00 to do a shuv-it. There are 
 of course fakie and nollie tricks as well with a grand total of 38 flip tricks you can perform. 
 Youll perform grabs as well with the triggers representing each hand and tweak them with the right 
 stick. Grinds and manuals will also become an essential part of your arsenal if you hope to make 
 it to the end of the game. Which are not controlled by just a button. You must ollie straight up 
 and hope that your board will line up with the curb. Once you get the hang of it, its easy, but 
 for beginners, you may get a little frustrated at first. And if you bail out, be ready to see a 
 color-coated skeleton with all the bones you've broken and bruised. Some gamers may be surprised 
 to hear that your character never increases or decreases in skill throughout the course of the 
 game. Instead youll just have to better master the unique controls to perform bigger and better 
 tricks. Once youve got the whole trickbook mastered youll be able to play with a great degree 
 of style, and thats when the video editor comes into play.
  
  
  At any time after pulling a cool trick (any time within 30 seconds...) , you can pause the game 
 and go into a replay editor in order to save your trick for posterity. The game touts Without 
 footage, its fiction, so youre able to upload up to three videos and five pictures to EAs skate 
 site in order to back up your message board claims to fame. It works well and does what it promises, 
 but there are some features that seem to be lacking a little. For example, minimal camera and speed 
 control can help to make some cool stuff, but not as much as full manual control could have.
  
  
  The camera in the game is another place where they're trying to be innovative. When your 
 riding, its not an over head view, its more like a skate video, almost like there's a dog trotting 
 along side you with a video camera on its head. The camera works great, for the most part. It adds 
 to the realism, but also, you may not be able to see things like curbs, which is important because 
 if you hit a curb your going down, or people! If you hit someone, you, and they, are going to get 
 a little banged up. But for the most part, the camera is really great, and does a lot for the realism 
 in the game. The realism presented in the game, while taking the genre in a whole new direction, 
 does hold it back in spots as well. There is a great degree of variety in the tricks, but theres 
 no customization and it seems like a number of staple tricks are missing. There will be plenty 
 of moments of frustration, as said earlier, when little obstacles like curbs or stairs get in your 
 way which makes us wish you could pick up the board and walk around. Additionally, the difficulty 
 in the learning curve likely means that this game isnt for everyone. As an aside, however, Ive 
 played this game with numerous friends who are certainly not hard-core gamers and literally everyone 
 has loved it and been able to do some level of tricks. As far as presentation, the graphics and 
 audio are both awesome. The sound of the wheels is like music to my ears and the city, the fictional 
 San Vanelona, is great. Its well designed so there are numerous types of areas that are pretty 
 much a street skaters dream. The character customization is rather limited and feels clunky, but 
 its passable and the amount of clothing and gear available is impressive  although youll buy 
 everything you want and still find yourself with TONS of cash left over. The online modes seem 
 a little light, but theres still fun to be had. The best of them is the freeskate mode, where 
 you can choose a zone and simply cruise around with your friends on Xbox Live. Youll see some 
 serious lag at times, but it seems to resolve itself fairly promptly by automatically changing 
 hosts. Overall, skate is more than worth checking out for any fan of skateboarding games. It wont 
 give you an experience like one youve had before, but its one you wont soon forget. You wont 
 be pulling off the crazy impossible stunts you may have in Tony Hawk, but its equally  if not 
 more  fun to pull off something really technically challenging in skate. With a little patience 
 and perseverance this game can provide a really great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugo4400
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  a really good game thats realstic and doesent have you fling off of buildings and acid droping 
 skiscrapers. this game is not a bout pressing buttons like crazy whitch is really cool. the game 
 thought is kinda hard to get the tricks but thats what skating is. the game will have you always 
 tring to land a new trickor make one up. if you like skating or at least skating games buy it. tony 
 hawk games are fun thought but not realistc and does not really involve the anlog sticks exept 
 for nail the trick mode. a must have game to gamers and skaters alike. exept tha this game is all 
 in one gigantic place witch is cool but proving ground is in 4 places and has diffirent story lines. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  Skate is a very good game that blows Tony Hawk out of the water. The new control system of skate 
 is extremely good and flows very well and feels like your actually doing the trick and is much 
 better than pressing 6 buttons like in tony hawk to do a single kickflip. In skate career mode 
 you make and customize a character and then you just go out and basically free skate and do all 
 of these objectives that you are given. There are many types of objectives such as Video Shoot, 
 Photo Shoot (my favorite) , Pro Challenge, and Skate. You can also get sponsorships for things which 
 is sweet because you get more money from them if you put their stuff on your board. As you progress 
 along you get more places to skate like the X Games and Danny's megapark. The Multiplayer is pretty 
 good but is not very exciting. It seems to lag a lot which completely destroys the game because 
 Skate is all about lining yourself up and timing when you ollie. In Multiplayer you can play SKATE, 
 Best Trick, or race. Overall, skate is a very good game that anyone that any interest in skateboarding 
 should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is DA BOMB.
  Skate is the next revolution of skateboarding for video games. PERIOD.
  Tony Hawk now'a days 
 is really lame and repetitive.
  
  BUT skate is one of those types of games where it is very hard to get used to but when you are 
 good at it.. you WILL get addicted to it. The Controls are absolutely amazing. Better controls 
 = Better game.
  
  Another extremely awesome trait to the game is the Physics and the Camera angles of the game. This 
 game is so realistic its like you are actually skating for real. I know through out my life I have 
 always wanted to skate good but now.. (instead of tony hawk being so lame and unrealistic) I can 
 play this game and feel like I am actually descent at skateboarding. And to add onto the physics 
 are the replay modes. mmmMMmmmm.... good. Also the music in the game is a great selection to listen 
 to.
  
  BUY THIS GAME!!!!
  
  Its worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Ever Since Tony Hawk Has Gotten into the video game industry we have be blessed with almost a new 
 Tony Hawk Skateboarding video game.. Tony Hawk however is not a realistic boarding game.. your 
 air is way high, your speed is off the charts and you can pull off crazy tricks easy.. We have 
 had a new tony hawk game for a while.. and we still got the same basic princibles in the game.. 
 You can't do most of what you do in the game cause its a video game.. Tony Hawk is starting to 
 dim and get old... Now there is a new kid in town.. EA has made Skate a realistic Skatebording 
 game, but does it dethrone the Skate god? or come up short..
  
  First off when you put down 60 bucks on skate you gotta know a few things first.. if your the kinda 
 guy who just wants to do insane tricks and have a more arcade feel.. then i doubt this is the game 
 for you.. Skate takes a realistic take on the skateboarding world.. so fans of skateboarding will 
 have to get this game.. almost every thing you do in the game is possible in real life.. So the 
 hardcore skaters will love this game and you will finally be able to get to play your true skateboarding 
 game.
  
  The story takes off when you are a humble skater who is fooling around town skatebording.. Till 
 you have to take on the dream to become a pro and have your name all over the place. This is nothing 
 too crazy or epic but it fits what the game is trying to say. To get higher in the skating community 
 you have to get Photo Shoots, Magazine covers, and video footage to get respect. One of the coolest 
 thing to earn respect is sponsers.. Just like i real life there comes a time in the game where 
 you have to sponser a company, all the big skateboarding names are here like baker, alien ware, 
 spitfire etc.. You can get a shoe deal with Nike, a Skateboarding deal with Baker, and get wheels 
 from Alien Ware.. You get added money if you skate for them plus everything you buy from the store 
 from that brand is free.. so pick wisely.. make sure you have a sponser with someone you like..
 
  
  In ths game you fully customize your character.. from skin tone to face, all that good stuff to 
 make your skater look cool.. They all are neat and you can have multiple skaters under your name 
 i believe so you can try out different things.. However unlike Tony Hawk you can't take a picture 
 of yourself and put it on your skater.. That would have been cool, but maybe we will have that 
 in later Skate Installments. Also your sponser play a big deal on what you wear.. Sign on a company 
 for a boarding contract and i think you should use that board, you get money bounuses for doing 
 so, plus you get all your sponser stuff for free.. soon you will have a sponser for your shoes, 
 wheels, etc.. In game advertising is a bit much if you hate things like that. I actually like it, 
 it gives you a realistic feel. Plus most of the brands are cool. Also what is very different from 
 this game to other skatebording games is how you do tricks.. most is used on the right annolog 
 stick. It gives it a more realistic feel and def. should be contined.. its more special then pressing 
 buttons to grab or flip tricks.. (if you ever seen the commercials you know what i mean) the grabs 
 are the shoulder buttons, and grinding is really neat too. depending on how your board lands depends 
 on the trick you do.. so its more realistic.. Although this is a cool way it might have been better 
 if they tweaked it a bit with adding some moves forgotten in the game. some have been in tony hawk 
 games.. like the pressure flip and inverts! however i think that EA will adress that and the next 
 skate will have both and more.. The control scheme is ambitous just like the game.. but it has 
 minior flaws that need tweaking. When you land a trick its alot more rewarding.. for some reason 
 when you do a crazy tony hawk trick you are left with no emotial feeling of what you did.. its 
 mostly button mashing.. but in Skate when you land a sick trick you have a great undescribable 
 feeling of accomplishment.. Its more realistic. i remember when i landed a trick in real skateboarding 
 you get a real sense of accomplishment.. although its not quite the level of excitement it still 
 feels good after you do a high or cool looking trick. Overall skate is a great new kid in town.. 
 and its alot better then the tony hawk game this year.. tony hawk is on the downside.. but skate 
 is the opposite and it can only get better.. that is the exciting part!
  
  Edit- After playing the game further i have been mistaken, the game is not as good as i have raved 
 it to be, basically it should have been good, I thought it was and assumed to much before i wrote 
 the review. Overall its still pretty fun and i had a great time playing the game. But i would only 
 recommend to the hardcore Skateboarders out there.. just drags too much, where it seems it would 
 be a great story that drives you to keep playing, i never got that drive.
  
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: the best realistic skateboard game ever.. however after the first few hours 
 it gets boring fast!
  Graphics: some of the textures (grass) look kinda cheap.. however overall the game looks decent
 
  Sound: Lots of different genres of music.. you will find one that you like.. plus the skatebording 
 noises are very realistic
  Value: If you can get past the boring missions, then you got a good value, for everyone else its 
 not
  Overall: A must buy for skating fans.. But for the average player its not that greatbr / 
  
 
  Final Score
  7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thevision9
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  First off i am quite surprised that this game is this good. i did not think that EA would be able 
 to pull off a skater game but here it is. now on with the review.
  the bads. why the heck cant i get off my board? i never knew that side walks were mans worst enemy 
 until this game. haha. no but seriously say your skating down the street and you need to get by 
 that building and have to ollie on to the sidewalk, but then get hit by a car. it happens right? 
 well it did to me a time or 7. now i cant get on the side walk because i have no speed. so i have 
 to take a couple of minutes to back track to be able to get enough speed to get on the side walk. 
 this seems minor i know but it gets annoying. thats probably the only negative i have. when i first 
 got the game i wasn't crazy about the flick trick. but once you skate for like an hour just session 
 on things you learn its quite awesome.
  the goods. the flick trick is def a good. it gives you total control over all of your flip tricks, 
 grinds, and the grabs. and the best is its ultra realistic. to kick flip down a 10 set is a really 
 sweet thing. add a 360 and your gold. i love the realism count. and a cool thing is that your character 
 has now skill points or ways to upgrade him. its all how good you are with the flick. if you can 
 get your skater to crouch all the way down and flick fast you can get your max ollie. i loved the 
 game.
  the bottom line. realistic game, great idea with the flick trick, not to hard not to easy, and 
 maybe the next game in the series have to the option to get off the board? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgbiker1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Contrary to what the laughable GS review would have you believe, this game is amazing. While the 
 main game is good fun, the best aspect of the game is just skating on your own with no goals or 
 challenges; just skating around the city, looking for good lines. Reminds me of the good old days 
 when my friends and I would take our bikes &amp; boards to downtown Seattle to putz around. Thanks 
 to the incredible amount of good locations strewn about the city, the replayability value of this 
 game is incredible, easily making it worth the $60.... and let's not forget the endless hours of 
 fun you can have bailing off the death ledge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altiair
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: _SMYLEY_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Being a skater and growing up with things like bigflips and bs/fs flips, it really was nice to 
 play a game that captured what it's like to skate. It really has that simulator feel to it, especially 
 with the style design and flik-it analog cotrols. They really have something in this entirely new 
 perspective, I only wish they took more of the simulation feel instead of the tony hawk backflip 
 mctwist to quarter mile long manual feel. They could have made the skater's style more believable 
 with more realistic landings (sketchy, clean, revert etc...) and the fact that the character lands 
 EVERYTHING he pops as long as it's timed right can verge a little on the yeah yeah so what side. 
 The greatest thing about this entire platform of skating is not only the camera-eye perspective, 
 but the feel of accomplishment: in tony hawk, the fact that you could do these super-unrealistic 
 maneuvers that made little sense left you with a need for the highest score while in skate, if 
 you just kickflip onto a ledge and shuv out you feel like you just did it inreal life. This entire 
 game leads you to the right goal for skateboarding; do something sick and then do it nollie. All-in-all, 
 the game is great and i can't wait for EA to improve everything in SKATE 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMoney0613
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  this game was so freakin awesome it really shows how far skating games can go. i think that it is 
 the first time that i have ever been to actually being able to skate because quite frankly i stink 
 at it so i was anxious for this to come out. it may get on your nerves a few times wen you first 
 start but after you find that sweet spot you can never put the game down. the graphics are the 
 best and the controls are as simple as can be. USE YOUR THUMB!!!!!!!! I dont think that it will 
 replace the thps games because who will ever get over the classics i think it is just an expansion 
 to the skating world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Striker1408
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the days of THPS, us gamers have had complaints.. and us skateboarders even more.. Way 
 back from why cant i manual to why cant there be just one world.. ... Simply put.. the skateboarding 
 genre, has been.. needless to say a weighted market.. with the exceptions of NES games.. and PS games 
 such as thrasher and grind session.. not only is EA Skate a breath of fresh air, and a new look 
 on a genre seemingly doomed to repetitiveness.. its an experience that really brings the gamer 
 into the game, and gives them the true feeling of skateboarding. The control scheme for this game 
 is what both skateboarders and gamers have been waiting for.. a more fluent feel, where you can 
 truly flow with the environment. Basically, the left stick controlling your body, and the right 
 your board/feet, and the triggers being your hands. This brilliant and simplistic design is joined 
 by the absence of a grind button... but why? because the developers at EA believe grinding should 
 be based on a button.. but on your aim at the object you desire to grind.. Along with a most genius 
 control scheme, is the most realistic physics ever created. [for a skateboarding game..] You wont 
 be seeing rooftop to rooftops over helicopters here.. and theres definitely no landing at breakneck 
 speeds, while your body is turned perpendicular to the direction your traveling. No, this has what 
 you expect out of a good physics engine. except.. one thing.. the bails in this game.. are somewhat.. embarrassing.. 
 i mean.. even if you fall from like.. a kickflip caught too late.. you fall on your face.. and your 
 body goes completely limp.. While we are talking about complaints. i must bring up the inability 
 to travel on foot. This, although not seeming to take much out of the gameplay, would have been 
 a more realistic addition, and at times, a better mode of transportation, such as when trying to 
 line up right.. The career mode has you starting as somewhat of an unknown skater from the dream 
 skate city of San Vanelona working his way to get sponsorships.. sound familiar?
  i know.. a little.. in the box thinking eh?
  i agree.. but truthfully, there isn't much more to 
 a skate career than that..
  what do you want, a love story involved? [ i can hear it now..-_-]
  anyway.. you do this by completing 
 video parts, and getting magazine covers in thrasher and the skateboard mag..
  one complaint.. there IS money in this game.. which i like.. but its COMPLETELY USELESS .. you only 
 need the initial $300 or however much.. and you really dont even need that..
  
  The Multiplayer mode is put together well, offering various categories such as ranked and unranked, 
 race and trick, and then the sub-game options..
  the on Live, the Sidekick theme is continued, and from the Live homepage, you can see top ranked 
 skaters, and top footy..
  the only complaint i have is the gameplay can get a little choppy..
  
  
  Altogether, EA Skate 
 is a MUST OWN for die hard THPS fans.. and, [sorry Tony] , but this game is by far the best skateboarding 
 game there is.. and i believe activision and neversoft are going to suffer major losses..
  this game provides anyone of any age and any style, to pick up a controller, and truly have the 
 feel of skateboarding, whether that be relaxing in a bowl, coasting down the massive hills, or 
 just playing a game of S. K. A. T. E. with their friends.....
  
  ENJOI! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whiteman123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  SKATE has a very good very new type of controling (only using analog stick 4 tricks) and in my 
 oppinian there way better than all other skating controlles ONE OF THE BEST GAMES EVER MADE! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! could not be any better P. S THPG is s (oo) t g (hi) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Tony Hawks was a game which slowly, in my opinion, drifted away from the skate boarding genre. 
 Skate didnt seem like the type of game which would replace the Tony Hawks franchise but it quickly 
 proved me wrong. The trick system is fun and when you produce the tricks and land them its feels 
 like you've actually done it. The tricks are hard to do on purpose most of the time as I mostly 
 find my self flicking the left analog stick in many directions only timing when i do it. Graphics 
 are also good and the challenges are fun yet sometimes stressful.
  Now I move to the game its self. Characters are good and dont get in your way that often even Shingo 
 is hardly never around. Pedestrians are annoying though, you have a giant line then you kick flip 
 of a curb and a pedestrian makes you fall over. The cars can get annoying but in my opinion are 
 fun to ollie over or even manual down a hill into. But then theres the broken bones and all, something 
 which has no effect on the game. You brake your arm and yet you can do a christ air right after 
 it. Also its unrealistic, you smash your face of a curb and all you get is face plant, hardly, 
 but if you fall of a giant staircase you only get a broken wrist, hardly. But over all theres no 
 complaints its a fun, big realistic game, skate boarding wise and graphically. Just make things 
 mean something and dont let the trick system be too precise other wise i hope they make more of 
 the Skate games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeah_write
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 23, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: LbrnJames23
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  this game is over all a good game other than the kind of difficult challenges that come in the 
 game it is fun to work with the new trick stick tht allows u 2 use the anolog stick 4 tricks. I 
 also liked this game because it is a part from the tony hawk franchise and it doesnt have the same 
 type of you can do any trick type of mentality to it. I also like how u can customize your charecter 
 to make him look like a real skater. another reason i like this game so much is the online video 
 sharing it is cool to see how other people compare to me in the skateboarding world of skate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markshandro
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diehardgames2
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlywhispers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  Skate has rolled into stores. Thank God it has come. SHORT SUMMED UP REVIEW.
  
  Gameplay: This is most likely the most realistic skateboarding game to ever exist, most likely 
 the most realistic game ever. The flick it controls work wonderfully and are a great new way of 
 skating. There is a huge learning curve for this game, so huge, some people won't learn everything. 
 Just like real skating, it takes practice, and effort. Its hard, but afterwards, you get a sense 
 of accomplishment. The goals you are told to do range from the easy, to the plain out hard. Everything 
 in this game is about learning. You end up having your own style of skating. Everything works well 
 in this game with the exception that some tricks are to close to other tricks, which makes it difficult 
 to pull off some thing. 9/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazingly good. The textures are smooth, and the skater details are 
 very well done. The city is full of objects and every object is detailed and greatly placed in 
 the enviroment. The city itself is beautiful. The animation on each skater is scary. Its dead on 
 to what you would see in a skate video, or some random skater down the street. Its amazingly good. 
 The camera is an issue, due to the Being followed by a filmer look. It just sometimes doesnt work. 
 9/10
  
  Sound: The city is full of life. So are the sounds. Cars wooshing by, skate boards flying off to 
 the side. Music fading in and out of each speaker. I was suprised of what this game was capable 
 of with sound. Its a great game to test out your surround sound. Sadly, the music is a little weak. 
 Theres a few good songs, but nothing you would love to skate too. Thank god for custom music. 8.5/10
 
  
  Overall: I am a fan of the tony hawk serious and Tony Hawk 1, 2, and 3 are amazing games. They 
 will be classics forever, but now its time for a new taste of skate. Since Tony Hawk Underground 
 Year after year Tony Hawk has grown into an immature style of skating (Jackass esque) , and rehashed 
 from year to year, and it is time to put down the board. Skate is the perfect game to replace Tony 
 Hawk, and give us a new style of Skateboarding. I can see skate becoming greater by Skate2. Hopefully 
 they will have flatland tricks, and handplants (RB would be a great use for a modifer button to 
 pull off those tricks.) . Revolutionary indeed.
  
  9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  After eight years of chart-topping Tony Hawk games - and dozens of pretenders to the throne that 
 aped the series' lightning-paced arcade action - only a complete reinvention of digital skateboarding 
 would be enough to topple Activision's groundbreaking series. And in EA's ambitious Skate, the 
 chairman of the board has finally met his match.
  
  While on first impressions Skate looks like a traditional Hawk game, what makes it a revelation 
 is its deep and intuitive controls; while skateboarding games normally see players hammering buttons 
 and direction
  pads to unleash tricks, all Skate's moves are unleashed using the controller sticks and triggers, 
 with player movement mapped to the left stick while the right controls how you flip your board. 
 As the game unfolds, holding down the right stick or nudging it in different directions allows 
 you to master dozens of tricks without memorising tedious, Mortal Kombat-style button combos, while 
 a gentle tap on the triggers also allows you to grab your board while in the air, making it a cinch 
 to perform hair-raising stunts and allowing players to think like a real sk8ter boi.
  
  Ham-fisted and impatient players will doubtless find the steep learning curve a chore - especially 
 as many of the tricks use similar nudges and flicks, making it easy to perform the wrong trick 
 at the wrong time -
  while the game's oddly mundane challenges and tedious loading times only
  serve to undermine 
 its dexterous achievements. But as the first entry in a series that's sure to run for years, Skate 
 takes giant steps in redefining console skateboarding and is a new benchmark for other genre titles 
 to aim for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-Ryan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  7.5 for Skate? It's not a perfect game yet, but come on! 7.5 ? I'll bet he's goanna rate Tony Hawk's 
 latest game a 9+. dfgsd fbd sbgesf esv ges dgd fbfghf hdbrd tgbdh gdrbf bhfh bfnhfn hfhbfbfgbfff 
 gfgbnfh fdn gnfc jhfcncg fmg cnc gnc gnghjmgh mngfnmfg mngf ngfnfn fxdfndx hbdb drbdgsrdgd gdht 
 hbgtdg dgdgd fgbd! dgvesterbry erh rdthrdhd thb dtrh rbhvj hynbhrvydb hjdrhd rthttrd hbf thtfhbtrt 
 drhfhdfgvd fgvdfgbdbg drbgdgvrd. sdgetfvvyeyg ery r6uu uyhyr urtt tttt tyjtjtj hdgedrrgrt gtt yry 
 tryty tyyjgrygrt yyhggtght gytrdgrgrg dr5 ret hhj,6jre yu yyyre. rrrrrrrr. vfdfgd dgdsrgdsrg dsrgdfg 
 dgdsrgs esrfes gfes ges gerge gesr g erg rg g srgregerghrh j j j hj re ewg ewerg eg ewrgeasfasef 
 esf erfwefwef ef wef waef 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asskick_QTip
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryeinkazamoto
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: kente10
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  SUMMARY :Skate is the new game from EA. It's more so a simulation than a videogame. (im not saying 
 its not fun, its just insanely real) Everything in this game is perfect. the graphics are perfect. 
 the animation is perfect. even the tiny details like the cracks in the road are perfect. Basically 
 take a Tony Hawk game, take out all the fake crap, add insane graphics, the ability to make movies 
 and snapshots, add a new control system and you get Skate.
  
  STORYLINE: The storyline is pretty much the same as any skating or sports game. Make some guy who's 
 a nobody, do missions, become a pro. as repetitive and unoriginal it may sound, its done perfectly. 
 the Koolest thing is how you can make videos and snapshots and edit them to make it look like a 
 real skate vid or pic. when you do this, a sponsor might like it and u can be added to their skate 
 team. GAMEPLAY: The gameplay in this game is phonomenal. Everytime you land a move, it feels like 
 your accomplishing it in real life. it just looks so real and the animation is so perfect. Another 
 good thing is the grinding system. the grinding is so perfect that it shouldnt be changed at all 
 in any way. instead of hitting a button and latching onto the nearest rail in sight, you have to 
 be lined up with that rail and you just have to land on it and you'll grind. it's pretty sweet. 
 The new flickit system is really awesome. But before you get use to it you'll have major trouble 
 cuz it can sometimes be a chore landing the trick u want. the most trouble is pulling off kickflips/heelflips 
 and varial tricks. other than that its easy to use. and its actually really not that bad. you'll 
 get used to it. The ONLY thing that i dont like about this game is the inability to get off your 
 board. i just wish you could walk around for a while instead of having to find ways to get up stairs. 
 Another thing about this game is the reality. for example, its extremely hard to quad flip but 
 it can be done cuz ive done it. Another thing is doing spins. i think a 540 is the biggest spin 
 i've ever gotten. Also, this game thinks a lot about a real person, meaning your character will 
 act as real as possible. you can't jump off a 50 foot building and stay on your board, no matter 
 how you land you'll fall... (unless your falling onto a ramp) . Last but not least is the traveling 
 system. their is no loading when your skatin aroun san vanelona so you dont gotta worry.
  
  Difficulty: I haven't beaten this game yet so i dont know how hard it can get... but im almost 
 done with it so bare wit me here. (i got this game a day ago. and its my first Xbox 360 game) Well 
 i know for a fact that it starts out really easy to pretty hard. you'll start out doing things 
 that only require 500 points and then you'll go onto things that require 3,000 points. (the tricks 
 dont get as much points as tony hawk games do) its really different on difficulty depending on 
 your skill.
  
  Overall: overall, this game is revolutionary and amazing! a 7.5 as a gamespot critic rating is 
 way to brutal. this game is so much better than any skating game i've ever played! (I have every 
 tony hawk game cept proving grounds) If you love skating, this is the first game you should get 
 for the 360 or PS3. Hope this help. now go buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterj_123
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 13, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Bikinis are Better in the Summer    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyb808
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for around a week and it's a fun and new way to skate on a console. 
 When i first started playing i was hooked and loved the way you skate around the city with great 
 freedom. It isn't until you start tring to complete the mission when you start to come into difficulty. 
 To pull off the same trick exactly is very hard and alot of mastering the new analog system is 
 in need. Saying this though you actually feel as if you are properly skating rather than button 
 ashing. I hate to say it but EA have pulled off a cool new game. This is not to say i am a fan 
 of EA which i'm not but as with Tiger Woods this is something new. Give it a while and this franchise 
 will could possibly over take THPS but will need alot of tweaking. All in all its got to be worth 
 a try just for the innovative control system. After that you can make your own mind up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargodjocky2
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevecad
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 11, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  San Vanelona:
  
  EAs Skate. takes place in the fictional city of San Vanelona. Created from scratch just for the 
 game and with four distinct areas modelled on real-world cities, including; New York, Barcelona 
 and San Francisco. In terms of size, each of the four areas is roughly the same size as the entire 
 gameplay environment from Tony Hawks Project 8. This makes the scope for exploration simply 
 massive, although at first it feels very daunting just looking at the map screen. However, getting 
 around is easy enough thanks to a good map system and an extensive array of train stations, which 
 are basically quick spawn-points, around the city This is clearly a city with certain skate spots 
 rather than a place where everything has been designed to string runs together. In Skate. youll 
 find a huge network of streets and back-alleys which make it feel more city-like than any Tony 
 Hawk environment. In amongst the urban jungle youll find some obvious skate spots such as plazas 
 and squares, as well as some public skate parks. Youll also come across no-skate zones where 
 security guards will give chase if they see you skating in the area. The real golden trick opportunities 
 are found in these areas and the many less obvious places to skate in San Vanelona, such as the 
 slipway.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Having looked very lack-lustre in early builds, the finished version of Skate. is extremely well 
 presented. The environmental graphics are great, especially considering the scope of the city. 
 That said, some textures do seem better than others and its a bit of a mixed bag in that respect. 
 The character models for your skater and also the pedestrians and traffic are of a very high quality. 
 In replays you can see very fine detail, such as shirts rippling in the wind and damage to the 
 board itself. The only problem the game really has is that the framerate sometimes dips, especially 
 in the densely populated downtown area. Sound:
  
  The audio in Skate. does the job but isnt too spectacular. The skateboard sounds are nothing more 
 than functional but the music is very good. This isnt just because of the choice of songs but 
 also because music increases in volume near more interesting skate spots, which is a great help 
 when trying to find hidden areas.
  
  Single player career:
  
  If Skate. struggles in any area, then this is certainly it. It cannot be denied that the control 
 scheme is fantastic and is the very thing skaters have been crying out for in a skateboard game. 
 Using the analogue sticks to control your feet and the triggers to control your hands is ingenious. 
 However, the game around this central flickit control theme suffers from trying too much, too 
 soon.
  
  To begin with its great. Challenges (a structure borrowed from Tony Hawks) involve photo and video 
 shoots at skate spots and you see the resulting footage displayed, just as you did it, in magazines 
 like The Skateboard Magazine and Thrasher. However, as the game progresses these challenges 
 become too specific, asking for particular tricks on certain obstacles. At this point the control 
 scheme is just not refined enough for these tasks. Thats not to say theyre impossible, they can 
 be done, however, they become less to do with skill and more to do with luck as the game goes on.
 
  
  The other problem is that the game has racing in it. This just confused me completely. Why does 
 a game about professional skateboarding in 2007 need to revisit archaic and irrelevant themes from 
 the 70s? It makes no sense at all. Modern skating is about tricks and the deathraces feel totally 
 out of place and just get in the way of the rest of the game.
  
  Eventually you get sponsored by the companies of your choice and reach the X-Games, which thankfully 
 isnt too much of a let down. However there is still room for improvement here as well, particularly 
 in the format of the contests which dont really create the atmosphere of the real event.
  
  Skate. reel:
  
  This is the feature which allows the player to pause at anytime and edit 
 a 30 second clip of their gameplay as they see fit, before uploading the footage to Skate. reel, 
 which is basically a YouTube of clips from people playing the game. Screenshots can also be uploaded 
 and there are a variety of video effects and tools for both video and photos.
  
  Now this all sounds great and works really well in-game. However, as soon as you try to use the 
 Skate. reel website it all goes wrong. The site is just broken, refusing to log some users in while 
 allowing others access. Skate. TV, which is similar to Gotham TV in PGR3, is also very intermittent, 
 sometimes working fine and at other times being totally useless.
  
  Online play:
  
  The online features in Skate. revolve around Skate. Messenger, a tool which is completely pointless. 
 Its supposed to allow you to see who of your friends is online playing the game. Now, on PS3, which 
 doesnt have messaging within games and so on, this is a great idea. On the 360 however its completely 
 idiotic. Just use the Xbox Guide EA!
  
  When youre actually playing online and not messing about with the annoying Messenger it works 
 just about OK for the most part. Once youre in a game its great, but as with most EA games online, 
 the servers work on a very intermittent basis and youll often get disconnected from games that 
 youre actually hosting yourself, which certainly isnt good. There are also horrible lag problems 
 sometimes. The other issue online is that you cant use every location on the huge map, which makes 
 showing your friends great areas youve found very difficult.
  
  Overall:
  
  For a first attempt at a new genre, Skate. is fantastic. The control scheme has truly revolutionised 
 the genre and the depth of character customisation and exploration is quite frankly, awesome. However, 
 most of the single player challenges fall into the same traps as the Tony Hawk series. Some missions 
 are too much of a case of trial and error as the control scheme requires such extreme levels of 
 precision from the player. Overall though, this is a must-have for any skater and a great starting 
 point for what will surely become yet another EA franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjbt
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: xunhallowed
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: axeman87
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 7, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicBlueNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much better then tony hawk's games. the way the game plays is amazing it would 
 be nice to have more camera angles but the game is still great and uses the analog sticks really 
 well. It takes a long time to get used to the controls but let me tell you your easy button mashing 
 days are over you either learn the game well or you suck plain and simple no easy ass pickem up 
 game here. If you like skate boarding games you will love this game. Give it a chance even though 
 it is hard at first you will get better over time and it has great gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arcelice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Skate is a great game. By far, the most enjoyable skating experience I've ever seen in a skateboarding 
 video game. The controls are very innovative and make the game feel much more intuitive and rewarding. 
 When you pull off a great trick, even if it's by accident, you get a sense of accomplishment. The 
 fact that pulling off grinds is much harder is a good improvement over the Tony Hawk series. When 
 you kickflip out of that long grind, you just feel it.
  
  The only things that could be improved in this game are as follows.
  
  For one thing, the fact 
 that you have to constantly restart events when you mess up is ANNOYING. I don't know why EA expected 
 us to not want to instantly go back to the start when we don't do a trick right. How else would 
 we do it? There should be a button that similarly to the SSX series takes you right back to the 
 start of a trick.
  
  Another thing I would change about the game is the fact that sometimes what you have to do next 
 is unclear. There should be some way of telling which events are absolutely mandatory and which 
 aren't.
  
  The last thing I don't really like about the game is that there isn't splitscreen free-skating. 
 When I have friends over that don't know the control scheme very well, the only option we have 
 is to take turns in a single-player mode.
  
  Overall, Skate is a very great game that is innovative, intuitive, and just plain fun. I would 
 recommend it to anyone that enjoys skating games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhammer789
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixman313
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Skate takes that great skateboard game we all knew and loved and tosses it out of the window. Trying 
 to do away with the whole button mashing experience that was Tony Hawk they have tried to inter 
 grade a new system where you control the skater, and you feel like you really control the skater. 
 \
  
  They did this with a new system called flick it. Instead of pressing a whole mass of combo buttons, 
 you use the right stick to do every single trick. You use the left stick to control the skater 
 himself, like leaning forward, backwards, and so on. The trigger buttons are then use for grabs, 
 and depending on which way you are pushing your trick you will do different grab tricks.
  
  Now this all comes together nicely and makes for one great game. The control system might seem 
 confusing at first, but given a few minuets you will have it down in no time, but at the same time 
 like real skateboarding it takes time, practice and skill to master good tricks.
  
  Not to talk about a movie editing tool they have. It is a good system but it lacks in some parts. 
 You only have so many angels you can watch from. You can't use stationary camera's. And they could 
 have more lens effects. You would think a game made by a lot of skateboarders would have tossed 
 in a fish eye lens. But it is only their first game and have room to improve for the next one.
 
  
  All in all this game is good and way worth the money. It will give Tony Hawk games a run for their 
 money.
  
  The graphics are superb. I wouldn't classify them as the best but I am sure they will last for 
 a good 5 years or so
  
  The sound is nicely done. The music is nothing new to the skateboarding game, but with skate you 
 can take it a step more and play your own music.
  
  The game play is over all good. It has a nice story, but lacks different styles of missions. In 
 the end while they are great missions you will find yourself doing what seems to be the same ones 
 over, just in different spots. The Difficulty can be hard for some people... but it is still easy 
 enough that if you spend 30 minuets you will learn how to play.
  
  Over all I give the game a 9.5. It has it's down sides, but it is new and has done well for a first 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbaird1981
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Skate is a rare game that just about kicks ass everytime I play it. I debated buying this game 
 for a little while until I rented it, now i am pretty sure I will be buying it.
  
  The mechanics are so life like, and I love the goals. All the enivronments are so real. The HD 
 graphics take full advantage of my tv. I love just riding around, whippin flip tricks, shov-its, 
 grinds, whatever. It's a great game
  
  I would work on the soundtrack, music needs to be a bit louder. It's always fun to have good music 
 when you're grinding a rail.
  
  Definitely get this game, rent, buy, whatever, just play.
  
  End of story. ps
  tony hawk 
 games blow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nz_skater
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I love this game! Bought it without reading anything about it beforehand in the hopes that someone 
 may have finally made a decent skateboarding game. My wish has been fulfilled!
  
  Tony Hawk should be ashamed of the absolute **** he's attached his name to. The TH series have 
 nothing on this. The only game that comes close (in a very limited way) is Thrasher Skate &amp; 
 Destroy for PS. It was too hard, had terrible graphics and played terribly compared to TH but was 
 much more realistic. skate. takes this and brings it up to a playable standard.
  
  From a skaters perspective, this is as good as it's going to get for now. Go out and buy it if 
 you skate. You'll enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake6phw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  skate., simply put, is a skateboarder's dream video game. This game is everything fans of real 
 skateboarding have wanted since about Tony Hawk's Underground 2. (That game was just awful, but 
 I won't stray off topic) It has skateboarding's style, culture, flow, and flair all done right. 
 The only reason I didn't score this game a perfect ten are for two reasons. One, it didn't have 
 quite the recording and editing features that I have wanted out of a skateboarding game for as 
 long as I can remember. And two, it really didn't have a system for flat land tricks. I am a diehard 
 street skating fan. And the exclusion of a flatland trick system didn't bother me as much as it 
 should considering this is the first of a hopefully long line of skate. video games, and the rest 
 of the game was VERY well done. The flick-it trick system is amazing in every definition of the 
 word. It LOOKS and FEELS like real skating. I for one, will never be able to enjoy a Tony Hawk 
 game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Well the Demo i must of played a dozen times just waiting for this game to come out. I must say 
 i was a little disappointed though i guess i expected too much.
  
  Anyways solid game for someone who loves to skateboard like me. The controls are really cool and 
 work well but they involve ALOT more skill rather than Tony Hawk where u just tap a button to grind 
 and do tricks. Definately in need of a change in that department. Teh challenges are just right 
 at first but once u get farther into the game it just gets rediculously hard. some of the harder 
 tricks like varial heelflips and the map is HUGE! but i find its too spread out. If it wasnt for 
 the fast travel option id go insane. Streets are confusing and lack good spots... theres too much 
 open road. Sometimes u get lost if you dont use the map. some events dont show up on the map only 
 on your radar which makes it difficult to get to. no big deal i can deal with it.
  
  As for all the complaints about advertising in the game. I LIKE IT! who cares! the clothes, boards 
 and accessories look awesome and authentic. you don't see anyone complaining about this in games 
 like TIGER WOODS do you?! exactly. thats the worst thing to ram on this game. Its not like there 
 throwing in Coca-cola ads or slim fast. its all skateboarding related companies that sell products 
 worth buying and wearing.
  
  Sounds are awesome, the rolling wheels and grinds are crazy real. Online mode is OK... some of the 
 spots are kinda cheese but theres defintately a few good ones in there.
  
  All in all sick game for skaters out there and fans of TH series. I think this will make Proving 
 ground look like a kids game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oni_black
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  someone made a game to put tony hawk away for a while. dont get me wrong this game is hard and 
 it take a while to learn but so is real skating so if you think this game is hard put down the 
 controller. i like it becuase you cant do a triple back flip and land it into a grind then slide 
 the grind 200ft then do some unreal trick. o yeah you will fall and fall and fall and fall and 
 grind the curb. but its good to have some comation now and then just wait till next year and see 
 what changes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cinematic0903
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 3, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattyrock
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohslax33
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitanFootball86
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 2, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Bikinis are Better in the Summer    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3R1N
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  Do my eyes deceive me? A skateboarding title that isn't part of the Tony Hawk franchise? Why yes... 
 yes it is! Surprisingly enough, EA has decided to tackle the market that has been dominated by 
 Activision and Tony Hawk for years and years. But the real question is, do they succeed at doing 
 so? Let's find out by taking an in-depth look at the game, appropriately titled Skate for the Xbox 
 360.
  
  The game opens with you, the main character, getting hit by a bus after completing a rather impressive 
 line on your skateboard. As a result, you're quickly transported to the emergency room, during 
 which time the pro skaters featured throughout the game are introduced in a neat little opening 
 sequence. Afterwards, a suggestion is made to have you undergo some heavy reconstructive surgery. 
 This is where Skate begins, prompting you to create your skater via an extraordinarily large amount 
 of customizable features. Unlike recent installments of the Tony Hawk series, Skate's create-a-skater 
 is without a doubt superior and really gives you a sense of being in the game once you're through.
 
  
  As for the gameplay mechanics, which are also the heart and soul of this title, a revolutionary 
 flickit trick system is used. What flickit means is basically that you must essentially move the 
 right analog stick around and flick it in a certain direction to perform certain tricks. This particular 
 trick system really manages to give you a fantastic sense of realism, although it does tend to 
 get a little demanding at times when you have to complete objectives that require an exceptional 
 amount of skill. Needless to say, the learning curve is a little steep, but I guess that just comes 
 with the territory. Keep in mind that the flickit system is only used for flip tricks; grabs are 
 executed via any combination of the left and right triggers, allowing you to tweak them by moving 
 the right analog stick in a particular direction.
  
  Skate's Career Mode isn't THAT much different from, oh let's say, Tony Hawk's Project 8. Luckily, 
 this is only true when dealing with the various objectives you must complete and locating those 
 who provide you with them. The objectives themselves are very unique, and will require you to do 
 anything from a typical Pro Challenge, during which a pro skater will require you to tear up a 
 particular spot in certain way, to various photo shoots located throughout the city of San Vanelona 
 where Skate is set. Successfully completing said objectives will net you reputation as a skater-on-the-rise 
 and will result in the acquisition of various sponsors. The problem with this, however, lies within 
 how quickly the objectives are thrown at you and the fast rate at which you begin you obtain these 
 sponsors. It's not necessarily a bad thing, but having such a large amount of things to do on your 
 plate at any given time can be a bit overwhelming.
  
  After obtaining the aforementioned sponsorships (board, wheels, shoes, trucks, in that order) , 
 you can visit any one of three skate shops to take advantage of the free gear they provide you 
 with. Your choices aren't limited to just your sponsors though, as you can purchase other stuff 
 with the money you earn, but the amount of money you can earn increases when you complete objectives 
 with your sponsors' stuff. Such a system also manages to give you the feel of being a future pro 
 skateboarder, which is another definite plus. On an additional note, if you're having trouble picking 
 out a board sponsor, sponsorship videos are available for viewing in any skate shop found throughout 
 San Van to help you choose. Photos from each one of your photo shoots can be viewed in these shops 
 as well, depending on what magazine you're currently shooting for. Pretty neat, huh?
  
  Aside from making your way through the ranks, flickin' it and all that jazz, Skate also incorporates 
 an innovative replay system that allows you essentially edit anything and everything to convert 
 it into the footy of your dreams. Said footage is filmed primarily by your loud-mouthed buddy, 
 who is responsible for the sometimes intolerable camera angle you're stuck with throughout the 
 entire game. Granted, this further adds to the game being as realistic as possible, but that doesn't 
 stop the camera from getting in the way of what you're trying to do every once in a while. The 
 sometimes funny and always entertaining stuff the cameraman says however more than makes up for 
 this flaw, and the ability to upload all footage taken to EA's skate. Reel to share with others 
 isn't too shabby either.
  
  Skate is quite exquisite in a graphical sense, but the immense amount of detail present seems to 
 drag the game down a bit, providing us with an excess of annoying load screens that really get 
 in the way of your skating. This especially goes for resetting your skater back to preset session 
 markers that allow you to essentially warp back to the spot you've chosen. Load times aside, the 
 character modeling IS nearly flawless and each part of San Vanelona is rendered beautifully, sometimes 
 prompting you to stop and take a look around every once in a while to admire such a thing.
  
  This particular title also provides us with a soundtrack unlike that of any other game currently 
 on the market, sampling a wide variety of music from all genres. If the music, or some of it, is 
 not to your liking, you can either turn it all off or customize your own personal playlist. You 
 can even set it so that music gets played at spots where it's generally very good to skate. Pretty 
 neat, huh? The voice acting is pretty solid too, featuring the voices of each one of the pro skaters 
 you'll encounter throughout Skate's relatively lengthy single player game. All of this in conjunction 
 with some really great skateboarding noises really make this title succeed in the sound department.
 
  
  Overall, EA's Skate sure gives the Tony Hawk series a run for its money, but the overly steep learning 
 curve of the flickit trick system and the difficulty it tends to cause at times take away from 
 the otherwise great experience it provides us with. On a positive note, the game really is innovative 
 and gives you an excellent sense of what it feels like to be a professional skateboarder. All in 
 all, I feel Skate's relatively lengthy single player campaign and online capabilities make it worthy 
 of at least a rental for any fan of the sport, providing you're up for a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurgel2
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemerson00
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Bikinis are Better in the Summer    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo2jo4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying this game is amazing. It has done an amazing job at capturing the true 
 feel of skateboarding through its revolutionary controls. Just like in real life if you want to 
 to a vairleheel you do a combination of the moitions for a fs shuv and a heelflip. I also love 
 how the grinds are also about aproach. The way the controls work and reasons for it might be a 
 little a little hard for some non-skaters to understand but any skateboarder will be able to apreacate 
 how close it came to capturing the true feel of riding your board through a controler. They take 
 some geting use to but once you get the hang of it, pulling of tricks becomes a truely rewarding 
 experience. The city it is set in is amazing and a skate paradice, unlike the poorly designed levels 
 in the later tony hawk game which contain pracicly nothing an actual skater would skate; stuff 
 like randomly placed ramps in the midle of a dirt field. Also unlike Tony Hawk the goals in this 
 game pertain to actual skateboarding and do not consist of stuff like, catching escaped zoo animals, 
 vandolizing public propery, doing idiot vivi la bam type stuff, and other pointless things. The 
 default seting for the music is actualy quite good; you start to hear music as you get close to 
 good spots and it fades away as you leave. The pro line up is amazing and contains some the world's 
 most amazing skater such as Pj Ladd and Chris Haslem. Playing online with friends is fun; the only 
 downside being the ocasional lag. The game has a few minors errors that only a skater's eye could 
 catch but the all the good qualites outweigh the few bad one 100x. This game isn't for everybody 
 but if you skateboard, like video games the require skill, are up for a challenge, tired of tony 
 hawk's unrealism, or just like to try new things then this game is a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  Basically if you wanted to play a Skateboarding game for the last 7 or 8 years then your only choice 
 has been to play something in the Tony Hawk franchise. Those games might as well not even exist 
 anymore because Skate will have you wondering why you thought those Tony Hawk games were good to 
 begin with. Instead of absurd combos like a 900 double backflip you will be doing more realistic 
 moves in Skate.
  
  That's not to say that Skate is so realistic that it's boring -- it's only realistic to a point. 
 You'll still be able to fall 30 feet on your ass and skate away as if nothing happened. When you 
 take a really hard fall this Skeleton chart will appear and it will show you what kind of damage 
 you've done to yourself such as bruising, spraining or braking your bones. 
  
  You can even save screenshots and/or videos of your coolest moments and share them online via EA's 
 official Skate website. It's not however just a simple replay because you can edit your footage 
 however you see fit. You can use fast motion, slow motion, change up the camera angles, inverting 
 the colors, and much more. You'll probably want to use the replay feature because you'll inevitably 
 come across an awesome moment that you'll want to see again. 
  
  These awesome moments are made possible due to Skate's solid gameplay. Part of what makes Skate 
 as good as it is would be the controls. As opposed to Tony Hawk games' button mashing gameplay, 
 Skate has you using both analog sticks. The left stick controls your body and the right stick controls 
 your board. To do a basic trick like an ollie you'll have to hold the right analog stick down to 
 crouch and then flick it upwards to ollie. To do fliptricks you'll be doing combinations of holding 
 the right stick down and flicking it in different directions. For example, flicking the stick down 
 and then to the side will result in a Pop Shuvit. You can do manuals by holding the right stick 
 slightly up or down which will continue your string of tricks over flat ground. 
  
  You can also do grab tricks by using the left and right triggers in conjunction with the right 
 stick to pull off different grabs. In order to do a grind you'll have to ride towards a rail/ledge 
 at the correct angle, time your ollie correctly, and land on whatever rail/ledge you were moving 
 towards. There is no grind button. Grinding is definitely the most satisfying part of the game, 
 in my opinion 
  
  
  A large part of what you'll be doing in Skate is getting coverage so that you can appear on Thrasher 
 and The Skateboarding magazine. Challenges include "owning the spot" which is beating a pre-determined 
 score in a very small space (such as getting 2,000 points jumping down a staircase) , Film goals 
 that require you to do all the specified tricks within a short amount of time, and more. 
  
  Skate maintains a consistently smooth frame-rate, the environments are varied and the trick 
 animations are superb. Other skateboarding games have puppet-like animations in comparison. 
  
  To compliment the graphics is Skate's quality sound. The sound of your board coming to a screeching 
 halt after coming down a steep hill is excellent, along with all the other sound effects you'd 
 expect from a Skateboarding game. The Soundtrack is merely average. There are definitely some great 
 tracks like "Psycho Therapy" by the Ramones, "Raining Blood" by Slayer, "Hate Crew Deathroll" by 
 Children of Bodom and "Hustlin" by Rick Ross. Beyond those songs there are just generic rap and 
 rock songs that are forgettable.
  
  So should you buy Skate? that depends on how much you'll play offline because the online play is 
 almost not even worth mentioning because it lags so bad that it's unplayable. If you're the kind 
 of person that'll rush through Skate once and never play it again then no -- Skate isn't for you. 
 If you're the kind of person who'll spend a lot of time just exploring and recording footage of 
 yourself then yes, I think you'll enjoy it enough to warrant a purchase. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: produceofperu
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin my review, to the people who have yet to play Skate; No matter HOW good you think 
 you'll be when you first play this game, you're just not prepared. And to be merely an okay skater, 
 you'll need to put in at least 4 or 5 hours of gameplay. That means just skating around the city 
 practicing, not necessarily completing goals. On to the review!
  
  As I previously stated in the Review Deck, Skate is a decent game in general, but an EXCELLENT 
 skateboarding game for fans of Tony Hawk or the actual sport. The single player career mode is 
 extremely challenging and rewarding. You'll sometimes find yourself trying to complete one goal 
 for an hour or more. Not to mention the fact that you have to ollie up on to every sidewalk or 
 small curb. Believe it or not, this WILL seriously try your patience. However, once you accomplish 
 set goals and get more familiar with the mechanics in the game, you'll definitely be feeling very 
 proud of yourself. The multiplayer mode in Skate, also known as Party Play, unlike the single player 
 mode, is extremmmely limited and gets very boring, very quickly. Your friends will most likely 
 just want to skate around the game and learn the basics (if they haven't already) , or just sesh 
 around SanVan for hours on end. Too bad! In Skate, not only is there NO sort of Free Skate mode, 
 but you are only able to play a game of S. K. A. T. E. or Own-The-Spot where you have a couple seconds 
 to nail a trick and your friend either has to copy it or land a better one. Basically just not 
 enough. Online play on the other hand, does feature a pretty fun Free Skate mode. Which is definitely 
 a good thing. Although there can be some slow downs. The graphics of the game are pretty damn good. 
 But they're not revolutionary. Not outside the genre anyway. The same goes for the control scheme. 
 It's a really good idea, but it's also (sad to say) really broken. Performing certain tricks requires 
 fingerstyle gymnastics (for grabs and such) and/or one amazingly accurate thumb (for advanced flip 
 tricks.)
  Overall, I DO believe that this game is more fun, challenging, rewarding, and way more realistic 
 than ANY game in the Tony Hawk series. But I still don't believe that it's a Tony Hawk Killer. 
 Only Skate's sequel (s) could prove me wrong. Now THERE'S something to get excited about!
  
  Happy Skating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanPottenger
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustintv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  I have played a lot of skating games. I have always liked realism more then anything.
  
  This game is about as real as it gets. This is pretty much what skateboard would be like if you 
 were really good and didn't care about being hurt AKA all the fun parts!
  
  There is just so much to do and see in this game. I had some people over to play it and they can't 
 even stand on a skateboard and were loving the game. I played for a good 5-6 hours last night, 
 I didn't do any challenges I just rode around looking for new awesome spots to hit up.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone that just likes fun. if you ever played the game Thrasher Stake 
 and Destroy on PSone, It's kinda like that where everything is really realistic but then add a 
 HUGE GTA style city that is open to you from the very beginning. Tony Hawk is ABSOLUTE crap compared 
 to this game. Those games have almost nothing to do with real skateboarding. Skate is amazing! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  been playing skateboarding games since Tony Hawk 1 on PSX... thoroughly enjoyed the series until 
 Neversoft started the Underground series, which sent the series on a downhill. Basically, Tony 
 Hawk hasn't changed much in 10 years... something new was mandatory! here comes a game that revolutionizes 
 the sport and makes the control as simple as they can get. The world is massive and a blast to 
 play in... customization is nice and tons of details can be played around with (wheels, trunks, 
 board, etc) ... tons of challenges to play and unlock equipment/accessories. If you enjoyed the demo 
 and had a blast grinding the same rails in different ways over and over... this is a must buy! You 
 can even upload footage to the net to send to friends... its just awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalo
Rating: 0
Date: Oct 9, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: bozo9182
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This is what we needed. A great skating game with no unrealistic 1 million point combos like Tony 
 Hawk. I'm very impressed with this game and a game that I will play for a long time.
  
  The many great things about this game is that its realistic, the camera view is also a great feature. 
 The graphics are outstanding, and the gameplay is great! Theres also great features in this game 
 like security guards that chase you if your in a no skate zone. You can also get sponsors in this 
 game and meet pros. Another great feature is the flickit system, where you use the right analog 
 stick to do tricks which is just the right amount of challenge. This game is flat-out awesome and 
 a really great game. Everyone should get skate. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manjo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to say that I've never played a skateboarding game before and I think this game 
 is great. Skate is very unique using the right stick as your base for tricks... very cool stuff. 
 Skate has lot's of fun challenges to do as well as free skate. Free skate suprisingly will actually 
 entertain you for a long time, just trying to do cool tricks just like a real skater would. In 
 career mode there could've been more challenges put in but thats ok. Although the only gripe I 
 have against skate is it's flickit difference between the various tricks. Sometimes when your doing 
 one trick you might accidentally do another because the movements are very simalar. But once you've 
 been playing for a while you'll overcome that. Overall skate is good for any type of gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepyro6
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is hard as ****. Yes, this game is FUN as ****. I dont think it's really a 9.0 Game, 
 but i think it is a 10 when it comes to skating games. The problem with the tony hawk series, there 
 is just no sense of realism in any of their games. Little kids get so excited when they see the 
 X games for the first time, but are dissapointed leaving their TV. Why? Because they though skaters 
 could jump about 20 feet in the air in a halfpipe. (From the point they jumped.)
  
  In SKATE, when you ollie, you dont break any world records. It's still a TAD bit high, but if it 
 was much lower it wouldn't be playable. Also, in Tony Hawk PG, i saw the video, and you can randomly 
 punch people in the face. Yes, it amuses little 6 year olds that are addicted to violence, (next 
 generations child abusers) , and you can jump higher than... about anyone?
  
  Also, the graphics. THPG looks decent, but in High Def, you can see every seperate crease in the 
 cement on Skate.
  
  The only bad thing about the game is the difficulty and how friggen frustrating the pro challenges 
 are, (Films are worse in my opinion) , and the lag in Online.
  
  So basically its VIolence vs. Reality. You choose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noodlesonmyback
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Well the first experience i had with EA BlackBox's Skate was a good 1. I Pre-ordered it and got 
 a awesome T-shirt for free. Okay, onto the actuall game.
  Skate is the best action sports game out to date. Hands down. The Control scheme is almost flawless, 
 the physics ARE flawless, and the graphics are great. Just as the Official Gamespot review says, 
 you will never do a trick in this game that doesnt look possible. okay maybe except for like a 
 coffin backflip, but i guess maybe sum1 could do that if they tried real hard but idk why they 
 would cuz it just looks stupid.
  
  Online play is good, nothing special about it but its fun.
  
  Skate. REEL is really cool though, 
 its where u can upload ur gameplay photos and videos for others to watch, sort of like a Skate. 
 only youtube
  
  Bottom line - BUY IT: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 25, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  So EA just thinks that it can walk right in and knock THPS over eh? Well it was a good attempt, 
 but Skate just doesn't have what it takes to dethrone the king. Skate has wonderful graphics, they 
 are very good looking. Great amounts of details, physics and animations are spot on, dramatic lighting 
 and darkening, colorful, and so on and so forth. But good graphics don't make a great game. The 
 musical score, sounds, and talking is top notch, something that EA is very good at, again this 
 doesn't make a game. It helps, but in this day in age when everything isn't about graphics and 
 controls anymore Skate falls short. There really aren't that many modes, something the THPS has 
 done very well is changing and adapting to the current trends of gamers. While this doesn't always 
 prove to be a good thing, Skate doesn't do much for the gamer looking for something new. It's got 
 the standard set of single player modes. The multi player, is well the same as past THPS games. 
 Where the game falls really short is the controls. using the second joy stick is a good idea. It's 
 never been done before, but there is a reason for that. The joystick is unreliable. You have to 
 do certain movements on the stick in order for your boarder to do a trick. This doesn't always 
 work that well, or at all for that matter. Another thing that holds back this game is the difficulty 
 of it all. I know it's supposed to be a realistic skater game, but it's really difficult, even 
 on easy to land many of the trick. After a while you just get frustrated or bored and you put or 
 throw your controller across the room. Plus because it's more realistic, it's not nearly as dramatic. 
 Therefore casual gamers will get rid of this game right fast. It's nice to have a new skating game 
 on the market, something that THPS has held forever. But this is one that I would have prefered 
 not to have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer1015
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of the Tony Hawk series and I have everyone one of the games (except Project 
 8) . This game is better than any of the newer Tony Hawk games and is pretty close to as good as 
 the first couple THPS games. The FlickIt system is easy to learn and once you get the hang of it 
 it's easy to use. The only bad thing about it is that a lot of tricks have similar motions, so 
 it can be difficult sometimes to nail a specific trick on the fly. This isn't really that big of 
 a deal and the other controls are simple to use. The environment is awesome. The city is huge and 
 is great looking. Also, it's not like the Tony Hawk games where almost everything on the map is 
 a quarterpipe or a jump. It's set up more like a real city where you have to find and make your 
 own jumps. The graphics are really nice and the ragdoll physics on bails are cool. The sort-of 
 open-ended story is decent in length, but freeskating around the city is more fun. The online game 
 modes are fun, even though there is a bit of a lag. Overall, this is a great game and anyone who 
 liked the THPS series should buy it.
  
  Good: Graphics, Awesome environment, Fun challenges, Online, Controls
  
  Bad: FlickIt can be 
 hard to use on the fly, Lag online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awinagainov
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 25, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyzar_x
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  okay now that skate is out we can see if its the tony hawk killer.
  
  okay number one this game compared to tony hawk is different. in tony hawk you button mash to get 
 tricks in skate you use the right stick to control tricks. now number two tony hawk if you do a 
 trick you feel like your playing a game but in skate you feel like your doing it in real life. 
 it makes you feel proud to land even an ollie. were this game falls on its face is the ads omg 
 the ads will piss you off. also it does not have the big name skaters it has a below average roster. 
 next that sucks is the online/xbox live there is a lack of game modes. also it just gets played 
 out to quick.
  
  graphics-solid character animations but im not digging the area graphics
  sound-good voice acting 
 for the most part
  controls-something new that tony hawk does not have
  
  pros-great inavative controls-long story mode-you can take pics for mags
  cons-online sucks-gets 
 old-to much ads-roster blows
  final word-its not a bad game but it does not kill tony hawk but i think if a part 2 comes out 
 then tony hawk better watch out......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatskate182
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  The Good: The game is very, very good. The mechanics, physics, and animations match so perfectly 
 real skateboarding. The city is huge and there are so many nooks, crannies, and hidden spots it 
 would take a lifetime to find all the lines to skate. The sense of speed you get when bombing a 
 hill is phenomenal. The developers even went as far as adding speed wobbles which shows the level 
 of intricacy. The trick system is great and, once you get the hang of it, not as impossible as 
 people make it seem. It is so fun to just cruise and hit a huge rail. You get a sense of accomplishment 
 from doing normal tricks (i. e. a kickflip backside lipslide actually takes some thinking) . The 
 video editor is a nice addition and is really fun to play around with if you just had a sweet run 
 or stunt. The ragdoll physics are fun and if you, like me, skate, you'll appreciate all the finer 
 details of this game.
  
  The Bad: First of all, the idea of this camera guy following you is cool, but the camera angle 
 can be troublesome. Most the time it's not a huge deal, but when trying to land on a narrower pathway 
 or rail it can be hard to line it up. The load times are long and frequent, but with a city so 
 massive and living, can you blame them? Pedestrians and other skaters only get in the way a few 
 times, but when they do (like during contests) it is annoying. People complain that the game is 
 too hard. Yes, the game is a little hard in some spots, but definitely not impossible. The biggest 
 gripe I have is the fact that you cannot leave your board. When I see a nice handrail that I am 
 dying to hit, in real life, I would be able to get off my board and walk to the top of the stairs. 
 In SKATE, however, you are forced to skate around the building in search of the rail. It does help 
 that you can set a start location and return there with the push of a couple buttons, but it gets 
 really annoying not being able to get off your board and climb some stairs, jump up onto a ledge, 
 etc.
  
  Overall: SKATE is a great looking and feeling game. Fans of the Tony Hawk series will enjoy the 
 change in scenery and gameplay, especially if theyve spent a good deal of time on a real skateboard. 
 There are some minor gameplay issues that are frustrating, but not game-killers in any regards. 
 SKATE offers skateboarders and gamers a chance to live out all their true-world skating fantasies. 
 The city is huge and alive and the spots are endless. And trust me, Ive been skating for five 
 years and SKATE (in its animations, physics, and mechanics) is so close to the real thing it is 
 amazing. Fans of skateboarding and alternative sports games will get a lot out of SKATE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShenlongBo
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 25, 2007 6:20 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barloc1337
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Skate is the new skateboarding franchise released by EA. Although the Tony Hawk series has owned 
 the whole skateboarding franchise, a new competitor has just arrived on the block, and is here 
 to do some damage. Skate does many things that are very new to the skateboarding game, and the 
 game is a really good building platform for EA. But with some minor things, the game doesn't quite 
 reach full potential, but it is a worthy adversary to the Tony Hawk games.
  
  So of course the big thing about Skate is the new control scheme. Unlike the Tony Hawk games which 
 use certain buttons to preform certain types of tricks, the controls in Skate mainly rest on the 
 right analog stick. For example performing an ollie is as easy as pulling the stick down, and pushing 
 it up. To do certain flip tricks, it is all in how you start or finish where the right stick ends 
 up. Push up and slightly to the left or right and you can preform heel and kickflips. This is a 
 revolutionary way of playing the skateboarding games, and most of the time works well. Where you 
 will run into problems is when certain challenges may require you to preform certain tricks in 
 the game. Since all the flips in the game are done with the right analog stick, sometimes the game 
 may be confused on which trick your trying to pull off. Mainly the instances happen when specific 
 tricks are necessary, otherwise you won't really notice any problems.
  
  Also with the controls, Tony Hawk has a button to preform grinds, but unlike that, Skate makes 
 it more realistic and makes you line yourself up with the edge or pole or whatever your grinding 
 on, and simply jumping on to it. You can then change the position of your board with the right 
 analog stick, and with the left, you can control how you get off the pole or edge. This is a much 
 more realistic approach, and most of the time works. Although the timing may take a little while 
 for you to develop, you'll soon get the hang of it and start pulling off great lines.
  
  The grabs and manuals are pretty simple. To do grabs you can press either the right trigger, or 
 left, or both to preform certain tricks. You can also tweak with the right analog stick while grabbing 
 to preform new grabs. Overall it is a little difficult to get the hang of, but once you do it is 
 pretty easy. Manuals are simply pulled off by pulling on the right analog stick slightly forward 
 or backward. You can then use these to connect your lines and preform very cool tricks. Overall 
 the entire control scheme has a few flaws, but is one of the most revolutionary control schemes 
 that the genre has ever seen.
  
  The game itself, or the story, is pretty standard, and doesn't really feature anything special. 
 You create your character, give him some clothes, and a board, and you start out as someone trying 
 to prove himself as a skater. So you will try and film yourself doing cool tricks and/or lines 
 and try and become a pro skater. You'll try and get sponsored by the many companies that are available 
 to you in this game. After getting that and becoming pro, you can compete in such events as the 
 X-games which does mean the mega ramp is in the game. So overall it is what you would expect from 
 a standard skating game.
  
  Although this game is new and innovative, this game has some minor flaws. The game's camera is 
 based on the fact that you have some guy with a video camera who is filming you, which leads to 
 a weird perspective of being behind the skater and down below his waist. This is cool, but does 
 lead into some vision problems, which will frustrate you when your racing, or just trying to pull 
 off something very cool. The skater doesn't become transparent in spots he should sometimes which 
 can lead to some bad things.
  
  The challenges in the game are interesting since the difficulty will bounce around from time to 
 time. The game seems very unbalanced this way since you'll run into some hard challenges in the 
 game in the middle of the story, unlike the difficulty just progressively getting harder. The game 
 will frustrate you this way but you will be able to complete the challenges, although some may 
 take longer than others.
  
  So overall Skate is a cool new idea. It has pretty much been built to be nothing like Tony Hawk, 
 and if there is anything that they've done, it's that. Skate takes a much more realistic approach 
 to the genre of skateboarding, and is a neat idea. I think that it would be cool to see this game 
 get expanded into a franchise, and try and tweak some things to make the game better. Skate is 
 a neat idea, and I recommend that everyone who is a fan of the Tony Hawk series, or just any player 
 for that matter check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo347
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: onep
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 24, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigonthewing
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  I wanted to wait till I got fairly good at the game before reviewing it since for a game like this 
 its not fair to review it until you get a handle on the controls.
  
  This is a very hard game for your average gamer, also compounded when you know nothing about skateboarding. 
 I knew the basics like ollies, grabs, flip tricks, but i had never heard of a shuvit or a nollie 
 for example, so i had to learn some of the skate boarding lingo to sometimes even understand what 
 some of my goals would be. Such as a BS and a FS which i think is back side and front side.
  
  Now the controls are quite good. Some tricks are very hard to to and you will continue to do 
 tricks you didn't intend but with practice you will start to perform what you intend more and more 
 often. But it takes practice, a lot of practice.
  
  The world is quite large but no overly so, but for a game like this its perfect. There are many 
 types of areas for your style of game. Whether you like to grind or do lots of air.
  
  Just being able to go out and play on your own is fun. Also when you open up the x-games and the 
 mega compound you can start doing some absolutely crazy tricks which can be fun for awhile but 
 personally i like just skating the smaller parks and pools.
  
  Now issues i have with the game. The camera angle is annoying. Its hard to see directly in front 
 of you and not being able to look before you turn you often will crash into a person that you had 
 no idea was there. Whats funny is if your chased by a security guard the camera pans back a bit 
 and this would have been a perfect camera angle for the game. Or at least an optional view. Its 
 not a deal breaker but it can be a bit tedious sometimes.
  
  Next the loading times can be quite large. thankfully once your in the world you don't load unless 
 quickly jumping to a new area on the map.
  
  Another is you will have to attempt some tricks a number of times to accomplish. This didn't bother 
 me since i realize even in real life these guys have to attempt these tricks a number of times 
 before they get it. But it may bother some.
  
  Its a great game and I love to just mess around with from time to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjbiggs
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This is next gen skating. This is a step in the right direction. Skate is a highly addictive game 
 with great replay value. The visuals are pleasing and the sound fx are spot on. You get a real 
 sense of sccomplishing various tricks through different thumb gestures... which is nice. You get 
 the most realistic skating sim ever released... evar! This game isn't perfect and has it's flaws, 
 but what EA has built here is a solid foundation for this franchise to grow on. Do yourself a favor, 
 pick this up, play it, love it. And stop lying to everyone about your girlfriend you met on myspace... She's 
 a whore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxSteveSlatonxX
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 23, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_midas123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This game will probably have you dieing to try out it's controls first. When you do, it's a blast 
 and you will probably spend 1-2 hours trying out new stuff. After that, once you try to get into 
 career mode and get used to the controls; you're going to want to turn off the game and do something 
 else. First, career mode is just really boring. You spend pretty much the entire game shooting 
 for magazines to get famous. The pro challenges are intended to be fun, but they end up being just 
 frustrating. It seems like they tried to make a horrible career mode. Other than that, I can safely 
 say that the freeskate is the strong point of this game and is probably what you will spend most 
 of you time on. Online is also a lot of fun. I'd say it's worth a rent if you want to try it, but 
 if you absolutely love freeskate, I definetly recommend this game for you. Overall, skate is a 
 very good attempt for a better skating game, but I think if they franchise it, they'll fall downhill 
 for the Tony Hawk series to dominate once more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scuza2100
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the 1/2 hour demo of Skate, I was blown away. The gameplay mechanics were so 
 revolutionary, I immediately thought that this would instantly eclipse everything the Tony Hawk 
 franchise worked so hard to accomplish. On the release date, I went to the local retailer to buy 
 the game. They told me it had been moved back to the 13th. I was fine with that, so I waited patiently 
 and played the demo a few more times. On the 13th, I returned, and they told me I had to wait one 
 more day. I was fine with this, but they were definitely pushing the envelope. When the game finally 
 came out, I bought it immediately. I slapped the disc into my 360, and began playing. At the start, 
 the game was lots of fun. The Flick-it controls were so fun to use I thought I would never stop 
 playing the game. Then my guy advanced to Amateur. The game became nearly impossible. The challenges 
 were ridiculously hard, asking to do tasks far to specific for an analog stick trick control. I 
 struggled through, and made it to Pro. I'm currently sitting here with about 3 or 4 Pro-ranking 
 Challenges done, impossible to continue due to the game being to difficult. It became a vicious 
 circle: You can't complete challenges because you can't get any better, and since you can't get 
 any better, you can't complete challenges. The physics system also had a few glitches that are 
 funny, but interrupt what you really want: The realistic feel. Althought, the rest of the game 
 was good. The graphics tossed Tony out the window, and the base idea left Hawk in the dust. The 
 board performance customization was fun, but the player customization lacked that certain unamable 
 element that the recent Tony Hawk games had. Even though Skate outranks any Tony Hawk game I've 
 played, the unbelievably specific challenges and the lack of player motivation holds this game 
 back from achieving what it truly deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lasseee
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 23, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolt26
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Skate is a great game. The folks at Ea nailed it better than any skate boarding game to date. The 
 twin analog sticks gives the game an overall feel that no other skate game could pull off. Tony 
 hawk eat your heart out.. Skate requires excellent timing and trick orchestration on a much more 
 believable level. If your into busting out a 5 minute grinds and mashing buttons to bust out a 
 high score this is not the game for you. The Skate player model is highly detailed and the movement 
 is that of a real skateboarder. The levels that skate has to offer and complexly unique layout 
 that offer unlimited opportunity to bust out some amazing **** The only flaws i noticed right away 
 was the skater chase view sometimes it can be a bit frustrating. The other major flaw i noticed 
 is the fact that your not able to stop pick up your skateboard and move into a better position 
 to jump a large gap since some of the levels have a few stare cases that make parts of levels restricitve. 
 The career mode is cool lots of goodies to play with and lots of different skate equip and apparell. 
 Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaC3rFr3Ak
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Skate is a great game that shows Tony how skateboarding games should be made. This game is completely 
 amazing, and worth every penny. It is one of the most fun games I have ever played. The graphics 
 are great, the gameplay is innovative and awsome, and the value is top notch. If you blaze through 
 career, it should take you at least 9-10 hours. Then it will take you a lifetime to find, and skate 
 everything in SanVan. The frame rate holds up suprizingly well for a game of this size. There are 
 some glitches that can be frusterating, but as a previous hawker I know it has a lot less glitches 
 than the TH series. The single player achievements are great and not impossible to get, unlike 
 some games. Multiplayer is the only downfall to this game, it's ok but not that good. There are 
 many name brands in this game which make it even better, you can ride for brands like: destructo, 
 circa, lakai, plan b, and spitfire. In this game it is very rewarding pulling off simple tricks 
 like a varial kickflip to nosegrind. Also if you skate in real life you will like this game even 
 more. Skate is simply one of the best games you will ever ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chestnutz
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Bikinis are Better in the Summer    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguin93
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Skate is the one game to give the Tony Hawk series some competition. And wow, it did a great job.
 
  
  Skate uses one of the best story's you can use for a skateboarding game. Getting Coverage, and 
 getting Sponsored. Getting Coverage is pretty mandatory for getting sponsored by the bigger skate 
 company's, so you will be shooting photos for The Skateboard Mag, and Thrasher. Along the way, 
 you will do Filming Challenges, Owning Spots, et cetera, in order to get Noticed by the Big company's 
 such as Almost, Zero, DC Shoes, Girl, &eacute; S, Independent, Spitfire, and so on.
  
  The new Flick-it system is where a good portion of Realism takes place, Flicking the Right Analog 
 stick in ways you would sort of flick your feet on a real Skateboard. It might take awhile to get 
 used to the Flick-it system, but once you get the hang of it, you will really enjoi it. (see what 
 i did there? i'm so clever.)
  
  Gameplay: After playing Skate, i can never go back to a Tony Hawk game, ever. Skate really brings 
 an awesome mixture of Fun, and Realism, the Flick-it system is great. So many Brands of Decks, 
 Trucks, Wheels, and Shoes. You can choose the Loose-ness/Tight-ness of you're Trucks, along with 
 the Hardness/Softness of you're Wheels. You can choose you're own Style, Normal, Loose, Aggressive. 
 Mike Carroll, Pat Duffy, Paul Rodriguez, Chris Cole, PJ Ladd, and tons of other great Pros are 
 in the game.
  
  Graphics: Skates Visuals, Level Design, and overall Graphics are Stunning. Character Design is 
 Incredible, San Venalona is Amazing. Frame-rate glitches tend to happen but Rarely. 1080p makes 
 everything even more Visually great.
  
  Sound: A Great selection of Music, such as The White Stripes, Nirvana, Valient Thor, Mot&ouml; rhead 
 , and so on. Great Voice acting for all characters. You can hear the wheels Spinning after popping 
 a trick while going fast, which i think it pretty cool.
  
  Skate will last you a very, very long time. There is much to do after beating the main story, and 
 Online play is pretty good.
  
  Cons: Well, every game has some cons. Not being able to get off you're board can be a pain, just 
 getting around can be so much easier if you could get off you're board. Local Multi-Player is fun, 
 but there is no Free-Skate mode for Local Multi-player, which really disappointing.
  
  I Highly Recommend Skate, weather you skate in reality or not, you will love skate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanboy23
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  great game tony hawks just sucks i downloaded both on xbox live skate was much better flickit reallys 
 fun better than tapping buttons all the time trust get this one there no grind button its just 
 freakin awesome its just a great game it really is dont get tony hawks proving ground trust me 
 i downloaded it on xbox live it sucks it reallr really sucks dont forget buy skate it rocks! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 great game thats the only thing i can say about it and if you have xbox live for 360 my screename 
 is richj101 there no caplization in it okay just one word and its the number zero not an o skate 
  
 tony hawks  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grocery_Bag
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 21, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: rozzano
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 21, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_zone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  This Review Is Meant For A Single Player Only, Experience The Gameplay With The A. I
  
  (REVIEWING IN A SKIT STYLE)
  
  Today Ive got a chance to meet with one of the EA BlackBox 
 representatives to talk about his latest released game, Skate. Im surprised to hear his thoughts 
 about his own game. Check it out!
  
  D-Z: Tony Hawks games has been a long running series that Im sure, by now, most of the gamers 
 are getting sick and tired of playing it. Now, Electronic Arts is here to tell us exactly how hard 
 it is to be a pro skater in a realistic way. So tell me, how do you guys revolutionized this skating 
 genre?
  
  EA: Firstly, Skate is all about Next Gen, from the wheels to the world, you will feel fresh for 
 this entirely new skating game. So let me start off with the CONTROLS.
  
  We did mention that there are not going to be any button mashes, well, I guess we have lied to 
 most of our viewers and listeners. In fact, most of the time during gameplay, youll find yourself 
 mashing one, two, or perhaps three buttons just to get your skater to skate and brake. Dont be 
 surprise though, as youll be pressing or holding the button frequently when you are traveling 
 around San Vanelona. Also, both the Left and Right Triggers are used to grab the board with your 
 left and right hand. Pressing the B button while grabbing will actually let u do a trick or two. 
 So that is button mashing afterall.
  
  But trust me dude, it really feels good to skate. Oh wait, whats a GOOD for without a BAD 
 right? Ahah! We have invented a flickit control system, that err. actually dont work as perfect 
 as what we have planned for. The directions for pushing and pulling the right stick on certain 
 tricks are quite similar; therefore, its kinda hard to pull off some specific tricks which are 
 needed to be done in some of the many objectives. But overall, it feels smooth and responsive most 
 of the time. It just requires timing, practice and most importantly, I call it The Ultimate Test 
 For Patience. Its definitely a hundreds of trials and errors to get an objective right.
  
  D-Z: Woah! Im glad to hear that your thoughts are actually the same as mine. Thanks for revealing 
 the good and the bad part of your newly invented control scheme. So lets move on. Youve revolutionized 
 the controls, what about the PRESENTATION?
  
  EA: We are the first developers to develop a skating game that involves free roaming. Our city 
 is named after San Andreas and that is San Vanelona. Obviously in comparison of sizes and map scales, 
 GTA is way much more bigger than ours. But it feels big when you are skating, because a skateboard 
 travels much more slower than a car. So It takes a longer time to reach from one end to another.
 
  
  We also want the city to look like a breathing world. And with that, we have created about 6-7 
 different looks of cars and people. And with those numbers, can u imagine how will our city look 
 like? Haha
  
  We have also created many downhills and down slopes for the skaters to pick up speed. But it seems 
 that, Ive spend most of my time going uphills and skating up slopes trying to find my next objectives 
 that is located on the minimap. Ive noticed that theres also no balance when it comes to WHERE 
 TO GO, either you might focus too much on the minimap searching for your objectives, or you might 
 be working too much trying to fancy your skate skills which will eventually lead you into a wrong 
 turn. Not all objectives have multiple paths and ways to reach it. Another downside of our skate 
 game is definitely our camera System. DudeIt totally sucks, we did not provide any change of views 
 or camera, so like it or not, you have to stick with the low camera that is focusing mainly on 
 your skate deck. And I find that this is one of the issues that causes you to miss your timing 
 or evade any obstacles that is in front of you. But this usually counts as a factor when you are 
 trying to complete your objectives.
  
  D-Z: Nice one man! Looks like your presentation is not as good. Talking about objectives, can you 
 tell me how do your skater PROGRESS?
  
  EA: Sure, but there is nothiug much here. Youll start off by creating your skater using our CREATE-A-SKATER 
 mode which can only be found in the Career Mode. The Morphing of skaters only involves in the facial 
 and the body area. You wont be able to morph your hands, arms, legs, feet etc. Just know that 
 it is very limited and Morphing are not as deep as THQs Smackdown Vs RAW and its not even as 
 close to our own Godfather game. Then we have about 8-10 different types of hairstyle, and tons 
 of brands of clothing for you to hook your skater up with. But Im sorry that we could not get 
 any brands and sponsors for our pants section. EA can get all the license for everything, but I 
 wonder why not for the shorts and pants.. haha.. anyway weve only created a bunch of pants for you 
 to choose from.
  
  After that, you progress by doing the tasks assigned by the pro skaters hanging around the streets. 
 This will unlocked the skaters and the sponsors that they are using. Aside from that, you are required 
 to complete photo shoots and film shoots. It gets tougher and tougher as you progress. Seriously 
 dude, just have patience doing these objectives. Finally, the X-games, which is almost impossible 
 to beat.
  
  D-Z: To be honest, Ive lost a lot of my patience on this gameso it seems like the career mode 
 is actually repetitive huh? Hmmso care to share about the A. I?
  
  EA: A. I? You want to know about the A. I? Simplethe CPU controlled skaters loves skating with you. 
 So when you hang out on an area or just wondering around, they will tend to skate around there 
 and cause you to bump on them, this will definitely disrupt your goals and timing.
  
  Normal pedestrians arent aware of your presence when you are skating face to face with them. They 
 will only evade when you are inch away from knocking them down. Or if they got knocked down, they 
 will lie flat for about 8 seconds, and got up back. Just remember its mostly the same falling animations. 
 And all of them are weak.
  
  Security guards are definitely the strongest among all the A. I. They are fast, well actually not 
 that fast, but its their funny, stupid and clunky animations make them harder to be judge and evade. 
 And if they manage to push, or punch you, which I dont exactly know what they are actually doing, 
 you will be fined $50 and thrown out of the area you are skating.
  Basically, we dont do much in the A. I.
  
  D-Z: Maybe you can improve youre A. I system in 
 skate 2 next time. So any closing comments?
  
  EA: Of Course, since skate is a next gen game, dont worry about the graphics. I can assure that 
 u will enjoy the next gen visuals, sounds, and gameplay. The sounds are definitely realistic. You 
 wont believe your ears when you hear it. This is Skate, not Tony Hawks Game. If you ever played 
 Tony Hawk before and dislikes the gameplay style. You must definitely try this. It has the flavour 
 you are looking for years.
  Skate isnt something driven with a storyline. Its just a progression of your skater with many 
 frustrating objectives. But if you love to skate, or feel like skating. I recommend you to purchase 
 this game or at least give it a rent. Ive been playing it for almost 40 hours, and still havent 
 get sick and tired of it. Just be patience, and you will enjoy the most realistic skateboarding 
 game that has ever been created.
  
  D: Z: I agree, the gameplay is really satisfying. Though there's no achievements or story line, 
 but every trick and grind you pull off, feels like an achievement. And definitely it feels new 
 to the genre. And it feels fresh. Anyway Thanks for your time.
  
  EA: Anytime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtvance
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Skate. is a game that totally took me by surprise. I'm a long time fan of all extreme sports games, 
 and while I ride BMX and don't skate, I know a thing or two about it. Playing Skate. makes me want 
 to go buy a skateboard. It plays and feels like real skating. While some reviews have pointed out 
 things like difficulty and a steep learning curve as weaknesses, I believe that these are actually 
 the things that make Skate. so great. Everything feels like such an accomplishment. The people 
 that feel this way are likely the people who know nothing about the actual physical aspect of skateboarding. 
 However, these people obviously aren't EA's target audience as those are the same type of people 
 who think that real skateboarders can fly 100 feet in the air and do 10 back flips. The game really 
 only needs two things to be perfect in my opinion. The first one being the ability get off your 
 board and walk around, and the second being a favorite spots system that allows you to permanently 
 mark spots in your career mode that you love to skate. You could title each one and it could show 
 up on your map, and then you should be able to select that spot and go there instantaneously. I 
 understand it sounds a bit over the top, but with an environment so huge, they really need to work 
 more on making areas easily accessible. For instance, I shouldn't have to waist my time trying 
 to grind up a rail and then ollie onto a ledge to get to large gap or drop off. In real life I'd 
 just get off my board and walk up there. Here's how I'd rate the game...
  
  Environment/Level Design: 10
  
  The environment is utterly massive. I actually would go as 
 far as to say it rivals some of the GTA cities in size.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  EA has trumped Tony Hawk graphically by far. The game appears to run on an engine similar to most 
 of the other EA sports games and actually ends working extremely well in this application.
  
  Sound: 10
  
  What more can you say? The sound effects of the board traveling across different 
 surfaces are amazing. It no longer sounds like your on a metal rail when grinding a wooden one 
 (I'm talking about you Tony Hawk) it even makes a smooth rolling metal sound when you shred the 
 giant steel full pipes.
  
  User Interface: 8
  
  The menu system has a great art style to it, but some certain functions can be tough to find due 
 to the way everything is presented. This is a minor issue though.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  This could easily be improved to a 10. Just add the option to get off your board and it's perfect. 
 I love that you actually have to pump back and forth when skating transition.
  
  Replay Value: 9
  
  The extreme level of detail and sheer size of the environments will have 
 you finding and skating new lines for months to come. Overall: 9
  
  Skate is a fantastic game that only needs minor improvements to be a true masterpiece. However, 
 it easily gives a huge breath of fresh air to the dying genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shub-Niggurath
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  skate. is EAs attempt to take the title from Neversofts long standing king of skateboarding games. 
 They arranged everything with an ingenious trick interface and a vast living world with some unique 
 twists on the goals contained therein.
  
  First off, this game was received incredibly well by the gaming community when the demo was dropped 
 on the 360 through Xbox Live. Everyone waited for this game with baited breath and, unfortunately, 
 EA failed to deliver a suitable number of copies to stores for its opening weekend (which was also 
 delayed) . This proved to be a very inauspicious start to the games run on store shelves. This, 
 in and of itself, was a low point in the game because we would have expected a much smoother, and 
 larger scale release from an Electronic Arts title. They are, after all, one of the largest video 
 game studios in the world.
  
  The opening of the game is a little lengthy and cannot be skipped. It starts with your character, 
 clad in black clothes with a black hoodie, hood up so you cant see his face. After jumping down 
 a stair set hes plowed by a bus. Your character is then rushed to the hospital where you receive 
 reconstructive surgery. This leads into the games Create-Your-Skater interface which involves 
 the use of their now standard four axis sliders to model and mold your players face. There are 
 also some initial clothing options available and a few generic, not totally pleasing, hair styles 
 to use. I think now is as good a time as any to point out that you cannot create a female skater. 
 This wouldnt be a big gripe for me if the game did not feature other female skater characters 
 running around. But since you can see female skaters in the game and not get to create one, its 
 a bit of a turn off.
  
  Once you get into skate. you can immediately appreciate the depth of skill involved in playing 
 this game. The control scheme can take literally hours to master, and even then you still have 
 to feel out every individual piece of the environment because nothing ever plays the same way twice. 
 Even the slightest indiscretion in your timing can trigger a bail, or at the very least, a missed 
 trick which can ruin certain runs such as video challenges.
  EA dubbed their new control scheme flick it. The two sticks are utilized in a very unique manner. 
 The left stick controls your skaters body. This is used for turning while riding, spinning in 
 the air, and even pumping in and out of transitions on half-pipes and other similar structures. 
 The right stick controls the board, holding the right stick down and then flicking it up causes 
 your skater to Ollie. Varying angles of both the initial hold and flick will lead to various 
 flip tricks. Rolling it left or right instead of flicking causes shuv-its. Grinding is automatic, 
 accomplished only by the proper aim and timing when near a grindable edge. There are slight flick 
 it movements do achieve some of the more advanced grinds like Blunt Slides. Wall rides and various 
 transition transfers are also accomplished in this fashion, asking only for proper aiming or timing. 
 This can be a short coming at times because occasionally after a grind combo or other feat your 
 character will sometimes want to roll back the way you came rather than continue the way you wanted 
 to go. Also, some since timing is so unbelievably sensitive a slight miss on a rail or grindable 
 edge can also result in a bail. Your skater will try to wall ride the object instead of grinding 
 thus resulting in a face plant. Also, since it is no longer a Dial-A-Trick system, the small 
 size of the right stick can make flicking a daunting task. Since it is almost exclusively dependent 
 upon which way you flick and so many of the tricks require control movements which are too similar. 
 You will find yourself trying to do one trick, and then doing another. This is another low point 
 in the game and no matter how good you get with the controls you will still find yourself making 
 what feels like a rookie mistake from time to time.
  
  Your character has to roll through a massive fictional city called San Vanelona. This is a very 
 well constructed city with a nice metropolitan downtown, an old city not unlike some of the classic 
 cities in Europe, a suburban element with a community center skate park, and a ritzy sort of upscale 
 area complete with a nice art museum with some fun, skateable pieces in and around it. There are 
 many great places to skate with good lines of obstacles strung together just waiting for you to 
 find them. Couple this with the challenging play control scheme and most of the lines you find 
 and successfully ride feel very good. This game had the potential to be something great.
  
  On top of all of this the game has an active replay function running all the time. You can review, 
 edit and then upload footage to either your hard drive or the skate. Reel community website so 
 that other people can see, rate, and comment on your footage. The community is still in its Beta 
 phase so it acts up from time to time, but when it works correctly it is a very nice touch to the 
 game. You can even pause the replay and take a photo, which can be saved and uploaded the same 
 way as the replays. The only fly in the proverbial ointment here is that you can only upload 3 
 replays and 6 pictures. You can save 8 replays and 12 pics on the hard drive, but that's still 
 a little scant simply because every successful line or big trick feels so good you want to save 
 it. This means there may be some over-writting or compromises in what you do and don't save and/or 
 upload to the website. Also, the website is still really acting up as of this review. Once the 
 video us uploaded you can log in to their website and edit attributes such as title, search tags, 
 and even add a short description. Sadly, the beta website has major issues saving tags and descriptions.
 
  
  The challenges are the true low point of this game, often hindering the intuitive control scheme. 
 There are only a few types available. These are simply  Competitions, which (until the XGames 
 street comp) are nothing more than mishmash best trick contests which put all 4 competitors on 
 the same obstacle at the same time; Photos, which are like one man best trick contests with a predestined 
 spot and a set score to beat; Death Races, which should be self explanatory, downhill runs with 
 3 other skaters, first to the bottom wins; and Video Challenges, where you have a set series of 
 goals (grind distance, total grind distance, air time, powerslide, and so on) and/or a score to 
 beat within 30 seconds. There is also S. K. A. T. E., a mode in which you and a pro skater play a game 
 similar to basketballs H. O. R. S. E. and one of you does a trick which the other has to match. Completing 
 these tasks usually results in coverage in either Thrasher or Skateboard Magazine. With the coverage, 
 your goal is to earn better coverage in each magazine, moving from the smaller afterthought sections 
 in the back to, ultimately, a cover shot on both magazines. Coverage in each comes from separate 
 events so you can progress all the way to the cover of one and do nothing in the other. The game 
 culminates in an XGames Mega Ramp event after the Street Contest. Each of these modes has shortcomings 
 which can be frustrating at times.
  
  With the competitions being done in a Jam type format (everyone on the obstacle at once) this can 
 lead to a lot of frustrating run-ins with the AI when they obviously believe they can ride the 
 obstacle no matter who got there first. You will find yourself being wiped out by another skater. 
 Bowl jams put all the participants in a bowl, pool, or half-pipe at once but the score is cumulative 
 and you dont have to rely on landing one best trick to win. The first round of the XGames street 
 contest works the same way, letting you utilize the entire course instead of one piece.
  
  Photo Challenges do feel a lot like solo best trick runs. The photographer picks the obstacle and 
 usually just gives you a score goal. Some of them do call for slightly more specific things like 
 do a flip trick but the real challenge usually comes from tricking the spot successfully. The 
 photographers usually pick large gaps and interesting spots like that to do your stunt. These can 
 take several minutes to complete successfully and then some can be burned in a single shot.
  
  Death races are challenging but the AI doesnt seem to utilize any real short-cuts most of 
 the time. There is a time limit and you have to pass through set gates (ala slalom) to earn more 
 time. Provided you dont give yourself a concrete facial or kiss too many cars during these runs 
 you should do alright.
  
  Video Challenges may not be insanely unique but they are done in an original way. They give you 
 the goals (as mentioned before) and a 30 second time limit, but you can perform them anywhere you 
 want. If you think a video could best be performed in a pool or half-pipe you can go there and 
 then start filming. They give you the what and you provide the where. Dont let this fool you, 
 the footage challenges are, by far, the hardest things in the game. By the time you get near the 
 end of the films list score goals become almost impossible, demanding as much as 5,000 points be 
 scored in 30 seconds. And you cannot fall. Falling counts as an automatic failure on your part. 
 The worst part is that some of them arent as liberal on the where as theyd like you to think. 
 Some require you to remain in no skate zones for the duration of the video. These zones always 
 have a security guard on patrol who will tackle you if he catches you, thus again ending your footage. 
 Also, with the mechanics of grinding and similar acts being so sensitive to timing, accomplishing 
 most of the later ones in the time allotted feels more like sheer dumb luck than a demonstration 
 of skill. I often found myself in a certain area where I knew I could accomplish the goals and 
 then my run is ruined because I missed my timing on a rail by a split second so instead of grinding 
 a good chunk of a required total he doesnt even attempt to grind it or bails for seemingly no 
 reason. The touchy nature of the physics makes some of the videos a matter of chance rather than 
 ability.
  
  There are also Own the Spot challenges you discover along the way. Completing these doesnt add 
 to coverage with either magazine but once you get sponsors it does pay cash. You have to discover 
 these spots, usually by accident though the Spot Bible feature with your map can help to give 
 you some vague hints as to where to find these spots. Once you activate one (by finding it, duh) 
 it is written to your map and you can now Own the spot. This is another type of best trick deal 
 which requires you to score a set number of points on the obstacle. However, this event is not 
 timed and can be performed at your leisure. Once you own the spot you can go back and do it again, 
 the goal being to beat your previously posted best. Scores can be uploaded to the skate. community 
 thus adding more replay value to this title. This feature can also be used online or even in a 
 turn based game on one console. Its a nice touch; I just wish they could have used it towards 
 helping magazine coverage. I also noticed (after more intense playing) that some of the spots have 
 issues with actually detecting that you did the trick. There is one called Curvature which is a 
 decorative marble structure resembling a quarter pipe. The best way to win this one is to grind 
 the back of it. The problem is that sometimes, even after grinding most of the structure (if not 
 the whole thing) it doesn't actually count your score.
  
  S. K. A. T. E. contests are another nice little diversion which pay your skater cash but dont help 
 his coverage, because the flick it system has so many similar moves this contest becomes very 
 difficult and another function of pure dumb luck. The real problem with this is that the contests 
 only count flip tricks accomplished with the flick it system and any accompanying spin. Grinds 
 dont count and neither do even tweaked grabs, ruling the latter merely as an Ollie with any encompassed 
 spin you may have done. And with the flick it systems previously mentioned sensitivity, these 
 contests become increasingly difficult, both to match pro tricks and do your own without repeating 
 anything.
  
  Last, but not least, comes the Mega Ramp event. This is where some of the games oddest features 
 come to pass. You begin with a brisk run down the massive roll in ramp and then a launch over the 
 gap. However, you also have to do something as cool in the ending quarter pipe as you did over 
 the massive gap. If you push off too hard to drop in you miss the ramp, coming back into contact 
 with it somewhere near the transition, however you go faster doing that than if you roll down the 
 ramp the whole time. Then hitting the ramp itself is about timing your flick. Flick too soon you 
 will probably bail right there. If you dont hit it in time you will just bail when you hit the 
 flat atop the landing ramp. Then, while in the air, the control scheme shows its most sensitive 
 aspect. With all of the speed you amass in the run you have to land with almost laser guided precision. 
 The slightest deviation from a straight landing will end your run prematurely. Even the left stick 
 is sensitive, the slightest tweak to the left of right will start your character on a slow spin 
 which can help take you off center when you land. Also, when you spin it responds a bit like the 
 flick it system would. Letting off the left stick doesnt make you stop, you just slow down and 
 over rotate a bit, which often adds to the levels of frustration. Sadly, since you get a much greater 
 launch here than anywhere else in the game they give you enough rope to hang yourself. Often you 
 will think you can land a greater spin than is actually possile.
  
  Also, failure of any of these goals results in an obnoxious stylized video to bring the CHALLENGE 
 FAILED menu on screen. It may not seem too annoying the first couple of times you see it, but 
 this game hinders as much on trial and error as the Stuntman games (if not more so) and after you 
 see that animation 20 or 30 times in a row when you keep failing at something you know you can 
 do it gets grating and tiresome.
  
  On top of this the camera is a real weak spot. It is filmed like someone is following you on their 
 own board holding the camera a little above knee high. This is the traditional angle of skate videos 
 and is cool to watchbut its a real burden to gameplay. More often than not the camera puts you 
 directly between it and your intended obstacle thus ruining your timing. And, as discussed earlier, 
 this ruins the root of successful tricking. It should usually remain off center but during downhill 
 runs it gets behind you, thus blocking your view of any traffic or obstacle which could, potentially, 
 keep you out of first place. During the mega ramp it inexplicably rotates to the side of your character 
 both when you air off the ramp and when you hit the massive quarter pipe at the end. This makes 
 noticing a slight rotation on your part or a less than perfect landing incredibly difficult to 
 detect. All of this helps to needlessly complicate a game that already came out of the gate with 
 its own unique challenges and complications.
  
  On top of it's lofty online support for single player achievements the game also has some excellent 
 online play. There are multiple race events and trick events online. These usually just take single 
 player modes and make them online competitions. I spend most of my time in Spot Battle which is 
 a version of Own the Spot where players go in turn and everyone gets 3 turns. Best trick wins. 
 Spot jam and Best trick comps are not my cup of tea if only because you can have too many people 
 shoved into spots. Winning (or even scoring) in race or trick events scores experience points which 
 helps to determine a player's over-all rank online as much as simply winning a few runs. Most of 
 your fellow players online have been pretty cool, laid back, and void of trash talk. Often there 
 are at least moderate cheers of support when you do something cool and own the spot. This is a 
 nice bonus point to the online mode simply because most of my last experiences with online play 
 have involved acres of trash talk, insults, ridiculous blame casting, and other obnoxious traits. 
 This doesn't really affect my over all scores too much but it ensures that 9 times out of 10 I 
 don't really invest much time in most games' multiplayer modes.
  
  This game had some lofty ambitions. It had some very unique control ideas, and some beautiful elements 
 to the game that made it truly unique and at times enjoyable. However, the limited challenge variety, 
 coupled with the occasionally terribly sensitive flick it system, this game fell short of the 
 mark and I believe has failed to make the boys at Neversoft sweat about its release too much. I 
 only hope for a sequel, because taken at face value this game cant earn the coveted 10/10 score 
 (or even very close to it) . But, as a starting point, it shows some real potential for a great 
 seriesprovided the masterminds at EA Black Box stay the course and merely improve this game for 
 the next installment. Kudos to them for a dynamite first effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XandX2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  First off id like to say im mostly dissapointed with gamespots review. It dogged on it more than 
 supported it. They rated Two Worlds with the same score, and Two Worlds really wasnt that great 
 at all. You can read my other review about that there. So, now i will give you my honest opinion 
 about SKATE. THIS GAME ROCKS!!!!! I've played skateboarding games since the dawn of them, from 
 Thrasher, the Tony Hawk series and Grind Session. These were all great. Until now, mainly because, 
 SKATE brings the enjoyment and difficulty of real skating home.... FINALLY. You have a giant city 
 to skate around, and if you're a skater, you will spot stuff you want to conquer. I found a huge 
 rail thats like 150 ft long and i kept trying to nail it again and again until i got it. Its realistic 
 properties are really comforting becaue when you have the skill to throw a 360 hardflip or a varial 
 kickflip every time, you know you can dominate in the game mode S. K. A. T. E.. There is so much to 
 learn and it takes practice. If you want a game thats easy to do a 900, play tony hawk. you want 
 a game that takes practice to throw what you want, SKATE is for you. There tons of challenges, 
 races, and plain fun to be had in this game. Now for the bad, which it really isnt that bad. Gamespot 
 was right about one thing, the camera angle kinda gets in the way. and its following techniques 
 are kinda funky. The online play sometimes gets lagy, but thats only cause people have crappy internet, 
 or they quit mid-game. Other than that there really isnt much else bad to say other than its a 
 game, and there will be bugs. Overall, its one of the best innovations of a skating video games 
 ever to be made. Period. Just as first person shooters these days take skill to be the best, you 
 will need skillz to throw down in SKATE. It makes it interesting and fun and theres tons to learn. 
 So, with that said, go break some bones and go SKATE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbshaffer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  What makes a good game for you? For me, a good game is one that I can pick up and play for 10 minutes, 
 or for 2 hours. A good game is one where the environment can capture your attention and hold it, 
 making the campaign a fun option, not a grueling grind. Unless you are in a hurry to get as many 
 sponsors and gear as possible, then the city of San Vanelona will surely distract you at every 
 corner, curb, bench, staircase, bleachers, statue... you get the picture. I have logged probably 
 close to 20 hours so far and I am only at the shoe sponsor (second sponsor) in career mode. This 
 is largely because having full access to all the tricks and most of the city to start out with 
 is so much entertainment right off the bat. Plus, if you are a skater who skates for fun and the 
 culture, then who needs sponsors anyway? I won't deny that free gear is always rad though.
  
  Kudos to EA for having the balls to make a game that takes time to learn, and is reasonably 
 difficult to play afterwards. For those of us that have been playing games since we were little 
 (for me, 16+ years!) its hard not to get excited when we don't succeed at something on the first 
 try. And if you are a wuss that gives up after failing at something once then you are the reason 
 most games are made to make sure they get approval from the mommy's boys of the world, AND, don't 
 bother buying this game, and please don't bother skewing the game rating with your lack of determination. 
 I'll end this just by saying it is worth 60 bucks. Go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ez051121
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the only games that has me going back to redo stuff I've already done, just because 
 trying to discover a new way to trick any given section is so much fun!
  The stick functions are not totally intuitive but they've grown on me... I don't think I'd want 
 to play a game that had it a different way. The amount of clothing and accessories you can acquire 
 is kinda a contradiction in terms. I thought the whole idea of skating was to go out and do it 
 for the art , be damned how you look, what shoes you have, what jeans you've got, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  The skateboarding genre of video games was pushed to a new level with the Tony Hawk series. It 
 made skateboarding popular again reaching out to a new audience. As the years go by, yearly installments 
 of the Tony Hawk games had become just another game in the series with not much improvements made 
 every game. This year, EA decides to take a crack of the skateboarding genre letting the Black 
 Box studio develop a completely new game called Skate. Skate takes a different approach to skateboarding 
 games and takes the genre to a whole new level with its innovative gameplay and controls. For any 
 skateboarding fan, Skate is probably the best game of the genre this year and highly recommended.
 
  
  Skate has arguably the best intro ever for an alternative sports game with you getting hit by a 
 bus and taken to the hospital by actual skaters with different roles. It is pretty funny seeing 
 pro skaters act completely different than their skater roles like Danny Way, Paul Rodriguez, and 
 MTV's new comedic duo Rob and Big. After recovering from surgery, you start your career customizing 
 your body, face, and outfit then going out to San Vanelona making a name for yourself and the skating 
 world. The career mode is basically completing goals to get in two skateboarding magazines and 
 then competing in the X Games to win a gold medal. These goals range from photo challenges, tasks 
 that pro skaters give you, contests, death races, and film challenges that can be done anywhere 
 in the open world Skate gives you. While making yourself known, you will get sponsors from many 
 of the skateboarding companies that offer different decks, outfits, trucks, and wheels to customize. 
 Certain spots of San Vanelona are no skating zones as security guards try to run you down. Some 
 of these challenges can be difficult requiring specific tricks to complete them and get frustrating 
 at times especially doing the wrong tricks to restarting like 50 times. Another frustrating aspect 
 of the single player is pedestrians getting in the way when pulling off combos. The session markers 
 are helpful especially it takes forever to go back to some place you have a hard time on. The career 
 mode in the end is pretty good putting your skateboarding skills to the test in every way that 
 the game gives you for tricks.
  
  The controls for Skate is the major reason the gameplay is innovative. Instead of pressing buttons 
 to do magical tricks in Tony Hawk, nearly all of the tricks can be done using the analog sticks 
 and triggers. The left stick is basically your body movement and the right stick is your board 
 movement. Ollies can be done by holding down the right stick then tilting up. Flip tricks are done 
 by flicking the right stick in different directions such as kickflips flicking right. The harder 
 flip tricks like the 360 flip require different rotations of the right stick and these harder tricks 
 are required especially for S. K. A. T. E. challenges, which is basically horse in this game. Nollies 
 are the opposite the ollies done the opposite way which adds another array of tricks at your disposal. 
 Grab tricks are done by the left and right triggers in the air. The face buttons are used for braking 
 and pushing. Grinding is as simple as olling to the rail similar to the SSX games. You can also 
 pull backflips, frontflips, and spins by tilting the left stick in the air. Skate's control system 
 is revolutionary for a skateboarding game and delivers more satisfaction towards nailing these 
 tricks in lines and combos than something like the Tony Hawk games especially skating on a megaramp.
 
  
  After the single player career mode is done with, there are multiplayer modes in this game. Party 
 play is basically the local multiplayer playing simliar modes to the single player like S. K. A. T. E, 
 contests, and Spot challenges. Online multiplayer is where it is at with a maximum of six players 
 playing different modes ranging from races to best trick events. The online aspect is a great demonstration 
 of the actual skateboarding lifestyle when players are pushed to the limit nailing huge combos. 
 The community aspect of Skate is also another great demonstration of actual skateboarding with 
 replays, photos of your moves, and actual video footage of your greatest feats. The Skate reel 
 is where it is at for watching your own footage and looking your at your photos as well as watching 
 other players' footage while rating them. There is also a spectator mode called Skate TV to check 
 out actual online sessions. The online portion of Skate is probably the best online execution for 
 a skateboarding ever specifically the community features.
  
  The graphics of Skate are great for this type of game actually looking like a next gen game. The 
 city of San Vanelona is huge for something like Skate with many obstacles for players to go crazy. 
 Each of the four sections of San Vanelona offer enough variety for the player to pull off moves. 
 The characters look good enough as well with the pro skaters being accurate to their real counterparts. 
 The presentation of Skate is executed well also remaining accurate to the skateboarding lifestyle.
 
  
  The sound in Skate is also great with decent voice overs by pro skaters and different characters. 
 The soundtrack can be executed better, but it is good enough. Listening to the same song on the 
 menu screen can get a little repetitive. The music only goes berserk when your multiplier is at 
 three times and certain hotspots of the city which is executed well too, but the music won't play 
 all the time while skating. The songs themselves are great for this type of game especially the 
 hip-hop. Blasting NWA's Express Yourself while skating never felt better. The sound effects for 
 the board are also accurate while doing flip tricks and landing.
  
  Skate is probably the best skateboarding game out this year. It represents the skateboarding lifestyle 
 accurately and delivers innovative controls. The online features are also amazing for this type 
 of game as playing with friends is really fun. The general satisfaction of nailing huge combos 
 is excellent especially when something sick happens even though the learning curve may be steep 
 for some players. Fans of skateboarding should buy this game and hopefully EA can make this to 
 a franchise with more in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattrix42
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  First of all I have to say that I've been a massive Tony Hawk Pro Skater fan for years. Lately 
 the series had been getting a little stale (the last one I bought was THUG) but it took a game 
 like Skate to really open my eyes to how far away from skateboarding THPS had drifted. I used to 
 skate back in the day and I never remember grinding on cruise ship railings or shimmying across 
 balconies four stories in the air while wearing a clown suit. Everything about Skate feels so much 
 more authentic... the controls, the graphics, the audio, the tricks, the characters, the story. 
 The flick controls are revolutionary... simple to learn, hard to master, subtle in their complexity. 
 Skate has it's shortcomings... things which I'm sure will be added in subsequent versions like more 
 player customization options, a skate park editor, and a trick editor. However, E. A. did the right 
 thing by saving these extra features for the sequels and concentrating on delivering a solid foundation 
 for the core skateboarding experience... and in that sense they've exceeded my expectations. Goodbye 
 Tony... you had a great run but it had to come to an end some time. Skate has just made you obsolete. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDC92
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 19, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: siteless_one
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  It's not too often i can realy say this: I love this game. If your like me you were playing the 
 demo for weeks befor the game came out. If your not like me, what the hell are you waiting for? 
 this game is, among other things, beauitful. the level design, although at time can be frustrating 
 is well planed out and unfolds like any other skating game. What stands out the most in this game 
 is the awsome array of styels a player can skate. It may seem that every one is landing the same 
 tricks the same ways but infact, i have never seen two people play this game the same as one another. 
 some may take to the streets and tare it up while others may search for the vast array of pools 
 and half pipes to grab some air. some players are fast and aggressive and still others take their 
 time to perfect the look and style of their skater. This video game is not just a nother sports 
 game that will fall by the way side. The players have spoken, they want more and more. The only 
 cridisism i may have with this game is that there is no flatland and you can not get off of your 
 board. So while you cant simply walk up stairs or recreate the most tech skater of all time, rodney 
 mullen, the game still falles nothing short of perfection (in a sports game) . Im sorry Game Spot, 
 but i have to dissagree with you guys on this one. I give this game an 9.0 because its just plane 
 fun, online or off. with a few minor improvments, the next instalment of skate may just be the 
 most fun you can have with a sports video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shloobonya
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacoker
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far and away the best skateboarding game to date. The biggest draw for me, having 
 skated for 12 years, is the realism. Unlike in the Tony Hawk series, you will not be doing any 
 out-of-control 540 flip to frontside noseblunt to backside tailslide to 360 hardflip to manual 
 out. In skate., you are pretty much stuck to doing tricks that can and have been done if real life 
 skating, with a few exceptions. The graphics are great, and the fictional city that you skate has 
 a combination of spots similar to some of the best spots to skate in real life, ie. Hubba Hideout, 
 Embacadero, Art Institute, Streets of San Fran etc. The controls take a little time to get used 
 to, but add to the realism of the game. The ability to film your tricks, edit footage, and upload 
 to the net is a great addition to the game. I didn't rate it a 10 because there are a few thing 
 I would like to see added, such as night skating, and being able to step off the board. Other than 
 a few minor flaws such as those, this game is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknightelf2
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: frunklindoodle
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: nedical
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rekunta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  I love and hate this game in equal measure. It is so frustrating on so many levels, yet is equally 
 amazing to the same degree.
  
  I'm a pessimist, so I'll start out with the negative. I posted this in the SKATE forum and it explains 
 what I feel is flawed:
  
  The complexity of this game which makes it so incredible and innovative is also what makes it so 
 ultimately frustrating. The commonality between some moves is so close it's almost fruitless to 
 try to differentiate them in execution. For example, the variant 360 kick flip and the 360 pop 
 shuvit are so similar that I've only got the variant 360 three times in a row. I don't fault the 
 game for this, it's a game design and hardware issue (tiny area for the analog to move) combined. 
 Also, certain trick motions overlap each other, so if you move the stick just a slight bit past 
 where you need to change direction for one move, it's too late. For, example, look at the 360 Pop 
 Shuvit (medium) versus the 360 flip (advanced) .
  
  Another thing that adds to the slighty imprecise nature of the stick controls is the pace of which 
 the game moves. It's always just a matter of seconds to act, and remembering all the different 
 variations (not to mention the corresponding control input depending on the foot placement while 
 grinding, not to mention balance) makes it incredibly difficult for me to even pull off one or 
 two moves. That's not mentioning keeping the board on the line after hopping to a different trick, 
 then proceeding to Ollie into the air, pull the trigger, and think of one hold, spin, or flip to 
 do. Usually my long chains come from rapid fumbling and doing whatever I can within the time allowed. 
 A cool replay no doubt, but far from gratifying game-play wise.
  
  Don't get the wrong impression, I think this game is amazing, innovative, and just plain fun in 
 so many ways but to be honest it's detracting from my overall enjoyment which is too bad, because 
 I really want to get proficient at this game since it's obvious how much depth SKATE has, yet it 
 almost feels unreachable. 
  
  One more thing to add to the above: the camera is a problem. it is WAY too low which makes it hard 
 to line up as the skater's body is impeding your ability to see where you're going, which also 
 applies to when you turn. It also flops around occasionally which is a serious flaw considering 
 the precise nature of the controller input required. It is also not adjustable, which would be 
 immensely helpful as your view would not be blocked.
  
  After all that negative, I'm too tired to explain the positive and this is way too long. Just play 
 the game to see it or read the millions of 10s on this site.
  
  A cool but flawed game. Be prepared to practice, and pray for that varial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngchaz60
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This isn't just a game for skate boarders, if you love Forza, Gt, Toca or other simulators this 
 will be no different. I don't skate in real life but watch x- games. Just ta let you know I love 
 the tony hawlk serries and all the arcady feel but this here just dominates on it in everyway except 
 the story. I'd recomend this to anyone who loves good uniqe games, or tired of driving and fps 
 for the console. so get your wallets ready and thumbs in position. you'll be stuck to this one 
 for months on in. gjgioer egojepwjghb nioewjg kojgriewo kpjgerw ljhgtow jger oijreg lngw pjhipeq 
 goihng 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goku4212
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  skate already is my favorite game that i have played in years love the stick movements n how they 
 were able to copy the foot movements for it. if u haven't played skate yet you might as well not 
 be living trust me once you play it you will be thinking all the tony hawk games were trash. in 
 skate you actually have to get a board, trucks, wheel, n shoe sponsor by skating. unlike tony hawk 
 were you skate around talk to someone and the mission is like oops i dropped my crap all over can 
 you pick it up n bring it back to me?? its more of actually getting pics of you doing stuff taking 
 videos racing playing skate verse the pros and doing the x games with the Danny way jump its great!!! 
 a seriously recommend it to anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks101
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  this was easily the best skating game ever made. It is a lot of fun with friends or just playing 
 by yourself. The online play is alrite. Cant complain though. The only problem is if u only do 
 the tasks and not skate around you will beat it very fast. But it is still a lot of fun even though 
 ur story is done. Another bad part is the music. This is probably the worst soundtrack for a 360 
 game. The music is absolutly terrible. But, I am definetly buying skate 2 when it comes out without 
 a doubt. Thats all I have to say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rotondi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  In the top 3 games on the 360 right now. I'm not gonna lie, Skate is a little irratating for the 
 first few hours of experiencing the game. It actually might not make you think to highly of the 
 game if you continue to suck at it.. cough gamespot. com cough cough The game is gorgeous, the physics 
 are amazing, you'll watch the replays over and over. The flip stick is the best thing to happen 
 to skateboarding video games. It's this simple, you sit down, get good at Skate, and you'll be 
 hooked. Tony Hawk still might be a good skateboarding game, but you'll never touch it again once 
 you get used to Skate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoughryderGT
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 18, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: astrotaylor
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Skate starts off fun, asking only for simple tricks or combinations to continue your advancement. 
 Once you reach AM or Pro status the game begins to raise the bar and it can be a major pain to 
 accomplish the goals when you have to ollie on to a box, land in a manual, ollie a gap to another 
 box, and land in a manual again, then land the trick. Retrying a goal can be annoying if you've 
 traveled far enough from the starting location that it has to kick back to a loading screen. As 
 far as skateboarding games go, this has to be the most realistic I've ever seen or played. Once 
 you ignore the goals and just skate around town having fun, it quickly becomes one of the funnest 
 games I've been lucky enough to pick up. Got the last one on the shelf at the Anchorage, AK Best 
 Buy on release day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrummingJoker
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 18, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: CKYBam06
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hudson85
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: slackpit
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is !@#$ing Sweet... shocked at gamespots score. What noob Scored this game... your insane 
 to think TH still can hold anything to this epic game. Some one else should have scored this game, 
 someone other then my grandmother thanks much
  
  This game is !@#$ing Sweet... shocked at gamespots score. What noob Scored this game... your insane 
 to think TH still can hold anything to this epic game. Some one else should have scored this game, 
 someone other then my grandmother thanks much
  
  This game is !@#$ing Sweet... shocked at gamespots score. What noob Scored this game... your insane 
 to think TH still can hold anything to this epic game. Some one else should have scored this game, 
 someone other then my grandmother thanks much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frigginjoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Skate nails the skateboarding game by moving in the exact opposite direction of the Tony Hawk series 
 - focusing the gameplay on the feel and challenge of the skating itself.
  The open-ended world really lends to skateboarding, as the exploration and constant lookout for 
 environmental trick opportunities is a big part of street skating. The graphics are great, though 
 not without their faults. While the soundtrack is more of the same, the sound effects are dead 
 on and truly add to the feel of being on a board with the wheels screeching, chirping, humming 
 and clacking as you traverse over various textured grounds.
  The most appreciable aspect of Skate is that the challenge lies in timing, placement and location 
 rather than taking the fiction over the top ala Tony Hawk's Pro Skater. In doing this, it's thankfully 
 spaced itself apart from the aging Tony Hawk series, not to mention up the ante for future installations 
 of both series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Got_It_4Cheap
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 17, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shas02
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: carrett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  SKATE is the game that anyone whos ever actually stepped foot (goofy or regular) on a skateboard 
 has been dying for! I cant believe Im saying this, but EA came through BIG with this one. I dont 
 want to slam Hawk but I gave up hope on a good skateboarding game long ago. This game is a skaters 
 dream come true - this feels so much like the real thing it will have you checking your knees for 
 scars! The last time I played a skateboarding title that felt this creative, innovative &amp; realistic 
 was the old ESPN X Games Skateboarding (I think I was the only one who loved that game) . Skate 
 has set a new bar that I dont see being raised by anything else coming out in its genre thus far. 
 Two asphalt scarred thumbs way up!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martyn3
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: okcomputer666
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for a good skate boarding game to come out ever since I got burned out on Tony 
 Hawk after the first THUG game. I always enjoyed the gameplay of the Tony Hawk games, but it seemed 
 like the gameplay kept getting stretched thinner and thinner with each new game. After playing 
 the Skate demo to death I figured that Skate would be that game, and thankfully it is. I never 
 liked the super arcade like feel of the Tony Hawk games so it was really refreshing to be able 
 to play a game that focused more on reality rather than just pulling off million point combos. 
 While the gameplay of Skate is rather realistic it feels like it came at a price. While it's extremely 
 rewarding when you do pull off amazing lines and tricks, it gets very difficult to execute them 
 with any sense of procession. The pacing of the game doesn't help much either. After about two 
 or three hours of playing, the challenges went from fairly simple and straight forward to being 
 balls to the wall difficult. I went from simply having to grind three times to complete a challenge 
 to having to find 21 foot drops while having to score at least 1,500 points in 30 seconds. After 
 about 20 minutes of skating around trying to find a large enough drop, I spent at least another 
 hour trying to pull it off. I cannot tell you how many times I went flying into a light post. After 
 what seemed like an eternity of trying to pull off the jump I finally did..... only to get hit by 
 a car and having to start it all over again. Eventually, I finally completed the challenge which 
 unlocked about 10 other challenges. While that may sound harsh, it never got to the point where 
 I was frustrated enough to quit or smash the controller simply because it was always fun. While 
 it maybe a difficult game, it is always entertaining and you always feel like you are accomplishing 
 something. If you have the dexterity and the will power to hammer through the harder challenges, 
 you'll find a game that rewards your skill and determination. Or you can simply just free skate 
 which is always fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowbiz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  If you do, then forget what anyone else says about this game. As far as I'm concerned, they've 
 figured it out. Finally a game that is representative of what we really do. I read a review that 
 said integral tricks are missing, such as the pressure flip and the dark slide. I had to laugh 
 when I read that. So, I guess this game might not be for pretenders. My only complaint so far, 
 is I wish I could get off the board and run up a set after bailing. The bails shouldn't send you 
 back to a load point. My bet is that SKATE 2 will address this issue. They've got the difficulty 
 of tricks just right. A backside noseblunt is actually bloody hard. Three-flips are easier in real 
 life then they are in this game, which I appreciate, sort of. Anyways, just play the bloody game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekc124
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrk999
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  this game is so sick ive played it for 3 days strait and still learning new tricks and secrets 
 on how to do things kewl but i just read a review of someone who said it was TOO realistic i think 
 his name was t-mac 720 and i have to say t-mac720 that anyone the says DAT every 2 freaking seconds 
 shouldnt even be alowed to own a 360 even if they had one they should only be allowed to play the 
 live arcade games so they dont get confused and cry. this game seriously makes u feel like the 
 skater is u and u actually have acomplished something when u do a 360 flip for FS crooked slide 
 yes its hard but wats a game if its not challenging i have beat all the competitions in the career 
 except like 8 videos i havent done yet but still i can skate around san vanelona and see new things 
 ive never seen so in all seriousness SKATE is the best skating game ever made and T-mac 720 u should 
 totaly learn to spell and if a games to realistic for u u can go play wow and feel like ure in 
 a cartoon movie all day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  alright this game started off a bit boring and well it didnt change to much like can be kool if 
 u like realistic games but like this game can get reallly boring u do da same trick over and over 
 again and doing a 360 is like 900 or 1080 in the game !!! like for me tony hawks kicks this game's 
 ass anyday its pretty though how u can customize ur guy with all sorts of famous brands such as 
 dc or adidas or element and stuff like dat but dat still does not help da game doing a ollie in 
 a ramp is super hard!!! some achievments are pretty easy and there are some that are very hard. 
 my suggestion is if u like fun non real games u can either get project 8 or wait for proving ground 
 the new dat is supposed tocome out soon i think but if u like realistic games maybe u should this 
 game out well thats all peaz! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolatelepre
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  simply put, this is what i have wanted tony hawk to attempt to make for years now. this game is 
 meant to appeal to skaters first, and the general public second. sure, it is easy enough to push 
 around doing tricks, but just like real skating, more difficult tricks require more time spent 
 on learning them. the filming is tough and frustrating at times, but have you ever tried to film 
 a real skate line? i can assure you it is way more frustrating. and when you finally have the control 
 to get a specific trick, the feeling of rolling away is almost as gratifying as the real thing. 
 the level is also a welcome change. when tony hawk's american wasteland promised a vast, seamless 
 level, this is what i envisioned. there are specific spots to skate, but the most fun comes from 
 cruising around, bombing hills, and doing insanely long lines. every object is skateable in some 
 way, and the only limitation is your imagination. kudos to ea for the line multiplier. it is much 
 more realistic for a couple of good tricks to come in a row rather than one long trick connected 
 by manuals, reverts, spraypainting and walking around. finally, the amount of support from the 
 skating community is superb. most of the times i get upset when companies cram as much advertising 
 into the game as possible. but in skate, it feels right. all the clothing, skateboards, and shoes 
 are real life items and its crazy that my digital skater can look so similar to how i look when 
 i skate. the long list of pros in the game is also impressive. i probably means nothing to you, 
 but seeing a legend like mark gonzalez or a relatively underground skater like jerry hsu is insane. 
 it really shows how much ea was focusing on the realism of the skate scene. the things the pros 
 and the filmer say are things me and my friends say when we skate. to sum it up, throw out your 
 latest copy of tony hawk and go pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: To_Ashes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Skate is here and it has come and try to put an end to the Tony Hawk series... From the looks of 
 the game it is very solid the graphics are very good looking and so is the environment in the game... 
 But yet this game does deliver a lot... It sure has its downfalls... The game is very very hard 
 and it may cause anger when you can not do a simple trick... Needless to say... The graphics are 
 good and the game play is solid also... But the game falls on its face with the controls... I would 
 like to see an option where you are able to get off your skateboard and walk around like the people... 
 Cause when you get stuck on stairs or in a corner... It really does kill the fun... But people... 
 Needless to say... Get this game if you have been craving for a skateboard game for a while... 
 Because this one delivers a lot of realism to the world of skateboarding!...
  
  Final Grade: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpbas
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Do you like skateboard games but your sick of the Tony Hawk franchise? You can finally rejoice!!!! 
 This game is the real deal!! I wouldn't have thought EA could make a great skateboarding game but 
 they did. Everything from the graphic animations to the new controll scheme is rock solid.
  
  The game progression is fun and your never going to have to take missions from Mtv2 rejects.
 
  
  It's a small thing, but the opening sequence in carrier mode is a classic throw back to live actor 
 cut scenes ala C&amp; C 3.
  
  I'm only 6 hours into this game and I have yet to try out the online modes (seem more like mini 
 games; exm. h. o. r. s. e. spelled s. k. a. t. e) but I can tell this one is not going to be a trade in 
 until SKATE 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkdsk8erdude
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  As a long time Tony Hawk fan, its saying a lot when I can say this game, regardless its a different 
 style of skateboarding game (sim rather than arcade) this is by far easily the best skateboarding 
 game ever, not to mention one of the best videogames i've ever owned.
  Graphics - incredible. Very, very realistic. Except for the plants. some of the plants aren't too 
 great.
  The customization - ok. Theres a great seletion of boards, trucks, and wheels, but the character 
 customization, aside from the body type creation, is'nt very good. I'm talking about choices of 
 hair and clothing. The clothes is a prettywide selection but the hair, is pathetic.
  The SKATING - holy crap where do i begin. in real life i love bombing hills. In this game, i love 
 bombing hills lol. It's so much fun to just actually skateboard, just riding the board is great 
 fun, not even doing tricks.
  I love when you loosen your trucks and you go down hill in the San Francisco style area The Res 
 and you see your board wobble under your feet.
  Its just great fun.
  Some of the bails are silly, but a lot of them are realistic as well.
  Look, all i can say is 
 play the game yourself. I can't put it in words how good this game is.
  However, i can say its not perfect.
  Let me just say what EA should do for skate 2 if there ever 
 is one which im sure there will be after the success of this amazing game.
  -the ability to get off your board.
  Im not talking tony hawk style parcour jumping around climbing 
 on buildings, im just talking about the ability to get off your skateboard, walk up a stair set, 
 get in position, drop your board and do what you wanna do. There are a lot of times i see a spot 
 i wanna skate, lets say a 12 stair or something, and i have to skate around it usually up some 
 sort of slope to get to the top to finally skate it. The session markers are useful, but you have 
 to get there in the first place lol. I think just being able to get off the board would be really 
 useful.
  -Have the skateboard break.
  In real life, there are pressure cracks, chipping, and breaking of the decks. Also, the wheels 
 get smaller over time as well.
  There is such a wide selection of boards and wheels and trucks, i think they should have the board 
 break realistically, so you have to buy a new one. I think they wheels should get really small, 
 and have that affect how well your board controls and skates and how fast etc etc so you feel obligated 
 to buy a new set every now and then, and i think your trucks should get flattened on from grinding 
 too much so you need a new pair. I think thats realistic, and it help promotes the great selection 
 the game provided. Its pointless to waste your hard earned cash in the game on a new deck because 
 you never see the bottom except when you buy it, and it never breaks. So whats the point? The wheels 
 you see, as well as the trucks so that makes sense.
  Also, talking about wheels, instead of having the tuning option of hardening/softening your wheels, 
 i dont think they should have that. Thats not realistic. They should have it so the wheels you 
 buy have the size, and also the duro (for those of you who dont really skate thats the level of 
 hardness, the higher the number, usually in the 90s or hundred, the harder the wheel.) so i think 
 that affects what wheels you buy. If you want hard wheels you buy hard wheels you want soft wheels 
 you buy soft wheels lol.
  That simple.
  So, with these 3 things, i think the game would be perfect. And it's only three things, so that 
 game is pretty much perfect lol.
  I love this game.
  Bought it the morning it came out, played it for 4 hours straight the day i got it, and have played 
 it about an hour each day since. =] I love this game, great job EA. I was originally gunna buy 
 the new tony hawk also, but after getting skate, theres no point. idc if one is a sim and one is 
 arcade, skate is just simply amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerxmm55
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 17, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaveSpartan117
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  the game has amazing graphics and the game play is fun but you need to get used to it. the flick 
 it controls are a blast. the only things wrong are you cant get off your board and at times the 
 camera can be a pain, but other than that the game is great. the online can be confusing with trying 
 to make you own game, but playing friends in skate and beating them is just rewarding. overall 
 i thing this game is more for the people who actual skateboard because they know how the feel and 
 how real this game acutally is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JehovaWrinkles
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 17, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaTurtle13
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirtyAl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Growing up, I always looked at skateboarding as a suburban, whiteboy activity that was laughed 
 upon as they buss their asses trying to be Tony Hawk... then Tony Hawk came out... After mastering 
 skate-or-die and 720, I thought that Tony Hawk was the Bee's Knees and nothing would change that. 
 I bought every Tony Hawk with the hope of making my own unique hoodlum amongst preppies and all 
 would be well... Never really got me that good but I was nice in the T. H. games and I mastered 
 most of the tricks and learned how to exploit the games with high score tactics and everything 
 was cool... All hail Christ Air... Then that all changed when I had a chance to befriend a guy 
 who was just skating by one day and I learned that skateboarding is indeed a culture and my ignorance 
 was no longer blissful... I began to see the little things like the importance of photo's and video 
 footage. The importance of truck stiffness and wheel softness... the fact that I ran into many 
 of great boarders and none of them can ollie flip in midair then convert to a christ-air and land. 
 None of them could grind a telephone line and drop that many feet onto flat surface and maintain 
 speed... I was upset... They weren't real skateboarders and the game was reality... then my views 
 change when I popped in skate... From the moment you touch the controller, your soul will become 
 that of your onscreen counterpart... every nook and cranny of this game speaks that of the culture 
 itself. Graphics are second to none... Gameplay is terrific... I love the fact that there are plenty 
 of real life pros in the game and they have been gradually been implemented.... They could have 
 plastered all of the features on the box but didn't when I ran into a few pros that I have grown 
 fond of watching xgames and such is a real treat... this game is a new cult classic for the ages... 
 A breakthrough... The same way we make our younger kinfolk laugh when we pop in Supermario Brothers, 
 This will have the same effect for tomorrow... The only thing that I would like to see in the next 
 one -- Have the skater be able to hop off the board and walk around.... Thats about it... Grab onto 
 cars for more speed and momentum... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmyg15
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for a game like this since the PlayStation2 launched. The Tony Hawk series had 
 a monopoly on the skateboarding genre in the ps2/xbox generation consoles, and i would rather play 
 'Thrasher: Skate and Destroy (1999) on ps1 over any tony hawk game released.
  
  Skate combines next gen graphics with next gen gameplay and the outcome is a highly enjoyable to 
 play skateboarding game. What sets Skate apart from most other skateboarding games *cough* tony 
 hawk series *cough* is its commitment to realism. The physics and the general pace of the game 
 are very real to life, maybe not 100% accurate, but close enough. Skate excels with graphics, gameplay, 
 control, sound effects, and sound track. Anyone who has tried skateboarding will appreciate the 
 control and realism of this game more than someone who has not. The controls may seem a little 
 difficult at first, but really just need some getting used to. As you get better you'll find pulling 
 off some difficult tricks very rewarding. And when you do you can save your replay, and even upload 
 it online! This game has a story and plenty of tasks for you to do, but in the beginning you'll 
 most likely just skate around and enjoy the gameplay.
  
  There are only a few things i do not like about this game. First, the camera can sometimes be annoying 
 and block you from seeing what you need to see. The game needs some additional camera view options. 
 Also, you cannot get off your skateboard and walk. Skate has open-ended gameplay similar to the 
 Grand Theft Auto series, in which you are placed in a fictional city and can wander and do as you 
 please, and sometimes it would be useful to be able to get off your board so you can reach some 
 difficult places. Lets not forget that this is the first release of most likely many games in this 
 series. The sequels to this game will most likely address and fix any bugs, and improve slightly 
 with each release. I would give this game an even better score if not for the fact that i know 
 they will release a sequel thats even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timmy2Star
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Great skating game.... this will give Tony Hawk series some competition.. may not have as many tricks 
 as Tony Hawk games but everything else in my view is solid.... controls, graphics, game play.
  Very open area with many options for tricks makes you constantly thinking of diffrent tricks to 
 pull off.
  Also very cool intro movie I might add
  EA did a nice job of using the analog control for the trick system
  This game should not disappoint 
 any skateboarding fans.
  The clip editor is a nice touch.... being able to show the world your longest manual, grind, gap 
 clearance or even a video showing you break everybone in your body is sure to rack the hours up 
 that you will be able to pour into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perphection
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  To tired/lazy to write a full review so we will just go with pros and cons lists
  
  Pro:
  Realistic, you can not grind 2 miles on a telephone wire
  
  Inovative, Flick it controls although 
 they can be difficult to use, still gives you a better feel for the trick your attempting
  
  Graphics, Wow...
  
  Cons (not nesessarily a bad thing, just areas to improve on a sequal)
 
  
  Goofy=Mongo?, For those of you who have selected goofy footed stance you will notice that your 
 skater constanly skates mongo. For those of you who do not skate this may not sound like that big 
 of a deal, but when youride one way and your seeing something different on the screen it does cause 
 some frustration and confusion
  
  Pedestrian, Way to many of them. Every 3-5 minutes I am fighting to stand up properly and carry 
 on my usual buisness. Seems like some of the better spots on the game has anywhere from 3-7 pedstrians 
 standing/walking through the center at all times.
  
  Camera Angles, it would be nice to have an adjustable camera. The one set angle is extremely close 
 and makes it difficult to see the area around you, and as most will notice occasionally the camera 
 will lose you.
  
  The abiltity to step off your board, not for random stupid combos, but for not having to ollie 
 over every insignificant crack just o get to were it is your going. It can also become very frustrating 
 looking for handi-cap accessable ramps so you can get to the staircase or ledge you want to skate.
 
  
  
  Overal EAs Skate is an extremely addictive game that can easily overthrow the Tony Hawk franchise, 
 it just needs a few kinks worked out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkskater2007
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, one of the best games i have ever played! It totally revolutionized the skateboard 
 genre. When you do a trick you actually feel good that you did finally landed it, instead of mashing 
 buttons hoping to land it. I have been playing it for hours and hours, its very addicting. When 
 i bought the new Tony Hawk i played it for a day and got board. i have been played this game every 
 day since i got it. I pray they make a number 2 to this game. Even if EA made it.... I STILL LOVE 
 THIS GAME! I HIGHLY RECOMMEND IT TO ANYONE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phinespec
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_hardwright
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: destinhpark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  There's been countless Tony Hawk games coming out over the years, but all the recent ones, as we 
 all know, have sucked miserably.
  
  now, along with Tony Hawk's Proving Grounds, there's a new kid on the block. And his name, is skate.
 
  
  first of all, I'd like to note how extremely innovative and original skate.'s gameplay is. this 
 isn't any sort of button mashing grind session tony hawk deal. all of the flip tricks, ollies, 
 and spins are accomplished using the analog sticks. sounds weird, huh? it is at first. but once 
 you play through the tutorial a bit, you pick up the controls fairly easily. but as you keep playing, 
 you'll definitely notice that your flickit control skills are rising each time you play.
  
  the control in itself is a fun learning experience, and you'll feel like you're actually, gradually 
 getting somewhere in the game. this is a nice feeling, considering i haven't felt like this in 
 a game for a long, long time.
  
  moving on and more technically speaking, the games audio and visual aspects are beyond superb. 
 the sound effects when riding over cracks on a sidewalk, or grinding a curb alongside of a main 
 highway sound impeccable, thus it is a major addition to the overall experience you'll feel while 
 playing. the visuals are top-notch and include sharp character models and boards. the city is massive 
 and very nicely detailed, down to each little window, nook, and cranny you can skate through. and 
 this is what makes skate. so much fun. from the very start of the game, the entire city is yours 
 to explore, although you do get to unlock a few smaller locations on the way, mostly skateparks, 
 x-games, etc. but the main entire area that is San Velona is all yours to skate up. and there's 
 so many small areas to find, including sewage drains you can skate all the way down with various 
 rails and banks, tons and tons of various staircases, and much much more.
  
  the game certainly doesn't lack in content, as the single player will take you quite some time 
 to complete. and you unlock loads of extras along the way like secret characters and playable pros, 
 clothes, boards, videos, and beyond.
  
  after SP though, the game does contain a 6 player multiplayer suite which is surprisingly, very 
 deep. there's over 6 gametypes that include races, competitive trick modes, and of course, freeskate. 
 personally, i find freeskate the most fun because you can kind of just chill and skate around while 
 you socialize with everyone, and watch some real good players pull of insane tricks. it's a blast, 
 and what's even more of a blast is creating replay videos yourself.
  
  that's right. skate. contains a replay editor where you can create short videos after pulling off 
 a sick trick, or having a glorious bail. the editors contains options such as visual effects, which 
 there are about 5 of that mainly change the color scale on the screen, camera angles, and the overall 
 speed of motion the video is playing at. these options are a ton of fun to mess around with, and 
 you'll sometimes even feel like a professional when you create a great video, upload it online 
 and receive tons of reviews. other players can score your video on just how sick they really are, 
 and i find it fun to get a lot of great feedback.
  
  the overall feeling of skate. is generally very fresh, new and extremely satisfying. if you're 
 into skating, there's no way you should miss this game whatsoever. however, even if you've never 
 really been into skating, you should give skate. a try simply because of its originality and flavor. 
 skate.'s just one of those rare games that completely redefines a genre and nails it perfectly. 
 so as a skater, i say, go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taagenbear
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  My 360 just crapped out. But i played this game. At first the controls are extremely hard. I still 
 can; t land a TRE flip/360 flip. Realistic works as a good and a bad thing, if you run into the 
 slighest curb you go flying, I tried to ollie up a curb and the ollie onto a bank but there wans'nt 
 enogh room to ollie and then ollie again. ONCE AGAIN I DIDN'T BEAT THE GAME. The controls seem 
 hard to master and i keep finding myself pressing a to ollie.
  i like the inclusion of the game actually saying waht skaters call tricks like halfcabs, fullcabs, 
 willy grinds, and other things. all in all it's is good but with a learning curve i still can't 
 get over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cipote1990
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Every time i land a trick i feel as if im landing it in real life, the motions for the tricks just 
 add so much feel to the game, and the graphics are pretty impressive too, its not the same button 
 mashing fantasy world as tony hawk's games. The only thing that i don't find realistic in this 
 game, is how easy it is to do a manual for half a mile or more, as i've already done. The only 
 thing i don't like about the game, is sometimes you get stuck somewhere running into walls, and 
 you say to yourself damn i wish i could get off this board, and walk to that spot . Over all this 
 game is amazing, and is revolutionary to skateboarding games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bicigo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Using the sticks instead of buttons allows you to do so much more making it harder and more realistic 
 to play. Tony Hawk's is fun but it gets boring after a while where this does not get boring it 
 gets addictive there is always something to do. This game is easily the best skateboarding game 
 in stores and probably the best ever created. So if you like Tony Hawk's get them now because they 
 might nit be out much longer. Also the way you become pro is a lot more realistic with you starting 
 at the back of the Skateboarding Mag and work you're to the cover. once you get on the cover you 
 will get a call from Sal saying you are in the X games and form there you have two events to compete 
 in X Games Street and best run on the mega ramp. After you get out of the X Games you have to make 
 to the cover of Thrasher and from there you will be invited to Danny's. Lets just say the Mega 
 Ramp in the X Games isn't the biggest one. The only thing bad is I had it freeze up once but everything 
 else is PERFECT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radioheadfan07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me say this is my 1st review. Skate is extremely fun and refreshing from tony 
 hawk, but it has a few flaws that bring it down a bit.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Graphics are very nice, probobly one of the best ive seen on the 360. Everything looks really nice 
 except for the cars, which really dont matter.
  
  Controls:
  
  Controls are extremely unique and fun. Although, i do have some complaints. I think the flickit 
 system doesnt always recognize that well, it feels almost impossible to ollie without kickflipping 
 5 times before you actually get it right. But overall the controls are done extremely well.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  San Venelona is huge and right for any player, and its easy to loose 6 hours 
 in 1 sitting. The only complaint i really have about the city is (i know theyre here to try to 
 make it more realistic) the dam padestrians walking around can be extremely annoying when trying 
 to get a challenge done. While were talking about challenges, some of them are very hard, but once 
 you beat it you get a huge sense of accomplishment. Just skating around is very fun and, combined 
 with the organic control scheme, is a great experience. Voice acting is really nice, and seeing 
 all of the pro's gear and stuff is a really nice feature.
  
  Overall, Skate is an amazing game that everyone should have, a few flaws brought it down to 9.5, 
 otherwise i could have easily gave it a 10.
  
  Please, please go buy skate right now, its worth it, trust me!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marine152
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  No need to get discourged by the first two letters of the game, hence EA. EA's Skate is as realistic 
 and innovating as a skateboarding game can be. Begining with a brand new control shchme that deals 
 mainy with the analog sticks, it has you in a satisfiying state of control over what your skater 
 does and how he does it. To sumerize it, the left analog stick controls you skaters body while 
 the right one controls his board. The buttons X and A are useed as you feet to push both left or 
 right as well as the triggers control you hands both left and right. Besides the very responsive 
 control scheme EA skate deals largley with realistic physiscs and a true to life sound system unlike 
 any other in a skate game. There are many little details in the game that make it very innovating. 
 Two examples would be how you grind and manual. To grind you would do as you would in real life 
 and jump on the rail, ledge ect.. to grind or slide. Also for manuals its all about find that sweet 
 spot on the analog. Beside the tech stufff, Skate puts you in a HUGE open city waiting to be skated 
 and backs it up with true next generation graphics and pyhsiscs. This games all about being part 
 of a magizine cover for thrasher and becoming a pro. You have to work for it. Ea skate does support 
 a fullly featured online aspect in this game, and even though when in game it can seem a bit on 
 the low FPS side, it has so many features involving so many things LOOK there is to MUCH to talk 
 about with this game in one review. STOP READING THIS AND GO TO YOUR LOCAL GAMEPOT, EB GAMES ECT.. 
 AND BUY THIS GAME. YOU WONT BE DISAPOINTED. O and this game KILLS tony hawk back to the stone age. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rukus5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  In reading the GT. com review i had to come on here and relieve some frustration I have with people 
 reviewing something they don't understand. 2 of the main criticisms of the game is that there aren't 
 enough tricks, and the goals are too basic. The deal with the tricks is that yes they left tricks 
 out, BUT most of those tricks you don't even do in actual skatboarding. I can't remember the last 
 time i saw someone do a pressure flip, yet this guy claims that it's a street skating staple, obviously 
 this person knows nothing about skateboarding. To say you wish their were more tricks, fair enough, 
 we could always use more, more, more. But to elaborate about these multiple tricks as street skating 
 staples, is just to show your complete ignorance to the sport you are trying to discuss. And about 
 the objectives, it's kinda nice to play a game that the only point is not to just merely make it 
 from A to B to C. There is something more there that moves beyond Button Mashing and blowing through 
 objectives.
  
  Edit:
  
  Oh, and about the GT. com person not being able to do a tre flip (360 flip) intentionally. I think 
 it's funny how he says this right after he talks about the fact that you actually progress as a 
 player and not just as a number stat system. And yes, it is easy once you figure out the right 
 touch, EXACTLY like skateboarding, it's called muscle memory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZZoMBiE13
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperhare
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: udmatador
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is a breath of fresh air. A truly groundbreaking console experience. You can actually 
 feel the trick and the landing, which brings a sense of style to the game. As a skateboarder of 
 12 years and a once proud THPS fanboy, I gotta say the first time i hit a perfect backside lipslide 
 down the funbox in the demo, it destroyed anything I ever saw in the THPS lineup. If you've ever 
 landed a kickflip in your life, then you will heart this game. The replay mode is just sick. On-Line 
 is offered and just as awesome. Every aspect of this game has led me to believe that 'The Hawk' 
 is now 'Teh Suck' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LookOne
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Its an amazing game. Using the analog sticks revolutionized the skating genre. I never thought 
 I would have so much fun playing a skating game. I was never really a fan of the Tony Hawk series 
 and I found the game play repetitive and lazy. Tony Hawk never had any real competition so they 
 just released the same game with a few useless features so they could milk the franchise. skate. 
 is going to overpower the Tony Hawk dynasty.
  
 
   
 you you you you you you you you you oyu oyou yo you yuo you you you you  
 u y oyu  ouyouyouyouyoyuoyuy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemoBucket07B
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Skate is amazing, end of story. Such a shame hawk didn't put in the effort to make his as great 
 as this. Skate is amazing, end of story. Such a shame hawk didn't put in the effort to make his 
 as great as this. Skate is amazing, end of story. Such a shame hawk didn't put in the effort to 
 make his as great as this. Skate is amazing, end of story. Such a shame hawk didn't put in the effort 
 to make his as great as this. Skate is amazing, end of story. Such a shame hawk didn't put in the 
 effort to make his as great as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixelplixed
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultrama666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Least thats how I feel Skate gives me the freedom of a skater. The ability to just go anywhere 
 i want and just pull a line. My only gripe with the game is you can't get off your board. Now that 
 might not be a huge flaw for some. It is for me because there are a lot of stairs in the game. 
 I mean a lot it would have been nice to get off my board. Their will be times when you are doing 
 a mission and you basically almost have it. Then you have to reset the event basically almost every 
 time. Rather then mess up get off you board then set the line better. Otherwise Skate is close 
 to a perfect ten. The levels are designed well. The game never chugs or seems laggy. Your can play 
 with you wish is just awesome. I mean this game has everything a skateboarder wants. Except getting 
 off your board. Yet on EA's first try i'll give them some slack. Go out and rent or buy. I promise 
 you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taylorjazzager
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Bikinis are Better in the Summer    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: JLytle92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I have always played Tony Hawk when it comes to skating games on a console, and i was anxious to 
 see if i would really like this game, or if i would want to throw it at my tv and burn it. Tony 
 Hawk has always had that unrealistic feel, you don't push buttons to make your skater move, and 
 you must repeatedly button mash your way to new tricks. Also for Tony Hawk, the physics are very 
 unrealistic with what i call, 'moon gravity'.
  
  Skate has revolutionized all of the skating games. From its amazing physics, awesome graphics, 
 and a completely new and fresh attempt to controls. I highly reccomend this game to ANYONE that 
 is even Slightly interested in skateboarding. The difficulty factor does take an amount of time 
 to master but once you do you will love this game even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSGDevilDog
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  I've heard many different games over the years being described as easy to learn, difficult to master. 
 skate without a doubt representative of that statement. The control scheme and realism make the 
 game a breath of fresh air for the skating game genre.
  
  First, and most important in a game like this, the controls. The flickit style of controls is an 
 innovative new take on how you control your body and the board. The right analog stick represents 
 your feet. Pull down and flick it up, and you'll perform a simple ollie. Pull it down and flick 
 it up and to the right, and you'll perform a flip trick. The left stick controls your body movement. 
 Push it to the left to rotate left, push to the right, rotate to the right. Pushing the left stick 
 up or down immediately after getting in the air and you'll initiate a flip. The triggers are your 
 grabs. It really is an excellent system. It really provides a more realistic feel to perform tricks.
 
  
  Graphically, the game is also excellent. The environment, which varies from suburbs to a downtown 
 area is very polished and really provides a distinctive feel for each of the gameworld's areas. 
 The animations are pretty fluid, although sometimes the physics can leave you scratching your head. 
 A few times, I've found myself slamming into a wall and bouncing right back around in the opposite 
 direction or finding myself attempting a grind on a short wall only to do a sort of hovering perpendicular 
 to the ground move. But it really doesn't happen that often, so it surely doesn't detract from 
 a great looking game.
  
  Sound is solid as well. The ambient sounds offer everything from the sounds of pedestrians talking 
 to the thumping of a radio playing music at the local skating hotspot. You can also choose to play 
 music constantly if you wish, although I found it more engrossing to choose the ambient playlist. 
 Not only does it give a more realistic soundtrack, but it also provides the ability to locate popular 
 skating areas by allowing you to hone in on the music that plays at such locations.
  
  Online play comes in either competitive modes or a free skate mode. I haven't had much experience 
 with the competitive modes as of yet, but the freeskate allows you to join a few friends and just 
 explore the city to find your own lines and pull of tricks as you feel fit. Connections are pretty 
 solid, although when lag happens, it can be frustrating.
  
  While you won't see the wacky, off-the-wall Tony Hawk style tricks of grinding across power lines 
 on your way to pulling that backflip grab move as you jump to a rooftop, skate really provides 
 an immersive experience. The challenge of pulling off a difficult trick using the flickit controls 
 really provides a sense of accomplishment lacking in other button mashing style skating games.
 
  
  All in all, skate provides an excellent fresh approach to a proven game genre. Tony Hawk has provided 
 some great fun over the last several years, but skate's more realistic approach to skating and 
 the ability to identify and capitalize on your own skating lines is a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madroxcide
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissionBullitt
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 15, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze6595
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  What Hulu offers that YouTube doesnt?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bashinga101
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TechRepublic :  Stop overtyping: Disable the Insert key    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  From the opening scenes in this game where we get to see the cast of pro skaters like Danny Way, 
 Mike Carroll, and even Mark Gonzales, I have been extremely impressed. I played the demo for this 
 game so I knew enough to know I had to get the game.......... but.......... it blows the demo in 
 the dust. I skateboarded for 16 years and got to the level of sponsored am. It was my life for 
 a long time growing up. I ate, slept, and breathed skating but as I got older (and larger) those 
 days and memories faded. The Tony Hawk games were fun and were cool in the sense you could do all 
 these crazy tricks but really for the most part wasn't realistic. And just like in the real skating 
 world where Danny Way came on the scene when Tony Hawk had been dominating the contests for years............. and 
 started taking over....... it looks like he's gonna take over the video game skate world. For one 
 thing, this is the most revolutionary game I've played in a very long time. This is much like a 
 skateboarding simulation. I've never played a game that actually gives you the feeling of doing 
 that activity as much as this game does. It actually gives me the same feeling I would get when 
 I used to skate and pop a big ollie to nose grind....... or a pop a huge ollie over a hip or a big 
 ollie grab or kickflip or whatever. The controls have been revolutionized and all the crazy button 
 mashing is done. If the Tony Hawk games are going to compete with this, they're gonna really have 
 to make some changes. If there's a single thing wrong with this game I haven't found it. From the 
 moment I popped it in my console I stayed in awe. It truly is awe-inspiring and has to be played 
 to be believed. I can't even believe they could make a game that controls so intuitively as this 
 game. It has really broken down the physics of skateboarding and matched that to our little XBOX 
 wireless controller. Much props to the creators of this incredible game. And thank you for allowing 
 me to have that feeling of skating again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sludger
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdre101
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   TV. com :  Report - Terminator is done    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nears_puzzle
Rating: 0
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CBSSports. com :  Hottie Hall Of Fame ? Fox vs Alba&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;   
  //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Scarfield_X
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 14, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox_g-cube182
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 14, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: BOB__11
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Reasons why i need new underwear every time i play
  1. Back to realistic skating 2. A **** camera angle 3. Reminds me or good old thrasher
  4. You 
 dont have to grind 10 cows to go to the next stage
  5. Because a button masher cant beat me in it
  6. Sick graphics!
  7. Some of the best controls
 
  8. Because the name doesnt have Tony or hawk in it
  / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoc112
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 14, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Bikinis are Better in the Summer    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshoota202
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 14, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex071093
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  In EA's skate the gameplay feels just right, using the sticks for tricks was a revolutionary idea. 
 In this game skating is just like it is when you're really doing it, its fun and you feel good 
 about yourself when you do something. Don't get me wrong, The Tony Hawk Series was fun but its 
 just not realistic when it comes to real world skateboarding, and since when does grinding make 
 you go faster? Skate is a relief from the Tony Hawk games. Finally theres a game that when you 
 play it you feel like you've accomplished something. Another thing that was a great idea was to 
 get rid of the grind button, why would you need to push a button to get on a rail? Tony Hawk games 
 were cool and theres always people that like them, I just thought that was'nt real world skateboarding, 
 They were fun for a while as far as story goes, but at last theres a game you can play and feel 
 like you're actually skating. Other than all the good things about this game, the music is pretty 
 O. K. it just doesnt completely fit in sometimes, and thats something that Activision is good at, 
 putting good music into a Tony Hawk game. Even though the gameplay feels natural through out the 
 game, in some challenges the sticks just arent enough to complete it without going into a hard 
 difficulty. Another (not so good) thing is the online multiplayer, sometimes a bunch of skaters 
 are put into a tight spot, and this leads to everybody ending up on the floor without getting a 
 solid trick down. This game is Pretty good for EA's first big step into the skateboarding genre, 
 even though it could use some tuning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJustin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Where to begin... I used to skate years ago. I skated for about 3 or 4 years and LOVED it. I'm 
 a VERY big fan of skateboarding and I played tony hawk all the time. Even long after I stopped 
 skating. Anyways on the the review:
  
  Gameplay: I LOVE how they made this game look and feel. The controls are EXCELENT due to the fact 
 that doing the trick you actually wanted to do can be challenging. The memories this game brought 
 back was great. I used to watch a bunch of skate videos and loved listening to the music on the 
 skate videos like black sabbath, Iron maiden, the who, queen, the list goes on and on. Actually 
 skating as a child was what really got me into music as well. So popping on those old skating tunes 
 I used hear during my favorite skate videos while playing this game just hit me like a ton of bricks 
 with pure awesomeness and a rush of good ol' memories. ****ing ****!!! I'm sorry, I won't frolic 
 down memory lane anymore. Aw screw it. I'll just keep this as short and sweet as possible. Me being 
 a former skateboarder (went out and bought a skateboard again though because of this game) totally 
 appreciate this game for what it is. And I'm VERY sure anyone who has EVER skated before will appreciate 
 this game as well. I hear and see people knock this because it's hard and you have to keep re-trying 
 tricks. BOO HOO! You have to do that in real life and real life isn't easy in the beginning either!!! 
 I strongly suggest everyone to at least play this game. I appreciate what Tony Hawk games have 
 done for me and skateboarding games in general very much, but I have to say I'm more of a Skate 
 fan now than Tony Hawk. Either way I'm glad something like this came out because to me Tony Hawk 
 started going a bit downhill after 3 And I was starting to get a little tired and craved something 
 new. EA, as much as I don't like you very much, and to the developers thank you for this game.
 
  
  The only complaints I have for this game are the glitches (which aren't always bad and can be entertaining) 
 and lack of Full world free skate in multiplayer (REAAAALY wanted this) .
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  Gameplay: is Great
  
  Music: I use my own so great to me (thank you 360)
  
  Sound: 
 Sounds great and very real
  
  All around great game. 9.0 EASY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twolf789
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 14, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   BNET :  27 changes coming to Windows    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: loogs
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  What do fight night round 3, def jam icon and a couple of other games have in common? They all 
 try to utilize the analog sticks for total control of a game, and fail miserably. What we have 
 here with skate is an excellent approach to the skating and video game chemistry. I, like everyone 
 else, have been playing tony hawk forever. Up until last years game when I said to myself, Im 
 done. Ive had enough of ollieing over buildings and grinding on telephone wires. I have been a 
 skater all my life and the hawk series is all we had. Not anymore.
  
  Skate is awesome. There are many reasons why this game is so good. Ill name a few. Well start with 
 graphics. Theyre sweet. What else would you expect from EA games on the 360. The characters look 
 good. The boards are cool and the town itself is nicely done. Nothing too surprising here.
  
  The sound is awesome. The effects of the board snapping off the ground, the wheels spinning 
 while in mid-air, the wheels scraping the pavement during a slide, the cracks in the sidewalk as 
 you roll over them and everything else about the sound effects are spot on. Im not a fan of the 
 soundtrack but thats irrelevant considering you can play music off of your hard drive, iPod or 
 console.
  
  What makes this game so special though are the controls. Every time I perform a trick it feels 
 right. I love what they did here. Approaching a set of stairs or a curb or anything and popping 
 that board is so gratifying. The other thing that makes this game great is its realism. Now, lets 
 not get crazy. Its still a game and there are tons of scenarios that are unrealistic but, what 
 makes them unrealistic is this. While doing a 360 kick flip over a hand rail on a set of stairs 
 15 feet high is possible, nobody in their right mind would try it because the worst result would 
 mean certain death in real life, thats the thing with this game. You could pull of most of the 
 tricks youll attempt, in real life, but if you made a mistake it would cost you your life. So 
 what it does is enable you to fantasize about what it would be like to pull off insane tricks that 
 you probably wouldnt try in real life. Your tricks can also vary from being ultra realistic to 
 not so realistic. Its up to you. The other thing is the open ended city. Like grand theft auto, 
 you could find yourself skating around for hours just popping tricks and trying to find sweet lines.
 
  
  Like most video games, this game has some glitches. The quirks in this game are a little different 
 from all other games and are actually very comical. Youll see some weird stuff but nothing that 
 will frustrate you. I see some reviews saying the rag doll effect on the bails are dumb, Ill tell 
 you right now they will have you in tears at some points. It does a great job at separating the 
 fantasy from the reality. When you see your skater do a 15 foot slide on his head it just doesnt 
 get any better than that.
  
  I dont really have anything bad to say about this game. I love it, and if you have any affection 
 for skateboarding, you will too. And its a fantastic alternative to what has become a drab and 
 boring series in the tony hawk games. The only thing bad I could think of is, if you are a hardcore 
 vert skater and you are looking for that in this game you will be disappointed. The large ramp 
 jump and the ramps at the x-games event are great but, there really isnt any hardcore vert skating 
 in the game. That doesnt bother me one bit but it might bother some. Street skaters rejoice. I 
 will own this game until its sequel comes out. This is one of those special games you will not 
 want to trade in. I got to go SKATE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaladinSnake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  This is my nice little review for the demo version of skate. I'll post a review for the real version 
 when it decides to come out. So here goes:
  
  Graphics: This game looks astounding. The small area your given in the demo is beautifully rendered, 
 and looks like a real public skatepark, (albiet a skatepark made by a town with a lot of free money.) 
 filled with rails, stairs, manny pads, and plenty of other goodies. However, it's the skater animations 
 that steal the show. From something as simple as pushing, to landing a frontside flip sketchy, 
 and watching your skater fight for balance, everything looks like it should. The bails look appropriately 
 painful, and my friends and I can find real creative ways to rack our nuts off of some interesting 
 obstacles. The other skaters that populate the world actually skate, and do more than just the 
 odd kickflip, though i've noticed they all skate mongo (push with their front foot instead of their 
 back foot) . It's also insanely fun to run into them. One minor quibble though, the skater's hands 
 seem a little blocky, but this is just nitpicking. Overall, the graphics do a real good job.
  
  Gameplay: Ah yes, the gameplay. To say Skate changes the usual control scheme is an understatement. 
 Skate invents a control scheme. As everyone probably already knows by now, Skate makes liberal 
 use of the right analog stick for it's tricks. This is genius. The amount of technical expertise 
 required to pull off a nollie flip to manual is incredible. To do tricks in this game, you've got 
 to think like a skater, and visualize how your feet would move to do a given trick. Now i'd think 
 that an actual skater might have an advantage here, but after a few hours, everyone can trick like 
 a pro. One of the best things about this game is the sense of accomplishment. Doing a 360 flip 
 to manual to kickflip out feels as amazing as it should. You'll feel proud of yourself for accomplishing 
 the smallest of tasks. The game also challenges you to come up with your own lines, and does not 
 give you the ability to grind from one end of the world to the other.
  
  Sound: The sound is topnotch. Everything from the wheels rolling on different surfaces, to the 
 bone jarring sounds of breaking your legs, the game sounds great. Overall: I can't wait for Skate. 
 With one day left, i'm losing sleep over the damn thing. I think this game will do very well, and 
 i'm looking forward to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_McCoy
Rating: 0
Date: Sep 11, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review: C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate User Reviews for Xbox 
 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) 
 { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix 
 + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, 
 iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; 
 } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; 
 imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   CNET :  Would you pay $1/mo. for Facebook?    //    
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  So i remember when i used to play Tony Hawk like craxy, but after THUG the game got old and started 
 to go down hill but with the realase of E. A's Skate it will create a hole new franchise to compete 
 with Tony Hawk sereis but any way LIke you all know skate is different because of the use of the 
 left thumb stick to do your tricks. Skate is best played as a free skate games giving you a beautiful 
 city to skate around in in skate there wil be some stuff thats like how in the hell did i do that 
 and then replay the video a few times witch is all in good fun the graphics are beautiful but the 
 bails are bad looking. Skates carrere mode will be like you start samll and work your way to the 
 bigs its great and you will have fun playing it like the rest of the game so the game has beautiful 
 graphics the sound is great and it takes a new spin on the skatebording franchise now skate is 
 a deffinite pick up for any fans of skate borarding games Now the game will not let you play as 
 a feamail wich does not realy bother me but may bothere some people and getting stuck on a wall 
 is a little anoying but thats the only bad things i can say so my overall rating is 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drzb3zt
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  EA skate is one of the best revolutions in gaming the game play look realistic and feel realistic.
 
  
  Based on other skate bard games this game seems to be the best skate boarding in a long time.
 
  
  It captures every thing there is in the life of a skate boarder so if you like the sport and are 
 not the good play the game you'll enjoy it.
  
  
 
  
  And one more thing get it for xbox 360 is not that good for PS3...
  
  EA Skate ill give it a 9 out of 10 buy this game as a great gamer i recommend it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
