-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Smash Court Tennis 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/smashcourttennis3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Leveling up your player in Tour mode is rewarding.
 Character-creation tool allows for goofy-looking world-class athletes.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Control is sluggish.
 Online play lags.
 Computer players are unstoppable when they rush the net.
 Animations are inconsistent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  4, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 61 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Namco Bandai Games
Genre: Tennis
Date: Aug 19, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Iffy controls and blotchy animations mean Smash Court Tennis 3 should restring its racket and try 
 again next year. 

  The initial moments of Smash Court Tennis 3 are quite deceiving. You go through a rigorous training 
 regimen, as well as learn different shots and how to aim for the alleys. And at some point, you 
 assume that you'll be able to master your racket. This is untrue. While it seems like you're just 
 dealing with a steep learning curve at first, it quickly becomes apparent that the controls in 
 the third Smash Court Tennis are just sloppy. It is possible to have success -- even some fun -- in 
 the single-player tournament by abusing the inept strategies of your artificial foes, but the experience 
 quickly becomes flat and unsatisfying.  

  You can choose from a number of real-world athletes in Smash Court -- including current world number 
 ones Rafael Nadal and Ana Ivanovic -- but it's much more entertaining to create your own goofy character 
 in the robust creation tool. It can be difficult to mold a  good -looking participant, but it's 
 certainly fun using your imagination to give life to some creepy-looking guy who shouldn't be allowed 
 out of his house, much less onto an international tennis event. You can tweak your eyes and mouth 
 to grotesque proportions, but what makes this stand out as something special is the baffling attire 
 to which you have access. You can actually wear a shirt displaying an image of the painting  Girl 
 With a Pearl Earring , a devastatingly effective tool of intimidation. A pro shop is available 
 if you want to buy new clothes, but why would you want to mess with a good thing?  

           Bow down to your new tennis master.      

  Things go downhill when you actually enter 
 a match. The onscreen action does not mirror your button pushes. If your player is completely stationary 
 and the ball is hit directly at you, it seems logical to think that you would be able to hit the 
 ball all the way to the left by holding left on the controller. This is rarely the case. The ball 
 usually stays toward the middle of the court unless you are off to one side. Trying to toss in 
 a lob or drop shot to confuse your opponent is just as pointless. Drop shots are far too slow, 
 ensuring that even a napping opponent will easily be able to chase it down. Lobs float tauntingly 
 in the air, allowing your opponent to rain down smashes with ease. Matches essentially boil down 
 to hitting the ball really hard and hoping your opponent just misses it.  

  And they will miss it. The animations in Smash Court are just as unpredictable as the controls. 
 Oftentimes, your player will not even swing at a passing ball even as you desperately slam on the 
 button. It's one thing to have a player swing and miss, because at least the effort is there; but 
 frantically chasing down a well-placed shot only to watch in horror when your player refuses to 
 swing at the moment of truth is just crushing. Other times, frames of animation will be dropped 
 to make a swing work. If a ball is coming right at your head, your player will magically slide 
 just before he or she swings, so the ball will make contact with your racket rather than your face. 
 The magic-slide issue makes it much easier to return shots that should be impossible.  

  Even with the control and animation issues, matches are still incredibly easy. Your artificial 
 opponents do not understand how to win a tennis match. They'll hit the ball hard, but they are 
 mostly content with staying on the baseline rather than trying anything tricky to get one past 
 you. However, in the infrequent moments when the computer tries a different strategy, it only cements 
 how broken the tennis mechanics are. AI opponents will sometimes rush the net immediately after 
 they serve, which all but ensures they will win the point. It's impossible to hit the ball around 
 them because of the imprecise controls and the computer's ability to magically slide. Also, trying 
 to lob it over their heads will only result in a devastating smash attack. You have to hope they 
 miss an easy shot or they'll win the point every time. Because they aren't smart enough to consistently 
 employ the only strategy that works for them, you'll still be able to breeze through the ranks 
 with little difficulty.  

           The computer becomes an impossible juggernaut at the net.      

  You'll spend most 
 of your time in Pro Tour mode, and thankfully, it has a number of different options to keep things 
 varied. You can compete in tournaments, train your character, try to raise your popularity in charity 
 events, and earn sponsors. The finicky controls make the training and sponsor events particularly 
 annoying, though. These ask you to complete tasks within a short time limit, such as hitting targets, 
 and they can be maddeningly frustrating. The sponsor events are much more engaging since they're 
 more about spectacle than fair competition. For instance, you'll be asked to win five points competing 
 against a pair of opponents. At the very least, these add some much needed variety when you need 
 a break from the tournaments.  

  Smash Court Tennis 3 has too many flaws to make for a satisfying tennis experience. Even the online 
 play is so overloaded with lag that it becomes far more frustrating than fun. Building your own 
 character and moving through the ranks has its own charm, but the on-the-court action is too unpredictable 
 and shallow to hold your interest long. There are simply too many unforced errors here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Cha7520
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I remember seeing this game come out in August and I pretty much by passed it because at the time 
 I was involved in Top Spin 3 which I consider the next Generation of Tennis video gaming. But my 
 friend bought SCT3 and told me it was better than Virtua Tennis 3, but easier than TS3, so I decided 
 to fork over the $40 and you know what? Actually this game is not bad at all. Granted the Graphics 
 are PS2 comparable, but the game makes up the difference with excellent sound, realistic grunts, 
 signature moves and serves, very in-depth career mode and lots of options. Its especially nice 
 to be able to create more than 4 tennis players unlike TS3 and its nice that you can actually play 
 against them. I have only had the game for a day now, but I'm really enjoying the feel and game 
 play of it! I don't see why this game got rated so low for! So I give it a good 7.5 rating! Smash 
 Court Tennis 4 will be awesome come next year!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robier797
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Well i readed many reviews about this game saying that is disastrous or not funny, but finnaly 
 i played it at a friends house and determined to order my own.
  Cause i found it very addictive, the controls are revolutionay and innovative, is not a tennis 
 game where you press a button to hit the bal and you will win easyly, NO!. In this game you need 
 to press the button to prepare the hitter arm and make a perfect move and then release it when 
 you want the player hit the ball. Plus the serve system is innovative too cause uses a motion ring 
 outside the ball to determine your perfect service. For last the only bad point i found is that 
 gfx are not the great for a Next Gen Console and lose a bit against Top Spin 3, but this game includes 
 Nadal and TS3 dont!.
  Anyway Gfx are great enough and ways better from previous versions i played once time on ps2.
 
  The non licenced tournaments is not a great problem for me, i can live with that.
  I really recommend you this game if u want to play a real tennis game, a tennis simulator.
  Is 
 miles away, better than Virtual Tennis 3.
  Cause VT3 is not a simulator like this, VT3 is just an Arcade.
  So, i think that Smash Court 
 Tennis 3 is a great choice for REAL TENNIS FANS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anoopamnath
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Having been disappointed by Top Spin 3, I was really looking forward to Smash Court Tennis 3 as 
 previous games in this series have been reasonably good, especially Smash Court Tennis Pro Tournament 
 2. But then the reviews came in and it seemed it was time to be disappointed again. "Is the game 
 really that bad?" Tennis games come few and far between, they do not have annual iterations like 
 most other sports games. Being a tennis fan, I decided to put my faith on allnamestaken's review 
 and bought the game. Boy am I glad I did. SCT3 is a solid tennis game, and definitely better than 
 TS3 in my opinion.
  
  GAMEPLAY: As mentioned in a number of articles, the gameplay stands between VT3 and TS3, although 
 it leans slightly more towards the simulation side. Initially, I got really frustrated. For a time 
 it felt those low scores really were valid. But after the long tutorial lessons and some hours 
 spent against easier opponents, I got going. Timing is everything in this game. Well timed shots 
 from top players can easily change the course of a rally sending your opponent to the far ends 
 of the court, allowing you to set-up a winner. Same is the case for serving an ace. The game makes 
 you work for each point, like in a real match. The AI is good enough to punish you for badly timed 
 shots. Also, there is no particular strategy to beat a certain opponent (although running towards 
 the net does seem to be effective in many cases) . Thankfully, you don't completely miss the ball 
 even if your timing is way off the mark, you still manage to hit it. Though the shot becomes easy 
 for the opponent to return and if you have already been pushed off the court ends, the ball will 
 most probably fly out from your return. The point is, the players manage to make their racket meet 
 the ball. They are not made to look like blind retards. They also don't dive as if the court is 
 their soft bed. My only big gripe is with the service system. Directing the serve requires a nimble 
 thumb.
  
  I don't know why most reviewers were complaining about the slow pace of the players. Didn't they 
 know that RT is the sprint button? Players move realistically fast enough on the court. Not everyone 
 can dash like Nadal you know! Like in a real match, players will only run fast when they need to. 
 Sprinting and long rallies also effects the stamina of the players. Stamina dictates the effectiveness 
 of your shots, so you have to keep an eye on that and plan your game accordingly. For example, 
 if you are already in a comfortable position in the match, running after far shots is not required, 
 so you can preserve your stamina to finish off the game. You can also challenge close calls on 
 the line, which is pretty cool. There is also an emotion system in which you can show 4 different 
 types of emotions after each game and also after the match.
  
  GRAPHICS: Graphically, this game looks good enough, just don't expect too much. Players look realistic 
 but not as good as in TS3. If you are happy with VT3's graphics, you should have no problems here. 
 Courts and surroundings look decent. The crowd is what you would expect, just there for the sake 
 of it. Animations are a bit jerky at times and again not in the same league as TS3 which had superb 
 player animations. A little more variation in animations would have been welcome.
  
  SOUND: For me, this is one of the areas where the game really makes a mark. No, I'm not talking 
 about the menu music (which is your usual J-pop and quite forgettable) . I'm talking about the on-court 
 action that sounds truly immersive. The sound of the ball hitting the sweet spot on the racket, 
 players running around the court, crowd chatter and their reactions to each winner, other surrounding 
 noises, all are wonderfully done. The sound of someone calling out your player's name and the crowd 
 clapping for you when you are on match-point never gets old.
  
  PRESENTATION: Presentation wise, this game is OK. It isn't completely bland, but there is nothing 
 flashy or innovative about it either. It's just one of those things you will not praise, but wouldn't 
 bother criticizing it either. I did like the player selection screen though, it was kinda different. 
 There's a decent roster to choose from, both men and women. Also, current world No. 1s Nadal and 
 Ivanovic are there (they were missing in TS3 remember?)
  
  Game modes include Exhibition, Arcade, Pro Tour, Tutorial and of course Multiplayer. Arcade mode 
 puts you through a series of tournaments depending on the difficulty level. Its actually a good 
 way of testing your progress before starting with the Pro Tour mode. Pro Tour is the career mode 
 where you make your own player. Player creation in the game is detailed and exhaustive. With a 
 little effort, you should be able to create yourself or your favorite player. Custom players can 
 also be selected for exhibition matches. In your game career you will take part in tournaments 
 depending on your rank, face special challenges, sign sponsorship deals, buy clothes and accessories, 
 select your doubles partners, etc. The ultimate aim is to reach the No. 1 rank. Its definitely 
 more interesting than the TS3 career.
  
  CONCLUSION: Smash Court Tennis 3 is a really good tennis game. A must buy for tennis fans I would 
 say. Those who want something more challenging than VT3 and were unhappy with the overly-real approach 
 of TS3 should definitely try this one out. The game plays pretty similar to the actual action and 
 I hope the developers build on this in the future as this is a promising direction for the franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allnamestaken
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  My Smash Court experience began on the PS2 with the extremely long titled Smash Court Tennis Pro 
 Tournament 2. I really enjoyed the game because it succeeded to reasonably interpret the sport 
 of tennis as realistically as possible, it was a great game to play with friends as you had to 
 make different tactics and try and get each other out of position to win points. The graphics also 
 contributed to the realistic feel of the game, in short they were outstanding for the time, all 
 animations were extremely smooth and character models looked great even on the PS2. The game had 
 its drawbacks though, for one the opponent AI was extremely, extremely poor, almost to the point 
 that it ruined the entire experience. Their were simple hitting patterns you could repeat point 
 after point to win matches. It was also way to easy to hit "NICE" shots and almost impossible to 
 hit the ball for an out. I honestly don't think I hit more then a couple unforced errors in my 
 entire time with the game. Despite the drawbacks the game had potential, it felt like with a bit 
 of tuning it could be an incredible tennis game, and a very realistic, sim experience at that.
 
  
  Fast forward, what, 3-4 years and Smash Court 3, (I'm almost sad they shortened the name) , has 
 come out. First impressions were mixed, the graphics, which used to be such a strong point in the 
 series, haven't really improved that much. Their are aliasing issues (ie. things look a little 
 jaggy at the edges) , the character models don't quite meet the quality of the games competitors 
 and some of the animations, though mostly well done, don't transfer into each other too well. However 
 it's SERVICEable (lol) and I'm willing to forgive it's shortcomings because it does look a lot 
 more realistic then Virtua Tennis, it just seems less cartoony to me. A warning though, as far 
 as presentation goes some people may find the game overly dry, the developers didn't do much to 
 make the game exciting, it's a tennis game without much more to "spruce it up" in the presentation 
 and gameplay department.
  
  Sound wise the game does a pretty decent job of replicating tennis. The crowd gets louder at exciting 
 parts and super excited towards the end. They also clap in unison at times like at real tennis 
 matches. If you or your opponent are playing as one of the pro players included, a fan may call 
 your name from the stands or something like that. All other sound effects sound good with special 
 mention going out to the ball to racket contact noises, it seems that they've got different sound 
 bytes for each shot and for how hard you hit the ball. Nice touch! The music is the J-pop, and 
 a bit of what sounds like jazz?!?, that we've generally come to expect from Japanese sports games. 
 It isn't anything special or new, but it doesn't sound too out of place nor does it grate.
  
  And of course the game play, well I can happily say it's pretty damn good. The AI has improved 
 greatly over its predecessor, the AI will now attempt different types of shots, try and move you 
 around, and occasionally attack the net. I haven't played enough to find out if different opponents 
 will try to play to their strengths, but I did play one match where one guy served and volleyed 
 after every serve in a game, so here's hoping! The game feels like a tennis match, and plays a 
 lot like one. However, their is one glaring glitch I should mention, on an opponents serve, if 
 they rush to the net and you miss hit the return the ball will pop up, not high enough for the 
 other player to smash the ball, but high enough that it will go over your opponents head. I've 
 done this about 5-10 times now and every single time the other player makes no attempt to go after 
 the ball, resulting in easy points. It doesn't happen every time, but it is a pretty big error 
 in game play. Also, the ball still does not go out of bounds enough, more so then the last game, 
 but still not enough. A third flaw is going to the net is too easy a way to get points. Their just 
 aren't enough ways to get the ball past players at the net. The CPU also has the same trouble as 
 running to the net on the player's part, is also an easy way to win. It's still possible to counter, 
 but it's definitely harder than in real tennis. Apart from these setbacks though the game play 
 is pretty solid and definitely better than the others in the series.
  
  Lastly, the game modes. Smash Court 3 ships with a pretty standard set of options for play, their's 
 online, exhibition, tutorial, and a pro tour mode (don't think that's the name of it exactly, but 
 you get the idea) they're all pretty much what you'd expect from the titles. Pro Tour mode is where 
 you'll probably be spending the bulk of game play and it holds together well. The mode charges 
 you with rising through the rankings, starting at 250th in the world, to get to 1st. You'll go 
 through a typical pro player's season and participate in tournaments, practice to improve your 
 player and assign attribute points. New to the series is the ability to gain sponsorship deals 
 and deck your player out in gear, the game has some big names in their too, companies like Addidas, 
 Reebok and Yonex. Also new is the charity event feature, that is used to make your player more 
 popular, which gives you access to new sponsors and tournaments. The mode at large is pretty fun, 
 and is an improvement on last game's with the different added features and all. The game modes 
 are all pretty solid, even if there aren't too many different things to do, and, I don't want this 
 to be understated, the inclusion of online play is a huge plus, as it means we can all still have 
 fun even if the AI does get a little easy as we get better at the game.
  
  So yeah, fun game so far, I'd recommend it for any big tennis fans out there. If you're still worried 
 though, it at least warrants a rental. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
