-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sneak King
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/sneakking/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's completely insane that this game even exists.
 could potentially be the next Chase the Chuckwagon or Kool-Aid Man (but probably won't be).
 compelling in some strange and insidious way.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is the very definition of shallow.
 looks bad, doesn't sound much better.
 not enough sweet flourish animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 4.9, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 1,072 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: King Games
Developer: Blitz Games
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Nov 19, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sneak King isn't a good game, but it's so crazy and so cheap that it still manages to be weirdly 
 compelling. 

  Have you ever been playing Splinter Cell or some other stealth game and wished that instead of 
 snapping someone's fool neck after sneaking up behind him, you could give him a hot meal? OK, probably 
 not, but hey, that's Sneak King. This game is one of three Xbox 360 games that have been made available 
 by the popular quick-service chain, Burger King, as part of a temporary offer. While this ingrained 
 level of product placement might sound immediately disgusting to some, at least they're being totally 
 up front about it. Going in, you know that this is one big ad for hamburgers... and various breakfast 
 foods. It's a dumb game, but it's also $4 (provided you also purchase some food) and seems like 
 the sort of thing that will be a collectable down the road.  

          We're willing to bet that many Whop-Dogs were consumed during the making of this game. 
     

  Sneak King comes from Blitz Games, the developer of Fuzion Frenzy on the Xbox, and it puts you 
 in the role of the Burger King himself, from the tights to the creepy, smiling mask. The graphics 
 are very simple, and that probably has a lot to do with the game's dual compatibility. The disc 
 will run in either a 360 or an Xbox, but regardless of which system you put the disc in, you still 
 get a barebones-looking world with limited animation at best. It's a $4 game, which makes you want 
 to say "you get what you pay for." But if you consider there are some Xbox Live Arcade games that 
 are better in every way and available for a dollar more, this game's especially filthy.  

  To make a creepy character even creepier, you're practically playing a stalker in Sneak King. There 
 are different missions and different locations to visit, but the goal remains the same: finding 
 hungry people in desperate need of a "Whoppertunity," sneaking up on them, and surprising them 
 with a fancy little dance and the presentation of Whoppers, hash browns, coffee, or some other 
 Burger King menu item. There are also hiding spots around each one of the levels; if you jump out 
 of a hiding spot and immediately present someone with food, you'll get bonus points. Plus, a rapidly 
 rising meter appears whenever you attempt to present food. Each notch on the meter is a higher 
 level of flourish. Stopping the golf-style meter on the level three flourish is the grandest of 
 them all, resulting in much dancing and shuffling, and, of course, more points. Your enemy in Sneak 
 King is the clock and the evil vision cones of the people in each level. You want to be fast, but 
 you need to be quiet. And you need to stay out of sight, or else your bonus multiplier will be 
 reset. This risk versus reward, "hide in a hurry" gameplay is extremely fun and rewarding; thus, 
 Sneak King is one of the greatest games ever made.  

  OK, we're lying. Sneak King is a one-trick pony that is an interesting curiosity with a subversive 
 sense of humor. But unless you're some sort of achievement points junkie who's bent on getting 
 the highest ranks on each mission to get all 200 of the game's points, you'll probably drop in 
 long enough to see its one trick, earn a few achievement points, howl with a mixture of laughter 
 and horror at its funny full-motion video intro screen, and immediately file it away in your library 
 under "weird crap that will be funny to play in about 10 years or so."     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (97 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BanjoMumbo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  A very weird sensation hit Burger King when they decided to include a $4 Xbox game with each purchase. 
 All three games are somewhat satisfying to play and admire the effort, but they are not best described 
 as a real game. The graphics are surprisingly good, so is the atmosphere. The movement is just 
 terrible, the speed is very slow, and is akward. Well, they give you your $4 worth. It's a free-roaming 
 game, but the main mission is to deliver food service to the hungry citizens. So, if you're a collector 
 or looking for a cheap game, go get Timesplitters 2 for $4, or just buy it and play it. A very 
 good novelty item, maybe they'll release a sequel. It looks promising, but is very repetitive, 
 lacks effort, and is hard to take seriously. But, if you are a Burger King collector, add this 
 to you're collection. Heck, maybe they will be worth something someday as a collector's item, so 
 keep it, you won't get much out of it yet, but maybe you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exiled4ever
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 10, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Almost 2 years ago (it is 2008 when I submitted this review) , Burger King and Microsoft collaborated 
 and released 3 bargain priced games for the Xbox/Xbox 360. Sneak King is one of the 3 games. Only 
 available at Burger King and priced at $3.99, Sneak King is a blatant advergame that is kinda weird 
 and creepy. You play as the King and your objective is to deliver "tasty" Burger King food to hungry 
 citizens (I will explain why I put tasty in parenthesis in one moment) . However, you have to be 
 sneaky about it, and deliver food without being seen. The game tries to take a page from stealth 
 games like Splinter Cell and Metal Gear, and if the game was priced as a regular retail game would 
 fail miserably. At $3.99 (and now probably cheaper used at Gamestop) , you get what you pay for. 
 The graphics and sound effects are nothing to brag about, and the controls can get annoying without 
 the ability for adjustment. The game is kinda creepy because you pretty much stalk people to give 
 them food and there are times that you can hide in places and leap out and surprise people to earn 
 more points. However it is extremely creepy when you jump out of a dumpster to give someone a triple 
 whopper (mmm, I like my burger served with a side of dirty diaper or slimey banana peel) .
  
  It is hard to determine if I should recommend this game or not. The achievements in the game 
 are a little time consuming, but other than 1 section in the game are not to difficult to achieve. 
 The game is briefly entertaining for the first 10 minutes, but gets old after you see the King 
 do the same thing for the 100th time. To tell you the truth, you could spend your time on another 
 game that is worthwhile, but if you want to spend two bucks at gamestop for it, just realize there 
 are better games to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jinjoman93
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  without a doubt this game deserves a 0/10... but the game rater doesn't go down that low. so i 
 gave it a 1/10. the plot needs some reediting. the plot is that your the king and need to sneak 
 up to people to give them hamburgers and if they see you give them the hamburgers then you fail... 
 so why couldn't you just go up to them and say that burger king is selling free hamburgers... Probably 
 because there aren't enough people who are self-destructive in the world who want fast food (no 
 people who were self-destructive were harmed during the writing of this review) . So a plot of giving 
 hamburgers mixed with a gameplay of splinter cell, that certainly doesn't sound too wonderful. 
 i have three sentences to say to the creator of this game... "you get nothing! you lose! good day 
 sir!" (gene wilder reference XD.) Big Bumpin' was bad but at least the creator didn't exert any 
 energy to make a plot that we'd all be better off without hearing. So overall i did not laugh, 
 i certainly did cry, and i wouldn't reccomend it to anybody i liked... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  Okay, so it's pretty much a long-form commercial, but this game is so offbeat and funny, you won't 
 mind. Your job is to sneak up behind people and hand them Burger King food and drink items. I'm 
 not kidding. 
  
  The game adds something to the simple dimensions of its regimen by asking you to hide in metal 
 bins, behind trees and in giant piles of sawdust. You must wait until you see a person with a thought 
 balloon above their head, which will have a picture of food in it when they want to eat something. 
 Then jump out, and stop the gauge at just the right moment, and you will perform what is called 
 a flourish. This includes anything from a bow to a disco dance. Once again, I'm not making up any 
 of this.
  
  There are a series of missions to complete. Some are based on time, others on the quality of your 
 flourishes. In any case, they're weird and hilarious, which is a lot more than I can say for many 
 more sophisticated games. The set-up is very simple -- a little kid could play it quite easily -- 
 but the game will provide a lot of laughs to the most FPS battle-weary adults. Who's hungry? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironbat25
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok for two dallars. you go on missions sneaking up on hungry people giving them food. this 
 games has alot of mission some of them are like the ones where you have to sneak up on someone 
 without getting cought or hear. you can run and hide from the people so they dont see you but on 
 some missions it wont matter if they see or hear you. the one bad thing is that the camera is not 
 as good as they should be but the controls are good you can walk, run, hide, and sneak up on people 
 easliy. the game graphics dont look that good but is very detailed the king looks good just like 
 the one in the bk commercials. the npc dont look as good. the game dont have much sound it only have 
 one sound for that level you are playing on. the npc dont make much sound ethier. this game at my 
 game stop was 2 dallars used if you can find it at that price it worth if not dont get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dolfan46
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The entire point of this game is to give Burger King food to the hungry people of where-ever you 
 are. Pretty simple, right? Wrong! Many missions of this game are challanging and fun to play. However, 
 some missions are too challanging, or take too long to complete. One mission on the secound level, 
 the Cul-de-sac, requires you give the food to the residents by hiding, then jumping out and giving 
 them the food in special hiding spots. However, not everyone is always hungry and very few people 
 walk by a hiding spot. This can make this mission 10 infurating minutes of you either waiting in 
 one spot for a hungry person to walk by or stalking hungry people and trying to see if they are 
 going to walk infront of a hiding spot before they pass out. Unless I am missing some kind of major 
 trick, this mission is down-right boring. But, most of the levels aren't hard enough for one to 
 be completely frustrated with the game. The gameplay itself is some kind of fun puzzle-like game. 
 The controls are simple and it doesn't take a genious to figure out the basics of the game, it 
 also isn't so easy that some ape could win. With only 4 levels and 20 missions in each level, you 
 should be able to beat the game in less than 6 hours. But the achievments may keep on for a couple 
 more hours to get A ranks in all the missions. I think that this game is really just an Xbox Live 
 Arcade game that, for some reason, didn't make it onto Xbox Live.
  
  Overall, if you have a spare 5 dollars go and buy the game. If you love it, great! If you hate, 
 then its not like you just wasted $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basserker
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 10, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is reaaalllllly booring. We the players, do the same things over and over trying to deliever 
 food. If you get caught I doubt because it ruins the suprise but the people are sooo creeped out 
 by being stalked by this massived headed mascot that they freak out. All you do is deliever food 
 and gets points for it. You have to do x amount of orders then guess what.... You get to do a whole 
 nother level!!!!! I believe theres like 5 levels of it. From a construction workers place to a 
 city (thats as far as i got i was too bored to continue) . Maybe the food is realistic looking that's 
 why it looks sooooooooo very yummy indeed Mr. Thomnas. hehehe funny but anyway I hope that if you 
 read my review and decide to buy this game (IDK where its sold anymore maybe gamestop or something) 
 but have fun tracking it down then having to play this boring cheapo game being a creepy demon 
 that pulled itself out of the deepest pit possible. This game gets boring fast good thing it was 
 sooo cheap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cena626
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Horrible game with horrible gameplay and a retarted storyline. Well, if you can call it a storyline. 
 Though it sucks it's the best Burger King game out of the 3. O. K. if you think that this game is 
 not stupid then tell me something. What is not stupid in the game. I mean you go around and feed 
 people and if you don't feed them then they pass out. Now tell me, is that not dumb.
  
  I
  I hate
  I hate this
  I hate this game,
  I hate this game, but
  I hate this game, but 
 it's
  I hate this game, but it's only
  I hate this game, but it's only three
  I hate this game, but it's only three dollars
  
  I did this because I have to have a lot of 
 words and characters.
  
  O
  O my
  O my god
  O my god still
  O my god still not
  O my god still not enough
  O my god still not enough characters
  
  fifteen letters tooooo 
 goooooooooo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImpSlayer
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Call me old-fashioned, but I was always interested in "advertisement video games." Games like "Yo 
 Noid! (of Pizza Hut fame) ", The Mic and Mac series (NES-GEN, for MacDonald's) were some of the 
 earlier examples. But this game is one of the few recent attempts. Without a doubt, it delivers 
 all you'd expect. At $4 it is a bargain (now about $2) . The graphics are more than you'd guess 
 for a Burger King game. The gameplay is thin in variety, but has an interesting concept. A stealth 
 game where you deliver people tasty BK entrees. The humor is the best aspect of the game, with 
 the King having it his way. But the levels get old, fast. But if you stick with it, you'll be mystifying 
 the hungry NPC's in unique environments. 
  
  Last Words: A great bargain buy. Although it is quite repetitive, you'll get a quaint, funny romp. 
 For once it is good to 'have it their way,' I recommend this to stealth fans and casual gamers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kahuna1221
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  One day I was walking into a game store and I had a few bucks on me and I was looking for anything 
 interesting. I bought the stuff I want, but then I noticed sneak king in the corner, covered in 
 dust. It caught my eye because you don't usually see a fast food character in his own game. But 
 for good reason. I bought the game with the change I had from my previous purchase. (Two bucks) 
 and bought it. I didn't play it for three weeks after I bought it, and when I did, I got bored 
 in ten minutes. It is an interesting idea. You deliver food to people, who weirdly enough, didn't 
 even ask for them. For some reason you have to sneak up behind them and give it to them. Once you 
 get the opportunity, you have to press the button and a sliding scale which, if it lands on the 
 full portion, you will do a dance when you give the food to them. It is tricky the first 2 times 
 but way to easy for the rest. You do this for the whole game, and it doesn't get any harder. But 
 what do I care. After I played it, I sold it to a stupid kid for 20 dollars. He got a rip off. 
 I wouldn't even play this if all my other games were burned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donut5
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  this game was the worst i have ever played (oh and trust me i have played really really bad games) . 
 the chalenges were just sooo boring what is so fun about delevering burgers to random people. the 
 chllenges were really hard its jus so frusterating everytime i hid i would spend like 40 seconds 
 in one hiding spot just waiting for a victim to come an they never do so i give up and go to another 
 hiding place near a victim and most of the time he takes so long to hide and lets the victim get 
 away. the graphics are terrible and achievments are just so stupid they make us hide 500 times 
 and make u complete every challenge its near impossible to do that because the challenges arejust 
 soo difficult. and its not just the difficulty, its the fact that if u beat every single challenge 
 u unlock an unlockable called "the sneak suit" and all it is is the king excepot in a black suit 
 all that hard work and frusteration just for a cheap little suit that dosunt even look descent. 
 this game should be tacken back and burried in the middle of the desert. waste of $5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judog1
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  During the holiday season of 2006, Burger King released 3 games for the Xbox 360, Big Bumpin', 
 Pocket Bike Racer, and Sneak King. Although each of these games also includes the original Xbox 
 version, I wouldn't recommend getting them specifically for it however because the games won't 
 stay fun for very long and the achievements are where most of the replay value comes from, which 
 will be talked about later on in the review.
  
  Sneak King has a rather good, well funny premise in that you play as the King, the Burger King 
 (BK) mascot, sneaking around different areas to feed hungry people food from the BK menu.
  
  The game sort of plays like the original Metal Gear on the NES except in 3D, you sneak around 
 people trying not to get their attention which is only caused by making noise (running) or if they 
 happen to see you. Trying not be seen is rather simple because there are blue lights on the ground 
 which tells you where then can see. If you do manage to let them see you, they will get an exclamation 
 point (!) above their head, it sounds familiar
  
  Sneak King has the graphics of an average original Xbox game, they aren't anything special. The 
 camera is also a bit clunky at times, and can sometimes cause awkward situations in where you are 
 stuck inside the king or a person walking around. For the price they were better than you would 
 think, but that isn't saying much.
  
  The sound is also very repetitive; in fact there is no variation in the sound effects at all. Once 
 you do the first couple of missions you hear and as well see all of the effects the game has to 
 offer.
  
  The only sort of replay value with Sneak King comes with the achievements as a lot of them are 
 rather simple but sadly many players will probably not be able to unlock them because they won't 
 be able to simply stand the game anymore. Unlocking them is pretty much a hard test of your patience.
 
  
  Sneak King is just an average game, although for 5 dollars and now a day around 2-3, what would 
 you expect, and another point to go with that is that it was developed by Burger King game. If 
 you happen to see this game at GameStop or anywhere else that sells used games get it, as there 
 as there are a few easy achievements and you can go around bragging that you have a Burger King 
 game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks, all yuo do is go to different people giveing them fricking food and the king is 
 slow, and you cant get caught, there is no new levels,
  also your guy has a fat and it was such a waste, i found it at burger king for free i dont know 
 why, i could snap this disc in half and throw it down the sewer and make people crap in the sewer 
 so it will rot, the graphics suck, there is no point of this game and has no career it is not worth 
 it if you get this game i will bring it back for a refund, the people who made this game took no 
 time to make it all they did is slap some crap in it, no fun gets boring the first 2 minutes then 
 you get bored of it, i would even play lego star wars than this peice of crap, i usally play call 
 of duty 4 but i wasted my time playing this peice of crap. even i like burger king the food but 
 this game is terrible but if i was forced and a guy had a 50 caliber pointed to my head i mgiht 
 play but this game is not my life i atleast have a life and whoever plays this game is just wasting 
 there time playing this game. i would never recamend this peice of crap. so go **** whoever made 
 this game. so never play this game or consider to play this game repeats itself so much. if you want 
 to deal with me whoever wants too buy and play this game come talk to me and i will tell you how 
 bad this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamReallyROXS
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Even though this game was freakishly cheap, its still not worth your money. This game has busted 
 gameplay, horrible graphics, and the story is just completely pointless! And only having for game 
 levels doesnt help this games case either. The control are broken and hard to use so dont even 
 try to use them! after five minutes of playing this game, you'll want to just break ur controller 
 in half! To sum things up, this was just a generally stupid idea for a game! So dont even waste 
 your four dollars on this pathetic attempt at a cheap  
 IT IS POINTLESS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pianoman4life
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  Heres a game that I was looking forward to when I first heard about it! I wasnt much of a Burger 
 King person (go Chipotle!) , but I thought that the cheap price wouldnt kill me if I got this game. 
 And I thought it would be fun, too. Well, it is kinda fun, but you lose appeal to the game after 
 maybe 15 minutes. This game really makes me want to play Splinter Cell series and Metal Gear Solid 
 series again. Stupid hungry people. My bros, Fischer and Snake, will show you!
  
  Gameplay: argh, the game play. Basically, find hungry people, give em food.
  Awesome: I guess 
 its supposed to make you hungry? And you get almost 100 missions!
  Bummer: Its the same thing over and over and over and over plus, its almost 100 missions. The 
 Kings flourishes are time consuming. The people are annoying because they dont move realistically. 
 (Okay, gonna surprise this one girl, but then she keeps turning around and around. What is she 
 doing?!)
  
  Graphics: The King, the people, the town, the food.
  Awesome: The King and the food are the best looking things in the game! The town actually looks 
 decent.
  Bummer: The King looks real. Thats the scary part. Plus you get the real life one in the intro 
 of the game. The people are ugly also. And the food they think about is sometimes not the food 
 that you are delivering. Boo.
  
  Control: Move the King, give them food, flourish option, sneak or run, camera, and hiding. I think 
 thats about all the controls.
  Awesome: Hiding and surprising gives a lot of points.
  Bummer: The King. Is sllllooooowwww. Even running, hes a big mascot thats trying to run with 
 that big head. Camera is hard to control, too, especially if you hide in a house. Flourishes get 
 stupider and repetitive.
  
  Sound: Majestic music and the sound effects that youll dream about.
  Awesome: Being a person 
 that likes music, I have no comment.
  Bummer: This is the WORST music I have ever heard! I cant play this game with the music on! And 
 the sound effects are pretty bad, too. When you get to someone thats hungry, that little drum 
 beatwell except their chopsticks or something. I dont know. I just hate the sound. I turn it 
 off.
  
  Price: Less than $5!
  Awesome: Its less than $5! Get it used!
  Bummer: When this game was new, you had to buy it with a combo meal. Boo.
  
  Overall, its 
 an okay game. Its below average, but its decent since its pretty cheap. It does also take up 
 time since the pacing is kinda slow. But, before you know it, youll have all the achievements 
 and you can let it collect dust! Its a good game for those that dont like fast paced games, but 
 dont get it if you really like tactical espionage. Talk to Fischer and Snake instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bitemeslippy
Rating: 2.4
Date: Aug 12, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  What can I even say about this game? Its pretty much a craptastic game with broken controls and 
 uninspired gameplay. It lags a lot and can be very unresponsive. I mean sure a game where you sneak 
 around in a costume and pop up in front of people to give them food sounds like itd be a good, 
 hilarious game, but if its made like this it is no fun at all . Its not even worth the possible 
 achievement points, which are a pain to get in a terrible game like this. I actually enjoyed Big 
 Bumpin and Pocketbike Racer a lot so if youre looking for a good BK game get those, but not this 
 piece of junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma_rc_01
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Probably the most traumatizing game I ever played, YOU are the King, your mission: feed people 
 without being seen. You run around four different locations (a sawmill, a cul-de-sac, a construction 
 yard and downtown) sneaking up to people and serving up delicious Burger King food.
  
  You need to stay hidden, because if you get seen, the people that see you loose their appetite, 
 and I can totally understand them, seeing this mutant big-headed atrocity stalking people. You 
 sneak around and once you are close enough to you potential victim you press the serve button, 
 a bar appears (kind of like a golf swing meter, but with just two presses) the more the bar is 
 filled, the better the flourish (the food presenting dance) is grandiose.
  
  The king can also hide in various places, and if you are able to get out of your hiding place and 
 do a flourish, you get bonus points, but the hiding places are so obvious and the King is so badly 
 hidden that a blind monkey could find him.
  
  To add to the creepiness factor, the game has a King vision function, in which you can see in 
 first-person inside the Kings mask, the whole screen is black, except for two eye holes and you 
 can hear the breathing (I still have nightmares about it) .
  
  Even if its really creepy its still pretty funny and cool to play, except for the horrible camera, 
 it really hard to control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I thought it looked very stupid and large waste of money, and I was 
 never going to get it. But then I saw the Burger King commercials and found out there was two others 
 so then I decided since they were only $4 each I would get them all. Then I brought them home and 
 this one wasn't actually too bad, I would rate 2 out of the 3.
  
  In Sneak King you are the Burger King and you walk around four different areas of town giving people 
 food. And if you get a large string and deliveries then you get ahigher score and in some missions 
 you need a certain score to pass.
  
  The missions typically aren't that hard, but some can actually be challenging. And to get to the 
 second, third, and fourth levels you need to beat so many missions.
  
  The achievements in this game are mostly easy one of them is completing your first mission, and 
 another is hiding 100 times. But, the game only has a total of 200 gamerscore.
  
  So if you dont have Sneak King and haven't played it and can get for $4 or less I recommend you 
 get it, because it's worth it even if you don't play it that much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I was surprised to see this as a used game at my local game store. I was eager to buy it because 
 I always wanted to try it out and because it only cost $2.99. It is a really, really, REALLY weird 
 game, yet its worth every penny. You play as the King, who is a very creepy and a little scary. 
 The point of the game is to stealthily sneak behind hungry people and surprise them with a warm 
 delicious sandwich. So it is a very origanal idea. You can hide in things, you can push trees down, 
 you can dance, and as you can see, this game is weird. Sneaking is easy, but its cool that you 
 need to consecrate on not being seen and not being heard. The graphics are surprisingly good for 
 a $4 game, yet they are not very great at all. The sound is horrid, but you can listen to music 
 from your hard drive, which makes it not as bad. The language the people speak is funny. The control 
 is not polished, but what do you expect for a game made from Burger King? This is a fun game if 
 you have nothing else to play. The most creepy part is looking through first-person. You hear the 
 King breath and it is creepy. Anyway, this is a pleasant surprise that is creepy, funny, and fun 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zigXten
Rating: 2.8
Date: May 27, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  There is only one redeeming quality; the graphics are average, and the sound is... boring. I would 
 quote something from Seanbaby's Rest of The Crap, but I'm too bored to... oh crap... I feel.... 
  I'm sorry! Um... the value is so low that the game.... 
 is... um...  huh, what? Oh yeah. 
 To top it off, its the worst game ever. Look at this game for great qualities... NOT!!!! Now back 
 to sleeping through this crap... zzzzzzzzzzz... I still have to write a review? On a bargin-box 
 game? No wait; this game is lower than any piece of *dang* in a bargin-box at your local toy store. 
 If videogaming was football, BK would have been shot... in the... back... by... um... zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CharmedGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  I see a lot of people rated this game as though they were playing Final Fantasy or the next Grand 
 Theft Auto. This game came with a freaking hamburger!!! All of the games in this series are awful 
 by real game standards. In this one the idea is that you sneak up on people and give them food. 
 The gameplay is completely easy and there is no challenge what-so-ever. Why give it a 10 then? 
 Because it's funny as hell. The entire concept of The King sneaking around and giving people food 
 is as funny as it is a shameful marketing ploy (and there is humor in that itself) . Watching the 
 King dance and pop and lock when you win is enough to keep you laughing for hours. The title screen 
 itself is funny and by funny I mean creepy.
  
  Give it a try if you can get your hands on a copy.
  (Just don't expect major gameplay like you 
 would in Gears of War or Metal Gear Solid and you'll have a good time laughing at the shear absurdity 
 of the concept)
  (Really though what kind of idiot would play it expecting some serious and deep, meaningful gameplay?) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PantsOfFury
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  You can't trust anyone's opinion on Sneak King. It's something you have to experience in order 
 to know for sure. Putting you in the shoes (and mask) of the creepy, stalker (?) , sexual deviant (?) 
 Burger King is one of the the best decisions BK could have made.
  
  Gameplay: Sneak up on unsuspecting people and give them BK brand food. Avoid the vision cones and 
 you won't be caught. Use designated hiding spots in order to gain extra points. Execute up to a 
 'Level 3 Flourish' for maximum score. This game knows what it's supposed to do, and it does it 
 well.
  
  Graphics: I guess it looks on par with some bottom barrel Dreamcast games, which are good yet hardly 
 up to the standards of the XBOX 360 or even the Original XBOX. The King is there in all his creepy 
 slendor. You can even use an inside the head view in which you hear his perverted breathing. Awesome.
 
  
  Sound: Not much to be critical of or to praise here. People cheer when you give them food. Fitting 
 music when sneaking.
  
  Value: Face it the game was $4. For that price this has AMAZING value.
  
  Overall this is an 
 experience that everyone should play or watch at least once. Don't try it in real life though, 
 you might get arrested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtruckseries
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  To make this review as simple as possible, let me simply say that SNEAK KING - even being sold 
 along side any extra value meal for $4 more - is probably the worst XBOX 360 game you could ever 
 play.
  
  First of all, the premise is poorly implement, even though it could have been brilliant. As the 
 BURGER KING, you must sneak around the fields of vision of NPC's in the levels... attempting to 
 lurch right up on them and offer them food. The problem is, simply controlling the King is a chore 
 because the developers of the game must have paid almost no attention to previous games of this 
 nature - namely, TOM CLANCY'S SPLINTER CELL. The NPC's have fields of vision (represented by a 
 blue cone flashing on the ground) which only seems to be about 8 feet in distance at any given 
 time. Unlike real life where people can see 180 degrees and spot a man sized object up to a mile 
 away, we are back to the METAL GEAR SOLID days in this game where your opponents are basically 
 BLIND.
  
  Even if you accept the poor field of vision and attempt to play the game for what it is, you'll 
 quickly realize that simply knowing where to go and what to do is difficult because the game's 
 camera is completely free and not intelligent enough to offer you a view that you need to navigate. 
 In games like Splinter Cell, the camera zooms in/out, back and forth to offer you the best situational 
 awareness. Here, you'll spend more time just aiming the camera than actually playing. The game 
 automaticaly got an F from me for this.
  
  The visuals are weak... I'd say the development team was able to bang this game out in less than 
 3 months of development. The graphics look like sh! t.
  The sound is no better - I haven't heard lifeless music like this since 1970's porno flicks (you 
 know, the ones where the woman is tied up and a gang takes turns) . Being that this is game is rated 
 E for everyone there is no blood or violence to speak of. That's ok, but there could have been 
 so many additions to this game to make it more interesting: smoke grenades? a bb gun to put out 
 lights so you could sneak around easier? ANYTHING to keep you interested in this atrocity. This 
 game probably isn't for sale anymore and all it is good for is a handful of game achievement points. 
 Even if you got it for free, it isn't worth the headache - AVOID IT LIKE THE PLAGUE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal2101
Rating: 4.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 5/10- The game is easy all you have to do is time the surprise meter right. The way he 
 walks around lightly is stupid because it doesn't make him any smaller
  
  Graphics 7/10- Probably the highlight of this game sadly because they are not even that good.
 
  
  Sound 3/10- The sound sucks the people just walk around and mumble. And thats about it for sound 
 in the game.
  
  Value 1/10- Yeah this game is sucky to the max you will probably play this anywhere from 5-15 minutes 
 and then you will want to kill yourself.
  
  Tilt 4/10- Some people like it but most dont but either way this game definitely isn't worth 4 
 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xcollector
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  For a $5 game this game is simply amazing. You get what you pay for and this game makes $5 look 
 like it is worth a lot for what you get.
  
  The whole game as you probably know is to sneak around and deliver food. Believe it or not the 
 simple act of sneaking is enjoyable because the controls are simple to learn and spot on. The XBOX 
 live achievement points are what makes this game worth while and it is loaded with achievements 
 to accomplish and keep you busy having fun.
  
  Naturally, a $5 game wont push your 360 to the limits. Lets face it! You wont get $5 worth of 
 fun anywhere else with a flourish worthy of the King :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calcheesmo
Rating: 4.4
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The best game you've ever played!!! For about fifteen minutes, and then you're looking for something 
 better to play. This game made me cry laughing the first time I played, it's so fun I thought to 
 myself! Not gonna lie, it really is, but then when you realize you are doing the same friggin thing 
 over and over again with different kinds of sandwiches, and only 3 or 4 animations, man, it got 
 old FAST. It's worth the 3.99 I suppose, but when compared to the two other games from BK that 
 actually have lasting multiplayer value, it falls very very short, although, it was funny as ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dantebk
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  A while back Burger King put out three promotional advergames for Xbox 360. Priced at $3.99 each, 
 these games were imagined as camp titles to attract an irony-loving college-aged crowd. Well, it 
 worked on me, I bought them the same day I bought my 360.
  
  Sneak King receives the Special Olympics Silver Medal. It starts out almost awesome. The intro 
 movie of the King stalking around outside someone's house at night is hilarious, and the useless 
 First Person Mode of looking through the King's mask and listening to his heavy breating is a creepy 
 delight. Of course, eventually you have to actually play the game. Every mission is some variation 
 of sneaking up behind someone wandering around aimlessly to give them food. This may have been 
 fine if there were 40 missions over the 4 levels, but there are in fact 80. At one point, I was 
 determined to finish the game, but I gave up after 55 missions. A repetitive borefest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I usually write a more thorough review (or at least lately I have) but this game isn't deep enough 
 to even describe. The reality of this is, the game is worth what you play for. I tried one of the 
 others, pocketbike racer, and found it contained a very mario kart like feel. At least it has a 
 multiplayer section of it and you can compete on xbox live. This game just has bad gameplay, plain 
 graphics and no real plot. You sneak up on people and give them food. Whoopeee. If you want acheivements 
 and can put up nothing but delivering people food for longer than 20 minutes then go for it. But 
 if you are looking for anything mildly entertaining, look for a real game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatesunder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  When one thinks of Burger King they dont necessarily associate that name brand with video games. 
 They think of hot tasty French fries and chicken sangwiches (thanks Dane Cook . . . I will never 
 think of burger king the same again) . That has changed though because Burger King is now on the 
 cutting edge frontier of the gaming industry . . . Who am I kidding, no their not. Burger king 
 has released two very good games though in addition to one I dont really like and oddly enough 
 these games only cost $3.99 a piece or all three for ten dollars if I am not mistaken. The game 
 I find to be the most interesting is the one that has you first thinking the burger KING is a serial 
 killer. Thats right, Im talking about Sneak King.
  This game uses a retro objective based style of game play that is upgraded somewhat to fit the 
 design. You go through each level completing challenges to unlock un-lock achievements, more challenges, 
 and the next level. There are a total of four levels with twenty challenges each. The challenges 
 vary from delivering one burger to delivering five burgers to delivering three burgers within thirty 
 seconds to delivering one burger within thirty seconds while doing it from a hiding place. It can 
 feel slightly repetitive at times. I found that the main attraction to the game is that it plays 
 on the human instinct to accomplish things and accomplish them with the best score or rank possible. 
 Each challenge has some way of ranking how well you did with an A rank being the best and a C 
 rank being the worst. Some challenges rank you based on how many points you accrued during it, 
 while other challenges rank you based on how fast you completed it. Each challenge is numbered 
 from one to twenty which gives you a feel of how difficult this challenge would be were you to 
 attempt it. The challenges of each level are respectively harder than those of the previous of 
 course. Some of the difficulty is placed on what you need for a specific rank, while other challenges 
 up the difficulty through the challenge itself. The levels also affect how difficult some challenges 
 are because less of the people you need to surprise pass by hiding spots for you to pop out of 
 and surprise them with food of some sort.
  The point system is simple in that you are showed exactly how the score for each surprise food 
 delivery is determined. Five factors are used as multipliers for a base score that changes based 
 on whether you were hiding or not. Obviously hiding gives you a higher score because it is more 
 difficult to get to a hiding spot just as someone passes by it while they are hungry than it is 
 to just sneak up to a hungry person and surprise them. There are somewhere around twenty people 
 walking around or standing still per level that pass out if you dont surprise them with food after 
 a certain while, but dont worry they get back up later to continue walking their set path. When 
 you surprise someone you have the chance to perform something called a flourish. They resemble 
 touch down dances somewhat and give you a multiplier to make your score higher based on how well 
 you did the flourish. It's a simple golf-swing styled bar with notched to show you when you need 
 to hit the button to get the flourish your looking for.
  The graphics of this game arent the greatest but they get the job done nicely while making the 
 game look good. What would you expect for the price these games come at? The style somewhat resembles 
 the Sims games and compliments the games theme. The music and sound effects also fit the game perfectly. 
 They wouldnt really work for any other game I suppose, but Im happy as long as they dont make 
 this game bad.
  There really isnt a story to Sneak King, but why would there be. The game runs well enough on 
 its simple concept. Youre a giant food chains mascot and you sneak up on people to give them 
 food in such a way that your creepiness makes it funny. The game does however provide little end 
 of level story clips that describe the Kings antics in that level with some humorous news styled 
 monologs. Its all very tongue in cheek.
  Overall I have to say I like the game because it does what it needs to do to makes the games concept 
 work and it does it good. Its a solid game and thats all I was looking for when I bought it from 
 Burger King. I laughed at the concept even as I was buying it and didnt expect as much as it offered. 
 So in the end I got more than my moneys worth and I would highly recommend Sneak King if you dont 
 mind a simple game every now and again and you dont have sixty dollar gaming experience expectations.
 
  In comparison to games that cost sixty dollars, which aren't always great themselves, I give this 
 game a 3.5/5 on the Xplay scale. It's not for everyone but it is a worthy game to own if you enjoy 
 it for what it is and not for what it's not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakalou
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  For five bucks, you can't exactly expect a whole lot, especially from a fast food chain. However, 
 with Sneak King, on the other hand, you get at least what you paid for. For just about anyone, 
 this game is worth at least a good solid half hour of game play and maybe then some.
  
  Sneak King's kind of weird humor is definitely a plus as is the kind of hard challenge of trying 
 to beat every challenge in the game with an A , as the game calls the reward for getting a challenge 
 done above a certain point limit or finishing within a certain time. Some things about this game 
 may seem quite cheesy, but I found they usually only add to the enjoyment of this game.
  
  Anyway, if you've missed out on the fun of this game, you'd better find someone who'll lend you 
 a copy so you can play this one if not for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dupe576
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I really tried to play this game. I figured if I played it for long enough, maybe I would 
 get into it, but they make it just so hard to do. In fact, I think they designed this game so that 
 it is impossible for you to get any enjoyment out of it. The graphics were pathetic. In the hour 
 or so that I spent playing it, the game crashed twice. The controls were inverted and I couldn't 
 figure out how to change it. All the missions were almost exactly identical. This game made me 
 want to vomit everywhere. I'd rather saw my genitals off than play this p. o. s. again. But hey, 
 it was 5 dollars. At least I can show the game to people and laugh. And the opening scene with 
 the king in the backyard is so creepy that it almost makes this game worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinty76
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Dude, remember this game is $3.99 from Burger King! With that in mind this is a decent game. Yes 
 the gameplay is repetitive and graphics aren't next gen worthy. But, come on this is the cheapest 
 game of all time. Burger Kings entrance into the video gaming scene is a worthy one at that. Gameplay 
 is basically walking up behind people and pressing the A button. The AI in this game are absolutely 
 retarted. You can walk up to them directly in front of them as long as you stay out of the shadow 
 box representing their field of view. A blind person would be able to see how close you come to 
 these people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinKuei_warrior
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  This Game IS ONE of the best games ever made. It makes halo2 look like Super mario 1. One the game 
 goes in the Xbox, the System is crying tears of joy inside, and is Bracing itself for the coolness 
 this game brings on the system. The King Goes around sneaking Burgers to ppl. the game is brilliant! this 
 game makes FF storyline look like a Dr. Suess Story. Sneak King Offers Soo much Good Gameplay and 
 easy controls. the graphics shine In glory, they look soo good, it automatically cancels halo3 for 
 best 360 game. the Game Brings SOo much realism of what happens on the streets. it has the best sound 
 to offer, you dont even need surround sound for this game to sound good. the Game is even affordable. onlt 
 4.30$. come on, thats a great deal. its better than buying pimp my ride for 60$. the game has the most 
 talented voice actors than have such talent, their voices should be lent to the sequel for this 
 game. This GAme was Just the best thing to ever grace my 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingofthecloset
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I believe there was one huge misconception to this game.. and it was that people didn't get it. 
 This isn't a game you take seriously, and it's not meant to blow you out of the water. When you 
 went to McDonald's and ordered a Happy Meal as a kid, how did your complimentary toy hold up with 
 all your other toys. It didn't. It can't. Much the same, Sneak King is meant as a cheesy novelty. 
 But the game serves its purpose. It's cheap, it's funny, and it has some replay value. Above all, 
 you're the freaking king! The SNEAK KING...
  
  This alone may be the game's biggest coolest aspect. They finally devoted a game to the King. We 
 all know and love him in the ridiculous commercials where, supposedly, waking up with another guy 
 in your bed isn't all that bad, especially if he's got some delicious treats for you. If I woke 
 up to the King, I'd be a bit skeptical. But if he was holding a Quad Stacker for me to get-my-chew-on 
 with.. I can only fathom. Criticism of game aside, the King is boss. And he's already got 3 games 
 devoted to him. How many games are devoted to you?
  
  Anyway, in the game, you're mission is simple. The name of the game is stealth as you tiptoe around 
 various surroundings, attempting to deliver hot sandwiches to hunger-ailing citizens. Wait for 
 their hunger to mount and you'll receive a Whopper-sized score for your royal antics. But beware, 
 as the starved have a (hilariously weak) peripheral vision. They'll no longer focus on their empty 
 stomachs, but be completely amused by a King sneaking around in broad daylight. You can also hide 
 virtually everywhere. Your surroundings are filled with opportunities for surprise. Patience and 
 timing are key, but pulling off the successful sneak is just as rewarding as any Chicken Fry meal.
 
  
  The game's stages are filled with side missions. These missions are based on how fast you deliver, 
 or how cool the delivery is. Some missions are actually frustrating, but one smile from the King 
 and your woes will surely disappear. And who can argue with the game's moral? Nobody dies (although 
 the occasional person will pass out from hunger) and there isn't a single act of violence. It's 
 just you and the King and doing the right thing.
  
  In the end, you get what you paid for. Some gamers have managed to pull a lot more out of the game. 
 It's hilarity at its best. Those with even a shred of a sense of humor will appreciate the game. 
 Apparently, this game is being featured in the Best and Worst of 06 and I'm willing to bet it's 
 not on the Best list. So haters of all things funny, you'll be glad to see this game take the walk 
 of shame. It's all gravy though, as the King's got better things to do than be judged. And when 
 your hunger pains strike, and unconciousness draws closer, you may just thank your lucky stars 
 the King is on the prowl if he surprises you with a steamy BK JOE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFeelgoodsTwin
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I sure hope none of you buy this. You go to play it right and its just stops. I know its a BK game, 
 btu still dont make it ths stupid. The Gamer Points are not even easy to get in this game. At lest 
 the other BK games were fun and had xbox live on it but not this one. There are 80 mission's of 
 the same thing. I gave up at 18 missions. It got old so quick. Its fun at first just running around 
 and making people eat but its get so boring after the 5 mission. SO if you get have fun if you 
 can its only a few bucks but get Pocket Bike or Big Bumpin first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfilosophy
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  If you're like me and you love yourself a little bit of the Burger King, you owe it to yourself 
 to play Sneak King. Go on, you deserve it. You see, Sneak King isn't just a video-game promotion 
 for a fast food chain, it's greater than that. It's a $4 passport to a land of equanimity and hash 
 browns.
  
  You're the Burger King. As you hate to see your loyal, kindred brethren go hungry as they work 
 themselves ragged, making an honest living, you personally make it your mission to feed these people. 
 Flourish as you hand cups of coffee to construction workers. Surprise desperate housewives in the 
 'burbs with meatnormous bombs of meat and cheese and more meat. Save the world with glorious bacon!
 
  
  You sneak about behind people, hiding in bushes and knocking down trees, as you fulfill your goal 
 of surprising people with croissanwiches! Ok, so it doesn't control the best or look like Hitman: 
 Blood Money, but you play as the Burger King and you run around the city in a cape, foisting whoppers 
 onto people. C'mon, I dare you to tell me that's not worth your $4! Hell, when it gets rare and 
 hits eBay, it's not even a burden to shell out $8.13 on it. Think about this, though. All 3 BK 
 games = $4 x 3. $12 for 3 weird as hell games starring the Burger King, one of 'em blasting Coq 
 Roq? I mean, NRA Gun Club and Drive to Survive are like $15 and you don't wanna go near 'em, do 
 you? Alright, then, so check out Sneak King. It has the funniest start menu ever, by the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iafjo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  Burger Kings Sneak King could have been a descent game had it actually had good gameplay! It was 
 fun at first but once you delved into the story (or lack of) you began to see the same repetitive 
 goals and missions. Honestly the only good worthwhile reason for buying Sneak King for the 360 
 is to heighten your gamer score. It has no replay value unless you are a perfectionist and wish 
 everything you did were perfect, and even then Sneak King doesn't promise any extended gameplay. 
 In the end you have to look at the price, $4.00 isn't bad for a cheap novelty game, and at the 
 same time it isn't good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dojotigers
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be a joke because i don't know how anyobdy can buy this and call it a videogame 
 this sort of stuff is disrespectful to the whole gaming industry. Why would anyone but this ? this 
 is just a cheap promotional tool for a fast food burger joint who is trying to tap into the youth 
 of America. First of all only rapists and pedophiles will actually probaly like this game if you 
 can call it that. With video games becoming mainstream and starting to pick up speed we don't need 
 this type of embarrassment to the industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 24, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  This game is not really fun at all this is the worst of the three games. Bumpin was a great game 
 and racer was pretty good but this is almost inposible to play. Its not that cool playing as the 
 king and sneaking up on people giving the crummy sandwhichs. you will have more fun eating the 
 burger than playong this snore fest. You should buy the other 2 because this game is not fun at 
 all. The graphics are good but thats all you get from this game. You will most likely trade this 
 in for 2 dollers because you will want something for this disastorest game. its horrible in all 
 aspects. Just get the burger and stay far away from this game, far, far away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I got PocketBike Racer from BK, and didn't really like it much. But then I got Sneak King. In Sneak 
 King, you try to create BK commercial-able moments using the BK King. You take on challenges, and 
 try to deliver food and coffees to people, without anyone seeing you. You have to wait until they're 
 hungry, and the hungrier the better, but too hungry and they'll pass out. You can just sneak up 
 on people and present them the food, but for the mad points, you have to build up multipliers, 
 which you get from delivering to multiple people without being caught, as we as get a lot of bonus 
 from popping out of objects that are alongside the hungry person's route.
  
  The game uses a Metal Gear Solid-esque vision system, wherein each NPC has a reasonably limited 
 cone of view that is clearly defined to you on screen. Only, in Sneak King, the cone is out front 
 of the person, instead of on a radar. The controls are very simple in the game, sticks for movement 
 and camera, Y to hide, and A to present, and that's pretty much all you need. The game mechanics 
 work well, with fluid graphics and movement, although occasional bugs and even freezing may occur, 
 it certainly has for me.
  
  The audio is very basic, the NPC's all sound like chickens, and other than that, it's just a bunch 
 of muzak.
  
  The game features 80 challenges. Most of which will take you all of a minute or two, but the achievements 
 for gaining a lot of A ranks on challenges keep you going back to improve your score. Overall, 
 you'll probably get about 6-9 hours on this game, which is an outstanding value at only $4.
  
  The achievements aren't hard, but you'll have one major issue when playing Sneak King: the 
 gameplay is so addictive that you won't want to put it down, then you'll be cravin BK for a week 
 due to all the product placement in the game! Either way, the game is definitely worth it, a lot 
 of fun all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMKFan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Burger King has been selling 3 games, which are on both the original XBox and XBox 360. Sneak King 
 is one of them and it's the one I bought from Burger King.
  
  The subject of the game is that you need to sell burgers to people without other people see you 
 do it and you need to sneak up from behind. You can also do some weird, funny dances while selling 
 your burgers. Most of the missions involve selling burgers in some kind of fashion.
  
  This a type of game not to have high expectations for because their's not much to it. And that's 
 because this game gets boring fast because selling burgers in a sneaky way can only be fun for 
 so long and also, the game is only $4.
  
  Overall, if you want some laughs and looking for a little fun, go to Burger King, get a meal and 
 ask for this game. Just don't expect it be the next big thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asher20
Rating: 5.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty excited when I first heard that Burger King was coming out with Xbox/360 games for 
 only $3.99. I knew that they couldnt be that great, but I still wanted to get themmainly for 
 nostalgic value. So I did. Sneak King is the second game from BK that I purchased, and honestly 
 the last I wanted to play (I still dont have and am trying to get Pocket Bike Racer) . Even though 
 this was the game I was least anticipating, it actually is pretty good. You play as the Burger 
 King mascot and try to sneak around delivering food to people in various missions. Overall, here 
 is what I think:
  
  Gameplay: 4
  Everything about the game play (traditionally speaking) sucks. The game is supposed to be about 
 stealth I suppose, but the funny thing is that you are supposed to sneak up on people. You do 
 this by avoiding their field of vision marked by a blue area in front of them on the ground. 
 The funny part is that even though you are sneaking you are completely out in the open. Your 
 saving grace is that these people can only see 5 feet straight in front of them. The camera controls 
 are inverted which makes them hard to control and every time you make a delivery to people you 
 have to reset the camera with the thumb sticks to line up behind him. If you are looking for stealth, 
 go with a different game.
  
  Graphics: 4
  The graphics are what you would expect from an early xbox gameif that. They remind me of the graphics 
 from the original Sims game, maybe slightly better. The environments are pretty bare as well.
 
  
  Sound: 1
  What sound? There is a background track that features like 2 instruments (an oboe and something 
 else) that repeats over and over, there is a dance song that happens when you deliver the food 
 and everyone talks like Charlie Browns teacher.
  
  Value: 9
  Hey, for $3.99 what do you expect? For that much money and the 200 gamer points, you receive, its 
 a great deal.
  
  Tilt: 8
  All of these poor qualities considered, again I must saythe game is ONLY $3.99!!!!!!! If you can 
 go into the game accepting that I wasnt made for true entertainment value, but mainly as a sales 
 pitch for BK, it can be loads of fun. The way the King sneaks is hilarious, when you hit the 
 A button to deliver food and nobody is around, he shrugs his shoulders in and lifts his hands 
 like hes saying, What the heck??? WHO??? Its pretty comical. When you deliver food the excited 
 people jump up and down and talk to you like there is tape over their mouths, so all you hear is 
 excited muffled yelps. The whole thing is pretty funny and you will (like I did) find yourself 
 playing through the missions just to beat them. The game makes fun of itself in every way and does 
 it in a priceless fashion. I can say that these games wont be around forever (the two BKs in my 
 town are out already) , so next time you go and order your Angus Burger Meal for $6.00 (you big 
 spender) , fork out the extra $3.99 or this game too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  sneak king is a great game even though it a product tie in. this game fetures 80 missions, snaky 
 game play and if you like MGS this is the game for you. you sneak up on people and give them food. 
 shur the story could use work but this a great game. this game is nintendo chushing geses. not 
 as good as big bumpin and way better then pocket bike racer but there all great games own all of 
 them. the best thing is you realy dont have to buy there food. shur you can if you want to buy 
 realy but you know what that stuff does to you. if you dont always eat there go ahead but if you 
 eat there every day na 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salter
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  Going in, you know this isn't going to be a masterpiece. Unfortunately, seriously awkward camera 
 controls and a nearly-broken camera make Sneak King so frustrating as to ruin even the slim guilty 
 pleasure one might otherwise have been able to take at watching the freakish Burger King mascot 
 stalk his victims - err, I suppose I mean, customers.
  
  None of this is going to dissuade people who, like me, know it's going to be no good, but just 
 can't resist the urge to see for themselves. I hate to admit that the game (s) achieved their purpose, 
 as they got me to buy and eat Burger King food somewhere other than the airport voluntarily for 
 the first time in years. Fortunately, the BK employee sold me all three games so I won't have to 
 make any dreaded return visits to pick up the other games. To be honest, I got the sense he would 
 have sold them to me without requiring a food purchase had I asked.
  
  Bottom line: almost any of the Xbox Live Arcade games are a better deal, even at the low price 
 these things are going for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Sneak King is a game that is a promo for Burger King which is plagued by terrible gameplay, but 
 does redeem itself in some ways with its unique sense of humor.
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Sneaking is fun for about half an hour, it comes with food
  Bad: After that the game will 
 probably collect dust for the rest of eternity
  
  Graphics
  Good: The King looks good in the cape, decent Full Motion cutscene in the beginning
  Bad: Horrible 
 enviroments and extra charechters.
  
  Sound
  Good: Ummmm......
  Bad: Repetitive music which is lame in the first place, flourish music is just as bad as the in 
 game music
  
  Value
  This game has literally no replay value unless you are an achievement addict.
  
  Overall
 
  Sneak King is a game thats only good for novelty, and is not worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agreb91
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Is cheap and available where you can eat; It has some good game play and comes out the 
 low price of $4. The Bad: So cheap and cheesy you wonder how this game came to be. Sneak King is 
 a game where you play as the King You know the plastic smiley faced mascot for Burger King. If 
 he wasn't scary enough you will be sneaking up on people to save them from their own hunger. You 
 use is steal and dexterity to sneak up on the hungry citizens of the world and deliver them a meal 
 courtesy of Burger King. While the game is one big in game advertisement, you should be aware of 
 that, you just bought if from a fast food chain. The game is worth the $4 dollars that you pay 
 for it and it could be a collectible sometime in the future. The game looks like a last gen Xbox 
 game due to it being able to played on the Original Xbox and the Xbox 360. So you are the King 
 and you sneak up on people to feed them, not to hard. Well it offers some challenge you can sneak 
 up on them the regular way or surprise them by jumping out of something, my favorite a pile of 
 mud. And if you are too late to feed a person the faint. The point of surprising them, and earning 
 points and increasing your meter. If you are seen you loose your point multiplier. So don't be 
 seen. Or risk losing the points. Also you have a limited time so don't be wasting to much time 
 fooling around. You play through different levels once you get enough points to get to the next 
 level. The point is you just have to be sneaky like in Splinter Cell. It also disturbs me how the 
 King moves around though, nightmares. The game is cheap and you get a cheap looking, mediocre presented 
 game play game. So be happy for what you payed for it. Enjoy the game for what it is. For there 
 isn't to much to it except one bing advertisement for hamburgers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 5.4
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  One of the three burger king game promos, Sneak King is not a good game. But for $4 what else can 
 you expect? Burger king wasn't trying to make something revolutionary to the industry, just trying 
 to get you to buy their soon to be collectible. Sneak king features 4 levels and the main reason 
 to buy for the 360 is its measly 200 achievement points. But even for point junkies like myself 
 the few achievement points that this game offers aren't worth tearing you hair out in frustration.
 
  
  In Sneak king you are basically a stalker. You sneak around until you find somebody that's hungry, 
 go up to them, press the A button and perform a flourish (or dance) to get the extra points. Doing 
 flourishes is like kicking a field goal in madden. The familiar meter comes up, press it when it 
 is at the top and you will do the according flourish. There are three levels, each with a higher 
 complexity of dances. This is hilarious at first, and is probably the only reason to ever play 
 this game again but it gets old after seeing it 700 times. The enemy is sneak king is the clock 
 and the vision cones of your loyal subjects or stalked people. You need to be fast, but quiet, 
 and stay out of sight or your chain or bonus will get reset. This risk over reward makes Sneak 
 king strangely fun and addicting. Although Sneak King is strangely fun it is also effin hard once 
 you reach the construction site level. And that level made me give up the game entirely.
  
  The graphics for sneak king are nothing special. This is most likely because of the dual playability 
 of sneak king on the xbox, and the xbox 360. The king looks good in HD but why would you care? 
 Unless your system is already hooked up to an HDTV don't bother. This really gives the feel of 
 you get what you pay for but considering there are several awesome XBL arcade games out there for 
 cheaper it makes this game feel even more worthless. The sound in Sneak king is disastrous. The 
 same track plays over and over again but it does fit the game well. The same monotonous tune plays 
 whenever a flourish is performed and it, like the rest of this game. Gets old after a while.
  
  Overall Sneak king is not an ambitious, industry-shocking game but the dirt cheap price and 
 hilarious gameplay and concept make this game strangely addicting and hard to put down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  O Sneak King, how you fooled the world into thinking you would be the best of the batch. What trickery 
 you used with your funky dancing. It was only a mask to how terrible your gameplay was and how 
 horrid your sound is. That mask cost me $3.99 and I would like it back:
  
  Gameplay: 3/10
  
  Sneak King's gameplay is simple, yet so glitchy it makes me wanna cry. The 
 game suffers from constant bugs in the kings detection system (getting stuck in walls, freezing, 
 etc.) and players will find some of the challenges to require more luck than ever, especially when 
 your being timed and you don't even know it. Those looking to get A will find themsleves pulling 
 their hair out when they get to the construction site. Reason for this is either you can't get 
 to a certain person that must be scared because she is behind a wall and takes about 30 secs to 
 come out of said wall which usually happens after she faints. The bad thing about fainting is that 
 some mission require you not to let anyone faint, and what do you do when they are stuck? start 
 over because apperantly its your fault. Can anyone say BS?
  
  Graphics:
  
  Average. The king looks good in 480p, but do you really want the king to look good? The HUD is 
 broken since there is a stealth meter in it that you NEVER use (why is that their again?) and doesn't 
 make any sense when you do try to use it.
  
  Sound: 2/10
  
  OMG this music is ANNOYING. Its the same 10 minute track played OVER and OVER again. Also, why 
 don't the people speak? wait, I know, because if you heard them, the guys say What the **** , which 
 would make this M-rated. lame.
  
  Value: 4/10
  
  This game actually makes you think about spending that 4 bucks and makes you count the price of 
 the whopper you bought with it. That alone is a good reason why this is so bad. However, the game 
 does give you a good laugh for 35 min, and makes you scream like mad for the next 6 hours while 
 playing the campaign.... if that sound fun to anyone.... put your hand down, billy.. (he's special 
 )
  
  Tilt: 4/10
  
  The concept, while bizarre, is pretty well done, but I found the lack of any type of story line 
 or even the lack of intro-ending videos to be saddening. Achivement whores/Completists will hate 
 this fact as well, seeing how you only get 200 GS for beating the game and ONLY that. sounds pretty 
 harsh to me, even for a $4 game.
  
  3.7/10
  This is a horrible game for $4 bucks, but that price tag and its wacky concept might be the only 
 good things about it. I recommend thinking about it, but probably AVOIDING IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megazombie55
Rating: 2.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Well as some people have notice, alot of people are doing those fancey pantsy, highly expence game 
 reviews! Well me and my happly marrired cousin are just fine doing reviews of games sold at burgerking! 
 Just kinding not even a hill-billy can stand this game! Well any way here my review!
  
  Gameplay
  Well first off the game play is very repeitive, as one might see, but there is some 
 dare i say, amusing about giving hungry people hamburgers in a king suit! But don't get me worng, 
 this game is bad!! It gets very bored in like 1 or 2 hours. The game engine is I gusse ok, but 
 it dosn't make up for the constant boredum. I mean the game is only about 6 or 7 levels long, and 
 each level is about 20 mins long. But its so boring i can't even go that far with having to eurch 
 to thorw it aginst the wall!
  Score: 2 terrible
  
  Graphics
  One might think these graphics are normal for a regular xbox game, and they are. But the 360 version 
 you get is a poor excuse for a next-gen game, if you can even call it that! I mean not only do 
 the graphics are horrible on the 360. You might find youeself puting it in the oringal xbox to 
 spare your beloved 360 the pain! But if you get over that i gusse its not so bad. But thats a big 
 hurt on these crapy BK games. Well I gusse thats all i have to say about the poor excuse for so 
 called NG graphics.
  Score: 3 bad
  
  Sound
  Now people i say good things about sound in mostly every game. But this, this is like i said horriable. 
 I have played though the hole entire game and have nothing possitive about the sound in this game! 
 All the foot steps and voices in the game are all off centered. I some time find my self looking 
 at my audio settings on my tv. But ever thing is good except the game! Its some thing that I hate 
 to see when the sound in a game is this bad! I mean i have never in my life, not even on live tv 
 have seen this bad audio recoing!
  Score: 2 terrible
  
  Value
  There is only one good thing I can say about this game. The price is just right. Now im not saying 
 if you are going to burger king for some fries, grap it. Becuse this game is not fun! But at lest 
 they had the curtisy to not make it like 10.00$. That i thank them. But i still think it should 
 come free if you are buying a 4.00 meal! Well Im sorry burger king game fans (all 3 of you) this 
 game is bad for you, like the burgers there! Just kinding about the 2nd joke. But this game stinks 
 isn't a joke!
  Score:4 poor
  
  Reviewer's tilt
  score: 3 bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Burger king... making video games for a next gen system. When i heard this i giggled and called 
 my friends liars. I then saw the commercial. I then headed toward burger king on my quest to get 
 this so called game I bought this thinking i just wasted my 4.99. I was wrong. The game is pretty 
 addicting you move around 10 diffrent worls with 100 missions each and deliver food to people with 
 stealh and ninja like skills. You start out in a construction site giving Biscuits away. There 
 is no story line accept there are some hungy people that need food. So your charcter is the king 
 himself. Gameplay is very fun using Splinter Cell like tactics (without the violence) to get past 
 people to get to your target. the game looks horrible and the sounds is not much better either. 
 but the game is 4.99 and fun so go to burger king and buy it.. If you can get past all the ban 
 sounds and graphics you have a fun stealth based game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hair_So_Spikey
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Listen i'm a really good typist I mean i'd have to be cause after I played this game I gouged my 
 own eyes out because I have finnaly seen true awesomeness, it was so glorious that i fell to my 
 knees and wept knowing that i'd never see anything so awesome again I plucked my own eyes out of 
 my head for now they were useless because seeing anything other than this game would be like staring 
 into a void it was the one light in my otherwise bleak stagnant world.... I know sarcasm is hard 
 to convey with typing but come on... this game is only good because it's fun to make fun of it's 
 existence... but I bet if you had one fifty years from now you could Ebay it for a lot... or trade 
 it for fuel from a gang of bikers/raiders so you can get your car out of a radscorpion nest... better 
 bring extra ammo though... and stay away from the glowing stuff its bad unless you want to be a 
 night-light. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan729
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  Sneak King's graphics are not good, but impressive for a $4 game. The King's animations are fluid 
 and often amusing. However, the hungry people to whom you must deliver food don't look nearly as 
 good. Their animations are simple and robot-like, and their overall appearance just seems not very 
 polished. There are several different environments in the game, which aren't very big, but appropriate 
 for the objectives. These environments look ok, but seem a bit dull and boring. The King does a 
 hilarious dance after every food delivery, and while it is funny at first, it quickly gets old. 
 Also, you can't skip the dance, so you'll have to watch it after every delivery, which is annoying.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The basic idea of Sneak King is simple: deliver food to hungry people. You earn points for each 
 delivery based on different factors (their hunger, how far away from them you are, and flourish) . 
 There are 20 different missions that you can select in each of the environment. These missions 
 have different objectives such as deliver to a certain amount of people in a certain amount of 
 time or hiding somewhere and then surprising people. But the idea is still the same. Each person 
 in the area has a vision cone (much like MGS) , and if they see you you have to start the mission 
 over or you lose your bonus score multiplier, depending on the objectives. As the game progresses, 
 the objectives get harder and each person's vision becomes larger. To deliver the food you simply 
 sneak up to a person with a hamburger icon over their head and press A. After that a golf-style 
 meter comes up, and you try to get it as high as possible. This increases your score. As you can 
 probably tell, Sneak King's gameplay mechanics are very shallow.
  
  Sound
  
  Very weak, and very unnoticeable.
  
  Value
  
  Even though Sneak King isn't exactly the 
 definition of a good game, it's still worth picking up. There is a challenge in beating the game 
 if you have the patience, and Sneak King is something that you will want to show your friends. 
 Plus, the 200 available Achievement Points are always good. Expect to play it for about a weekend, 
 and not too much after that.
  
  Verdict
  
  Even though Sneak King is the weakest of the BK games, it's still worth a purchase. It's crazy 
 and weird, but shallow gameplay keeps it from being great. Sneak King gets a 6.9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinefresh711
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  What horrible game this is. And not just because its blatant advertising with shallow gameplay. 
 This game is broken. There are several gripes I have about Sneak King starting with the fact that 
 the controls are inverted. Hasnt anyone noticed that when you push the stick left, the camera 
 goes left, but the King goes right? This feels completely unnatural and marred the entire experience 
 for me. Another problem is after completing a challenge, it starts you back at the beginning of 
 the map which means you have to truck all the back to where you were to start a new challenge.
 
  
  Some of the challenges were just ridiculous (find 10 hiding spots) and took a long time too; such 
 as the ones were you had to stalk people from hiding places only. The sounds of this game are 
 absolutely appalling. No one speaks but everyone mumbles. The music constantly interrupts itself 
 and is just plain annoying. The game looks atrocious too. I know it only costs $4, but it just 
 makes me sad to think of these mindless NPCs wandering this dismal, deadly dull world, thinking 
 of hamburgers, and then passing out from hunger if the King doesnt come to their rescue.
  
  These horrible problems aside, there are a few aspects that make this game worth buying. I 
 love the little dances the King does when he performs a flourish. I like stalking people. The game 
 does have its own crazy style and humor. And the idea is just so insane that you have to experience 
 it yourself. Experience it for about 30 minutes and then youre done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joecool6101
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I went to the local Burger King and purchased this game to see how it was. It was only $4.99 so 
 i figured cool why not. When i got it home i was surprised to see that you could actually win achievements.. but 
 after about 1 hour of play i was very bored. I do not see how someone could possibly waste so much 
 time on this game and actually play it till the end. I must say that most the achievements are 
 easy to get...
  
  But for how ever long it takes you to beat it... it is just the same thing over and over. You feed 
 someone... you get points... someone else is hungry... you surprise them... feed them... do a little 
 dance.
  
  If you like this game then great. I am not a big fan of it. Perhaps the other games that BK made 
 will be better :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clone_Dad
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  When I first inserted this game into my 360, my first thought was Wow! . I was utterly amazed at 
 the quality of the structure and storyline of the game, which delivers a level of immersity that 
 brings your whole body into the game. In this game, you do not control the burger king. you ARE 
 the burger king. This, my friend, is a gamers dream. After i finished playing this game, I was 
 pretending that I was the sneak king for hours on end. This game truly brings out the child within! 
 Also my 78 year old grandfather walked into the room and saw me playing. after watching me play 
 for an hour, he finally requested t] for his turn to play, so after another half hour of playing 
 I reluctantly handed over the controller. The results were outstanding! He was literally jumping 
 around the room, yelling and waving the controller around!! When my parents heard him, they came 
 in the room, and joined the fun. Eventually all of my relatives came in the room and all started 
 taking turns yelling and screaming and playing! when my neighbors heard all of the noise, they 
 cam in and joined the fun also. Eventually, the whole neighborhood came and had a huge Sneak King 
 party at our house. 2 murders and 3 accidental deaths occurred, because aunt jackie wouldn't hand 
 over the controller. So there you have it. This game is the greatest thing bestowed upon humanity 
 since the beginning of time. At a very, VERY reasonable price of $3.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono69830
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  Simply put this is a game with no real depth to it. Though if you look at the price tag it's not 
 a bad way to spend 5 bucks. The achievements in the game are generally not that hard to achieve 
 so your looking at 200 achievement points and a game that will give you a creepy look into the 
 burger king man himself. I think for the money its a fun game, but don't expect it to win any awards 
 for quality. This game reminds me of a classic sega game The Haunting starring Polterguy where 
 your a ghost and you have to haunt people out, same sort of feel.... though haunting was much more 
 fun and in depth. Take this game or leave it is all i can say, if you do buy it enjoy the eerie 
 and somewhat creepy king. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetallicaKings
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Look, I dont want to sound too crazy, but this game is like butter and toaste. Put em together, 
 what do you got? SNEAK KING BABY! This game was brought to me by a homeless man, looking for an 
 easy break. I informed him, son, you only get 2 breaks in life, and you are working on your third. 
 I was going somewhere with this. Ok, whatever. This game rocks hard. Soft? Maybe semi-hard? No 
 my friends, it rocks hardcore hard. McDonalds can kiss my irish ass (seriously, I am 25% irish, 
 so I am allowed to say it) . Fine, ive never played the game. Who cares, 99% of the people here 
 havnt either.
  *goes off to write pocketbike racer review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyralph023
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  ... I was close to eating the game until realizing it wasn't edible and Burger King was actually 
 selling me an Xbox/Xbox360 game! For your average gamer here are the best perks about Sneak King:
 
  
  1) Not only can you buy food, you can also supplement your game collection in the process.
  
 
  2) At $4 it should be very affordable.
  
  3) You need to BUY food before buying the game which means you'll be nice and full!
  
  Now 
 about the game. Sneak King is a pretty terrible game involving the sexy Burger King King, and basically 
 it's very comparable to the Splinter Cell series. Actually, the stealth action may even surpass 
 those games. Yeah.
  
  No. The camera actually gets in the way a little bit, but it can be overlooked if your real life 
 mission is delivering food to hungry American citizens by ways of stealth. Also the sound in the 
 game is great. The mood, the atmosphere, it's all there. Reminds me of an N64 game.
  
  Basically, if your real life mission is to feed the hungry in a sly manner, Sneak King is for you. 
 Live out our fantasy, live out your dream, and do it in the best way possible: by being the king. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatAtomic999
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible. It will keep you busy for years, and you won't know whether to pursue 
 the vast, exciting storyline or just admire the incredibly lifelike graphics.
  
  And then there's the Burger King lore. You can really lose yourself in the Burger King universe.
 
  
  The art direction is incredible. I have no idea where the designers come up with this stuff. Square 
 houses made from wood. Long strips of blacktop designed for vehicles to drive on. Little creatures 
 with feathers. Fanciful, imaginative, but somehow, almost believable.
  
  The main storyline centers around your character, called only the King . As the rightful heir to 
 the throne of of this magical kingdom, he sets off on an epic journey to attain something or other.
 
  
  Amazing. Simply amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johndoe1893
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Now alot of people in the video game community believe that one game this year came out that was 
 worthy of the title Halo killer . And that game is Sneak King! If your going to buy any game this 
 holiday season for your xbox 360 this game is the game to get. And if you havent bought an xbox360 
 well then this game will make you purchase the $400 dollar system. This games mixes GEARS OF WAR, 
 HALO2, RE4, MGS, GTA, GOW, Devil MAY CRY, ZELDA, OBLIVION and on all levels does it better than any 
 of those games. This game is going down in history as the greatest game ever made by mankind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidbob
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  I hate Burger King food. Nah nah nah! But this game.... oh this game. Ever shoved one of those 
 ear wax candles in your ear, and they use this kind of reverse osmosis process to get all the wax. 
 Remember how it felt like you were hearing just for the first time? As I popped in the Sneak King 
 I felt the very folds of reality peal back and glorious rays of burning joy baithed my pupils. 
 Suddenly reality became some how more clear. Ridding the spears of Agamon in a child like vision 
 of those that be it. I stripped myself nude and ran into the forest to commune with nature. Squirrles 
 and all manner of mamels, even dolphins, I can read their minds. They talk to me, tell me things 
 about the acient secrets that lurk just behind the walls of sleep. I can see this now. The earth 
 mother touches my very soul, and I am trasended unto the dwar kin yak yak doodly do! I watched 
 an episode of muppet babys and I could finally hear the secret music that was being transmitted 
 through the signal tvs. I smash harsh final running friends. Please all children of the holy of 
 holies you must see what I am speaking. See it with you ears. Hear it with your mind and soul. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidleader
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Where do I begin about this marvelous game!!!!! Its glorious light shining from my TV, I set out 
 to write a review worthy of its WINNER. May the King (all hail his name) smile upon me..........
 
  
  Graphics- 10. As you sneak around, giving people food, you'll wonder why the real world doesn't 
 look this good! Every pixel screams NEXT-NEXT-GEN STUFF HERE!!!! We need not Blue-Ray, we have 
 BK!!!
  
  Gameplay-10. Revolutionary!!!! You sneak around right? You may think this has been done before.... 
 BUT NOT SO FAST!!!! Your not busting caps on people, far from it, your giving them life, with awesome 
 sustaining food. One could make an analogy that you rival God him-self with the awesome camera 
 and control over the environment!
  
  Sound- 11! Wow, just wow. Never have I heard such a stunning score in my life. Final Fantasy scores 
 sound like children with maraca's compared to this stunning masterpiece. If Mozart heard this he 
 would probably go into shock, then die. And we wouldn't miss him because we have this holy-grail 
 of music and sound!!!!!!
  
  Value- 100.
  4 Dollars!!!!!!!!! How do you feed the fine artists who created this masterpiece? I would gladly 
 sell all I own and become a monk just to get my hands on a sequel!!! Its like they want the entire 
 world to prosper, such philanthropists!!!! Clearly God has decided that we deserve a truly next-gen 
 game, and with his messenger, THE KING, he has given us what we as gamers have lusted for since 
 the beginning. May the KING let all of us be WINNER with this most amazing, jaw-dropping, gravity-defying, 
 inspiriational, nirvana of gaming!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solideagle13
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I didn't expect to get much out of this game but it was decent for about 10 minutes. After that 
 I felt like I was being forced to play it, merely to get achievements. For $4 it had great graphics; 
 to tell you the truth it was better than some original Xbox games. It's pretty much like getting 
 an Xbox Live arcade game. You can't criticize BK for doing too bad of a job on this game. If you 
 think you can do better get that Microsoft video game maker thing. If you're low on cash and need 
 a quick Christmas gift, you can buy these and give them to some kid who doesn't know any better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJL13
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  First off this gets a bonus due to its cheap $4 price tag plus tax and a value meal (I recommend 
 the Angus)
  
  Graphics: Surprisingly good. The King has never looked better! The people look kinda bland though, 
 and the enviroment isn't much better. There's no lag what so ever.
  
  Sound: Bad yet good, the King is silent, but he is supposed to be, he's the freaking King! The 
 people on the other hand have a language so annoying it makes the Sims sound good. You do hear 
 birds chirp, but that's kinda meh. Music only comes when you flourish someone with food.
  
  Value: $4? Available for a limited time? It's ok? Sell it on EBay in a decade? Sweeeeeeet.
  
 
  Gameplay: The stealth element is simplistic, there's a button to run (But you'll be heard) and 
 a normal you can't hear me walk. Hiding is useless, the 2 foot views of the people, some not paying 
 attention to you what so ever, and it takes forever for the King to get in something. You can't 
 enter the houses. As for actual gameplay it goes like this, sneak up on person, and flourish with 
 that good old kingly way. Problem is the right distance to head into a pose is annoying. You either 
 wind up smacking the guy trying to get it to work or be next to him, then have to back up to get 
 it right. Flourishing is done by a meter, the higher the meter, the better the flourish. Food comes 
 in many portions (Not sure of an Angus) Some challenges involve getting several people in a row, 
 but the whole approach him just right always finds you dropping your food, failing your challenge 
 (The King does not follow the 5 second rule it seems) The hardest (As in you actually use effort 
 and the only reason this doesn't fall into the very easy section) is trying to get certain flourishes, 
 there's the 123, 333, and more! You have to get to the people fast or having no food for about 
 a minute has them passing out (I think when you're dying from hunger, it's time for you to come 
 to the king, but that would destroy the universe, you wait your turn like a good dying person)
 
  
  Be sure to hang this from the wall, and get the other 2 to have a collection. Most people won't 
 care, but although the game is a bad $40 to 60 game, it's a great $4 to around 12 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pologamer223
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  For four bucks, Sneak King isnt a ten, but it isnt horrible. Its a fun game to mess around with 
 when your bored. Graphically, this game falls short. Instead of buying this game, if available, 
 buy Pocketbike Racer. It's the best of the Burger King trio, and i've had loads of fun with it.
 
  
  There aren't many key features in Sneak King, aside from run , but like I said, for four bucks, 
 its an okay buy.
  
  So next time ur getting your weekly Whopper, fries, and a coke, remind yourself to pick up this 
 game or one of its sister games, Pocketbike Racer and Big Bumpin. (I dont reccomend Big Bumpin 
 at all) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Sneak King is more humorous than anything. Its the worst of the 3 games you can buy at Burger King 
 but is also pretty challenging. You would think that sneaking around and throwin food in peoples 
 faces would be a blast. Yet it is not. After about 15mins its gets pretty old pretty fast.
  
  Graphics - 6
  Its not best the 360 has seen and yet its not the worst lol.
  
  Sound - 
 5
  Some backround noises, saws and whatnot. I would like some screams because not everybody is going 
 to be happy to see this big freak jumping out at them.
  
  Value - $3.99
  About as much value as whooper meal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: topher78714
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Sneak King is one of the 3 available game from burger king right now at the price of 3.99 with 
 a purchase of a value meal. Now I know you think that a video game from a fast food joint can't 
 be that good and you are right. This game is basically one giant advertisment. The basic idea is 
 to go with out being seen and deliver food to people who are hungry. Doesn't play well but at the 
 price of 4 bucks it's a fun game to pick up and play a lil and just play a few missions from time 
 to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraindeadRacr
Rating: 5.1
Date: Dec 3, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Burger King is an large fast-food chain around America n' Europe.
  And currently in war with McDonalds, no idea is stupid enough to earn more customers.
  
  McDonalds 
 has alot of brands to their name, like Walt Disney, Pixar and sort. Burger King came up with Sneak 
 King to atract more customers aswell some quick bucks.
  
  Sneak King is yes... More an joke rather than a good game. I saw tons of games getting cancelled 
 for the 360 cause of their lack of originality, graphics and gameplay. I strongly think Burger 
 King bribed their way into Microsofts Gaming Department.
  
  For the sake of the game; it's fairly good if you like Burger King, cause that is the only logo 
 that will pop-up tons of time.
  
  The game is an large advertisement for kids infact, it's an nice game for kids around eight or 
 seven. But NOTHING for the average gamer who was looking around at the Action genre.
  
  This game is perfect for parents who wanna buy an treat for their childeren but it's an serious 
 let-down for the average gamer.
  Which makes me wonder how the hell this game made it to the GameSpot charts.
  
  ] ] ] -CONCLUSION- [ [ [
 
  Wanna buy an game for your eight-year-old? Take this cause it'll stop him/her from whining 'till 
 Christmas, for the average gamer like you and me.
  Skip it and forget about it, and just keep on dining at Burger King with no memories of Sneak King.
 
  
  ------- 5.1 MEDIOCRE --------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawnboi
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  Finding a game at Burger King, is just plain wierd. Spending five dollars on this game, is probobly 
 a good idea. Don't expect a good game tho, because it is not a good game at all. It will take you 
 more time to eat your value meal, then you will spend playing Sneak King. The point of Sneak King 
 is to, sneak up on hungry people, and give them a burger..... Its fairly easy, and you get to watch 
 the King dance every time you give someone a burger. There many diffrent challenges that will bore 
 you and entertain you. All earn you points that give you a A B or C rank.
  Getting an A rank can get very hard at time, since you have to make the time while still getting 
 the points. The graphics in Sneak King, are a little better then expected, but they are not very 
 good at that. You will often see the Kings cape clip his leg. The charecter model for the king 
 is great, but the rest of the charecters date back to PS2. The sound in this game is also very 
 bad. There is only one song playing the whole game and every level. The song gets very anoying 
 at time.
  Other then that the sound is kinda' good. No one really talks in the game either, exept one anoying 
 guy after you beat a level. Overall Sneak King is a fairly bad game, but is still worth the 5$. 
 Getting the game is a good idea, there are even 200 gamer points to unlock, which is probobly the 
 most fun you will have with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Sneak King for the XBox 360 and XBox is the probably the biggest evidence of product placement 
 in video games ever. The game only costs $4, so the issue of cost is no reason to not get this 
 game. The reason i would recommend getting this game is because watching as The King jump out of 
 a pile of leaves to deliver a steaming plate of chicken tenders or a coffee, is to good to miss. 
 This game obviously isnt going to be a Game of the Year contender, but its extremely bizzarr moments 
 make this a game you shouldnt miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Sneak King is one of the three Xbox/Xbox 360 games that you can buy for 4 bucks at Burger King. 
 In it, you play as the bizarre and creepy King as he stalks people to give them food.
  
  Gameplay: Basically you use stealth to come up behind hungry civilians to give them food. You can 
 hide in different places and walk very slowly to achieve this. It's not much, but it's okay.
  
  Graphics: Pretty Generic. But they're certainly not bad for a $4.00 game.
  
  Sound: The 
 sound is okay, I guess. Pretty Basic.
  
  If you're wondering if it is worth four dollars, then I would say yes. It's only four dollars and 
 can be quite enjoyable, if you like to play as the King, that is. Pick this game and the other 
 two up if you can. They're affordable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC2k
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  What comes to mind when you hear Burger King? Probably cheese burgers, fries, funny looking King 
 mascot, and those card board Crowns you get for free. Never in a million years would I have imagined, 
 not 1, but 2 games released by a fast food restraunt. Well, it happened and I happened to swallow 
 my pride and get me one of them. I picked up, 'The Sneak King.'
  
  The game is fairly basic and isn't hard at all. The main idea is to go around, sneak up on hungry 
 individuals and give them somthing to eat. I'll be honest, I didn't think it was be fun or even 
 a little amusing. However I was proven wrong. The gameplay does get very repetitive, but to see 
 the King dance when he feeds the hungry is priceless and it alone is worth the 4 dollars. The graphics 
 aren't bad at all and puts some of the 50$ games to shame. controls can be a little crazy at first 
 but you'll get the hang of it after about 5 or 10 minutes. The game isn't long at all but for 4 
 dollars you can't beat it. Also, if you are all about Acheivement Points, each game has 200 possible 
 points. So for 12 bucks, you can get 600 Acheivement points.
  
  If you are at Burger King and have 4 dollars to spare, pick up Sneak King or one of the other 2 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alis_Landale
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Despite being a big ad, Sneak King is rather amusing; even the opening movie was funny.
  
  As the King, your job is to feed and dance for hungry people.
  
  You're able to sneak around 
 looking for hungry people or actively looking for those with thoughts of Burger King, or hide in 
 various spots to ambush them. Some of these spots are really funny; picture the king hiding in 
 a trash can in an ally waiting for a hungry person.
  
  The gameplay is simple, the sound isn't great, but it goes with the areas, the graphics won't blow 
 you away if you're on who cares about them; the game is however, easily worth four dollars.
  
  It won't last a super long time, but I've paid 50$ for worse games in my life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about the three Burger King games that were coming out, I just laughed. But 
 of course, being the achievement point whore I am, I went out and plopped down $12 and got all 
 three with only having to purchase one value meal. Anyways, the first game of the three I played 
 was 'Sneak King'. This game is probably the strangest game I think I have ever played. Not only 
 that, but it's an obvious advertising ploy....... but who cares? It was only $4, it's a fun game, 
 and you get gamer points.
  
  The gameplay in Sneak King is very basic. Your goal is to sneak up behind people with the mega-creepy 
 Burger King guy, and deliver whoppers or whatever else he is handing out. That's pretty much it. 
 There are four different enviroments that you can play in, but I am not sure if your patience will 
 allow you to visit all four. You see, after about an hour or two of playing this game it gets REAL 
 old, REAL fast. But you have to go into this game with the right frame of mind. If you are expecting 
 the quality of a regular retail title, you will hate this right away. I went into it expecting 
 to get about as much fun out of it as if it was an Xbox Live Arcade game. And that's what it essentially 
 boils down to.
  
  The game actually looks pretty nice for a cheap game. Sure it's not the prettiest game around, 
 but like I said...... it's $4. The sound is pretty bad, however. There isn't much music and the 
 voices all sound like the teacher in the old 'Charlie Brown' cartoons. The gameplay gets boring 
 after you do several of the missions, since that's all you will be doing the whole time you play 
 this game. The achievements are pretty well laid out. Especially for people who want to complete 
 the whole game. I don't think most people will want to even attempt that. But if you do, it is 
 a pretty short game since you can burn through most of the missions rather quickly.
  
  I guess I can't really complain about get a decent game for $4 from a local fast food resteraunt. 
 It won't keep you busy for long, but you should at least somehwat enjoy the time you spend with 
 it. I would recommend picking this up whenever you feel need to munch down a Whopper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhounshell
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Thats right Folks its the Burger King in his own Stinking Game Wow what a shocker there right Ya 
 i bet you where saying the same thing well this is a Low Priced Budget X-Box 360 Title and a Fun 
 one to boot You Sneak arround as the King to delever a Hot Meal to some Starving Person its fun 
 and Makes you want a Whoper With Cheese all at the sametime this Is what they call interactive 
 product Placement if ive ever seen one You got 2 othere games in this series called Big Bumpin 
 and Poket Bike Racer Ive not gotten those Yet but I Hear there Just as equally fun So do your self 
 a favor Go on down to Burger King and Pick one up today 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danger2bme
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  There's a term that sums up the overall enjoyment of this game guilty pleasure . I gotta be honest, 
 though it was a shameless promotion, I was mildly intrigued as playing as the surreal King in this 
 basic sneak and surprise game. While the game lacks any real substance, it is a time killer and 
 is a perfect game for those who are looking to play their XBOX's without getting involved in the 
 warfare of Gears of War or the ecological balance in Viva Pinata. In short, it's a fast food game 
 in every sense. I've played this game for about an hour and I can't lie, I enjoyed myself. The 
 premise is simple... sneak around, do a stupid flourish and surprise someone with a Burger King 
 menu item. It's utterly stupid to the point where it's somewhat amusing. You go around prancing 
 as the King giving Whoppers to people and surprising them. You try to earn points by doing flourishes 
 and being as quick as possible in fulfilling your mission objectives. It's that simple. Yes, it 
 sounds stupid and yes, it is stupid. I found though that as I played this game that it was amusing. 
 No, it isn't Halo or Final Fantasy but it is definitely a leisurely game that many I think will 
 find enjoyable. I was really impressed with how well the game was put together. I mean, for $4 
 I wasn't expecting much at all and I was pleasantly surprised with what I got. I've seen $50 games 
 bigger wastes of time then this game with horrible glitches and boring gameplay. Instead for $4 
 you get decent graphics, a funny storyline, and kill some time. I mean, isn't that what video games 
 are about?
  
  BOTTOM LINE: IF you're looking for a game to putz around with, have $4, have no expectations, and 
 are just looking for something to goof around with and win some achievement points, then this game 
 is for you. It's amusing to play and ridiculous in nature which will crack a smile on your face 
 from time to time. You won't find the depth of GTA or Halo here, but if you have a taste for something 
 different and are looking to satisfy your video gaming hunger on a very small budget, go out to 
 BK, pick yourself up a Whopper Value meal and throw an extra $4 for this game. You'll most likely 
 lose interest after a few plays, but it will certainly stay in your system longer than eating a 
 Whopper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  When word first got out that fast food chain Burger King would be developing a trio of Xbox 360 
 games and hocking them alongside value meals for five bucks a pop, the gaming world had a good 
 laugh. Indeed, when you purchase one of these games and see that theyve gone to the trouble of 
 presenting the game in the typical Xbox 360 case, complete with manual and all, its pretty funny. 
 Once you get down to actually playing the game, though, the novelty of playing something thats 
 essentially interactive marketing wears thin quickly.
  
  Sneak King, one of the three games available, puts you in the shoes of the creepy Burger King as 
 he, well, sneaks up on people and delivers them sandwiches. Yeah. If you think thats completely 
 crazy, youre certainly not alone. This ridiculous premise is made even more laughable when you 
 see things like the names of menu options from the restaurant appear bolded, with trademark symbols 
 next to them.
  
  Actually playing Sneak King takes one-note gameplay to dizzying new heights. The first step is 
 to sneak up behind unsuspecting civilians with a burger in a thought bubble above their head (a 
 sign of hunger) . Given that their field of vision is narrowed strictly in front of them and only 
 extends about three feet ahead of their feet, this is a task rather easily accomplished. Hopefully 
 its not all the Burger King food these people have been eating thats causing these severe ocular 
 ailments.
  
  Once youre up close, youll be prompted to hit the A button, which will start a moving meter 
 not unlike those found in your average golf game. Youll need to tap A again to stop the meter 
 at different levels. This will determine the amount of flourish that goes into your surprise 
 delivery. The key to delivering food with a high ranking is to make the largest grandstand possible, 
 accomplished by stopping the meter at its crux. This will cause the King to perform a ridiculous, 
 half-hearted dance before pulling a Burger King menu item out of thin air. The problem is that 
 the meter  the sole mechanic of its gameplay  is impossible to lose. Even if you dont stop the 
 meter at all, youll still get a regular delivery. Although it wont get you the points you need 
 for high scores, this is by no means a penalty.
  
  However, the main problem with Sneak King is that youre walking up to people and pressing A 
 from the first second until the last. There are eighty different missions in the game, but every 
 single one of them has you sneaking and delivering food. There are some special circumstances  
 like having to perform a certain amount of flourish or completing deliveries in a certain amount 
 of time. But since youll master the surprise meter almost immediately, and since the time limits 
 are so generous, they make no difference. Needless to say, this immensely shallow gameplay gets 
 old fast.
  
  The bland presentation doesnt help things much, either. For an Xbox 360 game, Sneak King has an 
 extremely plain appearance. The environments  ranging from a saw mill to a dead-end street  are 
 sparsely decorated and sport repetitive textures. Animations also appear rough around the edges, 
 and the character models for the civilians are pretty ugly. The Kings cape also frequently clips 
 through his body. Some little touches save the visuals from complete ignobility, though. Its got 
 a diverse enough color palette to remain at least vaguely interesting, and when played in 720p 
 or progressive scan, it gains a much-appreciated boost in clarity. The audio thats present is 
 decent enough, but the extremely rampant rate at which it repeats hurts the overall presentation 
 of it, and overall the game just feels too quiet.
  
  All told, Sneak King could probably be completed in an hour or two. But considering you could likely 
 master the gameplay in about two minutes, its probably not going to even last you that long. Theres 
 some achievement points to be earned here, but aside from the 40 or so you can earn in a couple 
 minutes, theyre not worth the effort. As a gag gift or channeled guffaw at poor marketing, Sneak 
 King can make sense. Just dont expect much of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nejoku
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the dumbest games ever, but fun none of the less and occupies time. so yeah 
 this is well worth 4 dallors. If your addicted at getting achivements, heres like pretty much 4 
 dallor worth of 200 gamer points.
  
  The gameplay is alright, graphics are alright, alot better then Mc Donalds hand held games, wayyyy 
 better. But yeah if you have 4 dallors to spare which isnt much and just want to have fun, then 
 pick this game up from your nearest BK (Burger King) becuase I'll keep you occupied for a short 
 while. The King so far is the funniest mascot for any fast food companies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessi_dusen
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  4 bucks never played soo good. Not too shabby graphics and gameplay for 4 bucks... its a quick 
 game to get into and play and get out when yer done... Best looking 4 dollar game... Im suprised 
 the level of detail and craftsmanship put into a 4 dollar game... Sound is not so hot but the BK 
 ranch board has that nifty tender crisp sandwich song... Whatever happened to that commercial? 
 plus... years from now... this'll be worth a lil bit 'o cash. Now if you'll excuse me I have to 
 go get some food for dinner.. hmm.. Im thinking BK even though Ive had it for the last 4 days.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdestroyer
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty kool surprisingly. kinda retarded with the dancing and linear but still a good 
 game to train you for other games were you sneak 99% of the time. BREAKDOWN:
  
  Graphics: ... wow for a 4$ game that you get at a fast-food restaurant your probably thinking man 
 the graphics must SUCK if you said that take another look, for a 4$-restaurant-game the graphics 
 are amazing, not the best thing since gears of war graphics, but for a game with this low of a 
 price, you'll be amazed
  
  Gameplay: not bad, but not good either its a simple sneak up to person, press button, press button 
 again for extra points, repeat game. it has some creativity such as hiding, but it doesnt do alot 
 to help it, but like i said, its not all bad, it can be a great time waster and good at some points, 
 and nice to rack up on gamerpoints Sound: heres where we have a problem. good footsteps: yeah. 
 good surrounding effects: pretty good pretty good. voice acting: you ever played the sims? its 
 about like that, and that i dont like personally, but eh what can you do, its a 4$-restaurant-game 
 Value: its worth the 4 dollars, i wouldnt say much over though, but yeah its defiantly worth 4 
 bucks
  
  Tilt: [insert what tilt is here}
  
  overall: its an ok game, if you want a good BK game i suggest you get the racing one, its alot 
 better, but this is a good one to have for achievements and to waste time when your bored 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaJohn24
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  What you would expect from hearing that Burger King has made it's own games is not what you actually 
 end up getting.
  
  The graphics are actually half-decent and are even better than many PS3 launch titles like Genji 
 2!
  
  The gameplay is simplistic, and not always challenging. However with the level of variation there 
 is in the missions, and the King's Hilarious movements, it stays fresh just long enough to keep 
 your attention. The controls will take a while to get used to. The controls themselves are fine 
 all except the right analog stick which is used for the camera. Oddly, going against common sense, 
 you move this camera in one direction by moving the stick in the complete opposite. Also, no option 
 for inverted Y is offered, however it seems inverted X comes mandatory. As for the sound, it's 
 what you would expect. It's campy, it's not well edited, but it fits in nicely as a part of the 
 overall experience. A bit of variation would have been nice. Now here's where the game excels, 
 especially over such titles as Genji 2. This game has atleast 5 hours worth of gameplay or more, 
 depending on how quickly you get a hang of it, and how succesful you are. I'd say at the maximum 
 there's 10 hours to get out of this. However, it's not just the hours you get, it's the achievements 
 also. A few will have you working at it for hours to get, other will come quite easily. This adds 
 much longevity to the title.
  
  Plus, the $4 price tag ($5 Canadian) is well worth it and a large boost.
  
  As for the tilt, 
 the game is funny, and fun to play. Exactly what you'd want from a game called Sneak King. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hughesta
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Sneak King rules. You can get loads of Acheivment Points for $4. The game has you, The King, delivering 
 Burger King meals to the hungry. The games challenges range from easy to, um, FRICKEN IMPOSSIBLE! 
 Buy it, your benevolont overlords command you. The game is also hilarious. watching the king do 
 the robot never gets old. $4 is a great price for an absolute master piece, wouldn't you agree? 
 The graphics are not next-gen, but they get the job done. The sound track is great, and the intro 
 movie is scarier then anything out of Resident Evil 4. The game is pretty darn good, and for a 
 budget title, you can't go wrong with Sneak King. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddr_hero
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  well, in this game, you deliver sandwiches to hungry people. that's it. here's the pros and cons
 
  
  Pros
  -OMG THE KING!!!!!111one
  -4 bux
  -works on original xbox
  -has 360 achivements
  -should make you laugh.
  -kinda fun
  -large game for a promotion
 
  -not McDonalds
  
  cons
  -only kinda fun
  -does not feature ugoff (UGOFF IS HUNGRY!!!) )
  -idiot AI
  -does not issue enough points for 
 achivements
  -sux for McDonalds fans
  -controls a little wonky
  
  anyways, there is fun to be had with this game. the graphics aren't horrible, and it's 4 bux. i've 
 spent 60 on worse games. but, the camera is a bit strange, for me. so i highly suggest picking this 
 game up, aswell as the rest, because it's the best way you can spend 4 bux. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redface666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  One of three titles Developed by blitz games for Burger King; Sneak King is surprisingly fun, but 
 that isn't really saying much for a game concept so bare-bones.
  
  Basically, you play as BK's Egnimatic mascot, The King, on a quest to quell the hunger of the denizens 
 of his realm. After about 10 minutes, this premise runs very thin. You are given several challenges 
 to complete, such as delivering a certain amount of food in a given time, and that's all the variety 
 this game has to offer.
  
  Still for anyone looking to pad their gamerscore, and anyone looking for a hot meal and four bucks 
 to spare, this game's qurikyness and charm is worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You are The King. You must deliver food to hungry people. The catch? Creepily. The point 
 of the game is to surprise the starving people with food and do so in a special way. Yea, it's 
 kind of hard to explain. It's fun for about the first thirty minutes. Then you realise it's the 
 same thing, over and over again. The graphics are decent for the budget price. There are a lot 
 of missions, but you might not want to go through them all unless you really want those two hundred 
 achievement points.
  
  Sound: Same as the others, nothing special. Sound effects can be funny at times.
  
  Replay 
 Value: None. After getting the two hundred points, you might put it back in your 360 only to show 
 your friends how creepy it is.
  
  But for $4-5, it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trippinskott
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  it's a good game to get if you find yourself at BK and with an extra 4 bucks. I mean who wouldnt 
 buy a Xbox360 game for 4 damn dollars? I just wish it had the classic 1000 Acheivement Points, 
 but its no big deal. Another thing is it kind of gets old after about an hour or so. Its fun to 
 pick up and play just before you have to go to work or school. This game is a deff buy though. 
 Pick it up. You should also pick up the other 2 games made by BK. They are fun games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddycuffs
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was going to be so good from the commercials and just the premise. I mean, 
 being The King sneakingly handing out hamburgers and other assorted BK meals to unsuspecting people 
 on a cul-de-sac and workers at a saw mill.
  
  The worst thing about this game is that it gets old very fast. It's just the same thing over and 
 over and over and over...
  
  The only.. okay thing about the game is that it has achievements.
  Which are.. moderately easy 
 to get, and aren't fun in doing so.
  
  No online.
  Worth the $4 for the gamerscore.
  
  It is kind of funny though.
  :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elementskate14
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must buy if you are a bargain shopper because this game is worth every penny! Sneak 
 king may be a low-budget game but it actually is very addictive and to my surprise when you buy 
 the game you get a real xbox 360 game case and it even comes with a free 48-hour suscription for 
 xbox live Gold. Now the graphics are soemthing you shouldnt buy the game for but they arent that 
 bad at all. The gamplay is basically all you do is give people food but in different ways and in 
 different places and after you beat every single mission (all 80 of them) , you can even play with 
 people on xbox live! Overalll, Sneak King is great game for the $3.99 price and you'll have fun 
 trying to unlock the gamerscore points and after your done with this game, dont forget to try the 
 other two games that you can buy from burger king! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good: It's dirt cheep, it features achievements, graphics are suprisingly good for a budget 
 title, can give you a challenge every once in a while.
  
  The Bad: It isn't a very interesting stealth game, get's repetitive really quickly, camera has 
 some issues, the King is very disturbing...
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  So, you want to find a super cheep budget title for your Xbox 360 that will freak out pretty much 
 everyone who plays it? Well, Sneak King is the game for you! It's available at your local Burger 
 King for $4 with purchase of a value meal. So, is it worth even your $4? Yes. Sneak King puts you 
 in the shoes of the one and only King, and let's you use your royal sneakyness to sneak behind 
 unsuspecting people and give them delicious Burger King food. Sounds good right? Well, it is for 
 the most part. The biggest problem is this being billed as a stealth game. It kinda is, but the 
 stealthiest you are going to get is avoiding the blue line of site areas and popping out from behind 
 or in things. That's it. This game is not Splinter Cell... The challenged range from very easy 
 to somewhat harder, but there's nothing here that will challenge stealth game vets. The visuals 
 of Sneak King are actually pretty good. It isn't Gears of War good, but it looks darn good for 
 the price you payed for it. The sound effects are very cartoony, but also good. The biggest problem 
 with Sneak King is the camera. It often get's very hard to adjust the camera to fit the line of 
 vision you need to complete some tasks. It's not that bad of a problem, but it is a nucience. Overall, 
 Sneak King is worth picking up and playing for a great price and because you can freak out people 
 as The King. How cool is that?
  
  Gameplay: Very easy and kinda fun, but the camera has some issues.
  
  Graphics: Solid, it looks 
 darn good for the price you payed for it.
  
  Sound: Cartoony, but satisfying...
  
  Value: It's $4, so you really can't go wrong here.
  
  Final Thoughts: Dance King, Dance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherealsyn
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Wow, now this is advertising at its finest. First off you have a fairly addictive game, lots of 
 humor, a bit on the creepy side and really kind of silly when you get right down to it (no peripheral 
 vision on any of the hunger victims) . There are some issues with the camera (that can be annoying) 
 and some repetitiveness when it comes to the flourishes and missions. Basically you have to ask 
 yourself: Is a few hours of fun worth 4 bucks... a movie to rent costs me a couple of bucks and 
 that is 2 hours. I play 4 I have paid for this game. This one is a no brainer. Get it, enjoy it, 
 use it as a conversation piece.
  
  BK give the advertiser who came up with this a raise... what a great idea and how much free advertising 
 this one gave up. While I was playing my wife saw the burgers over their head, recognized the king 
 and said BK would be nice for dinner tonigh Thats proof of advertising right there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkateboardJ
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot says Sneak King is part of a Burger King promo for Q4 2006, in which the King must use 
 cunning stealth to sneak up behind unsuspecting people and bestow them with a delicious meal before 
 they pass out from hunger. i say what the **** is this? im going to stick with real hardcore gameing 
 and stay away from terrible burger king games thier food isnt even good but i will say this if 
 mcdonalds makes a video game for the PS3 im definitely going to get it.
  
  if you really had a good time and thought it was a good 4 dollars spent then good for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:01 am PT
Review:  No one takes this game seriously, and thats how it should be. Sneak King, along with the other 
 2 titles, are essentially one big promotion for BK. Sneak King is actually a good game, and its 
 much better than most 500 point arcade games to date. The gameplay is simple, but actually shows 
 alot of thought. You sneak up on people, suprise them with food. However, these people first have 
 to be hungry, and depending on how hungry they are, youll get a multiplier, however if you wait 
 too long, theyll faint. Next, youll have to make a stealthy approach, which can be done by pure 
 tiptoe sneaking or hiding, paying attention to how much noise you make as you walk, which is determined 
 by the surface you walk on and the speed of said walking. Its actually suprisingly deep for a 4 
 dollar game. Youll get bonuses for range, hiding, hunger level and a chain multiplier for several 
 successful stealth deliveries. Its too bad that everyone in the game is near blind, and can only 
 see a few feet in front of them. Regardless of how hungry they are, its still pretty akward to 
 sneak past people in plain sight. The camera is pretty bad in some places, and oddly theres no 
 way to invert the thumbsticks, which can be annoying for seasoned FPS players. Still, the gameplay 
 is creepy and humorous in a way only the King could do it, and if you can stand a meal at BK, then 
 its well worth 4 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digmeout
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, I wanted this game since the minute I heard it would be out &amp; saw the screenshot. 
 I mean, what could be more creepy and funny? Fortunately, the powers that be at Burger King seem 
 to embrace this impression, evident by the spooky music and that... well... unsettling way the 
 King tip-toes and prances around. Of course, you're not going to play this game every day but it's 
 suprisingly detailed and well rendered for its price. The view control is a little odd, the King 
 tends to climb in and out of things too slowly and the people inexplicably can't see you when you're 
 right next to them [really, who can miss a 7 foot guy with a giant head right beside them?] but 
 no one should buy this game thinking it's going to be valued for its game control and depth. The 
 clear fun comes from the fact you're the King, hiding in a trashcan and jumping out to give a suprisingly 
 attractive female lumberjack a cup of coffee. Plus, who doesn't want these XBox Live accomplishments 
 under their belt? Definitely worth the look I got from the Burger King worker when I excitedly 
 ordered the game with my meal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JBiker51
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Yes, this game advertises Burger King food. You hand out chicken tenders, Whoppers, and all other 
 sorts of BK goodies. But does the advertising make it a bad game? In a word, no. There's something 
 that feels very satisfying about sneaking around in the shoes of the BK King, hiding in trash cans, 
 and dishing out food to hungry citizens before they pass out. The game starts out pretty easy, 
 but gets hard later. The animations are hilarious, with the king doing a kingly dance (if you time 
 it right) and presenting the prey with a tasty treat. The music sounds good, too. I especially 
 like what they play when you do your little dance. The graphics themselves are great for the BK 
 King, but something you'd find in an average Xbox game for everything else. Considering the disc 
 runs on the Xbox, too, there shouldn't be much expectations for this BK game, anyway.
  
  Don't think I'm going easy on this game because I love BK food. I prefer McDonalds. For the price 
 of $4, this is a game definately worth your time. If you feel up to it, drive to your local BK, 
 get a value meal, and ask for this. While you're there, you should check out the other two ones 
 they have there. I prefer Big Bumpin' over PocketBike Racing, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BPWwrestler2002
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  On November 19, Burger King released 3 promotional Xbox / Xbox 360 games. Sneak King is an odd 
 approch to a stealth game, as you go around completing mission after mission in the four levels 
 the game has to offer.
  Each level contains 20 missions, and Sneak King steals alot of elements from some of you favorite 
 games. Sneak King takes place over four levels, a consturction site, a sawmill, a small neighborhood, 
 and a downtown area. Now each level is pretty small, but has a number of people who can get hungry 
 and need some TLC in the form of tasty BK treats. Each level also includes a few hiding places, 
 that are overall useless except for a small amount of missions that call for them.
  
  Each mission begins as you find a newspaper in the level and except what it reads. The missions 
 in Sneak King range from sneaking challeges, hiding challeges, time trails, and a mission where 
 you have to be spotted by everyone in the level. Overall most missions are somewhat short but somehow 
 manage to hold you intrest long enoght to complete the 10 needed to move onto the next level.
 
  
  During a mission, the game displays your number of deliveries in the bottom right hand corner as 
 well as the chain count. Every score you get upon a delivery is multiplied by you chain count. 
 You earn a point everytime you make a delivey, but if you get spotted by someone your chain count 
 automaticly get taken down to zero.
  
  Now for every delivery you are scored on your distance, hiding place, hunger level of the person 
 you delivered the food to, your chain count, and the flourish level.
  
  The flourish level is like kicking a field goal on Madden, you deliver the food then try to get 
 the highest flourish level on a scale on reg delivery to a 3 flourish.
  
  Now all of these might seem live very strange concepts, and until you play the game it sounds like 
 japanese, but you get use to it quick.
  
  For every mission you can revert to your handy GTAish GPS minimap on the bottom left hand side 
 of the screen. It displays you as a gold crown at the center, and everyone else as white dots. 
 When a dot turns green, it means the have a Sims style though bubble above their head making it 
 noticable that they are hungry. Once their dot turns to a flashing red they are close to passing 
 out. If you don't get to them in time, they'll fall to the ground, but don't worry they'll be up 
 a few seconds later.
  
  Other then doing missions, there is really no point to explore the levels while not on a mission. 
 You'll just honestly be pointlessly walking around.
  
  The music in the game is the same over and over again, but fits well with the sneaking. Sounds 
 are nothing speical but work well.
  
  Overall it's worth the four dollars BK is asking. It's honestly more then you would expect from 
 the extreme buget title that it has been proclaimed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuhakaNinja
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The stealth makes it a major favorite of mine because it tests my skills. 
 The gameplay is pretty solid and free roaming. I love the ways you can deliver the food and freak 
 the heck out of some people. It's just a neat game and it's worth it's small price of $3.99 with 
 a value meal. I personally have always been a fan of the King and this just makes me an even bigger 
 fan. Graphics wise it's pretty good. The environments are crisp and have notable textures that 
 make it look almost life like. The sound is pretty good and the soundtrack fits great with the 
 game. The music just goes great with the King when he's sneaking. It gives it an almost horror 
 aspect!
  This game is a good addition to anyone's collection and is worth it's price. If you like stealth 
 based games and games that can creep you some this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDesigner
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short since this is both a budget game and a novelty game. For $3.99, you can't go 
 wrong. It's at least a couple hours of amusement for some, others will play all the way through 
 just for the sake of the achievement points, of which there are quite a few for a game like this.
 
  
  Minor drawbacks: the camera (for me, anyway) is reversed, I would've liked to see a simple option 
 to invert that. Also, I would've liked to see more flourishes. There are three flourish levels, 
 level 1 being the lowest as far as how many points you get awarded, and level 3 being the highest. 
 But each level only has one move associated with it. Every time you score a level 3 flourish, it's 
 the same dance over and over. They could've added just a COUPLE more moves. But hey, the game's 
 $4, what do you expect?
  
  Overall, definitely worth it for the price. Pick a copy up! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
