-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soldier of Fortune: Payback
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/soldieroffortunepayback/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It looks pretty.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible, frustrating, painful gameplay.
 Falls well below standard set by previous two games.
 Lousy artificial intelligence and gunplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.1, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 553 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Cauldron Ltd.
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This shooter is a painful exercise in pattern memorization plus frustrating trial-and-error gameplay. 
 

  If you've ever wondered what happened to the Soldier of Fortune franchise, you're not alone. The 
 first two Soldier of Fortune games were popular shooters in their day, blending fun single-player 
 and multiplayer gameplay with the concept of playing as a mercenary. But after 2002's Soldier of 
 Fortune II: Double Helix, the franchise seemed to fall off the face of the planet. Unfortunately, 
 it should have stayed missing in action because the series has been resurrected with Soldier of 
 Fortune: Payback, a shooter that embraces all the wrong lessons that have been learned over the 
 past decade.  

           Don't let its looks fool you; Soldier of Fortune Payback is one of the most frustrating 
 shooters of the year.      

  At first glance, Payback looks like a very pretty game. The visuals aren't cutting-edge, but there's 
 an attractive quality to them, from the lavish depth-of-field blur effects that kick in whenever 
 you reload your weapon to the lush lighting. You no longer play as John Mullins, the hero of the 
 first two games, but rather as a new mercenary caught up in a very clich and badly told tale of 
 a worldwide terrorist organization that's so clever it brands all of its operatives with the very 
 same tattoo on their necks. It's a wonder they're so difficult to find.  

  However, it all goes downhill quickly because Payback reveals itself to be a relentlessly linear 
 and highly scripted shooter with a lot of flaws. Perhaps the most frustrating of these deals with 
 the fact that the game relies on a checkpoint save system with no ability to quicksave, which means 
 that if you're killed, you have to restart from the last checkpoint. That wouldn't be so much of 
 an issue if those checkpoints were frequent and numerous, but they're not. Thus, much of the game's 
 six to eight hours of gameplay is spent trying and retrying to get through the many sections of 
 the game. Though there's a regenerating health system, you still die all too easily. It's not uncommon 
 to have to replay a section a dozen times or more before you finally beat it.  

  The artificial intelligence is bad and consists mainly of two scripted actions. Once triggered, 
 a bad guy will either run straight at you or stand in the open and shoot at you. There's no sense 
 of dynamic behavior in the way the AI reacts to what you do. The weapon modeling is nonexistent; 
 there's practically zero recoil on any of the weapons, even the light machine guns. On the flip 
 side, even though the weapons all feel incredibly lightweight, they do a ridiculous amount of damage. 
 The first Soldier of Fortune games were "edgy" in that you could practically dismember opponents 
 with gunfire. The same goes for Payback, though it looks like the developers just copied and pasted 
 the same code from the earlier games because the visual effect is almost exactly the same. Arms, 
 legs, and heads all get shot off with absurd regularity while blood gushes everywhere. (The game 
 does boast a low violence option that tones down this carnage.)  

           The single-player is six to eight hours of banging your head against a wall.      

 
  The music is actually pretty catchy, but the rest of the audio is lacking. The sound effects all 
 seem canned, and the voice acting is terrible. The script certainly doesn't help either because 
 the dialogue would be fitting for a straight-to-VHS action movie. The game also ends in a silly 
 cliffhanger that assumes that gamers are going to want more of this action.  

  Additionally, Payback's multiplayer is very generic, with such modes as deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and capture the flag. There's a whopping five multiplayer maps total, so there's not a lot of variety 
 there either, which is also disappointing, considering Soldier of Fortune II's popular and fun 
 multiplayer mode.  

  The PC game is slightly less expensive than major titles, but the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 games 
 are full priced. Nevertheless, they're all a terrible value proposition considering the sheer quantity 
 and high quality of shooters this year. Unless you like pain and frustration, there's simply no 
 reason to play Soldier of Fortune: Payback when there are so many other better games on the market. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (54 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:30 am PT
Review:  So here we are again with a shiny new addition to the Soldier Of Fortune series; let the bloody 
 fun begin! As a fan of the first, and (to a lesser extent) the second games in the series, I was 
 of course interested in trying this one out. The Soldier Of Fortune series traditionally follows 
 a rather grumpy and grating-voiced but highly adept soldier, who's fortunate enough to be sent 
 on many missions across the globe where he gets to brutally dismember the limbs of his enemies. 
 So once again, we're dropped into the life of Joh-.. Oh wait, that's not right. John has been replaced 
 with some faceless guy I've forgotten the name of, who has all the emotion and personality of a 
 block of cheese. Also, those fun varied battles that took place all over the world are switched 
 with stone-age boss fights and brain-dead AI. All the voice actors have been replaced by people 
 from the design team, and any sign of a lengthy campaign is quickly dashed with the end credits 
 after a 4-hour exercise in frustration.
  
  It's surprising that these new developers have took on the rather perplexing design decision of 
 TRYING to make this new instalment a pile of sh*t, but at least you can't fault them for being 
 original. This is of course, my own guess at the intentions of making this game. But playing the 
 finished result, you can only stop in wonderment and look at things in a different way. That maybe 
 this really is just an experiment to create the blandest and most clich game in history, just 
 for giggles, and to see if it can actually make it to the shelves. If this was their intention, 
 I give them a genuine round of applause. I certainly hope it was, because they could not honestly 
 have played the finished product and considered it 'good.' 
  
  One of the game's few redeeming features comes in the form of its insane blood levels and dismemberment 
 of limbs. This is also the only thing remaining that shows it's a Soldier of Fortune game, apart 
 from looking at the name on the front cover of the box. It also looks nice at times. And that's 
 all the praise it's getting from me, so let's move on to what's horrible about it, which is so 
 much easier to talk about...
  
  So these new developers have completely thrown away the previous storyline in favour of their own 
 new and terrible edition. Not that the original storyline was ever particularly good, but I actually 
 liked John Mullins and not even playing as him anymore is a disappointment. You don't even seem 
 to work for the same organisation anymore, nor are there any other references to the previous games. 
 The whole game is full of terrible dialogue that could have been written better by a 5 year old 
 with tourettes syndrome, badly voiced and crammed into badly made cutscenes and mission briefings 
 that nobody cares about. All the characters in the game are stiff, dull and lifeless, trying their 
 very best to fulfil every action movie clich since the beginning of time. The AI has two different 
 positions; standing still and shooting at you, and running at you while shooting you. To top it 
 off, the ending is very stupid and sudden, and comes just when you think the game is actually getting 
 started. 
  
  The combat is frustrating. Though the weapons are generally fun to use, though extremely arcadey, 
 (they have no recoil, are overpowered, and so accurate you can shoot a fly off someone's nose from 
 a mile away) and it can be satisfying watching enemies flail everywhere and tear apart if you so 
 much as sneeze at them. Unfortunately it's not just them who are made of jelly, because their bullets 
 have the same effect on you too, you can die pretty quickly in this game, and it makes for a really 
 challenging difficulty. This, coupled with horrible AI, and dated and annoying boss fights, makes 
 for a mostly frustrating experience.
  
  The boss fights are like something you would see in an old shooter. Before we learned that facing 
 off against one guy shouldn't mean we have to fire 100 shotgun shells into his skull before he 
 drops. They are really lazy, unrealistic and irritating. We've adapted from that now into boss 
 fights that are at least somewhat comprehensible, like facing off against a guy in a machine of 
 some kind, or hiding behind a force field, or at least being protected by something other than 
 his t-shirt. There is one reasonable boss fight in the game, which is fighting a helicopter. With 
 that it's actually plausible to ask us to pummel it with round after round because it's a fricken 
 helicopter.
  
  It will take you about 4-5 hours to finish, maybe 6 if you're lucky... Payback, overall is an insulting 
 attempt to revive the series, in the end feeling more dated than the 9 year old original. Thank 
 god I can vent my anger into text so I don't have to resort to strangling close family members.
 
  
  Don't touch it. Don't even take it if you're offered it for free. You don't want to put yourself 
 through playing it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game strikes an amazing balance between doing nothing wrong while also doing nothing right. 
 Everything about the game almost seemed like a joke, but it was still fun to play. I always felt 
 like I was one stupid gameplay moment away from quiting the game, but that moment never came.
 
  
  The first thing you will notice is that the game looks terrible. All aspects considered, the first 
 Soldier of Fortune looks better than this game. All the environments are blocky and very bland. 
 The enemies turn into rubber rag dolls upon dying and it is hard not to laugh at many of their 
 deaths. SOF has always been known for it's level of gore. The first two games in the series were 
 made more intense by the violence. This game is made more humorous by it. When killed, the enemies 
 will squirm and convulse until the game decides they have landed properly on the ground, sometimes 
 taking up to ten seconds. Blowing a guy's head off results in a Mortal Kombat style spray from 
 their neck. There are so few character models in the game that it is impossible to be immersed 
 in the experience. There are two models for the prisioners. In a prison camp level when you release 
 15 or more of them, it is ridiculous to see the same two over and over. There also isn't much variety 
 between the models. I was introduced to a main enemy character at one point and thought I killed 
 him a minute later, only to find out that it was another guy that was dressed similarly. The total 
 lack of cutscenes also kills the game's fun. Everything you learn is told through voice overs and 
 the occasional still photo. I am also getting sick of cliffhanger endings, especially in a game 
 that barely had a story to begin with. If I invest this much time and money into a game, I expect 
 some kind of closure at the end. This game just stops. There wasn't even enough left of the story 
 to fill up another game without needlessly dragging it on.
  
  The game plays as you would expect. The controls are good (not great) and the action is entertaining 
 but the whole experience feels like it was thrown together quickly. Almost like the developer had 
 to, without exception, have the game done before Christmas no matter how close to finished it was 
 (they wouldn't do that, would they?) . The sequence that expresses this more than any other is a 
 car chase boss fight. After a brief gun battle on foot, the enemy jumps into a Humvee and you jump 
 into the back of a dump truck to give chase. You are in the back of the truck with no access to 
 the cab and there is no one driving, but the truck is able to drive it's way out of the quarry 
 you were at the bottom of while you focus all of your attention on shooting the enemy. It would 
 have been a cool segment if the first thing on my mind the entire time wasn't, "Who the hell is 
 driving?"
  
  My biggest disappointment with the game had nothing to do with anything that happened in-game. 
 What bother me the most was that it was originally announced as a budget title with a $39.99 price 
 tag. A month or so before the game came out, some corporate exec jackass who probably never even 
 played the game decided that it should be a full price game. Everything about this game says budget 
 and it is insulting to gamers that the publisher thinks this is acceptable to be priced alongside 
 games like Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3.
  
  The game is definitely fun, but definitely not good. It is actually quite enjoyable to play the 
 game with the purpose of making fun of it. It is a good rental, but you will never get enough enjoyment 
 out of it at it's $59.99 tag. The original SOF is among my top ten favorite shooters of all time 
 and it is sad to see the series fall to a half-assed attempt at cashing in on the Christmas rush. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 25, 2009 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who gives this game a good review has low standards in video games.
  Now I'm a FPS lover, and I'll enjoy even the most mediocre of FPS's if they satisfy my fix. Having 
 said that, and after playing this game for a little while.. I do not recommend this game to anyone.
 
  
  Lets start off with the positives of the game first. The game is good looking, I really like the 
 graphics, they're not Gears of War good looking, or Call of Duty 4 good looking, but they are good 
 looking. You can select which weapons you want to take on any mission, and customize them as well...... I 
 liked that. Enemies are easy to hit and kill. Lot's of blood!!!! It's cool watching a guy stagger 
 around after shooting off his arm, and then watch him fall to the ground due to blood loss.
  
  Now lets list the bad. The game has horrible AI!!!!! I mean really bad, guys just to to like 
 running around, with no sense of direction.. I'd watch guys run right by me, wondering where they 
 were going, then I'd just shoot them in the back....... because I could. These guys are real dumb!! 
 Then they'll crouch behind objects and not even shoot back. Some of the worst, mindless AI i've 
 ever seen. 
  Although you can select weapons for each mission, you have no idea what that mission is going to 
 be, so you can't prepare. Also you find no ammo to replenish your weapons with. The enemy seemed 
 to only use Ak-47's and M-16. So I just kept taking custom Ak-47's, so I'd atleast have a cool 
 custom AK to replenish ammo for. Every other weapon I had to keep dumping as soon as it ran dry. 
 The sniper rifle almost feels pointless, because the hit detection feels so exagerated that if 
 feels almost impossible to miss with any weapon, no matter the distance. And even though you can 
 custom your gun with silencers..... they are useless!!!!! The enemy in the game spawn at key points 
 when you've reach their locations. So they are not some guys lumbering around on patrol, they just 
 appear when you reached a certain area, so there is no sneaking involved..... They just appear and 
 know you're there. 
  Another problem is the exagerated damage you weapon does. It feels so easy to kill everyone. With 
 the hit detection you could probably play the whole game just shooting from the hip. I was running 
 around killing guys with out even trying to aim, after a while I didn't even bother to take cover 
 anymore, because the AI was so bad. Guys just seemed to line up in rows waiting to be slaughtered..
 
  
  I'm sure there are people who will play through this game... just because. I've seen some rediculous 
 player rating on here.... I've yet to play a game that deserved a 10. .... this one isn't even close, 
 and doesn't belong in the same realms as Cod, The Darkness, Black, Bioshock, Perfect Dark Zero... or 
 other great innovative shooters. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: c-d4wg
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  ive never played a game........ more torturous then this one...
  id rather stick pins in my eyes...
  the minute i flicked the left analogue stick... i new this 
 would be painful.. but hey i only rented it for $2.. so i continued...
  
  -the breifing before missions i think did the most damage..... whats with all the fuzzy sht... 
 honestly does it enhance the gameplay...
  
  -the controls... there alright... but the way you move and look.. i have mobile phone games that 
 give me less pain
  
  -enemy and al are both retarded
  
  -i only played on normal difficulty..... didnt die once... could be harder.... but i heard hard 
 was like insane on gow2
  
  -Run out of ammo halfway through first checkpoint and have to swap weapons..........
  
  -controls 
 had the right idea i guess... kind of reminds me of cod
  
  -given too many enhancement options at start of game...
  
  -very very weak story...........
 
  
  - you run faster then usain bolt
  
  good average shooter..... im just use to better ones.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalorian_81
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  I really think this game has got a raw deal with its current rating and the complaints people mention 
 when slating this game really arnt good enough reason to give it such a low score.
  First off the graphics are some of the best ive seen in any FPS game ever ! the textures and colours 
 and rich and realistic and combined with the amazing sounds you would be forgiven for wondering 
 if this is really just a game or is it some kind of console based training program for soldiers 
 (tongue in cheek) .
  Although the visuals are absolutely stunning, the thing that really grabbed my attention was the 
 sound. All the guns sound a lot more realistic than most FPS games and the background / environment 
 sounds are fantastic and really make you feel like your in a real battle zone.
  
  There are quite a few weapons to choose from in the game and most weapons have customisation options 
 for things such as alternative sights which might sound like just a useless visual gimmick but 
 choosing the right add ons for your guns can make a big difference.
  Although there are a nice selection of guns i find myself using the same set over and over because 
 well to be honest, why would you choose a lower powered weapon ? The only time i choose the other 
 weapons is if im replaying the campaign because it does sort of add a new feel since the sounds 
 and looks of the weapons really add dramaticaly to the experience in a way ive never seen before 
 in FPS games.
  
  My biggest gripe with this game is the story. Quite frankly its boring and instead of sympathising 
 with the main character i found myself not giving a rat's backside about him and even sometimes 
 wishing he would die in the end.
  The main character has about as much depth and personality as a soggy cheese sandwhich. He is one 
 of those "oh im so tough and rugged im not scared of anything even though i kinda look like school 
 teacher" guys but he dosnt pull it off well at all.
  The lame characters and obvious tired storyline actually shouldnt detract from your experience 
 much and I actually found a lot of the time i forgot i was playing that dull character and sometimes 
 thought i was just playing as me in the game hehe. I actually have to wonder though if the character 
 is so dull because in reality he would probably be pretty dull, James bond and Jason borne characters 
 dont actually occur in real life so maybe it was done on purpose but i do have to admit if there 
 was a high quality story then it could have possibly been a perfect 10 game. This is kinda going 
 off on a tangent here but one thing this game made me think of was Niko Bellic, it has left me 
 wishing for a spin off game from GTA4 where you play as Niko in his old war days using the game 
 engine and graphics of SoF.
  
  Anyway back to the point. The combat is fun and very realistic (as far as i know, i mean ive not 
 actually been to war) , the way you can shoot off body parts of your enemies or walk over to a wounded 
 enemy and hack him to bits with your knife is very satisfying and a lot of fun.
  
  In conclusion, this game is a LOT of fun and its a great shooter to play if your just looking for 
 no strings atatched fun. I think it fills a gap in the marker as a great shooter that can be played 
 anytime. I dont know about you but as great as shooters such as Gear of War and Halo are i still 
 have to be in the mood for them whereas SoF is great anytime. I recomend it highly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juddo666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  In Payback, you play as a mercenary who has been double-crossed. That's really about as deep as 
 the story gets. All that matters is you have a moral justification for dissecting terrorists and 
 guerillas with the insanely powerful bullets from your guns. The story, like the on-screen button 
 prompts and pre-game menus, is second-rate. But, this is a shooter, so a story is often seen as 
 a nice bonus. What really counts is that it's fun.
  
  To its credit, Soldier of Fortune: Payback is fun in certain moments. Though you are often surrounded 
 by enemies (many of whom are often difficult to see) , it never translates to intensity. There are 
 few moments where my heart rate jumped and my hands squeeze the controller a little tighter. The 
 fun comes in performing vivisections on every enemy on screen. Arms and legs blow off, heads explode 
 like watermelons at a Gallagher concert -- it's like a slasher flick with bullets. This is the 
 equivalent of the recent footage from the new Rambo movie. There is something sadistic, but oddly 
 pleasing, about blowing off limbs. There are some guns so powerful that you can actually send bodies 
 flinging sideways until they bounce of trees or buildings. I can't deny that there are many times 
 I was laughing out loud.
  
  That giddy fun doesn't hold up in the long run. Despite being a fairly short single-player game 
 (5-7 hours on normal difficulty) , the high level of violence isn't enough to keep Payback interesting 
 from start to finish. After a while the poor AI and cheap shots you take from enemies become too 
 much. If terrorists were really like their counterparts in Soldier of Fortune: Payback, then we 
 would have nothing to fear. These guys are just plain dumb. Enemies run straight at you (and sometimes 
 past you) without firing; an enemy coming up from behind will attempt a melee attack rather than 
 just cap you; and these idiots turn and run back towards a grenade. Even the terrorists want to 
 put the Havok engine to work by having their limbs go flying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drivemuse
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 7, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  This review applies to the Australian release version purchased from Big W recently, I don't know 
 if it has been edited the same in other regions or not.
  
  This is easily the worst game I've played in recent memory. It feels like Wolfenstein 3D with nice 
 graphics or a nicely dressed lousy flash game.
  
  There is a PATHETIC amount of blood shown, no dismemberment, no challenge, nothing interesting. 
 It is just painful playing this game. The version I've played (the Australian release) has absolutely 
 no redeeming features. It would have been a HUGE bonus to have some dismemberment, but without 
 it, it is a pile of rubbish.
  
  The enemies often die in the same pose, jittery corpses, enemies moving in the exact same sequence 
 as though they are practised back-up dancers. They just run at you, hit you or shoot at you. Nothing 
 clever about it, no intelligence at all. It's just plain boring. The controls are not responsive 
 at all. The gun moves too slowly initially in the direction you want, and then once it gets over 
 its little lag, it's too fast. You can't balance the sensitivity so it feels 'right'. It's just 
 all completely wrong.
  
  When aiming 'down the barrel' with alot of guns, it sticks the gun fair square in the middle of 
 the screen pointing upwards/fowards, just like in Wolfenstein 3D. This makes aiming really annoying 
 and unsatisfying to kill people and looks absolutely atrocious in todays day and age. I actually 
 laughed out loud at how stupid it looks, but that laughter quickly turned to extreme sourness as 
 I realized what a piece of CRAP I just wasted my money on.
  
  Basically, it's just a huge pile of garbage game, don't waste your money on this pathetic excuse 
 for a FPS, just don't do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RottNcod
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  First off im going to start with the good things about the game.
  -The graphics are good, not anything amazing, but good.
  -There is a wide selection of modern 
 day weapons including the M-16, SCAR, and AK-47.
  -Tons and tons of gore!
  -Not extremely hard like official review states.
  -Gore!
  And now for the inevitable part of 
 the review...
  All the enemies have down syndrome and most don't relize they are holding a gun and not a club, 
 for the hostile A. I. has a tendency to just run out in the open and beat the crap out of you. The 
 level design is boring and linear. Most of the game you'll be running through narrow caves, alleys, 
 or hallways with the exeption of a couple levels.
  As you progress through the game you will unlock a fairly wide selection of weapons, but you won't 
 have much time to use them as the campaign will average about six and a half hours on easy. 
  Luckely a multiplayer mode is available with such innovative scenarios as, 
  -Deathmatch
  -Team 
 Deathmatch
  -Capture the Flag
  -And some objective based game nobody plays.
  In conclusion if you find this game for a decent price ($30 or less) give it a try, if you love 
 blowing the hell outta things... and I know you do.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luvmesomchicken
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Soldier of fortune is without a doubt one, if not THE bloodiest shooter on consoles this generation. 
 I mean im talking about slitting your enemy's throat and watching blood spurt from his throat and 
 seeing him try to stay on his feet, and then you get bored of just watching him dying so you put 
 him out of his misery with a final round from your AK47.
  
  I mean seriously, this is one hell of a graphic game. If you shoot an RPG into a group of bad guys, 
 you will see limbs fly everywhere and dead bodies with no arms, legs, or head fly past you. And 
 you can shoot off a limb or a head in this game with 80% of these guns in just a few shots.
  
  Now, enough about the violence.
  
  The games singleplayer is very short, it only took me 
 about 5 hours to beat. The story makes no sense at all, one level your in the middle easting shooting 
 at terrorists and the next your somehow in the jungle shooting at guerrillas. I have to say though, 
 shooting somebody in this game just has a really satisfying feel to it, kinda like in cod4, but 
 better.
  
  Your arsenal contains more than 30+ weapons to choose from (most of which are pretty damn satisfying) 
 and you unlock more with each level you complete. BTW did I mention the gunshots in this game sound 
 AMAZING? You can also customize your weapons, and alot heavier than cod4 too. For example, on cod4, 
 you can only edit the camo, suppressor, and scope of your weapon. In this game you have I think 
 5-6 different scopes to choose from including ironsights (unlike cod4 where all you have is reflex 
 and acog) , and then you can fit most guns with a suppressor, AND choose what to put on the bottom 
 rail mount. Usually it gives you the option for a grenade launcher or a handgrip for increased 
 accuracy.
  
  Out of all the weapons you have, available to you, by the end of the game you will have unlocked 
 something like 6 or 7 assualt rifles, 5 sub machine guns, 3 shotguns, 4 snipers, 6 or 7 pistols, 
 and 2 projectile weapons (RPG and that one grenade launcher that loads like a revolver) so this 
 game has a lot of good weapons to choose from. ah and I forgot to mention you can dual wield pistols 
 and submachine guns.
  
  This game is also VERY straightforward. Theres not much depth to it and the dialogue in the game 
 is stupid, its all in 1st person so you never get to see what mason (your character) looks like, 
 and its a bit corny at times.
  
  Basically if you want a straightforward but down to earth shooter that is insanely violent I think 
 you will like this game
  
  OVERALL
  
  gameplay: 8/10
  guns and explosives are really satisfying but the game itself is too straightforward
  
  Sound: 
 9.5/10
  Gun shots from pretty much all guns sound AMAZING in this game as well as explosions do. The music 
 is also pretty interesting.
  
  Replay value: 7/10
  this game will last you awhile, even after you beat the campaign its fun to go through and play 
 the missions again.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  bad, outdated looking graphics. low resolution textures.
  Although, the weapon models look nice.
 
  
  online Multiplayer:
  4/10
  boring, lack of decent maps. (this game is also nearly dead online) wont keep you coming back.
 
  if you are going to buy this game, buy it for the singleplayer, not MP.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:53 pm PT
Review:  i never thought that this game would be a truely disaster. I'm absolutely not recommend this game.
 
  
  The story... hell! wait a second! what is the story!? one minute you in a plane facing a stupid 
 talking briefcase and 2 minutes later you stuck in the Middle East shooting whoever coming at your 
 face. Okay... it's not like it doesn't tell you anything, you are a soldier of fortune, shooting 
 somebody's face to earn some money... that's all, maybe.
  
  The graphics looks idiotic. The low frame rate occur in almost every scene of the game. Don't expect 
 a great awesome graphic like CoD which is published by the same company. CoD 1 have greater graphics 
 than this one.
  
  Gore probably the ultimate weapon this game have to survive... well... it's not truely true because, 
 can you blow somebody's leg with only one bullet? Keep shooting the enemy and you can enjoy being 
 a maniac mutilating your enemy (you even get an achievement by doing this too! Lunatic!) . Of course, 
 that's before the body suddenly dissapear to heaven right in front of your eyes (including all 
 the blood) .
  
  Nothing special with the gameplay. It looks the same with the first FPS game born to earth (probably 
 10000 BC) . But there's one thing special with it, The Final Boss! now this is great, shoot the 
 boss with a truck full of ammo and he won't die! Great idea!
  
  So, i won't recommend it, it doesn't worth your time and money, it's stupid, and i won't play it 
 again. Unless you like a brainless irritating shoot 'em up game, then SoF Payback is a really great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadurwalla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I'm surprised at how hypocritical the critics can be they praise games like ninja gaiden 2 for 
 their gore yet a game like SOF payback is reprimanded for being too shallow and relying on its 
 excessive violence as a crutch. People complain that sof is too straight forward a game because 
 you know where you have to go all the time so you don't get lost and the action keeps its pace. 
 Sure the game could be better but as it stands its still a good game. Sure the game developers 
 could have added more depth like a ZOOM in and out feature for the scope or throwing knives or 
 a crossbow where the arrows remain impaled or a longer time period for the bodies to remain on 
 the ground before dissapearing or C4 chargers with detonater but the game does deliver smooth controls, 
 a good physics system, buckets of blood, a choice of guns with customization, intense action and 
 clear objectives. Its a good game thats worth atleast a trial rent for fans of gory violence or 
 of the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IronMan5908
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 14, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Death. To some it is accepted. To many it is not. Obviously the makers of Soldier of Fortune: Paybacks' 
 Activision don't believe death is real.
  
  Despite many awaiting players and long hours of torture, only get you so far. This game just didn't 
 hit off well with anyone.
  
  This game can me summed up in two paragraphs and my personal view. It goes something like this.
 
  
  The game Soldiers of Fortune: Payback brought in a new style of shooting experience. For instance 
 the countless time you can kill people, or the number of ways you can think up of how to blow a 
 limb or head off. The game just flat out was gory and pointless. I do how-ever believe the graphics 
 and sound system of the game were it's strong point. The levels were ok, but the over-all game 
 play of just shooting and blasting your way through levels was kinda pointless. 
  
  In this game players can either choose to be stealthy or explosive. Generally you have to be explosive 
 no matter hat. You can pick what limb you want to shoot off, or head, and then just pick the rest 
 of them off when they the body hits the floor. I got one word: Sick! In all honesty who really 
 wants pointless missions of blasting blood on walls and squirting gore on yourself? Not me. 
  
  This game in reality got my attention in the fact you have to fight a bunch of people, and 
 a bunch of bosses just to complete the game. That was a bit challenging in itself. All-in-all it 
 was, for the most part, a piece of art. 
  
  I personally think this game should have been more about the missions and how you react to the 
 environment instead of the detail to blood and gore. There's not really much more to say to this 
 game. That's why I gave it a 4.5 for lack of everything people want in a shooter.
  
  This has been an IronMan5908 official review. Next follow as I review IronMan and Halo 3! Thanks 
 for reading and stay tuned. Bye! :smile: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pete360gow
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune: Payback is a very vanilla shooter which means very straight forward. This game 
 has it's moments like the intense blood and gore (which you can dramaticly tone down with a filter) 
 and customisable weapons. There are not really any WOW moments but still the gun fights can be 
 pretty intense anyway. Some of the exotic areas can be incredible and almost look a real jungle. 
 The damage modeling is the best I've ever seen, for example shoot them in the leg they will hold 
 the exact leg you shot in pain. But the fun will soon end as you quickly find out how bad the A. I. 
 can be. You also might feel a little creeped out after a minute while you go around shooting heads 
 off in this generic game.
  
  pros:
  1. great graphics
  2. great damage modeling
  3. customisable weapons
  
  cons:
  1. horrible A. I.
  2. too straight forward
  
  7.0/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtberry
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Not a great shooter. It had potential. It was my first SOF game, and I was disappointed. It started 
 off decent, but quickly spiraled downward. On the first level, I found myself wondering what I 
 was supposed to do next on several occasions. Your so-called partner would disappear and reappear. 
 The weapons weren't very realistic, although it was fun sniping at over 100 yards with a pistol. 
 Some of the gore and twitching bodies were very funny, as was the tremendous amount of blood the 
 bodied lost. All in all, just an ok game. Definitely a rent, not a buy. And I don't think I would 
 rent it a second time. Mostly redundant and linear gameplay. I agree with the gamespot review. 
 This game could have been much better. I became stuck on a level, with no idea what I was supposed 
 to do or where to go, so I just took the game back. I had no preconcieved notions about this game, 
 so I guess I was a little disappointed with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ligerz76
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  SOF: Payback is the new game in the gory series of FPS games.
  
  Plot: 4/10-Cliche, plot with boring characters. Nothing to be interested in or talk about. Everything 
 else makes up for it though.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10-Very fun. Before each mission, you choose your starting weapons and you get more 
 as you go through the game, your primary and secondary weapons, sidearm, and grenades. Guns are 
 satisfying to shoot and they do a lot of damage (limbs fly off and blood sprays everywhere, enemies 
 respond to where and what bullet type they are hit with, explosions, etc.) You get a knife kind 
 of like in COD4 except it is much slower. Also, you can crouch but you can't go prone. There are 
 some boss battles that require you to load a bunch of bullets into them in order to kill them rather 
 than some strategy you got to pull off. The game is run-and-gun, and as simple, repetitive, and 
 boring as it may sound it pulls it off well and turns out very well. There is also an online multiplayer 
 for replay value because the campaign is rather short (4 to 5 hours) . My only complaint about the 
 gameplay is that the enemies, while they hide and shoot and can act smart, will mostly just charge 
 at you or stand and shoot about 70% of the time.
  
  Controls: 10/10-They run very smoothly and are just standard FPS controls.
  
  Graphics: 9/10-Beautiful. 
 Water, rocks, buildings, and guns look like you can reach out and touch them. The lighting is perfect, 
 making the game bright and colorful at times. Character models look great. There are just some 
 glitches and instances of pop-in that hold it back.
  
  Difficulty: 3/10-Even on the easiest difficulty the game is very hard. It feels like you take more 
 damage than you should for what the difficulty says (enemies are just as easy to kill on all difficulties) . 
 Only good if you like a challenge.
  
  Overall: 9/10-Soldier of Fortune: Payback is an underrated game that everyone should give a try 
 to. It is simple run-and-gun, but it pulls it off so perfectly that it creates a fun, challenging 
 experience.
  
  ESRB: M for Mature
  Blood and Gore-One of the goriest games ever. Limbs fly off and blood sprays everywhere. Geysers 
 of blood come from enemies after almost every kill.
  Drug Reference-There are some missions involving the drug trade, one in which there is a giant 
 marijuana field.
  Intense Violence-A mercenary takes down hundreds of enemies with tons of guns. The violence is 
 pretty intense, the over the top gore put aside.
  Sexual Themes-One mission takes place in a brothel.
  Strong Language-You will hear a variety 
 of colorful language throughout. Maybe not as excessive as some other games but there is some pretty 
 strong language in there.
  
  ESRB recommended age: 17+
  My recommended age: 17+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodLikeBF2Snipe
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  How do you kill off Raven software? How do you kill of John Mullins? At least in sof 1-2 the missions 
 were fun, graphics were good and the gameplay was fun!
  
  In sof 1, they didn't use real weapons are real locations. You could tell it was a budget game 
 and they kick butt!
  
  Sof 2, they made money off of the 1st gamea nd finally had real weapons, locations and just dominated 
 with gore and fun and online play.
  
  sof 3, this is where i'm gonna write the most.
  
  The gun models, they look like a 5 year did them. The graphics are great but the movements, aiming, 
 everything is totally off. The way he throws nades are even annoying, the way he uses his knife 
 is dull and slow. 
  
  Cod 4 was a great example of having a knife. You press R stick and he does it quick and smooth. 
 SOF 3, slow and ugly.
  
  The A. I is stupid the gameplay is so weak you'll point out more things that are broken in the game 
 then how fun the game actually is.
  
  
  The aiming is just plain slow and stiff.
  I'm sorry, but this game was broken. 1&2 to this day are fun as hell and I can't blame they destroyed 
 this 3rd game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReconDemon
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  People Say This Is A Poorly done game and the ending sucks but this is a great game... the single 
 player story line is quite good the end leaves u in a clif hanger so u know they will make another 
 one people doesnt seem to give this game a chance but they should the single player is fun who 
 wouldnt like to shoot bad guys and there leg flys off and they crawl towards u like come on ,u 
 can blow there head off the armys/legs there body apart, and on xbox live... oh my god its been the 
 funnest since call of duty 4 like the Achivements r cool and not to hard but not to easy to get 
 and it has the same type of contorls as call of duty 4, it seems like a counter strike mixed with 
 call of duty 4 but i really enjoyed this game people give thsi game a chance rent it out and play 
 online if u dont play single player its fun as hell hopely u will give this game a chance theres 
 barly anyone playing this on xbox live ur lucky to find a few games im trying to get proplr into 
 this game since its not bad at all hopely u all will take my review into consiteration thanks for 
 your time -ReconDemon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candidate0
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  This is a very poor game, do not buy it, the gameplay sucks, if you like walking round levels with 
 a noob cannon against enemies that stand there and self destruct whenever you shoot them then wow 
 this could become your favorite game of all time.
  Sadly though its quite possibly my worst.
  I also seemed to complete it very quickly and easily.
 
  How can this stand up around games like Rainbow, Call Of Duty and Halo.
  Surely these development companies must employ people to try these games out in Quality Control 
 and one of them must have thought.... oh dear this is a total rip off and we have spent ages on 
 it and its a load of garbage.
  
  
  On live it really hurt to play.
  I read some previous reviews that said live play made it but im sorry its the worst multiplayer 
 shooter ive come across yet.
  I played a few game on it and it reminded me of xiii on the original xbox.
  We are in a new gen 
 of consoles now people!!
  
  Do yourself a big favour and dont even waste your cash on a rental.
  
  There are far too many 
 good FPS out there to even consider this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I am a hardcore fan of SOLDIER OF FORTUNE franchise specially of John Mullins character from previous 
 series . I wanted to buy the game asap but seeing its poor reviews and negetive player opinions 
 i just couldn't make up my mind , but at last i couldn't resist the temptation more and went out 
 to purchase SOF 3 : payback for Xbox 360. I'll point out the games pros and cons and overall my 
 experience of the game below .
  
  Pros : The game looks visually stunning , The games graphics / visuals are quite impressive , soundquality 
 is excellent and background musical scores r nicely done , you get different kinds of urban weaponary 
 to fight terrorists , single and multiplayer maps are quite big etc .You get tons of blood , gore 
 in the game and much more than in previous SOF series .
  
  Cons : The game is nowhere near previous SOF series , John mullins is removed to bring in a new 
 character called Mason .It has a unimpreesive story line . Voiceactings / character animations 
 / AI are quite poor .Weapons aiming , recoil can be quite frustating .The single player mode ends 
 very quickly . Its multiplayer is a big joke than its single player . Most acheivements for the 
 game are included in multiplayer , whereas its buggy and hardly anybody plays it .The xbox 360 
 version has slight framerate / choppiness .If you play the game on hardest settings the checkpoints 
 can be very annoying as they quite far away and if you die between fights you may have to revert 
 back to long last checkpoint .It seems Activision Value tried its best to ruin the popular franchise 
 .
  
  Overall , if you looking for a decent timepass FPS you can try out SOF 3 : payback , but if you 
 looking for a very good FPS with good mp look elsewhere .SOF 3 action is engaging and you get thrills 
 at every step. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moscardino
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  payback is a good game that has its flaws. The graphics are amazing with brilliant lighting but 
 when it comes to violence is just plain bad. 
  When it comes to shooting off a limb then any weapon will do it in one hit. When a leg is stabbed 
 it will fall to the ground, The blood effects however pick this up and hardcore violent fans will 
 love it. guns and grenades are surprizingly fun but have little kick to them. Whatever happening 
 to the soldeir of fortune 2 gore when if you shot a man in the head it would leave a huge hole 
 in the side of his face, in payback all that happens is it will pop and dissapear with blood spurting 
 out of a stump of neck.
  It is not as difficult as people say and when you get used to gameplay you will enjoy it very much. 
 
  Animations are brilliant and when a terorist is shot in the chest he will clutch his chest and 
 fall to the ground, where-ever you shoot someone the AI will react to it which i think is very 
 good. However when you shoot him 3 times and he has no legs, he will still be alive and will keep 
 shooting you and so you must finish him off unless you leave him to bleed o death.
  AI is not bad but sometime it is bad, when you re shooting then enemys will either run up and hit 
 you, find cover and shoot, stand still and shoot or flush you out. It will make it harder or easier 
 for you whatever the glitch will be.
  
  Overall is a fun and good looking shotter with some small flaws, but is not as bad as people make 
 it out to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiglyBiglyFK
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 4, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  When the first Soldier of Fortune came out I was 8 or so and I played it in my friend's house and 
 I was thrilled. It was one of the greatest games ever made. It looked good, the characters were 
 awesome, the gore was one-of-a-kind, and by all means it was a revolutionary game and it even caught 
 me at that age.
  After that, I became a console player so when the next few titles came my PC couldn't handle them 
 and the last-gen consoles weren't good for FPS shooters. When I heard that Soldier of Fortune is 
 coming back I was so happy and I counted days to buy it and play it. But when I did, everything 
 changed.
  The first seconds of the game were still good because the visuals of this game is pretty good. 
 Textures are smooth and guns and characters and everything else look good. The game starts to fall 
 short the moment you encounter your enemy. The enemy AI is so stupid, bugful and last-gen that 
 you feel you can create a better one yourself. Most of the times they just run towards you without 
 even hesitating to shoot and even sometimes they don't stop when they reach you. They'll run past 
 you . Sometimes when you shoot them they turn and look the other way. The don't usually run for 
 cover but in those rare occasions that they actually do they won't change it. When you throw a 
 grenade in their direction they start to run but only in circles near the grenade till they blow. 
 It gets just worse when you realize that the only thing you'll do till the very end of the game 
 is slaying those stupid enemies. I mean there's no other objective than "go to point B and kill 
 everyone". Now, this can be much frustrating. Even with all of this, there will be millions of 
 times on each level that you'll die because those AIs will sometimes spawn in strange locations 
 and stab you from behind or there are rooms that have no safe way in and you die the moment you 
 walk in. This trial-and-error will kill you because it comes with 2 minutes of loading each time. 
 Soon, you realize you're waiting more than playing the game (That, however, isn't 100% bad since 
 the game isn't anything) . Even the gore isn't great anymore. Yeah, there are hundreds of body parts 
 literally flying all over the place and it looks good from far. But it's like every part gets dismembered 
 in only one way no matter how you shoot it. It's not awful. It's actually very good and satisfying 
 despite all that. But for a game that its gore is its only strong point, this level isn't enough. 
 It's like playing Timeshift without time manipulation abilities. 
  Soldier of Fortune isn't only a bad game on its own, but seeing that it comes from such an anticipated, 
 original, and revolutionary franchise, it's also a pity when you play this game and think that 
 this could be a great game like its ancestors. The graphics and the gore level may be something 
 you're into, but they can't cover for all the flaws, bugs and weak development. In my opinion, 
 its the worst game of 2007 and probably one of the top 20 awful games in history. It does have 
 something special you won't find anywhere else but deciding that's enough or not, is up to you. 
 Personally I won't even recommend it to my enemies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, soldier of fortune is a generic FPS, that can be fun, it has a crappy story line, 
 pretty graphics, and not much else worth playing the single player game over again for.
  
  But, in this day in age when every single game is a FPS, it matters, some games do it better, some 
 don't. 
  
  Soldier of fortune is one of those fps you either hate or love... me, I love it to a point,
  
 its buggy,
  its gory, 
  its short
  
  but its fricken fun... the gore is the main part of the game, blowing people to pieces has never 
 been more satisfying... and it gets better...
  
  I actually had more fun playing multiplayer in this game than COD 4 or halo3, its really fun, and 
 I hope they expand on it, the customization options is really good, from selecting scopes, to sniping 
 someones head clean off from halfway across the map...
  
  its of course not for everyone,
  if your the type of person that believes halo3 is the greatist 
 game ever...
  then put it this way
  
  you won't enjoy the game...
  
  but if your like me and love blowing people to little tiny peices and laughing about it, 
  then 
 this is the game for you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  well most of the reviews ive read from place like gspot ign they said this game is horrible they 
 are kinda right but it is boring and dumb as they say dont get me wrong this isnt call of duty 
 4 or god of war 2 but it is still fun as anything to grab a shotgun and blow peoples body parts 
 off i didnt play the online to much just for about 2 hours there was hardly anybody on but i did 
 play a few matches it was pretty boring and not fun the story mode is pretty lame but you cant 
 argue with shooting a pistol and some iraq persons head goes flying off then you t-bag him weeeeeeeeeeeee
 
  
  PROS: dismemberment.... enemies are tough at some points but it is rare
  
  CONS: bad graphics most enemies are stupid bad explosions lame story lack of guns online is boring 
 lackluster and and very played out i guess if you want to see some iraq peoples body parts fly 
 off (who doesnt) then go rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philman61
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  The game looked very good. But I must say that I was completely disappointed...... well, maybe not 
 completely. The gore was pretty good, lots of options and bonuses for blowing off limbs and such. 
 But the AI really left a lot to be desired. Very little unpredictability. Just watch the enemy 
 and they pretty much would do the same thing every time. The later levels seem to improve somewhat, 
 but not much. Also a very, very predictable story line and the end was........ well, I guess we 
 are suppose to be waiting with baited breath now for the next installment. This is a decent rent 
 for those who like to shoot things and blow things up. If you buy this game, you deserve what you 
 get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barbarian_Ash
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  The classic Soldier Of Fortune strikes back on to a new generation for the Xbox360.. Well if you 
 have played the old series on PC, then you should know what im talkng`bout, for you who who do 
 not know anything about this game, i can tell you that youre not going to get yourself blown by 
 this game, and if you NOT have the games like cod4 and halo that i mentioned earlier , then you 
 should get them FIRST.. Because this game, feels like an Beta-Game, 1. The Game is 50 % cheaper 
 than other new x360`s. ...2: The Multiplayer does only have 4 playable maps, yes you heard me, 
 saying ONLY 4....*crap*.....3: And in Multiplayer Rank, You cant create, you just automaticly jumps 
 in a game, something like COD2. .....4: The Storyline is quit good actually, but they should have 
 a much more serious voice casting, and better AI for the boots...
  Ok now here come the goods..... the Multiplayer Online, is very fun , i mean it VERY FUN..... it 
 has a fantastic G. O. R. E... you can shoot the head of, arms, legs, blow them in pieces with a granade, 
 or a launcher. so for the gore its great.... The Online Feeling is top notch dude, i would give 
 it 10 out of 10 if it would have more maps, and the ability to create on rank.
  It feels something like Counterstrike and Call Of Duty 2... now you know, so for the online feeling, 
 i give it 8.5 out of 10.
  
  Graphics: Excellent , but only in storymode ( 1 Player ) , Multiplayer: Good
  
  Weapons Online: 
  Flashbangs/Grenades/Smoke Grenades/TearGas
 
  
  Online Mods: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Elimination, Team Elimination, Capture The Flag, Demolition
 
  
  Achievments: 42 / 1000 gs..... some challenging online achievments, but overall, you should have 
 an easy time to get them all. if youre in to this game.
  
  well, that was all dear friends... i hope that i could share some with you, sorry for the language, 
 not that good in english....
  if you have this game, then play online with me: gamertag; Pitbull Ash 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shivR
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I remember when I played the original SOF game on my PC years ago, it was awesome. I remember playing 
 SWAT 3, before I got SOF, where you get only 1 bullet hole to show up after putting a clip into 
 the guy and all you got was basically just a red dot on the corpse. Then came SOF... I was sooo 
 happy putting pistol rounds in guys heads and watching the blood poor out. Then came the shotgun... 
 putting it in a guys stomach and watching his intestines fall out as he died. Those of you reading 
 this probably think I am sick but it was insane for me having only really played Counter Strike 
 and SWAT 3 like games where the guys you shot just died with barely any blood or anything. 
  
  I was decapitating people with shotguns, blowing limbs off, and watching guys scream in agony 
 from nut shots, It was AWESOME. I think that was the first real application of the hit boxes that 
 allowed each body part to be hit separately and have different damage models for each. Well anyway 
 it was an awesome game, then came SOF2, not as good but still cool and better looking damage models 
 (No intestines though very disappointed) .
  
  At last SOF:3 came out, I didn't even know they were making it but when I walked into the store 
 I was like OMG I need to have that it is going to be kick ass and bloody as hell. Nope! After about 
 five minutes of playing I got frustrated as hell at the idiotic AI, poorly designed levels, and 
 lack of any kind of storyline. The game just wasn't thought out properly or designed well . I kept 
 playing a bit longer to have fun blowing some limbs off but its just so disappointing. After playing 
 Mass Effect I thought everything could at least look nice but nope. And I still can't make their 
 intestines fall out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linnx88
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  This game seems like someone (probably a lone person) sat down and played with the XDK toolkit 
 to learn how to write a game for the 360 and this is the result.
  
  No story (the story is about as engaging as if a 2 year old wrote it) , gameplay is horrific....
 
  
  The gunplay is nonexistant and the guns feel terrible. This is the ONE THING this game should've 
 nailed seeing as how it has no other merits and is based on random killing of the "evil" Muslims 
 and Russians everywhere.
  
  This game especially fails after coming out after the excellent COD4.
  
  PLEASE  
 Don't waste your breath if you're going to put out garbage like this. Thankfully I rent all my 
 games prior to buying them or download demos. This was 2 hours of my life stolen from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 7, 2007 4:00 am PT
Review:  SoF payback is the worst FPS I have come to play on Xbox360. it is simply an ugly game in almost 
 all aspects. why? for many reasons that I'm going to list below:
  
  the graphics in this game remind me of old generation games, although some times you get to reach 
 a decent level design to find that the game falls into ugliness all over again. the character models 
 are awful and so the textures and lighting effects. I was wondering if they made the game specifically 
 for the original xbox or the ps2 and forgot to mention it. apart from the second level where you 
 have quit a beautiful looking forest and waterfall, every other level looks bad. 
  
  the game play is classic and doesn't add anything to the genre, although the possibility of dismembering 
 your foes may come as a very interesting idea, it actually fell flat too; the dismemberment is 
 not well designed because of the bad animations and the disappearance of the body parts after a 
 little while. I had some fun at the beginning but after a while i got sick of the same lousy animations 
 of enemies losing a hand or a leg. the shooting is quit satisfying but again, I found some of the 
 animations so dull which ruins the whole experience. 
  
  the sound system is not brilliant in anyway, the voice acting is average and some of the so meant 
 to be funny dialogues get very stupid and silly. may be the sound of weapons as they fire is the 
 only decent aspect I can recall in this respect. 
  
  the game is also too short, and gets painfully hard around the end for no obvious reason !! 
 
  
  I think that SoF payback is a waste of time, it has more defects than qualities and it certainly 
 doesn't hold up especially with games like Timeshift, cod4 and Bioshock hanging around. I don't 
 recommend this game to any one, even FPS fans like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevoreno
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  I loved Soldier of Fortune 2, and i got really excited when i saw the poster for this one at EBgames, 
 i went out and bought it slammed it into my 360 played the first mission and was shocked at how 
 bad it was compared to the second game. I finished the first mission and then went straight back 
 to the store to return it, not even the multiplayer was good.
  +Graphics are pretty nice.
  -Gameplay was not very fun, i was actually thinking about what i was going to do do after i was 
 done playing while i was playing.. Can't keep your attention.
  -You start out on the first mission and have no clue on what the story is and have no clue about 
 anything. Just shooting stuff.
  -Ruined and awesome series.
  ? Will there be a SOF 4 and will it suck too? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Step 1: Remove the main character (from the series) right away in a weird and nonsensical intro 
 level. Instead of having the guy everyone knows and loves take him away in way that is confusing 
 and replace him with a idiot.
  
  Step 2: DE-EVOLVE the gore system. Yes, make it worse instead of better! Now instead of a gore 
 system where you can shoot at like 50 some parts of the body to get various gorey "blow apart" 
 reactions. Now you get like 20 like the original. Heck I think the original had more. At least 
 in that you could shoot them in the stomach and watch them hold their intestines. 
  
  Step 3: Give it a crappy story with bad audio overlays! 
  
  Step 4: While your at it make all 
 the enemies the same for the most part and have the same exact things happen when they die. (animations 
 and such) .
  
  Step 5: Strip the game down and make it less like its original game!
  
  Now for my review!
  
  The story was crap. "Heres your mission..... heres your next mission". 
 What the heck? What happened since the last game? Why is Miller so stupid now? Why is the new guy 
 lame? Why is the girl crappy? Whats going on? Blah. Obviously Activision has no writers. 
  
  The graphics and horrible..... well, not that horrible for a Budget game or whatever you want 
 to call this. Its certainly not a "big game". The animations are ok, the weapons seem weird. Everything 
 just seems second class. Like it was all done in a hurry. But non the less the environments do 
 look good, I give it that.
  
  The gameplay is nothing amazing like it use to be. They turned it into budget title run around 
 shoot this, protect that.... boring. It doesn't even pull you in. Being a SOF fan I was ignored 
 the reviews and rented it thinking I would at least be halfway impressed, what a letdown. And lets 
 not talk about the difficulty. Everything when it comes to alot of points is very specific. If 
 you don't see it the first time you die. If you you do see it prepare to die alot because you don't 
 suck.... the game is just mean that way. Another thing that is crap in gameplay is the AI. Here 
 is ALL the moves it does... ready?...... "Stand still"....."Charge attack you". Wow. Tough to remember. 
 Like I said budget title feeling. 
  
  The music and sound are boring. The music you don't notice because your to busy being confused 
 or angry and the sound is to average to care about.
  
  The controls a little complicated but simple enough. At least thats one goo thing and they even 
 have South Paw for you lefties. 
  
  Overall don't even rent this. Not even you die hard SOF fans like me. Its not worth it. I tortured 
 my way near the end hoping for some light at the end of the tunnel and found nothing but continual 
 signs that read "Turn back now!" and "FAIL!". Hopefully next time they will spend time with the 
 game rather then try to make a quick buck because this game just smeared the series name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Story: your a merc trying to kill people. Cool
  
  Graphics: nice enviroments. Guns look like crap and do charcter models.
  
  Audio: Crap.
  
 
  Missions: Kill kill kill, press a button, leave
  
  Controls: Standard xbox layout
  
  Features: Lots of gore, blood, and limbs falling off.
  
  A. I.: retarded. they look at you. 
 fun to kill though
  
  Loading Times: a few. quick loading times
  
  Multiplayer: sucks. cant even find a server.
  
  Requirements: xbox 360 and a TV
  
  Weapons: 
 lots of cool guns. Crappy looking
  
  The Good: Environments look good.
  
  The Bad: Cool idea for a triquel. But gets ownd.
  
  Replayablity-Litte to none. Not worth playing 
 again.
  
  Buy or Pass-Pass-Rent It.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed the original SOF games and expected alot more to come from this. The gore was always 
 one thing with SOF, and it was actually dumbed down, especially with the knife. The different maps 
 were nice to see and having a enemy try to kill you with missing pieces as well. I felt that if 
 they featured realist gore why didn't they do the same with maps? Like Red Faction or Black. But 
 the online game play brings back the "Up Yours" shooter. Payback is extremely fun online with the 
 things you do to other players, getting blacklisted online is easy with this game. Replay value 
 is low, only because of a thin story and weak game play. But I do believe if the developers took 
 a little more time beta testing with people and waited a while after Halo 3 and COD4 died out a 
 little this game could of been a hit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Whats the best thing that you could possibly do to an acclaimed shooter franchise? Well, according 
 to Activision, your supposed to take it away from its original AAA developer, and making it a full 
 priced game during one of the best holiday seasons for video games.
  
  On the positive side: some of the ways that your opponents die is humorous.
  
  On the negative 
 side: The AI, Story, and Gameplay is SOOO 1994. WHEE!!! As well, its full of bugs, framrate controls 
 and lousy controls.
  
  Verdict: Look at my score. This is a disapointing game for such a great holiday season of video 
 games. definitley avoid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk0375
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  there might exist a little bit of injustice in the videogame industry, since some corporations 
 do not ask for an extra efford from their developement companies and Soldier of Fortune becomes 
 and embarrasment for a complete organization with SOF Payback. Lets be fair, after playing Call 
 of Duty 4 I realized that war games will never be the same. COD4 raised the bars of first person 
 shooters, and to be honest with you I am upset at Activision for not checking the quality of this 
 game. this game is a disaster and a game that will probably hurt the series forever. I would not 
 recomend this game to anyone, not even to my worst enemy. but if you like retro games and want 
 to go back 10 years ago, knock yourself out. but if you want to feel how our real soldiers feel 
 and want to get shot (by virtual bullets) go for COD4 (AKA GAME OF THE YEAR 2007) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  This game was originally developed to be a budget title. Somewhere along the line Activision Value 
 stepped up the graphics but forgot everything else. 
  The game does look good, with nice HDR lighting and good animations for enemies. However, the game 
 suffers from bouts of slowdown, graphics issues such a pop up and the controls just don't feel right. Even 
 adjusting the x and y axis to max, it still feels sluggish.
  The game features 12 levels that are extremely liniar and just seen very short. Someone asked me 
 if this was better than Black Site: Area 51. Well, it is, but not much better. FPS of today need more 
 than just good graphics, the gameplay felt exactly the same as the original SoF, but that game was 
 still better than this.
  
  I really don't understand how people are saying this is such a good game. Maybe they're in denial 
 after forking out $60 for this "budget" game that should've retailed for under $30. Even then, it's 
 still not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodind
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:22 am PT
Review:  If what you are looking for is some good friendly violent fun, then this is your game. Don't expect 
 too much more than that though. SOF is a been there, done that kind of experience... at least for 
 me. If you are a fan of the SOF series it's worth picking up although I would really advise on 
 renting it first and waiting for it to be dropped in to the bargain bin. I really wish I hadn't 
 paid full price for this game, It just wasn't worth it to me. 
  As far as graphics, control, replay value and multi-player I would rate this game average on everything 
 across the board. Call me sick but the only thing that is above average is the fun factor. What's 
 not to love... Limbs and blood flying everywhere. Head shots are fun too! My favorite achievement 
 was "Better than diet and exercise" SICK! The weapons are also fun to fire and are all customizable 
 before every mission. 
  The bottom line is this... Rent it first and make your decision form there. There is much fun to 
 be had playing SOF Just don't expect anything innovative or new. 
  D 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heretic_Zero
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 27, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down one of the sloppiest games I've ever played. Luckily I just rented it, but at 
 the same time, I wasted my money. I recall playing Soldier Of Fortune: Double Helix, and thinking 
 "wow, this game is pretty damn fun". Now let me think back to about 20 minutes ago, when I was 
 playing Soldier Of Fortune : Payback...
  
  I pop the game in, game starts up, shitty user-interface appears- (Resembles something made by 
 an 8th grade student with Adobe Illustrator and Macromedia Flash.) The game doesn't waste too much 
 time giving you a reason to care about your first mission, and off you go! So now I'm in the Middle 
 East, fighting well modeled terrorists, but all around me the textures are popping... quite like 
 in Halo 2, but worse... not to mention this game is being played on a 360 (Wtf?) . Then I start to 
 experience some ridiculous lag while firing my weapons. I lay waste to the enemy ( which have decent 
 A. I.) and their blood sprays out in a way that is surprisingly unsatisfying, I mean how the hell 
 do you mess that up? The blood spatters practically float out of severed limbs and decapitated 
 bodies like batches of red feathers in a soft breeze. The weapons sound powerful, work pretty realistically, 
 and cause great damage, but many of them look like ass. Grenade tossing is also laughable, it's 
 like throwing a hollowed out plastic ball with a ball bearing inside of it, I say that because 
 the grenade does not rotate at all, the grenade itself is static and stays in the same upright 
 position while it is chucked, oh and then it explodes... did I mention the explosions look like 
 complete shit? It's like a giant fart cloud with the most lackluster explosive power I've ever 
 seen, and overstretched cloud texturing that more closely resembles the earth spewing streams of 
 vomit . Sure, when your enemies get hit by one of these 'nades they get blown to hell, but it still 
 looks like crap. There is no strategy involved in this game, it barely goes off the trail of generic 
 linear style gaming, and it's just plain boring... objectives might as well be missing, but they're 
 not, and they suck.
  
  Some of the levels have great scenery, but that is no excuse for the terrible gameplay. Obviously 
 some people just wanted this game for the unrealistic body damage and blood splattering goodness, 
 like the other SoF's were known for, but the developers even fucked that up. You're better off 
 playing ANYTHING but this game. 
  
  Overview:
  
  Crap game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amphibiouskille
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Graphics, gameplay, enemy AI are all really sub-par compared to what is available now. The most 
 exciting thing about the game is the photo on the cover of the box.
  
  I would certainly rent it (not worth $60) and play it over the weekend, but I am really disappointed 
 that I purchased it.
  
  The dismemberment "feature" is just window dressing that you will get over in about 10 minutes 
 when you realize the quality of this game is so low.
  
  Enemy soldiers will stand in one place as their friend a few paces from them has his head removed 
 by your sniper rifle, textures are rendered very roughly, while sound effects are nice, they are 
 nothing new or impressive.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: philkilla
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  This game had so much more potential. The AI is some of the worst of which I have ever played/experienced. 
 
  
  The weapons are cool with the fact you can modify them quite extensively, although it doesn't give 
 you real-time stats. (You have to jump from menu to menu)
  
  The multiplayer hardly worked, and players only wanted to get lame achievements.
  
  The gore 
 was entertaining for a few minutes, after that though, the game showed its ugly head.
  
  Oh yah, not to mention the story. When your "partner" shoots a grenade at a vehicle 5 feet away 
 from him, and walks away unscathed; after that you unload roughly 50-75 rounds in him as a ridiculous 
 sort of boss battle.
  
  How could this even come from the same publisher as COD4? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noct
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  To put it bluntly, this is the same SOF as always, just on a stricter budget this time. This is 
 a seriously flawed game, there is no doubt about that, but if you can put your brain on hold for 
 a few hours, there is a lot of fun to be had here.
  
  The story is just as useless and predictable as every other incarnation of the series; the plot 
 makes little sense, and the dialogue is completely laughable. The voice acting is just absurd, 
 and in some cases so horrible that I have trouble believing it wasn't done this way on purpose. 
 Any political correctness goes out the window on this title as well, with some blatantly over-the-top 
 ethnic/racial stereotypes that you have to see/hear to believe. One particular Asian guy's accent 
 was so laughable that I almost did a spit-take when I heard it...
  
  Luckily, the game's story is largely irrelevant, and most of the people playing this are not here 
 to immerse themselves in any great literary work anyway. SOF has always been a fast paced arcade 
 style FPS, and this game falls in step right behind the others. Once again they attempt to pretend 
 you have some stealth options by allowing silencers on most of your guns, but once again it's completely 
 pointless. The game gives you virtually no instances where you can off a guy without others noticing, 
 so there is really no point to silence any shots. Beyond that you wouldn't want to play this game 
 stealthily anyway because most of its charm comes from the insanely bloody firefights with dozens 
 of enemies.
  
  The game boils down to selecting your load out from a very nice selection of realistic firearms, 
 customizing them as you see fit, and then heading into battle. The game play is as straightforward 
 as the level design is linear. You simply go from point A to point B, killing everything along 
 the way, while stopping here and there to place a charge on various large objects and watching 
 them explode. If you can imagine a 3D version of Operation Wolf (with a lot more blood) you'd have 
 a pretty good idea of what to expect here.
  
  Graphically SOF actually surprised me, as it looks much better then I expected. The weapon and 
 character models are very nice, and the explosions and lighting effects look great. There are some 
 really nice focus/blur effects, and some of the environments are actually very well done. (Particularly 
 the jungles) . I mean, CoD4 this is not, but its graphics are more then passable and actually turn 
 out to be one of the games strengths.
  
  This game is riddled with problems however, and features just about every glitch that gaming has 
 a cute little buzzword for. You'll see pop-up, you'll see clipping, and you'll definitely see quite 
 a bit of slowdown.
  The frame rate takes a huge hit on several of the larger levels, particularly when there are too 
 many enemies on screen at once. It is annoying for sure, but it honestly never got so bad that 
 it interfered with the game play. This game also features the highest level of ragdoll twitching 
 that I have ever seen. Couple this with the fact that the limbs can be separated from their respective 
 bodies and you often get an amusing one foot country line dance in the middle of a field or atop 
 a pile of corpses. (Before they begin to magically disappear)
  
  The audio is not without its issues either, and apart from the fact that most of the guns just 
 do not have the kick that I expected, I actually had the sound cut out on me completely a few times.
 
  
  There are also some extremely questionable design choices made by the developers here. For one 
 thing, rather then giving the "boss" characters any kind of increased AI or weaponry then their 
 mildly retarded followers have, they took the easy route of giving them a bizarre level of immortality 
 instead. That is expected in most games, but in such a "surrealistic" violent visceral shooter 
 as this it becomes rapidly ridiculous in practice. For example, on one occasion I fired over a 
 dozen shells (sometimes point-blank) into the boss's face, only to see a huge explosion of blood 
 appear and then fade away, leaving him visually unharmed and still standing in place firing at 
 me as if nothing ever happened.
  
  The AI in general is pretty poor, and the enemy forces really only have two different methods of 
 attack. They either stand in place and shoot (with amazing accuracy) until either you or they are 
 dead, or they charge at you shooting as they go, and melee-ing once they are in range. They will 
 on occasion run for cover, but generally don't actually find any.
  
  Another issue with the game is that it simply doesn't employ most of the common practices that 
 FPS fans have come to expect over the years. For instance, if you are standing behind a railing 
 or wall in this game, you are NOT jumping over it. I found myself standing on the balcony of a 
 building at one point and my natural instinct was to jump down to the ground below as most games 
 now-a-days would allow, but that was not happening here; I was forced to trek back through the 
 building to the ground level to get out. Add that to windows that don't break when shot, and wooden 
 objects that can stop bullets and you're left with a very "last-gen" feeling game experience.
 
  
  Dismemberment has always a big selling point for SOF games, and while it is featured here, it is 
 rather poorly implemented. For one thing, the caliber of your rounds seems to have absolutely no 
 affect on the damage inflicted what-so-ever. A shotgun blast to the head elicits exactly the same 
 response as a silenced hand gun shot to the same area does, the head exploding. Except that exploding 
 is too generous of a description, it actually just disappears and is replaced by a quick geyser 
 of blood.
  
  Most of the other limb removal processes on the other hand are done very well, and are a real treat 
 to view (if you're into that kind of thing) .
  A shot to the neck will leave your victim grasping his throat while he slowly chokes to death, 
 while a shot to the leg will sometimes blow it clean off sending it spinning (and twitching) across 
 the ground. These moments are sometimes made even better when the enemy decides he's going to take 
 you with him and continues to fire until he bleeds to death; a nice touch indeed. Take an arm off 
 and your enemy will often just stand there in shock till they collapse, or at times they will run 
 away in fear giving you the perfect opportunity to follow the trail of blood to their corpse or 
 just shoot them in the back and move on.
  
  One of the more entertaining moments I experienced was when I tossed a grenade into a group of 
 men and a stumpy foot was returned directly to the camera at high speed following the explosion. 
 All in all, most of these amputations are a blast to experience, and while they will surely get 
 tired eventually, they give the game a visceral tongue-in-cheek quality that keeps me interested 
 through the largely dull level design.
  
  This game was originally intended to be a budget title and it shows, unfortunately that idea was 
 scrapped and it retailed for full price, which it certainly does not merit.
  
  There is surely fun to be had here, and your basic adrenalin craving, gore loving, action-o-phile 
 like myself can have a great time playing it as long as you can turn off your brain, forget about 
 the glitches, and ignore how linear the entire experience is. The game controls well enough, has 
 a fair amount of action, and the over-the-top violence any SOF fan has come to expect.
  
  A few years ago this title would have been much more acceptable then it is now, but after Call 
 of Duty it is tough to recommend this to many people. If it were not for the improved graphics 
 I would say most people would be better off playing one of its predecessors, otherwise it is probably 
 only worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonslayer22
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune: Payback is the third in the controversial and super-gory series from Activision. 
 This time around, developer Cauldron has stepped in to fill Raven's shoes. That means some chnages 
 for the series, but nothing too drastic. The AI is still dumb as walking bricks, and you can still 
 customize your weapon loadout at the beginning of each mission. And of course, you can still dismember 
 foes with nearly every bullet. And that's the real fun. Sadly, the game is really short. I beat 
 it on Normal in 4 hours. But Multiplayer has some longevity to it. It's deathmatch and CTF, but 
 in Soldier of Fortune's gory splendor.
  The basic gameplay is really a few pages straight from Black. The action is about intense pockets 
 of enemies and planning your cover around their locations. SOF: Payback even takes some very blatant 
 bits from Black, like backgrounds blurring during reloading and some very similar level design 
 in the last mission.
  The score, it should be noted is above average, and really sets the mood without being generic. 
 Likewise, the graphics are exceptional, and on par with Rainbow Six Vegas. 
  Everything else, except for the gore, is standard run and gun action. This series has always been 
 about runnning and gunning, and if that's what you're looking for, then SOF: Payback delivers. 
 If you're wanting something super-polished and cinematic, then go with Call of Duty 4 instead. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegasartst79
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  If your going to buy Soldier of Fortune expecting COD4 gameplay then don't spend your money. Although 
 SOF is not as deep as COD4 it still is a very fun and fullfilling game. If your not a picky gamer 
 and complain about every little flaw a game has then this game is for you.
  
  SOF is basically a perfect game for anyone who loves FPS's. The graphics are great the controls 
 are awesome and it has the most beautiful explosions I have ever seen. Not to mention gorgeous 
 gore and very good lighting effects. There isnt much to the story but thats ok as long as you enjoy 
 blasting your way through the different cities. In my opinion I would rate this game a 9.0
  
  I will add this game to my colloection of Military FPS's as a classic. Dont listen to the mixed 
 reviews it is getting. Those reviews are bias gamers who are sailing on the boat with COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echou07
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  After these past two weeks a lot of FPS has been churned out by the gaming industry and a lot of 
 them looked promising. Well don't let looks fool you, in particular Soldier of Fortune Payback. 
 If you're a fan of the original SOF on the PC you'll agree that, the game play was fun and exciting. 
 The new iteration however isn't so much fun. The graphics are nice and the ability to blow limbs 
 off your enemy is quite fun to see, except for the head shots that blow the heads right off, that's 
 a bit far fetched. The gamplay does not live up to its predecessors and to be honest I got quite 
 bored with the gameplay. 
  The enemy will rush up to you attempt a few melee attacks and all you need to do is back up and 
 pull the trigger, which made it exciting and boring at the same time. Exciting that the enemy is 
 aggressive, boring because they make it to easy to kill them. 
  The sound quality of the weapons are alright, not much of a punch to them, but overall decent. 
 I havn't finished the game yet, and quite frankly i don't think i plan to. I rented the game along 
 with kane and lynch dead men yesterday and will more likely want to finish kane and lynch over 
 SOF. 
  Kane and lynch has its own faults which I'll write my opinion in their appropriate section. 
 
  OVERALL: Rent this game before you buy it, otherwise you'll be spending 50 dollars on a game that 
 I highly doubt anyone would want to replay let alone want to finish. It's a run and gun shooter 
 that just does not quite seemed polished, but more rushed in terms of quality. I was looking forward 
 to this game pre-release and I am glad I rented it before buying it blindly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sellardwellar
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  I mean they have everything they need to make this game great.. this game should have come out 
 4 years ago... when we would have been blown away by the graphics but unfortunately the only thing 
 this game has goin for it is the mutilation part... dam its fun to blow someones arms and legs 
 off but nothing has changed since the first SOF.. except some graphics.. and all the exrtra fun 
 stuff holding unlimited weapons and throwing knifes and cool stuff has been taken out to make it 
 more realistic and it just sucks now... i mean i slash a guy with the standard melee attack and 
 the body just moves.... unlike in the first sof it would leave a nice gash across the corpses... 
 or the face... i mean they went back in time with this game... there is nothing new to the series 
 except graphics... i even remember in the first sof u could shout a guys stomache and his intestines 
 would hang out... they didnt even keep that in teh second game.. wtf.... it seems to me with every 
 new entry into the series it takes more and more away from teh games origianll fun game mechanics..... 
 too bad... well at least we have crysis to play instead of this crappy title... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjmb
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  There are some things that we can't understand about game making. Why the hell activision made 
 such a TERRIBLE SHOOTER???
  
  Come on, after many amazing FPS games, such as BLACK, FARCRY, THE DARKNESS, HALO series, BREAKDOWN, 
 TIMESPLITTERS and many others, how is it possible someone produces such horrible game?
  
  Well, the graphics are not bad. But everything else is rotten.
  
  Why, you ask...
  ok, here's 
 the answer:
  
  I began playing it yesterday.
  On the first mission (without any video or intro) , I send a flying grenade on my buddy (NPC) . What 
 happend? NOTHING!
  It exploded and he was there, standing as if nothing was wrong.
  
  So, A. I. on this game is a real JOKE.
  Even doom have better AI (and yes, it don't have any...) .
 
  
  Explosions are beautiful, but you run, shoot, stab, and that's it.
  
  YOU CAN'T EVEN DESTROY ANYTHING!
  
  WHY, AFTER BLACK, SOMEONE RELEASE A FPS WHERE IT'S NOT 
 POSSIBLE TO DESTROY EVEN A WALL?
  
  Man, this look's like Counter Strike, but without AI.
  
  TERRIBLE!
  AVOID AT ALL COST!
 
  
  play WOLFENSTEIN 3D, because it's way better (no kidding) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docprufessuh
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  See I've played a lot of shooters before and every game I own is as shooter, poker, or football 
 and I was real excited to add this one to the collection. But like the headline of this review 
 it was disappointing. 
  
  Graphics- 7/10 - The graphics are good especially when you're dismembering and incapacitating people 
 but they kind of feel arcadish. The graphics don't make you feel like you're part of the game they 
 look good but unrealistic [i guess cause of the lighting]
  
  Gameplay-7.5/10 - The gameplay can be quite fun shooting guys in the balls and watching them hold 
 them in pain and fall to the floor. But how much is enough, the game kind of gets repetitive. It's 
 short though so it can make up for that. The weapon customizing is pretty cool though and the online 
 mode is the main attraction for the game and very solid. The controls are simple and kind of like 
 cod4
  
  Sound-5/10- The sound actually is kind of good I like the soundtrack and the weapons sound realistic 
 but the voice acting is bad real bad.
  
  Replay value-6/10- The replay value is pretty good but going through the campaign more than once 
 won't be an option in your head
  
  Overally- They game is pretty good and deserves a look if you were hoping for an earth defense 
 force 2017 with a first person view and fleeing terrorists and mob guys this is the game for you 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rammstein000000
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Like many people, I now for a few years have been waiting for a sequel to 2002's Soldier of Fortune 
 2: Double Helix. When I heard my prayers had finally been answered, I got my hopes up, despite 
 the "Value" tag. But does it do justice to the Soldier of Fortune name?
  
  Graphics: 4/10
  Honestly the graphics are not horrible. What is horrible is the lack of graphical 
 options in the game. All you can do is change the resolution for the game and that is it. While 
 the resolution does make a graphical difference, there is in no way the graphical options that 
 Soldier of Fortune 2 had. Oh yeah, and the gore is horrible, so if you are buying this game for 
 the gore, think twice before you purchase it.
  
  Sound: 6/10
  This department isn't bad. The explosions are good, the enemies are pretty good, despite a lot 
 of them sounding the same. The voice acting is pretty bad in reality though. The biggest problem 
 with the game is the sound of the guns. Many of the guns sound so similar, it is hard, almost impossible, 
 to tell them apart.
  
  Gameplay: 2/10
  By far the most downgraded part of the game. The engine in this game is a clone of the Call of 
 Duty 2 engine, but with ragdoll physics and dismemberment. On paper it may sound good, but overall 
 it's horrible. They took out the leaning capability that was in SOF2, for whatever reason I am 
 unsure of. The gameplay itself just feels so clunky and it doesn't fit the game at all. The inability 
 to shoot while you sprint is also a downfall.
  
  Multiplayer: 2/10
  When it comes to FPS games, while the single player is important, the multiplayer is more important. 
 This game in no way lives up to the standards that SOF2 had set. This game, in more ways than one, 
 is a downgrade from SOF2 when it comes to multiplayer. In SOF2, when it comes to ranking it shows 
 your kill to death ratio and your score (this was without all the mods that were made showing accuracy 
 and other things) . This game, shows how many kills you have, and that's it. Your score for capturing 
 flags, team killing, or defending flags is not taken into account in this game. Also, the multiplayer 
 has 4 maps...4, which is a disgrace to any games standards, not just Soldier of Fortune.
  
  Another thing in the multiplayer that poses a problem, is the fact that you can only have a max 
 of 12 people in your server, no matter the gametype. I won't even go into this, because thinking 
 about it more just pisses me off. And when you go into a game that has some sort of downloadable 
 content, you can't download it from the host. It tells you that you have to go find it, which I 
 can't imagine that ever happening since I don't care enough.
  
  Other problems are ones variously mentioned on many forums. No color name tages, no symbol support 
 in multiplayer, no cd key, no anticheat software, no ranking system, lack of destructible environments, 
 no console for multiplayer, and the lack of options in the game.
  
  The good: 1/10
  While you are playing this game and picking out one by one the things wrong with it, you may find 
 a few good things here and there. The weapon selection is very wide variety and very good at that. 
 The ability in multiplayer after being shot, and almost killed, you can pull out your pistol and 
 try to take down as many enemies as you can before you die. And the best part that I have seen 
 about the game, is that if you kill enemies in the same area, the bodies will stack on top of each 
 other perfectly. That is where the good ends. You may be saying to yourself right now, "But there 
 are 3 good parts about the game. Shouldn't it get a 3/10?" No, it shouldn't. The good parts of 
 the game really make no change to the gameplay that will make anything memorable. It's just something 
 will make you say, "Oh that's cool". The good is terribly drowned out by the bad.
  
  Final opinion: 2/10
  As much as it pains me to say this about a Soldier of Fortune game, this 
 is by far the worst first person shooter to date. If this game came out 10 years ago, then maybe 
 it would have been an acceptable title. If I had a choice between this game, and them copying SOF2 
 to the exact as it is right now, and just updating the graphics, I would chose SOF2.5. Soldier 
 of Fortune Payback tops the games to avoid in 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiefFreeman
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Anyone familiar to the Soldier of Fortune games knows that it's trademark is it's over the top, 
 almost comical amount of gore and violence. If that's what you crave Soldier of Fortune delivers, 
 but Payback has lots of shortcomings you have to be prepared to put up with if you're going to 
 get any fun out of it.
  
  A good storyline has never been something Soldier of Fortune was known for, and sadly nothing has 
 changed here. You play mercenary Thomas Mason, who during an escort mission of a Chinese dignitary, 
 has his allies turn traitor and attempt to kill him. From there on it's your standard kill the 
 terrorist/bad guy fare. 
  
  If blood and guts is what you're after, you'll find a a good deal of it in Payback, but even the 
 games main selling point isn't as impressive this latest go around as it was in the past two entries. 
 The new damage modeling system - while more detailed - doesn't have as many damage points as the 
 Ghoul system did, and the effects from dismembering your foes just aren't as satisfying as it was 
 (in a comical way) in the first two games. 
  
  Visually Payback is a very nice looking game with good textures, character models and a few very 
 pretty environments. One level in particular, has you briefly fighting some enemies on wooden bridges 
 overlooking a beautiful jungle landscape in the mountains. I wasn't expecting the game to look 
 that good, but it was quite impressive. Most of the other levels don't look as nice , but overall 
 Payback is a good looking game that can compete or slightly best the likes of Rainbow Six Vegas 
 or Graw. The gun models all look terrific as well. 
  
  Unfortunately however, there are lots of bugs and glitches such as enemy limbs that will dance 
 and quiver around after being blown off, instantly disappearing enemies, serious clipping, and 
 pop in. The frame rate - while not bad - can chug in scenes with lots of action going on at once, 
 though it's brief, and never enough to make the game unplayable. The controls on the game are decent, 
 but it has a very floaty, imprecise feel as opposed to something like Call of Duty.
  
  The games A. I. is as dumb as a box of rocks. Your enemies are very aggressive, and will blindly 
 charge you without fear, no matter what type of firearm you have in your possession. This does 
 make it all the more satisfying to shoot them in the face. ;) The friendly A. I. may not even exist 
 in this game, for they do absolutely nothing in the way to assist you. They'll stand behind objects, 
 run around and shoot and hit nothing. They are there merely as an afterthought.
  
  Sound wise, Payback isn't going to win any awards. The guns each sound satisfying and powerful, 
 but the soundtrack is pretty generic, and loops nearly every few seconds. Character voices are 
 all generic as well, complete with crappy dialogue. There is one part of the game with an enemy 
 with a horrible fake Asian accent that will make you laugh out loud, it's so bad. 
  
  The single player campaign won't take long to breeze through, at anywhere from 4-6 hours. What 
 is awful about this game are it's horrendous load times, and check points. Playing this game reminded 
 me of playing the Dreamcast port of the original Soldier of Fortune, which also had awful loading 
 times. What compounds that are the poor checkpoints in the game, which can often have you restarting 
 a level from the beginning. In this day and age, things like this are pretty inexcusable.
  
  Multiplayer can be reasonably enjoyable in Payback, and you can use any of the games weapons 
 available. You have your basic assortment of Deathmatch modes, CTF, and Elimination. There are 
 only a handful of maps (which are fairly large) , but the game only supports 12 players maximum. 
 Sadly though, with the current crop of elite shooters on the market (COD 4, Halo 3, Team Fortress 
 2) Payback doesn't have a lot of people playing online.
  
  It's a bit ironic that Soldier of Fortune Payback went from being a budget title to an Activision 
 proper game, because it still feels like a budget game. That's especially disappointing considering 
 Infinity Ward and Raven contributed a small bit to this title. They could have contributed a bunch 
 more, because the game feels very unfinished. It's by no means an awful game, and most shooter 
 fans will probably get some satisfaction out of it, but it can't be recommended at the full $60.00 
 price tag. This budget title should have had a budget price. --CF
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecyoral
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  It is all that and and a loaded gun. I played some online matches and fell back in love with SOF. 
 ing a enemy from across the map and see they fall but still shoot back is chocolate cake. Sweet. 
 I had fun one the two levels of single player i got thru. The fun of a group of frinds or strangers 
 onlinr shooting off each others limbs is classic. Buy this game, play this game, love this game. 
 Period. I know everyone is all over COD4 but if you want to see the satisfaction of the enemy fall 
 and drown in his own blood while you cut his head off with your knife, then this game is for you. 
 It is not for kids so don't let your kids trick you into getting this title for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anamani
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  I would first like to say the Soldier of Fortune: Payback is FAR from flawless. There have been 
 so many FPS's that have come out in recent weeks and months that may be more polished, hyped, realistic 
 and more worth the $60 but SoF still manages to give you a silly and gory ride that is just as 
 challenging as any other military shooter around.
  
  Graphics & Performance: At first glance the graphics are pretty good. They may be a bit average, 
 however its clear, clean and character models are above average. As far as the framerate goes, 
 there have been some complaints. My experience with this game really didn't have framerate issues, 
 though the game does have some strange animations that may be causing the talk about framerate. 
 The game does not slow down during typical play though there are moments when you are throwing 
 grenades, stabbing someone when there are several people on screen that it slows down like any 
 other average game out there. I didn't feel any of this got in the way of the game.
  
  Challenge: SoF uses the same health system that other shooters have adopted. Where you take damage 
 and all you have to do is take cover and you are back to full health in no time. It takes more 
 than a few shots to kill you. Sometimes it takes more than one rocket but if you go running out 
 in front of a handful of soldiers you most likely will die if you do not go out there getting headshots.
 
  
  Multiplayer: There was hardly anyone online. But the few matches I did fine (two with 4 players, 
 one with 6 players) I had tons of fun. It reminded me of the old school days of Goldeneye where 
 you have a big map, no radar and the possibility of someone just around the corner ready to kill 
 you. Kills happen in just a few shots. You pick your weapons before the match (2 guns, pistol, 
 grenade) and from there you wonder around looking for the other players. On one occasion I got 
 killed by someone I had blown off their leg and they were on their back and headshotted me and 
 it made me happy just to see how silly it was and the expression on the other characters face as 
 he looked around and shot. They kinda have an animatronic look to them. Makes me think of the models 
 for Total Recall and Robocop. Haha, amusing for sure.
  
  My opinion (as a fan of gore and shooters) : The gore is silly as always with these games. It is 
 the Mortal Kombat of FPS's. You see blood spraying for what seems like forever. Bone sticking out. 
 I have shot someones leg off and saw the leg still kicking around (though I think this was a glitch) 
 it was amusing. I had read nothing but bad about this game before walking into the store to buy 
 it and I was very tempted to not pick it up and just get Assassins Creed. But at the end of the 
 day, I can say that I spend about 4 times as much time playing this game last night as I did Assassins 
 Creed.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone that likes Military Shooters, previous SoF games or gore 
 in general. I really hope more people start playing this online. If you end up picking it up, add 
 me! GAMERTAG: Robocop II
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gene14
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  Ok, seriously. My first review was based on about 20 minutes of play... (A half of the first level 
 and 1 multiplayer game.
  
  After that, I actually did play the game, and well.. It was a failure.
  
  The controls are 
 clunky. The damage model was better in SOF2. Bodies dissapear right infront of you in a flash, 
 no fade out no dissolving into the ground, just... POP. Gone. And one more time about the damage 
 models... The limbs just pop off and the head dissapears if you shoost it. But in SOF2, there are 
 oles in the head and body or wherever you shoot. It was so good.
  
  The voice actors are cheap... and no cutscenes??! Gay. And when you look at the player model's 
 faces closely, they look like 12 year olds.
  
  I'm serious people, just rent it or steal it. Well if you steal it, sell it back to a store or 
 ebay or something.
  
  Waste of time and money.... I got 40 bucks back for my used SOFP that was 3 days old and bought 
 MoH Heros 2 for PSP.... Now that is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoetWarrior
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  If you have call of duty 4 this game will disappoint. Poor character movement, low grade graphics, 
 and not the soldier of fortune I played on the PC. Game has not progressed from SOF II. I was looking 
 for some remnants of old game play and did not get it. This game is Perfect Dark Zero only 2 years 
 later dressed in fatigues. Not next-gen and well below the standards of a $60 game. 
  Not much more to say but the reviewing system is making me type more than I want to. Now I understand 
 why there was no advertising for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donscrillinger
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  well first off what in the hell happened here .this game is amazing.! i've played an little through 
 the singal player mode and so far this game is sick as UCK, WOW! the graphics are like an cross between 
 rainbow 6 and call of duty, simply sick.! also the player models are nice ,how you can dismember 
 the bodys and such. It makes it fell very realistic ,very. the gun play is on point also .if you've 
 playied call of duty you will love the control .I also notice an little pop ups here and there 
 but its not an game killer and slow down when an lot of body parts where flying, lol .but that type 
 of slow down is good "U know what im saying"... NOW the online play .... OMFG!! this game is whats 
 up! little lag 12peeps ,very UCKING fun and realistic ,VERY .. the only draw backs to online is 
 that there is no online co-op stroy and there are only 5 playable maps multi .but the game is sick 
 and thats something that DLC could fix .i fell that this is the most realistic shooter on the 360 
 and more should be like this 1 an must have game for hardcore shooter fans... ALRIGHT thats the 
 verdict .its fresh!!  but now after done playied it for 
 an while now and its back at the store now. its an good game but it has no levels to play so it 
 gets boring very guick . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait for this game. Popped it in and the thing that caught me was that the player's 
 movement is not very smooth. When you move the right thumbstick to look around it feels like its 
 sticking. 
  The graphics are great,!!!!!!! You start in a place in the middle east and the detail is amazing. 
 As you know you can blow every limb of a person. Cool weaponry. You can have a knife for melay, 
 Shotgun, machine gun, pistol, and grenades on your person at once. 
  All in all its SO FREAKING FRUSTRATING THAT THIS GAME IS SOOOO FUN but the moving make it horrible. 
 WHY? I tried to adjust the sensitivity from 5 to 7 and it helped a bit but its hard to explain. 
 oh wait, itstheframe rate. IT SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!! Its just a sticking feeling when you move. Still 
 a great game! I would rather have seen less than fantastic graphics and have it run smoother. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
