-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/sonicunleashed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Looks good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Monotonous combat.
 Imprecise platforming.
 Inept camera restricts your view.
 Tons of control issues.
 Horrendous level design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 971 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sonic Team
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 20, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Terrible level design, unresponsive controls, and a poor camera are just the beginning of the problems 
 in this awful adventure. 

  Every new Sonic release carries a hope that Sega's blue hedgehog will be able to regain the form 
 that made him a star in the early '90s. And most every venture into the third dimension has resulted 
 in various degrees of failure. Sonic Unleashed was supposed to provide the unrelenting speed fans 
 have been clamoring for, and it does finally offer a healthy dose of turbo-charged levels to burn 
 through. Unfortunately, even with Sonic's trademark speed finally on full display, Unleashed lacks 
 one very important element: fun. The imprecise platforming, absentminded camera, and poor level 
 design make Sonic's levels an unplayable mess, while his baffling transformation into lumbering 
 werehog comes with a whole new slew of problems. Put simply, there is no reason to play Sonic Unleashed. 

           Flaming punches and stretchy arms aren't as cool as they sound.      

  The story begins with Dr. Eggman shooting the world with a giant ray gun. Predictably, the planet 
 breaks apart, but there is an unexpected side effect as well. Innocuous Sonic gets transformed 
 into a giant, mean-looking creature called a werehog. This abomination emerges only when the sun 
 goes down, and the game allows you to play stages during the day and at night to make full use 
 of your dual personalities. Even though there are an equal number of hedgehog and werehog stages, 
 most of your time in Sonic Unleashed will be spent at night, since the arduous combat levels take 
 far longer to complete than the sprint-to-the-finish-line hedgehog races.  

  The werehog levels are extremely tedious. The levels are evenly divided between platforming and 
 fighting, but both elements offer more frustration than excitement. Even though you can unlock 
 more combos as you progress through the journey, your combat strategy never evolves beyond mindlessly 
 tapping two attack buttons with an occasional jump thrown in for good measure. You're given a shield 
 for when things get too hectic, but it's hardly ever necessary. The enemies are stupid, blithely 
 standing around until you take the fight to them, and their lack of variety becomes oppressively 
 obvious after just a few hours. Youll be given a few checkpoints in each level, but these are 
 awkwardly placed, so you'll have to repeatedly mash through the same battalion of enemies if you 
 can't properly navigate the woeful platforming sections.  

  As a werehog you're equipped with stretchable arms and the ability to grab onto ledges. This should 
 come in handy when venturing around these stages, but a few arbitrary restrictions have been tossed 
 in to make even simple navigation annoying. First of all, you can only grab onto certain surfaces. 
 If you mistime a jump, you often won't be able to grab a nearby ledge to save yourself, resulting 
 in a quick death. Second, your arms' stretchiness varies at random, so while it may be possible 
 to grab a ledge from a certain distance at one point, from that same distance later on in the level, 
 you'll find your reach stunted. The camera also hinders your progress. You are given free control 
 over your view when standing in the middle of a large plot of land. But when placed on a precarious 
 walkway where a perfect line of sight is necessary, your camera control will be severely restricted, 
 allowing only slight shifts to either side of your character. Because the punishment system is 
 so immediate and severe (falling in water results in instant death) , these miscues will quickly 
 steal away your precious lives, leaving only frustration in their wake.  

           You'll learn plenty of useless information talking to townsfolk.      

  The Sonic 
 levels don't fare any better than the lousy werehog parts. Your goal is to run as quickly as possible 
 to the finish line, but the camera is rarely able to give you an optimal view and the controls 
 are far too loose to provide the pinpoint accuracy you'll need. These technical problems mean you'll 
 have to memorize stages before you can breeze through them. The game is not responsive enough to 
 allow you to consistently avoid obstacles the first time you encounter them, so you'll find yourself 
 repeatedly plowing headfirst into spikes and falling down countless bottomless pits before you 
 finally know where each obstacle lays ahead of time. Extra lives -- something youre usually happy 
 to see in a game -- actually serve as a warning in Sonic Unleashed. Particularly cheap sections are 
 often adorned by these markers, ensuring you can play them repeatedly to memorize their cruel layout 
 and hope luck is on your side.  

  Even after you commit these stages to memory, though, you'll still die over and over again because 
 of the unresponsive controls. A few levels take place on the water, making you sprint at top speeds 
 to keep from sinking below the surface. Moving laterally while blazing through waves is sluggish, 
 but you'll still have to swerve to and fro to complete the missions. In other stages, you'll have 
 to perform wall jumps to succeed. This ability only works on certain surfaces, but even when you 
 find an ideal place to ricochet from, the finicky timing means you'll try and fail until you do 
 it perfectly. Certain sections require you to slow down and perform precise jumps across tiny platforms. 
 The controls are built for speed, though, so a slight push on the analog stick will send Sonic 
 sprinting to his death. The game also tosses in quicktime events at random moments. Some of these 
 will catapult you to different parts of the level, but other times you'll be hit with an instant 
 death if you can't meet their strict deadlines.  

  Even the between-stage hub is a total drag. Though the professor is supposed to guide you to the 
 next goal, he does little more than point you in a general direction and send you on your way. 
 You'll have to talk to specific citizens to open some levels, and trying to track down the one 
 person with pertinent information is an out-of-place burden. The level entrances are often hidden 
 in random locations and hunting them down can be maddening. Worse, when you finally find one of 
 these entrances, you'll often be kept from entering it until you collect a certain number of moon 
 and sun pieces from previous levels. Collecting items in platformers is expected, but the loose 
 controls and obstinate camera make searching for missing pieces grueling.  

           Unleashed is at its best when you're barely interacting with Sonic.      

  The boss 
 fights follow the theme of the other elements in Sonic Unleashed. These battles are long and tedious, 
 forcing you to play the waiting game for minutes on end until the giant beasts open themselves 
 up for attack. The sheer length of these ordeals makes the fights far more aggravating than they 
 would otherwise be. The attack patterns are easy to learn, so you'll spend more time standing around 
 waiting for them to let their guard down than actually attacking them. Even worse, their attack 
 patterns don't drastically change through the fight, so you'll be repeating the same basic dodge 
 maneuvers until you can finally vanquish these oversized annoyances.  

  The lone bright spot in this otherwise painful mess are some cheery, bright visuals. The graphics 
 are far from cutting-edge, but the frame rate stays high even when you're sprinting at top speeds, 
 and the levels are pleasantly colorful. The game is at its best when your interaction with it is 
 minimal and you're able to simply admire the view. The camera adjusts for cinematic impact while 
 you tear through loops and grind rails as Sonic, and though you're doing little more than pushing 
 right on the analog stick during these sections, it is entertaining to watch Sonic swoop by. It's 
 sad that Sonic Unleashed is only enjoyable during the moments when you're hardly in control of 
 it.  

  Pretty pictures aren't enough to make up for the miserable gameplay. Almost nothing else in this 
 game even reaches the level of mediocrity. The Sonic levels are poorly laid out and have unresponsive 
 controls, the werehog portions have monotonous combat and a wonky camera, and even the hub world 
 is so difficult to navigate, you'll spend way too much time searching for the next level. There 
 just isn't any fun to be had in Sonic Unleashed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (118 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Aerosite
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Sonic and Eggman are having there final showdown, in space, at the beginning of this game. Sonic 
 eventualy uses the power of the Chaos Emeralds to even the odds. Sonic looks as though he has won, 
 but in a clever trick, Eggman manages to capture Sonic and drain all the power from the Chaos Emeralds. 
 During this event 2 things happen, Eggman fires a black beam at the planet and splits it into 7 
 large chunks: This unleashes a strange creature known as Dark Gaia. The other is that while the 
 cannon fires, Sonic undergoes a transformation. His muscles get larger, hads get bigger, fur becomes 
 more darker and rough, and to top it off his teeth turn into fangs. Introducing Sonic the Werehog. 
 Eggman ejects Sonic back to earth, along with the usless Chaos Emeralds. When Sonic lands, he finds 
 a young character who cannot remeber who he is. Sonic promises to help him regain his memory. Sonic 
 calls him Chip, due to Chip's obsession with ice cream.
  
  Character Bio's
  
  Sonic- Leading man. Blue hedgehog that runs very, very fast. He has delt with Eggman in the past 
 before. Sonic never doubts himself no matter what the situation is. He is also very loyal to his 
 friends. He jumps into the most dangerous areas with little consideration of the danger.
  
  Chip- A strange, you..... Chao looking thing. Chip is as annoying as a 9 year old boy who thinks 
 he can fight well. Later in the game, you find out he can, no more spoilers now. Chip loooooves 
 to eat, you can buy food from shops and feed it to him. He will give you things when you give him 
 all of the food from one area.
  
  Sonic the Werehog- Sonic's other form. Sonic's mood is no different than when he is in his normal 
 form. Werehog is strong, focuses on Melee attacks. He is also much slower then his daytime form.
 
  
  Eggman- Villan that has a HUGE ego. Eggman is a robot-crazed weirdo who is bent on dominating the 
 world. He and Sonic have fought in the past, but he was always stopped due to his stupid mistakes. 
 Eggman always thinks he has the upper hand.... just proves how arrogant he is. 
  
  
  Good points of the game:
  The storyline is pretty good, but could be touched up. Playing as daytime 
 Sonic is fun, keeps you on the edge of your seat. Werehog is easy, just hit and slap, you should 
 be good. Combat system is easy to use. Boss fights are fun. Kept the comedy in the game.
  
  Bad points of the game:
  When playing as Sonic, you sometimes have about half a second before 
 you go falling to your death, or start a large portion of the track over again. Werehog has this 
 neat ability, when an enemy is at low health, you can preform a special attack. You press B when 
 you are near them, then you usually have to press a few buttons in time to complete it. The bad 
 thing about this, is that it is hard to finish a big enemy otherwise, and later in the game you 
 have an extremly short time to hit the button. If you miss, your enemy regains some health, and 
 you lose a small amount.
  
  Overall this is a good game, just plain fun to play. You only see two other classic characters. 
 The first is Tails (of course) . The second is the worst.... Amy shows up and she is as annoying 
 as ever. Peace out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Light_of_Chaos
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed separates the two fundamental elements of the Sonic series game play: fighting 
 and speed. Sonic the werehog focuses only on fighting opponents and lacks interesting combat. His 
 attacks are blunt and lack focus. The combinations can make it more interesting, but just pressing 
 the right series doesn't insure you will get the desired attack. They require perfect timing, or 
 a weaker combo will be performed. For bigger enemies. it will take several hits to defeat them, 
 when Sonic the hedgehog will take out the same robots in 1 or 2 hits, even though they make it 
 seem like his werehog form is stronger. The hedgehog stages focus on Sonic running through different 
 areas at high speed while you press a few buttons to keep him from crashing. While interesting 
 to watch, it can become repetitive by half way through the game. Both characters have challenging 
 bosses, but to beat them is simply a matter of pressing the right button when it tells you to. 
 It's not all bad though. I find the story line fairly interesting, and the graphics are some of 
 the best I've seen. All-in-all, it is far from the best game I've played, but it isn't the worst 
 either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kappazilla996
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:45 am PT
Review:  Okay, for those of you who read my Wii review, you saw my praise of that version, now, for half 
 of the 360 review, I'm going to compare the two version's good sides.
  
  Wii Unleashed: Gameplay XBox360Unleashed: Graphics
  Level Design Length 
  Controls
  Camera
 
  
  I'm not saying the XBox360 version of Sonic Unleashed is a total disaster, I'm saying that it's 
 just not as good as the other version. The 360 version is okay, but not as good as it could have 
 been. The level design will make you die many times and have to replay levels over, and over, and 
 OVER again to memorize them, one of the complaints found in Sonic and the Secret Rings. The controls 
 are really only a problem during hedgehog stages, they're too loose and Sonic goes so fast it's 
 hard to control him. They can also be unresponsive a couple times during where-hog stages, but 
 this is a minimal problem. The camera is the problem during the where-hog stages, where it's little 
 controlability become minimal to okay, which leads to imprecise platforming. 
  
  The 360 version does have good parts too, but not too many. These good parts are the graphics, 
 which represent Sonic's cartoon-ish world very nicely, and the length, it is a bit longer and has 
 more level than the Wii version.
  
  Also, I don't know why, but GameSpot messed up my comparison up at the top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killa_Mann69
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  After the god awful pile of cow dung that was Sonic 06, Unleashed is a breath of fresh air, however, 
 Secret Rings saved the franchise from complete obscurity.
  
  But I'm going to talk about Unleashed, so let's get to it!
  
  Sound/Music: 8/10
  As with 
 almost every sonic game, Unleashed has great music. Whether it's the upbeat tempo of the day stages, 
 or the laid back jazz feel of the night stages, it connects on all points, not one track sounding 
 the same. Some tracks sound very ethnic. Chun-nan has a oriental-sound to it, while Shamar sounds 
 quite arabic. Also Jason Griffith, has improved greatly from 06 (his werehog voice quite possibly 
 even better than his hedgehog, and he never says "long time no see") , Tails actually sound like 
 a boy (finally!) , and Chip-despite what you've heard-is not annoying in the slightest, as he never 
 says anything during levels, and might say something during boss battles. What keeps this from 
 being a 10, is Sonic, constantly saying the same phrases, when he jumps, and boosts
  
  Gameplay: 7.0/10
  Daytime, and Nighttime. Either of the two may not be for you. Daytime stages 
 bring back the raw speed that is natural for the blue blur, and also has some platforming elements. 
 the Sonic Boost adds even more speed.
  Nighttime stages offer beat-em up gameplay, with some puzzle, and platforming aspects. The werehog 
 has some speed, when you hold down the Left or Right Triggers (on the 360) . But beat-em ups have 
 never focused on speed anyway. The controls are quite simple, but practice is recommended so you 
 won't get your spiky-blue ass handed to you. IMO, some professional gaming reviewers, might really 
 suck at this game, and give it poor scores as a result. What keeps this from being a 10, is the 
 level up aspect-while not annoying, just doesn't fit in a Sonic game (the sun, and moon levels 
 are a different story) -, and the Quick-time events. I elaborate on them more later.
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  While in general, the detail in the stages is spot on, the enemy design is 
 a bit bland. Eggman robot aren't that much different-Egg Fighters, Egg-Shields, Egg-Knights and 
 Egg Shooters are simply upgraded versions of Egg Robos-which make up for Half of the Eggman robots 
 you'll run into in day stages, and most of the Eggman robots you'll run into in night stages. Others 
 such as smaller enemies, almost only exist to reach higher places. The enemy design in Dark Gaia's 
 minions, are more diverse, and you will run into a variable mix of them in each level, usually 
 running into Nightmares, and Deep Nightmares-both aren't difficult to beat, but in numbers, can 
 be deadly (especially when different types of other enemies are present as well) . The laziest enemy 
 design is the Eggman bosses. One is a combination of the first two, and the design of the two is 
 different, but quite similar. The final Eggman boss, fought in Eggman Land, is a modification of 
 the one seen in the opening cut scene, and a weaker version at that!. Dark Gaia Bosses are very 
 different however. In some stages, the framerate slows down when there is alot of action on screen. 
 This doesn't happen much however.
  
  Controls: 8.5/10
  I touched on them in gameplay, but I'll go in depth here.
  They aren't hard to learn, and are 
 simple. The Homing attack is a different button than the jump, to prevent accidentally Homing attacking 
 an enemy. The Ring Boost can be done on the ground and in the air, as long as there's not another 
 enemy around. This brings up a tip I must give: use boost wisely. When boosting near rings, the 
 rings come toward you, but unnecessarily boosting can lead to running into spikes, or your death-remember 
 that. Also, wait for the targeting cursor to come up, if you are homing attacking. if not, you'll 
 to an air boost, going by your target, and most likely to your death. The werehog's controls are 
 more forgiving thank goodness, but as I mentioned, practice in areas where falling to your death 
 is not a risk.
  
  
  What bothers me about this game:
  One of them, is the Sun-Moon medals. while not too much of a burden, in later levels they become 
 a problem, especially in the last day stage before Eggmanland, where you need to be at maximum 
 day medal level 7, which requires 120 sun medals, over half of the available in the game. At that 
 time, you may not have, even 100. they slow down the pace of the game considerably. Also, some 
 levels are just outright cruel. Not due to glitches, but level design, so it's forivable, and some 
 of the harshest, aren't mandatory. My biggest gripe, is that this game relies far, far, FAR TOO 
 MUCH on Quick time events (QTE) ! Every mandatory day stage has one, aside from the very first. 
 While failing them, early on only means you'll get less rings, possibly fewer points, and a slower 
 time, later on, they are much less forgiving, when failing, means, you'll hit an enemy, spikes, 
 or even die, especially, in Eggman land, and on the final boss, where if you mess up, you WILL 
 die. The worse of them, is the Tornado Defense stages-only two thank goodness-that relies 100% 
 on QTE. It's the only stage I have never did again after completing it.
  
  Glitches?
  Not many, but there are some. In Shamar night, I glitched through the floor, to my death. This 
 has happened to me only once, so I consider it a freak accident. Something similar happened to 
 me in the final level-I glitched through the tubes, i was sliding in, and died. Again, a isolated 
 occurrence. But one glitch isn't one. In the Eggman Land HUB (which you unlock after beating the 
 game) , in the tunnel past the entrance to the Eggman level, if you air dash to the right corner, 
 in the back of the tunnel, you will end up glitching through, and falling to your death, losing 
 a life. You'll respawn at the entrance of the HUB, and can't repeat it. This is only a glitch, 
 you have to go out of your way to activate though. 
  
  Summary:
  
  This game is among the best sonic console games to come out since the Adventure series. This game 
 didn't single-handedly bring sonic back to where it was in it's Genesis days, but it's a step in 
 the right direction. If you own a 360, or a Wii, and are a Sonic fan, you have no reason to not 
 have this game. I would at least rent this before you buy. This game may not be for you. This game 
 is at least worth playing for a while.
  
  overall/average score: 7.75
  rounded to the nearest whole number: 8
  
  My time is up, and I thank you for yours! Have a 
 great day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenickster51
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's review was comepletely pathetic. Here's a real review!
  
  Sonic Unleashed for the Xbox 360/PS3 stood out compared to the Wii/PS2 versions. It looks like 
 SEGA and Sonic Team finally got it right this time, and we should be proud of them and give them 
 a pat on the back for creating this masterpiece. Let's look at the good (Xbox 360) and the bad (Wii)
 
  
  The Good:
  AMAZING Graphics
  Constant Boosts
  Boosts take only 1 ring 
  Longer Daytime levels
  Equal ratio of Daytime to nighttime levels
  Faster than ever
  Superior 
 Game
  
  The Bad:
  Dark Graphics
  Temporary boosts
  1 boost takes 15 rings
  Shorter Daytime levels
  8 Daytime levels and about 25 werehog levels
  Slower
  Complete rubbish
 
  
  Nintendo must have been cheap enough to restrict the Hedgehog engine on the Wii AND exclude a Mazuri 
 Daytime and Nighttime AND the whole Empire City. So don't waste your money on the Wii version and 
 get this version instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osharebones
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:38 am PT
Review:  *looks at the score this game got*
  Excuse me? 3.5? I dunno man... I'm -pretty sure- it deserves more than -that-.
  Whoever reviewed 
 this game must've been pretty angry at the time or something. Or maybe he/she/it had PMS or something. 
 Whatever, on to the review. This is a review for the 360 version of the game, as it's the only 
 version I own.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are just so amazing. Just what you'd expect from a Sonic game. Because Sonic games, 
 since the beginning (Sonic 1) , have always had such wonderful graphics. Sonic games are well known 
 for their graphics too. Locations, themes, stuff like that. From the textures used, to lighting 
 effects and reflective surfaces. I guess it's what they put in the hedghog-engine. Heck, look at 
 the effing water in stages like Adabat (Jungle Joyride) , or the whole ice-y thing going on in Holoska 
 (Cool Edge) , the water in Holoska is just WOAH as well. All the little details they put in are 
 just so awesome as well. I mean seriously, they put detail on -almost everything-. Like in Apotos 
 (Windmill Isle) , you can see signs on the walls and stuff that actually -make sense- (That is, 
 if you took the time to stand and look) . They even got actual menu items there and stuff. Every 
 cobble stone on those paths looks so real, you feel as if you'd trip if you weren't paying attention 
 to their beauty. Their detail. I swear, I look at even just a screen shot, and I start to see FMV-grade 
 graphics from the PS1 era, namely from games like FF9 or even FF10, even if it was PS2 era.
  I swear, I'd rather look at even just a -screen shot- of this game than a really good HD grade 
 video of a game like GTA IV (or the actual game itself) or whatever other game out there with supposedly 
 -amazing/great- graphics.
  
  I give graphics a 9.5.
  
  Sound:
  Mmmmm~ Sounds~ Sonic games are also well known for their music and sound. Who doesn't feel all 
 warm and glow-y inside when they hear the Green Hill Zone theme or a remix/remake of it? Well, 
 given that the remix/remake in question is actually in game, that is.
  Sadly, Sonic Unleashed (and probably, some of the other more recent Sonic games) , didn't really 
 have that much of an awesome sound track. But then again, I'm a sucker for rock, which is why I 
 loved it more when Crush 40/Jun Senoue did music for Sonic games back then. (Sonic Adventure1/2/Heroes 
 in particular. Especially loved Crush's version of His World and All Hail Shadow. Because seriously, 
 I heard the Zebrahead version and stuff, they weren't in the same league.)
  I can probably name a handful of songs in this game that I actually liked. Probably on two hands.
 
  Lemme see... Ah yes. I ofcourse love the theme song of the game, Endless Possibilities, by Bowling 
 for Soup. I also love the Cool Edge (day) and Rooftop Run (day) songs. I liked a majority of the 
 night time versions of almost every stage as well. Even the night time versions of the town stages. 
 Especially loved the night song for Empire City. Too catchy.
  
  I'll give the sound... An 8.5. Which is pretty high, mind you.
  
  Gameplay and Controls:
 
  Aaahhhh yes~ Gameplay. What would a Sonic game be without gameplay? Well, certainly not a Sonic 
 game. That's for sure.
  Good thing this game has decent/above decent gameplay. From the speed-demon day stages to the knee-cap-busting 
 night stages. It's pretty solid in both areas.
  I must say, though, Sonic has some control issues somewhat. Not that the controls are unresponsive 
 or anything, but that it's a bit hard given his speed. (But then again, I have flexible fingers, 
 I can boost and duck at the same time to go under stuff in stages like Windmill Isle, pretty useful.)
 
  Yes, I said it. Given his incredible speed, it is indeed -a bit- hard to control him. Though I 
 know, alot of you will just say "Then learn to control it better". But I must say, that's not a 
 pretty good defense, if you'll tell me that.
  Anyway, back to gameplay.
  Let's take fully 3d areas of a stage for example, no not the straight aways that involve side stepping 
 or drifting, I'm talking about parts like... Parts like in Chun Nan, the part where you gotta walk 
 around on rotating platforms. He doesn't turn on the spot. Instead, he walks a bit to change to 
 the direction you wanted him to face to. It may seem realistic, but it's not very helpful. Actually, 
 that's not really realistic at all. Even a real person can turn around a full 360 degrees without 
 moving out of his/her place. This problem also applies to the werehog, which kinda makes his platforming 
 parts a bit frustrating. There are also some upgrades for Sonic that sorta break things a bit. 
 Upgrades such as the one that allows you to use boost in midair. I find it a bit misplaced/useless. 
 Why's that, you may wonder. Well, suppose I don't wanna boost, suppose I wanna just use the default 
 air dash/homing dash I had back when I didn't have the upgrade. It's very situational actually. 
 But I find better control if I had the normal homing dash instead of the air boost. They could've 
 atleast made it a different button.
  Sonic also has hardly any traction, leading to multiple/unforced/unintended deaths, which can get 
 quite frustrating. His air boost thing also leads to that problem alot. Also, something a bit minor 
 on Sonic's controls/handling. the replacing of his homing attack button. It may be just a minor 
 change, but it still doesn't feel right. I'm more used to his homing attack being the same as his 
 jump button, it just seems more natural. I'm sure alot of you would agree with that. Now onto werehog 
 controls.
  Werehog's controls are pretty good when you're fighting, though I hardly shield, it sorta feels 
 useless. Comboing is fun at the start, but after a logn while you just resort to using the strongest 
 move you have over and over again, so that you can finish the level as fast as possible, in order 
 to get a high score, which sorta imbalances it.
  Getting knocked down or into the air is pretty bad too, since you won't be able to recover from 
 it unless you hit a solid object. Which is pretty bad, since you could be sent flying off a ledge 
 and you can't do a thing about it.
  I pretty much felt like they should've just copied/simulated KH1/2's battle system a bit more.
 
  Also jumping feels a bit weird. He jumps too low. His double jump almost feels like it's not worth 
 pulling off.
  Missing a cue to grab onto a ledge/pole/thingy sticking out of a wall is pretty bad punishment 
 as well. If you just miss it once, just once, youc an't get another cue to grab onto it even though 
 you're within distance or height of hte grabbable thing in question. Again, leading to lots of 
 deaths. Example would be like if you -double jump- to get to a pole, then you press the attack 
 button. Given his delay in the air, he's still at the same level/height as before he attack, and 
 yet, the green cursor doesn't appear, enabling you to grab on. Get what I mean? The things that 
 are wrong with the werehog controls can be a major pain on stages like Cool Edge (night) . Where 
 obstacles/grabbable objects break after a while.
  Onto more general things, such as the death holes, or bottomless pits.
  They're all over. And 
 placed in awkward places too. But luckily, many places in a stage has unlimited 1-up icons floating 
 nearby, to give you mroe chances. I guess Sonic Team/SEGA/Whoever was in charge of the game, knew 
 that this kind of thing was going to happen frequently, thereby placing said 1-ups near by.
  Now let's talk about level design/stage layout~! Oh boy!
  For the most part, stage layout/level 
 design is pretty solid. But there are oddly placed obstacles, and some horrible designs in some 
 parts of some levels. An example would be Rooftop Run (day) , somewhere near the beginning, there's 
 a place where you jump to a higher ledge, and there are spikes on the ground. While you aren't 
 moving that fast to begin with, it still sort of breaks the momentum you had prior to the spike 
 trap. But there's a shortcut you can take to bypass that part of the stage, but it's so -well hidden-, 
 that you probably wouldn't even know it existed. Mostly because you're speeding by in boost mode 
 so fast you wouldn't bother to even think "Oh look, flower pots. And everyone knows those are breakable. 
 I bet they're hiding a shortcut or item or medal or something! O:". I think it's agreeable that 
 the sides of the screen are hard to make out while boosting, because of the blur effect. So it's 
 kinda hard not to miss things like that. But then again, this is only one example, and I don't 
 think I'd mention any more of it. But like I said, for the most part, level design is pretty solid. 
 I also sorta like the idea of medals beign needed to access other stages. Think of it this way; 
 you get medals in stages, the better you are, or the better you do, the more medals you can attain 
 in said stages. Now, think of that as training for the coming stages. Because seriously, you'll 
 need it. The game's difficulty jumps a bit after the 3rd/4th stage (I think it gets significantly 
 harder in Shamar, day and night) . With that, you'll also be able to gain experience, which you'll 
 need if you wanna survive better in the night time stages, or go faster/have more boost in the 
 day time stages. So basically, medals prove how good you are, or how trained you are for coming 
 stages.
  Anyway, aside from a few bad bumps here and there, and a few issues with controls. It's all pretty 
 good.
  
  I'll give it a 8.0. Because I believe that it is actually manageable, while still being able to 
 be fun, without being too much of a game breaker, if at all.
  
  That averages out at about...
  8.5.
  Well now, Sonic~ Look who got an 8.5~
  
  *looks up* 
 Hmmm, seems I wrote that much already. Hmm... What else can I squeeze in here...
  
  Nope, nothing more~ I guess that's all.
  
  Well, I tried being as unbiased as I can be. Hopefully, 
 it turned out that way too.
  
  And yes, I am indeed a Sonic fan. A fan boy, if you must, if you will. But not one of those "Omg 
 ur hayteeng Sawnuks gaems I flames yew lolz". Please no. I'm more... Civilised than they.
  
  Well, 'til my next review. Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bacon1999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:01 am PT
Review:  The game is good and i give it credit, the hedgehog engine was a very smart move but the problem 
 was they forgot to add bloody control to the game! Sonic's speed is very thrilling and brings back 
 what we love about him, then Sega forgot that we love the hedgehog for his speed, not for his Claws... 
 Which brings me to the Werehog (Which means man hog concidering the 'were' bit means MAN) As the 
 werehog is a good idea for a new game series, Sega think they'll add him to a sonic series, Jesus 
 christ! Maybe the Werehog couldve been in the Sonic story time series, but not in the more memorable 
 Sonic series. The worst idea from Sega is the fact that you have to collect medals (Sun and Moon) 
 Most of these are in the Werehog levels, unfortunatley its boring enough playing his levels once. 
 Overall an OK game but way to many flaws, Sega need to get their game together before my (and many 
 other peoples) faveourite gaming character ends up with a bullet through his head and get no more 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: butchazoid
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 8:02 am PT
Review:  I must admit growing up I was more a Sonic fan than Mario. That's not to say I hated Mario -- I just 
 found the early Sonic Genesis to be more enjoyable and fun to play. Of course I do understand the 
 sad decline the franchise has been taken these past few years (Here's looking at you, Sonic '06!) .
 
  
  This game has gotten a notoriously bad rap by many game critics alike, almost notably because of 
 the Werehog gimmick, but the real question is can they be trusted? To most fans of the franchise, 
 this is a take-it-or-leave-it game. To me it's actually the best Sonic game to come out in such 
 a long time. With the help of a Christmas gift card I picked this one up for $26 and boy was I 
 happy.
  
  The story isn't too important to the game so much as it is the same Sonic-stops-Robotnik scenario 
 as it always was these past 2 decades. What really matters the most is the gameplay as it is divided 
 into 2 parts:
  
  Daytime-Sun Medals are required to access these levels and boy are they worth it. If there ever 
 was a game that'd be so close to capturing the spirit of the Genesis classics, It'd definitely 
 be this one. This game features the 3D adventuring we all loved from the Sonic Adventure series, 
 but very often the level will switch from 3D to old fashioned 2D side scrolling we all know and 
 love from the early games. And best of all, Sonic feels the way he should feel: He fast, very fast! 
 The Hedgehog Engine really keeps the game at a smooth framerate as we see Sonic blazing through 
 these levels at very high speeds. I was pleasantly and happily surprised. 9.5/10
  
  Nightime-Moon Medals are required to access these levels. This was a very controversial addition 
 to this game that set many game critics off, but after playing these levels, I can honestly say, 
 they're not all bad; I actually found the Werehog to be pretty fun. Granted, it is a silly idea, 
 but compared to other gimmicks Sonic Team tried in the past (Anybody remembered Sonic Shuffle?) , 
 I think I'd actually prefer the Werehog. While Sonic is about speed and platforming, the Werehog 
 is about beat-em-up, puzzle solving, and platforming mixed together. Feasting my passion for beat-em-up 
 gameplay, I actually enjoyed senselessly smashing stuff up, and while the platforming and puzzle 
 solving is rather tedious, I can still get through these parts just fine. Most of the Sun Medals 
 are hidden in these levels, so I'd suggest if you don't want to keep replaying the Werehog, give 
 each level as thorough of an exploration as you can gathering up most if not all of the medals 
 you need to progress through the game. 8/10
  
  Of course if you dig deep enough into this game, you'll realize the hidden beauty of it. For those 
 who keep saying that you'll spend more time with the Werehog than the Hedgehog are rather mistaken; 
 This maybe true when you're progressing through the game, but when you're replaying these levels, 
 the replay value for the Hedgehog and Werehog is reversed. Frankly, all hardcore gamers will definitely 
 want to keep replaying these levels to get the highest grades -- the "S" grade, that is -- as well 
 as compete for high scores. Getting the "S" grade for the Werehog levels are pretty much easy to 
 get the second or third time per level, depending on how high you level up your Werehog (Yes, there 
 is a level upgrade system in this game.) . However, the same can't be said for the Hedgehog as these 
 levels are a tougher nut to crack; You'll have to memorize every short cut and obstacle in the 
 stage, and it's not very easy to keep track either.
  
  On top of all this, I'd like to say there are more Daytime stages than Nightime. Unless you count 
 the boss levels and the Tails piloting levels, there's a total of 21 Daytime stages and only 12 
 Nightime stages all located in 9 hub levels. So all in all, it's a fairly even balance of playing 
 the Hedgehog and Werehog.
  
  And of course, the technical presentation of this game is top-notch. The graphics in this game 
 are phenomenal and present much detail, especially in the 1080p hi-def resolution, and the soundtrack 
 is very memorable. The only downside that got to me was the voice-acting -- they really couldn't 
 find a better voice for the new character Chip? What a load.
  
  Overall, it's a very fun game. I certainly enjoyed it, and this game is a very good sign for what's 
 to come in the blue hedgehog's future. I can't wait for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freezing_Knight
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 1:49 am PT
Review:  I rented this game some weeks ago expecting another disappointment, but instead I found a really 
 fun 3-D platformer game.
  
  Daylight stages are as usual, fast-paced, maybe too fast this time, that doesnt mean u do nothing 
 but looking at sonic running, you must pay attention to perform a jump or slide at the right time 
 to avoid spikes, not to fall or going into an alternative direction to get a medal or something. 
 Also these stages sometimes take a 2D or 2D and a half view, remembering the old school sonics. 
 Most people agrees sonic's stages are usually flawless.
  
  Also most people thinks other stages of late sonics games (sonics friends) are awful, this time 
 is not completely the case. The werehog (even though is still sonic, is like another character) 
 controls totally different, its slower, but has the ability to combat enemies, the combos are simple, 
 for example, xxy, xxa, etc., being X and Y punching, B grabbing the enemy and A jumping. Its not 
 the funniest thing of the game, but its not that terrible either. The controls in combat are responsive, 
 its just about timing and not some random button smashing. What really surprised me about the werehog 
 its the platforming, you can hang from some edges of the wall, poles and pillars, for example, 
 all this combined with the typical platforms suspended in the air is well balanced, not to easy 
 nor frustrating. 
  
  I think the scores about this game and other sonics games are being too punishing, I highly recommend 
 at least a rental first. Im my opinion, Sonic Unleashed is not any worse than Sonic Adventure 1 
 and 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flare_Pyronish
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 7:56 pm PT
Review:  First off, I would like to say that this is probably the 3rd best 3-D game in the franchise (SA2 
 is number 1, SA1 is number 2) , and it WORKS. I'm not sure what the deal is with this guy who's 
 reviewing it, but... were you playing the game correctly? I mean, there IS a level that tells you 
 how not to suck ass. Anyway, onto my review:
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing. I mean, I've heard people say GTA IV has the best graphics 
 or whatever, but I'd much rather look at screenshots from this game.
  
  Story: While slightly cliched and predictable, the story DOES give you a perfect reason to run 
 around the world kicking ass and taking names at 300 MPH (or 10 mph, for the Werehog) .
  
  Gameplay: Now, I understand this game is in two, possibly three parts here, but I'll do a rundown 
 as fast as I can. First off, I know newcomers to the franchise often have a hard time with this 
 game. We get it, it's hard, but that doesn't mean it sucks, it means you've just got to get used 
 to it. Anyway, the Sonic stages are AMAZING, although I felt like you lost some speed (or maybe 
 it's a lack of adrenaline rush?) in the transition from 2-D to 3-D, but it was still very good. 
 I'm not sure what the Gamespot reviewer was thinking when he said it had unresponsive controls, 
 I mean, there is a glitch that occurs in the China stage that prevents you from using the homing 
 attack, but other than that, the controls work just fine. Now, here's a subject of mass hatred 
 for no reason, the Werehog. The Werehog is a standard beat-em-up character with Mr. Fantastic's 
 unshaven arms. And, after mass testing (I have made 7 people play as the Werehog) , I have deduced 
 that the Werehog is fun and appealing to newcomers and does not detract from the game experience. 
 In fact, 3 people out of the 7 said they preferred Werehog to regular Sonic gameplay-wise, simply 
 because it was easier. Also, in regards to the "You'll learn plenty of obvious information from 
 the townsfolk" and those complaints.... are you stupid? Do you have rocks in your head? Name one 
 RPG that doesn't have incredibly stupid townspeople. Also, in that picture, where it says "Something's 
 Amiss", go back there at night and take a picture of someone she knows, exorcise them, find some 
 other people in need of exorcising and you might get an achievement. To wrap this up, the Sonic 
 gameplay is hard, but very satisfying and very fun and if that's not your cup of tea, the Werehog 
 might be for you. If not, go back to playing Halo. 
  
  *Remembered: Oh yeah, I must admit that collecting medals to access certain stages was the dumbest 
 idea in the game.
  
  Audio: While usually when I review Sonic games I keep the Voices and Music separate, but I must 
 say, the voice overs for our lovable anthropomorphous characters have greatly improved... except 
 for whoever voices Tails. She should be shot. 
  Also, the music is awesome, taking the pulsing action of Sonic and some international themes and 
 mixing it together to make a wonderful soundtrack. Also, the final boss's theme was amazing, does 
 anyone know where I can download that?
  
  
  All in all, I give this game an 8.0
  
  P. S I know I explicitly wrote non-biased review, but I have played over 20 hours of Sonic Unleashed 
 since I purchased it, and I actually like the last few games before Sonic 06, does that make me 
 biased? I admit this game has some very minor issues, but it's still very satisfying.
  
  P. S. S Why did the Wii version get better reviews? I disliked that game. It almost made me cry out 
 of frustration with the Werehog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicfannumber1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  One of the best looking Sonic games ever. Daytime stages are fast and fun to play. A good variety 
 of level settings. Frame Rate is impressive even when the game is at top speed.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Frame Rate is impressive but it drops a lot during werehog stages. Story is hard 
 to get into. Werehog is extremely unnecessary and overrules the number of daytime stages. Tons 
 of great Sonic characters were taken out. Sometimes the game is too hard.
  
  Gameplay: 6. There is only a story mode to it. No multiplayer, not even locally.
  
  Graphics 
 Artistic: 10. Has a great use of the hedgehog engine. Produces beautiful colors of all shapes. 
 
  
  Graphics technical: 6. The daytime stages' Frame rate always stays consistent, but the nighttime 
 stages suffer from Frame rate issues. 
  
  Value: 7. Some of the levels are worth coming back to but not all.
  
  Sound: 8. The sound effects 
 are overall good but could have been better. Music is also really good, too. It fits the stages 
 very well and it's most of the time peaceful. The only music that's annoying is when you fight 
 enemies during the werehog stages.
  
  To me, I think this is the comeback for Sonic after some of his last disasters. It improves upon 
 many of the previous games' problems, like the camera, glitches, and the overall quality of the 
 game. There are seven worlds, even though I haven't gotten to all of them. Each world has its little 
 relationship between a real-life country. While playing through the game, you'll collect these 
 sun medals, and moon medals, sort of similar to the emblems system in the sonic adventures. By 
 collecting these medals, you can unlock new levels to play in. The game starts off like a normal 
 Sonic game. Eggman tries to take over the world for the hundredth time. Sonic gets turned into 
 a werehog only at nighttime. Because of this, the Earth separates into different pieces, and sonic 
 must use the power of the chaos emeralds to restore the planet. On the way, you meet this annoying 
 little fairy that has forgotten his own name. The fairy sticks with Sonic and then Sonic comes 
 up with a name called Chip. Totally fits him, doesn't it? I hope you found this review helpful 
 to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brawl578
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed is perhaps the best 3D Sonic game yet. What with it's fast-paced gameplay, beautiful 
 graphics, and improved voice acting. But is this game the Sonic game fans have been dreaming of?
 
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. The daytime levels are outrageously fun when you go as fast as you 
 can. The level design is good, but not as good as the Wii version's design. The enemy's are well 
 thought of and simple to defeat. Sonic also still has the classic Homing Attack move, in which 
 is used in levels numerous times. But the nighttime stages are a different story. In the nighttime 
 stages, the lovable blue blur is replaced by a freakishly strong Werehog. The controls themselves 
 are very unresponsive when in a middle of a combo, so creating new combos is somewhat of a challenge. 
 Want to go supersonic speeds across the levels? Unfortunately, Sonic's speed also dissapears when 
 he transforms, so most people hate transforming into the werehog.
  
  The story is very well, with beginnings and endings that are sure to leave you memories. The ending 
 is somewhat sad, but I don't want to spoil it to those who haven't completed the game yet. The 
 cinematics in the beginning and ending of the story are stunning, and obviously Sega put a lot 
 of effort into them. The other cutscenes aren't as beutiful as the others, but are still a sight 
 to see.
  
  The controls for the game could use some work, especially in the Werehog stages. If you want to 
 slow down while going down a ramp, it takes an awful lot of time to completely stop, depending 
 on how fast you're going. As mentioned earlier, the werehog controls are very unresponsive when 
 attacking. The framerate also decreases if you're beating up tons of enemies in one place. Other 
 than that, though, the camera is actually pretty nice.
  
  I strongly recommend this game to any diehard Sonic fans out there, and also to many newcomers 
 in the Sonic series. This game has respectively earned an 8.5 out of 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2009 4:36 am PT
Review:  Finally! A playable Sonic game on current gen consoles. It's a much needed step in the right direction 
 the series desperately needed. Sonic levels are brilliant fun & the best they've been since back 
 in the original Sonic Adventure. Mostly in excellent 2.5D just as you'd hope with great graphics 
 & gorgeous, trademark Sega blues everywhere. All moving at fantastic speed until the last couple 
 of stages that have a slight drop in frame rate. Nothing game breaking though. Shame then that 
 most of the game is brought crashing back down to mediocrity thanks to the Werehog gimmick & a 
 ridiculous amount of collecting & talking to be done. 
  
  Lets start with the good first  the Sonic levels. These are all set in the daytime & all have 
 a great, colourful & bright look to them. Full of loops, springs, excessive speed & rails to grind 
 on. They mostly consist of holding right & basically watching the game play itself but they are 
 still somehow enormous fun. They are long, adrenaline fuelled rollercoaster rides. Jumping on a 
 spring, landing on a rail that does a corkscrew, boosting into a robot then running down a vertical 
 wall to a loop in front of a fantastic backdrop that range from jungles full of waterfalls to running 
 through tree tops all accompanied by great music is the norm in these levels. & they never fail 
 to impress or raise a smile. & yes you did read that right, great music. The rock soundtrack has 
 finally gone & we have a great score that has much more in common with the classic Sonic games. 
 Excellent.
  
  But from here on its downhill. The Sonic levels for a start are far from perfect. Although they 
 are fun, they are just too fast & you are just basically watching the game play itself while you 
 hold right with the odd boost jump into enemies. Sonic used to be just as much about platforming 
 as it was about going fast. There used to be balance, the last decent Sonic game - Sonic Adventure 
 managed to juggle both. This doesn't. Some of the levels have a frustrating amount of bottomless 
 pits too. Causing no end of random & unfair deaths as you are travelling too fast to do anything 
 about them. Only being passed from trial & error.
  
  Next is the Werehog gimmick. You're probably aware by know what this is. Sonic turns into a big 
 furry wolf/hedgehog hybrid at night. This is due to dark Gaia that Dr Robotnik (Not Eggman!) has 
 released from the core of the Earth. Yep the story is madness but doesn't matter in a game like 
 this. Anyway, these stages are about as frequent as the Sonic levels except for they are about 
 3 times longer & about 10 times more boring. 
  
  These area lot slower & focus more on actual platforming & combat. Which in theory sounds like 
 the perfect compliment to Sonics mad levels. But they aren't. Its 3 parts combat & 1 part platformer 
 with the odd sprinkling of insultingly easy 'puzzles'. With the combat being incredibly tedious 
 & nothing more than bashing the buttons until health bars go down. Joy. Sure there's extra moves 
 to be learned as you level up (yep you level up now) but you'll find one or two combos that work 
 & stick to these as the rest will either make the fights last even longer or make you get killed 
 from there sheer uselessness. There's also QTE critical hits you can use to finish off enemies, 
 including bosses, God of War style. But even these get very boring, very quickly.
  
  Speaking of God of War. The Werehog levels as a whole borrows heavily from that. From level design 
 that consists of a lot of walking along beams & ledges to puzzles that just require block moving 
 & levers to complete. You even have to grab the bottom of doors & hammer B to open them. Unfortunately 
 it doesn't have any of God of Wars magnificence. Lacking in every area from tedious combat to uninspired 
 level design with little to no variety in areas or enemies. 
  
  Progress through these levels is equally laborious. Requiring nothing more than walking to an area, 
 being locked in by purple shields or locked doors, having to kill X amount of enemies to unlock 
 it, move block, jump a couple of times to new area, get locked in, kill X You get the idea. They 
 are by no means awful or even bad. But they are mediocre, dull & tedious.
  
  But even worse is progressing through the story & unlocking levels. The first requires going to 
 incredibly dull city areas, walking around & talking to people. These parts are just depressing 
 & mind numbingly boring. No one has anything interesting to say & you really are just going through 
 the motions until you get what you want  another daytime Sonic level. It could have been improved 
 by just dropping the hub areas altogether & just putting you in one stage after another, loosely 
 joined by the odd, short cut-scene. The time spent creating these crappy hub areas could have been 
 much better spent on creating some more daytime stages. 
  
  The next pain in the backside are the sheer amount of collectables. Not really a problem if they 
 weren't forced. But to unlock levels you have to collect medals. Sun for day stages & moon for 
 the night. These are an incredibly cheap way of artificially extending the games lifespan & make 
 you have to repeat levels numerous times to progress. Sure they reward exploration but the night 
 stages are so dull you wont want to explore & in the Sonic levels you'll be travelling too fast 
 you'll often miss them. Its not as simple as going back either as that will most likely cause your 
 doom or simply be impossible due to walls. So nothing else you can do but restart the level. Very 
 annoying. 
  
  The game likes to leave a sour taste at the end too. The last level & bosses are some of the most 
 frustrating tasks ive had to endure in my years of gaming. Causing many cheap deaths with countless 
 restarts, going on for far too long & having way too many annoying QTE moments, it goes out on 
 a massive low. 
  
  But none of this is awful, apart from the city areas but these are small anyway. Its just so, so. 
 A bit.. 'meh'. With the odd great daytime Sonic levels raising it just above average. Some even 
 making you forget or overlook all these problems, even if just for a short time. But these can 
 be quite depressing themselves in a way as they show just how fantastic a Sonic game could be if 
 Sega listened to the fans, just stopped with the gimmicks & gave us a full 2.5D Sonic game. A damn 
 shame.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaden_Arbiter
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Here we are with the next step of Sonic Team's production, but what do we end up having? Anyone 
 would want to see the speed-proclaimed blue hedgehog Sonic spur with innovation and fun as it hits 
 the 360 market, but we only end up with a werewolf 'warehog' element that can only be equated to 
 a Twilight Princess spin-off that Sonic Team threw together as an attempt at originality.
  
  In Sonic Unleashed you start off venturing through a world that consists of seven individual 
 continents, each of which were contaminated by one of seven chaos emeralds retained by Dr. Eggman 
 -- emeralds that, for no explicit reason, can somehow respectively manipulate the formation of 
 at least 1/7 of the entire earth by themselves alone. So we have a plot element that states the 
 emeralds need to be retrieved so people can be happy and safe in their homes, otherwise these once 
 unknown summations of detriment and evil will plunder the earth and kill everyone. Talk about cliche' 
 at best.
  
  Aside from the usual terrible plot lines invented by Sonic Team, Unleashed suffers from various 
 fundamental problems that can easily convince the player that simply spending their time eyeing 
 up their surroundings and messing around with the environment proves to be more fun in the long-term. 
 One problem for example is the camera, which is either uncontrollable and useless by forcing you 
 into 2D gameplay that can only be supported by trial and error -- in the case of playing as the regular 
 Sonic -- or it can be manually shaken with the right control stick, even though its about as supportive 
 as a camera-man suffering from parkinson's.
  
  A second problem is the unresponsive controls, characterized by situations such as treading across 
 a line extending vertically and shifting your weight right and left so that you don't fall off, 
 the unfortunate fact being that you will typically end up falling anyways some time or another. 
 Command initiations are faulty as well, causing you to occasionally run into the imperishable large 
 set of spikes awaiting you as Sonic even when you are able to see it in time with the harmful 2D 
 style camera input.
  
  Tedious platformer elements are also very fundamental in Unleashed, and with a lack of depth perception 
 and a primitive increment-based life system, how could a person who normally enjoys such a genre 
 experience enjoyment without inventing their own self-harming dogma? You will also have to be prepared 
 for retrieving unique 'moon' and 'sun' medals scattered across each respective level, which, mind 
 the player, only served to infuriate the already under-payed, over-worked Japanese developers.
 
  
  Unfortunately I can't see how Sonic Unleashed qualifies above a mediocre rating aside from its 
 one or two beautiful CGI cutscenes. Please rent instead of considering a purchase if at all possible, 
 you will understand my appeal at its apex by the time you reach the final boss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphyk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Sonic unleashed is set up in 3 different parts, the day time levels where your normal sonic, night 
 time levels where your werehog sonic and little, pointless hub worlds. The day time levels are 
 the by far the best part of the game. They switch between 3D and 2D seamlessly and the level design 
 is great as well, there just pure sonic goodness. There are lots of different paths to take, loops, 
 rails, platforming, lots of speed and they look really, really nice as well, some of the best graphics 
 on the 360. The only downside of the day time levels are that there too fast because if you use 
 one of the new moves, the sonic boost (makes you go really, really fast) on your first time on a 
 level you will quite alot run into some spikes or run of a cliff because you can't dodge them in 
 time. All you have to do is lay of the boost the first time in a level, so you don't die unfairly 
 then if you want to play the level again wich you will, just boost were you know you won't die 
 from it. The werehog levels are a beat'm'up stile with bits of platforming. You don't have many 
 moves at the start but there are lots of other moves to unlock with xp you get from defeating enemies. 
 In the platforming parts of the levels sonic the werehog will use his strechy arms to swing on 
 poles or climb up ledges and the like, if you like platforming then you will enjoy it. Theres nothing 
 wrong with the night time levels its just there know way in the same leage as the day time levels. 
 The little hub worlds for each level are deffinetly the weakest part of the game, there not broken 
 or they don't play bad there just pointless and boring. You can talk to people and sometimes they 
 will give you optional missions, there is a shop in each world were you can buy cutcenes to watch, 
 soundtracks to listen to and artwork, example storyboards to look at with the rings you collect 
 in the levels. It dosn't feel right, sonic just talking a nice calm strole, having a chat with 
 people not running round fast or blowing up big robots. If your a sonic fan that hasn't played 
 a good 3D sonic game in a while then you should check this out and in most shops its only 20
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laviolencia
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Best Sonic game in 3D in a while. Most review I have read seem biased against Sega and Sonic and 
 for Nintendo, give it a chance, and see for yourselves. It has fast paced action levels, and the 
 were-hog levels are admittedly pretty bad but not enough to ruin what this game has to offer. Also 
 it has great music that really helps the pace and enjoyment of the Sonic levels, and at this point 
 I am just typing stuff because I don't want to sit here and review the game fully so I am typing 
 randomly, and 100 NOW! But I am typing this now because I am pretty sure the word count is being 
 lame and not letting me submit so here I am saying things i like..... puppies, beaches, apocalypse 
 megaton canons, bluebirds, the screams of my vanquished enemies, and peanut butter. Okay still 
 have some space, the boss fights, mainly the Sonic ones are really cool, fast paced, and require 
 really fast reflexes that after you complete them you feel accomplishment, the were-hog bosses 
 feature cool quick time finales that are pretty impressive. The level design for these levels will 
 have you grabbing your controller tight and cursing at so many close calls that you pull off and 
 in the end be saying; "That was awesome, I have no idea how I survived!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red__Katana
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:25 am PT
Review:  Because this game is split into two modes - Day and Night - I will write this review in three parts 
 (Day, Night and General) , to make the content more clear.
  
  Daytime Stages:
  In the day, Sonic Unleashed offers a new, far better approach to the term 'Sonic Speed'. Simply 
 put, this is because these stages are primarily about rushing to the end, which should not come 
 as a surprise. Any Sonic fans who purchased 'Sonic the Hedgehog', on the Xbox 360/PS3, will find 
 that these stages are like a much improved version of the 'speed stages', on terms of the speed. 
 However, on Unleashed, Sonic does not have to continuously run, there are many more available commands, 
 and Sonic can explore the stage far more freely. If you are capable of simply blasting through 
 any of the daytime stages, then this game offers a lot of thrill.
  The background music playing in the stages contributes excellently to the excitement of the game, 
 because the music always effectively matches your surroundings, and the sound of it changes as 
 you use the 'Sonic Boost' command (for speed) , so that it is higher pitched, as if the Doppler 
 effect is implemented into the gameplay.
  The bad things about daytime stages are that it is always almost impossible to complete any stage 
 on your first playthrough, as it would require lighting-fast reflexes. However, after a few playthroughs 
 of the same stage, you should have managed to have remembered the main problems lurking in the 
 stage, and overcome them. Additionally, there are very few irritating and unfair glitches in the 
 gameplay, which can send you off-course in a stage and to your abrupt death. However, these glitches 
 can be overcome by remembering where they are and finding a different way around the stage in the 
 future.
  To summarise the daytime stages, I would say that they are very thrilling.
  
  Night-time Stages:
  In the night, you play as 'Sonic the Werehog', and the style of play is completely 
 different. These stages are very similar in style to the gameplay of platformers, such as earlier 
 versions of Prince of Persia, as Sonic must frequently fight with enemies and then follow complicated 
 routes by swinging on poles or shimmying across walls. As a gamer who likes this genre, I have 
 enjoyed playing through these stages, although i have not enjoyed them as much as the daytime stages. 
 Also, a factor of the night-time stages which is noteworthy is the fact that instead of having 
 rings to support your life, you have a life bar. However, rings do restore this life bar. The influence 
 of having a life bar is that it can bring frustration if you can not recover your health. This 
 was something which pleased me originally on other Sonic games, although whether you like the idea 
 of a life bar or not is up to you.
  The music in night-time stages is always very different from the music in the daytime stages, although 
 it matches the theme of the stage in the same way as before. This, unfortunately, can easily be 
 disregarded, as you frequently find yourself hearing the same battle theme playing every time you 
 enter combat. On the other hand, this battle theme is not particularly repetitive, and it represents 
 the 'Werehog-style' combat very well.
  A poor attribute of the Werehog stages is the fact that they can be exceptionally long and as such 
 frustrating on your first playthrough. On this first playthrough, stages can take anywhere between 
 20 minutes to an hour (Including dying and restarting from checkpoints) . This can be particularly 
 frustrating, as if you die during an attempt to get the top rank on a stage, you will almost definitely 
 fail to get this top rank, and will have to go through the arduous journey of the long stage again. 
 Despite this, if, on your first playthrough, you only desire to complete the level, then the lengths 
 of night stages can be ignored.
  
  General comments:
  The graphics of this game in the day and night are exceptional, and are far improved from its predecessor, 
 'Sonic the Hedgehog'. The landscapes which you will find yourself blasting through are always very 
 strongly themed, for example, there is a stage set in an Asian country, and it features the Great 
 Wall of China and many dragon-shaped paths.
  The plot of Sonic Unleashed, as it is in all Sonic games recently, is quite cheesy, and the humour 
 can be old-fashioned or more appealing to younger audiences. The dialogue in the game is also cheesy, 
 although it is a dramatic improvement from come of the previous Sonic games.
  Finally, you may have noticed that throughout this review, I referred to the term, 'Sonic fans', 
 and commented that they may like certain factors in the game. This is because I believe that Sonic 
 games can only be properly enjoyed without a learning process by people who have played Sonic games 
 before, and have gotten used to the unique controls and handling, which are often a problem for 
 people new to Sonic. However, in this game, the camera control is greatly improved, and is often 
 automated, so that you always know where you are going. On top of that, the handling in Sonic Unleashed, 
 i believe, would also be far easier to become familiar with much more quickly.
  Overall, I believe that the purchase of Sonic Unleashed could be a good one for anyone - particularly 
 Sonic fans. It would be just as much of a good purchase for people new to Sonic, as long as they 
 give the the game time, and become strongly familiar with it, as people do with fantastic games 
 like Fallout 3 and Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Task1000
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 15, 2009 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed Review:
  
  Ever since the petitions of the Sonic Voice Actors BS that everyone has been force feeding on each 
 other, it was starting to feel unsafe to even buy, or even talk about the Sonic franchise. I'm 
 not going to talk about the issue that's been happening, but perhaps this rings a bell.
  
  (FIND OUT BY YOURSELVES, TRUST ME) .
  
  Then at the last minute, Sega decides to put their backs 
 into it for once, and start listening to the fans. All they had to do is to just show one teaser 
 trailer of the game just so that the Sonic fans would shut up. I have seen a lot of people slamming 
 this game. (With the exceptions of 1UP. com, and Game Informer,) after playing this game, I don't 
 see what there talking about. Though I do have some criticism to say about this game. At least 
 this game is a lot better then the other Sonic games that Sega has been constantly throwing at 
 us, as if it was no tomorrow. Honestly the whole Sonic franchise has been a real pain, and I for 
 one am sick of it. But for now I will show you all my opinion of Sonic Unleashed.
  
  STORY:
  The story begins when Dr. Eggman is seen laughing manically, while he's around a fleet 
 of spaceships. From the looks of it, it seems it took place at the very end of where they're at, 
 or so it seems. So anyway Sonic appears on one of Eggman's ships, and you get to see an epic battle 
 between good vs. evil. Soon in this epic battle Sonic then transformed into Super Sonic. This is 
 the first time that Super Sonic was seen at the beginning of the Sonic series since Sonic the Hedgehog 
 3. After when Sonic and Eggman confronted with each other in Mortal Combat, Eggman tricks Sonic, 
 and used the Chaos Emeralds, and Sonic as an experiment, to UNLEASHED a demon who lives at the 
 center of the Earth called Dark Gaia. This effect also divides the planet into pieces. Thus, Sonic 
 has the ability to transform to what has been dub called the Werehog at night. In addition Sonic 
 will have the ability to stretch his arm, when he's turned into a Werehog, due to the amount of 
 Dark Gaia Force that was entered in Sonic's body. After when we see Sonic falling towards his doom, 
 well as we thought, he meet up with an imp-like creature or a fusion of a Growlithe and a pixie 
 when it seems that he lost his memory do to Sonic accidentally falling on him. In the later part 
 of the game, Sonic names his new friend Chip for how much he loves Chocolate Chip ice-cream. You 
 will also meet up with some old and new characters such as Tails, Amy and my favorite character 
 Professor Pickle, and it kind wise to leave some characters out, because it would perhaps kill 
 the mood. I mean imagine what will happen if Shadow happens to appear in this game.
  
  DESIGN:
  Sega has developed a new video game engine called Hedgehog Engine, that I pray that 
 they will be using it in the later console games. This engine is only playable for the Xbox360, 
 and the PS3. This is perhaps going to be Sega's official video game program, because if it isn't, 
 I pity them. This is also the first video game engine that actually resembles to an actual CGI 
 movie. But then again we already seen them all. The cut scenes are very do I dare say it "gorgeous" 
 making Sonic 06 look like nothing. Then again any video game can always make Sonic 06 look like 
 nothing. I also like the writing of this game, it was once said that there going to be working 
 on the writing when making this game. It also has this comedic template instead of that "Why So 
 Serious" template that they always put in every Sonic game. That's a good thing because we needed 
 a chuckle here and there. I also like the relationship with Sonic and Chip, it like if they were 
 brothers. Then we have the music, and I have to say its pretty good, and yes I'm well aware that 
 Crush 40 is finally back with Sonic, but you do have to admit its not that bad with one exception 
 that I will be talking about soon. Most of the human characters of this game has been given more 
 of a cartoon aspect instead of making them quote on quote believable.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Its really hard to explain whether the game play rocks or sucks. So I'm going to explain to two 
 type of game play of Sonic the Hedgehog and the Werehog.
  SONIC'S GAMPLAY:
  Sonic's game play has a 2D/3D aspect, pretty much a nod to the head to the past Sonic games that 
 has that 2D aspect. The 2D aspect for Sonic Unleashed is not the best, nor it isn't the worst. 
 It seems that the day time stages suffer from the sickening, BS trial and error syndrome I call 
 it. Usually there are some parts of the game when you have to perform a trick to get to the other 
 side. Now the A, B, X, and Y buttons I can understand, but was it really necessary to make the 
 LB and RB buttons in part of doing a trick. In my opinion, it makes the game play a little tricky. 
 I also don't like how the level design is. It's not as bad as it seems but there is usually some 
 glitches in some levels that will make you die instantly. The most failing daytime levels in the 
 game has to be the Holoska, and Chun-Nan. In Holoska, they will be a very slim chance that you 
 will slip through the game level. Usually when your feet touches on an ice cube without warning, 
 you slip. But slip on a sleet of ice, then you'll be running to a glitch. Story in a nut shell 
 you're pretty screwed. Chun-Nan has this very slow motion in the game play. Also when you're sliding 
 on water, its very hard to control Sonic in that position. Then we have the boss stages, there 
 nothing but a joke. All you pretty much have to do is to wait at the right time, and boast dash 
 then until they bleed. Thou of how the way these bosses flop around when Sonic boast dashes them 
 is very breath taking, any kind of funny.
  WEREHOG'S GAMEPLAY:
  Some critics say that the reason that the werehog's game play sucks is because its two slow. I 
 strongly disagree. From the looks of the trailer that Sega has shown us, of course the werehog 
 is going to have a slow gameplay, but not as slow since Sonic 06. The werehog's stages has this 
 beat em up genera style of game play. If these critics have played video games such as SSBM, and 
 Wind Waker, they have at least to admit, beating up a lot of people or creatures is really fun, 
 and it makes you want to come back for more. Although my only complaint about the werehog stages 
 is they last about ten minutes to complete. You can even do a lot of interesting combos. My favorite 
 combo in the game has to be the Earthshaker. You can even use your UNLEASHED which allows the werehog 
 to channel his anger into increasing his power for a short time. Also when ever you play as the 
 Werehog you can choose to walk around the hub-worlds/levels, or you can go all-fours, meaning running 
 like you were a real werewolf. But when there comes a time to defeat one of Eggman's robots, or 
 any Dark Gaia creatures you can do special a combo technique when its said that you are able, and 
 you have to press the right button in order to do so. But if you press the wrong button not just 
 only you'll take damage, but the enemy's health will increase. So my only complaints is that I 
 believe that they could of cut down some pieces of the werehog levels, and that I feel that when 
 you make one mistake the enemy's health automatically fills up were very unnecessary. But overall 
 I believe that the werehog levels are pretty good, and incredibly fun.
  
  Then you have you're hub levels where you have to talk to people on order to go to the other side. 
 Again, I strongly disagree. You pretty much don't have to talk to people to go through another 
 level. If there referring to that one place that you have to talk to someone I can understand. 
 But again, you don't have to talk to everyone to go to another place. But you do need to collect 
 tokens in order to continue the game, and trust me you need them. Because when your going to a 
 level that you want to go in order to beat the game, you're force to go back from were you started 
 to find some tokens. I mean seriously things such as collecting coins or and type of treasure only 
 works in Mario. By the way when are we going to see his games already. Most coins are hidden in 
 places that you have never been to. So it's a wise decision to look 
  hard for these coins. They can be anywhere so please be well aware. Also some where during the 
 game you will have to save the citizens that has been possessed by Dark Gaia which only occurs 
 at nighttime.
  
  FEATURES:
  In Sonic Unleashed you'll be able to do, and see a ton of things that most of you might not be 
 expecting. In this game you're able to change the language of how you want to Sonic and friends 
 to speak. It can be either English or Japanese. When I first compared the two I happen to find 
 a minor difference in the game. Despite it still has its game play, but when listening to the Japanese 
 version, the slapstick doesn't feel right. So if you want to here some good comedic humor during 
 the game, play the game while the characters are speaking English, trust me I compared the two. 
 If you look harder at the point when Eggman fires the cannon, you will then see a Dreamcast just 
 right below him. Then you can also watch some of your previous cut scenes that are need to be found 
 in many parts of the hub worlds, and levels whether if is Sonic as himself or a Werehog. Also when 
 you want to buy something it shows Sonic's favorite food Chill dog's, a nod to the head of the 
 three Sonic cartoons. Then you'll get to see some special 3D Animation shorts about Sonic, Chip, 
 and a little bit of slapstick. Unfortunately there's only four. One being in Abadat, Holoska, Chun-Nan, 
 and another one which is not even unlock able in Sonic Unleashed called, Sonic and the Werehog. 
 
  
  
  CONCLUSION:
  In conclusion, this game is not bad as they tell us, and most of the video game critics such as 
 gamespot and IGN aren't giving us a good reason that the Xbox360 version suck. Yahtzee Croshaw's 
 review of Sonic Unleashed I can let that slide, because at least he's giving us a reason of why 
 he hates this game. Also because he just wants something to hate, and I feel that the game could 
 of added a few more levels in the game. But I would have to agree Sonic doesn't need new games 
 it needs help. Perhaps a 1 year hiatus of the blue mascot. But overall I believe this is a game 
 that's worth trying out. Trust me when I say you will never see a Sonic game anything like this 
 for a very long time.
  
  LESSON OF THE GAME: Never give Chip "Canned Horror". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xKriegerx
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 6:06 am PT
Review:  Sonic: Unleashed is probably the hardest Sonic game in stores today.
  The story line isn't that great. The graphics are pretty good at times.
  But the worst of all 
 is that it takes about 30-45 minutes to finish a boss. 
  Just say you beat a boss that took an hour... and after you beat him, it doesn't save the game, 
 so then a second later you have to fight another boss... so if you die on the second boss, you have 
 to restart back before the first boss..... which is very very frustrating at times. 
  
  
  The positives - The graphics are better than any other Sonic game. (That's the problem, they spend 
 too much time worrying about graphics than gameplay.)
  The Sonic the Hedgehog levels are the funnest levels in the game. You can speed up to like 250- 
 400 mph. 
  
  
  The negatives - The story line is kinda wierd at times and it's a lot of the same repetitive gameplay. 
 When you're Sonic the Wherehog, it's othing like you would expect. You can barely jump high, you 
 use only your big gigantic arms to kill things..... and the music that plays when you are Wherehog 
 is the most anooying song you will ever hear. 
  I honestly don't think this game was very good. If you are getting this game just because of the 
 Wherehog, then you're wasting your money..... BIGTIME.
  
  I don't recommend this game to Sonic lovers because this game will probably dissapoint you and 
 make you think differently about Sonic. 
  
  Well I hope this review helped you a little about going out and buying this game. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersInThe-Sky
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Industry icon turned joke Sonic the Hedgehog returns in a game that's one giant step forward and 
 two steps back, proving that a year just isn't a year without a Sonic disappointment.
  
  After the end of an untold conflict, Sonic (with the help of his new sidekick, Chip) seeks to restore 
 the broken planet back to normal after Dr. Robotnik separates the continents from the surface of 
 the world in a recent world domination attempt. Is it silly? Yes. Is that bad? No. It may be simpler 
 than previous entries, but the lighthearted tone and scale of the story easily makes it the more 
 bearable than the series' last seven 3D disasters.
  
  Graphically, Sega's new Hedgehog engine is absolutely breathtaking. Particle effects, motion blur, 
 and quick time events fly by with little to no stutter. The art style and animation are gorgeous 
 as well, showing care and detail nearly on a level of Pixar quality. Sonic Team has finally opened 
 their eyes to the fact that not everything looks good in Photorealism. In doing this, they've actually 
 made a game that looks Next Gen.
  
  The shift in tone even extends itself to the soundtrack. The upbeat tunes and orchestrals of the 
 game are a very welcome improvement from the usual mediocre hard rock these games have been known 
 for in recent history. The closest thing to annoying emo-esque rock is the catchy theme song.
 
  So it sounds like we have a winner right? Sadly, like most post-Dreamcast era Sega games, most 
 of the failure is in the gameplay. After being drained of energy by Robotnik in his Super Sonic 
 form, Sonic is corrupted into a Werehog, which is essentially the bastard child of a Legend of 
 Zelda Wolfos and Mr. Fantastic that he transforms into at night. This effectively splits most of 
 the game into two segments, the daytime stages and nighttime stages that are connected by a small 
 easily explorable hub world.
  
  The daytime stages are, in a nutshell, exactly what a Sonic game should be. They're fast, furious, 
 fun, and the Hedgehog engine's steady framerate and motion effects combined with a smoothly transitioning 
 camera gives a sense of scope and satisfying speed unlike any game I've ever seen before. Keep 
 in mind that these sections do take practice to master. The controls have been completely overhauled 
 and dodging obstacles and enemies can require split second timing. The hard as nails ranking system 
 only adds to the difficulty. That said the sense of satisfaction upon stage completion with a high 
 score is worth it. Now if only these stages made up the entire experience, This review would be 
 nothing but applause. Unfortunately the highlight of the game is only 30% of the game.
  
  The bulk of the game focuses on Sonic's new beastlike persona, the Werehog, playing in the nighttime 
 stages of the game. Slower in pace, these sections play out like a brawler with platforming elements. 
 By comparison to the daytime stages, these sections are the ultimate buzz kill. They run way too 
 long, the fights are repetitive, they appear far too frequently, and are overall duller than watching 
 paint dry. Balanced out by the daytime stages, these sections could have been a decent diversion 
 but in the end, they are just too frequent.
  
  This is ultimately both the Sonic game that everyone's been waiting for and the Sonic game nobody 
 wanted and as much as I loved speeding through stages at 300 miles per hour in HD, Sega still hasn't 
 learned that gimmicks only work when they're attached to a solid foundation and for that, I can't 
 give this one a pass. Normally I'd say maybe next time, but at this rate the only thing that will 
 make me happy with what's left of this once great franchise on a home console is a game that lets 
 me take Sonic outback with a shotgun Old Yeller style. This may be the best 3D Sonic game to come 
 along in years, but at this point, the standard should just be so much higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Sonic has had good 3D games, and some dreadful ones (you guys know which one I'm talking about) 
 Sonic Unleashed falls somewhere in the middle. Sonic Unleashed tries to give you a decent story, 
 but it fails on all ends. It starts off at the end of an untold battle between Sonic and Eggman. 
 Sonic's fighting Eggman's robot without trouble, until Eggman's newest creation has Sonic in his 
 grip, so he uses the power of the Chaos Emeralds to become Super Sonic (Super Sonic is awesome) . 
 Super Sonic is about to defeat Eggman yet again, that is until Eggman uses his new machine to tear 
 the Chaos Emeralds out of Sonic's body, using the energy of the Emeralds he breaks the world apart 
 releasing Dark Gaia (the most powerful villian in the series to date) , but also causes some side 
 effects to Sonic, at night he turns in a Werehog. Anyway lets get onto gameplay for regular Sonic 
 shall we. Sonic can jump, Homing Attack, and Light Speed Dash, that's all normal, he now has a 
 Boost which can be done in the air or on the ground, this however can lead to your death more often 
 than not. He can drift like a car now, but I can't really get that down. He also has a quick step 
 which is very useful. Regular Sonic also has the more difficult levels of the 2 forms, but also 
 the more fun. Now onto the Werehog the games biggest problem. All he does is fight and Jump. Gets 
 very old and repetitive fast, and it's not fun to begin with. Now onto the graphics they are absolutly 
 stunning, some of the best out there for any videogame. Sound is mixed, the music is very wonderful 
 and the sound effects are lovely, but the voice acting can use some work. Sonic Unleashed isn't 
 for everybody due to extreme difficulty later on in the game, and somewhat loose controls, however 
 it is definitely superior to the last 3 main 3D Sonic games, and definately a step in the right 
 direction for the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1001001
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  Over the years, Sonic been through some good times and some bad times, though most of them have 
 been bad. It started with Sonic the Hedgehog (2006) , which helped to greatly make the hedgehog 
 lose his reputation for being fast and fun, which are the two most important factors to a good 
 Sonic game, like the original Sonic Adventure for the Dreamcast. Sega heard many of the fans replies 
 as Sonic having less luck in gaming due to his transition from 2-D to 3D, so Sega decided to make 
 a game which combines both these elements into one. Their answer was Sonic Unleashed, a game that 
 they hoped would bring the hedgehog back the same fame he had back in his 2-D days. How does this 
 game fare?
  
  Well, to start, Sega did manage to make the hedgehog extremely fast. So much so that he is actually 
 able to go up to 300 miles per hour. That is achieved through an ability Sonic has, known as the 
 Sonic Boost. If your Ring Meter is filled, which is done by collecting Rings or defeating enemies, 
 you will dash forward with greater speed and be able to destroy anything that stands in your path. 
 Though this may sound like a great idea, it is actually what presents many of the games problems. 
 When you're going too fast, you're more than likely to run into a wall of spikes or accidently 
 fall off course. This will happen to you many times throughout the game, so you'll have to be patient 
 and memorize the level layout.
  
  Sonic also has many other new abilities as well as some of his old ones. Sonic can still grind 
 rails and dash across rings as well as Homing Attack off of aligned enemies. Sonic can now drift 
 across corners known as the Sonic Drift. By pressing either one of the two triggers on the controller, 
 you'll be able to sharply turn a corner as well as fill up the Ring Meter while doing so. It's 
 a great addition, as it's really fun to watch Sonic sharply ride along corners. He can also do 
 something known as the Quick Step, which, by using the bumpers of the controller, allows Sonic 
 to quickly step aside, which helps him to quickly move aside from incoming attacks or barriers. 
 He can also do a Wall Jump now, which is starting to become more common these days in platformers.
 
  
  One of the biggest issues with this game is the fact that the Homing Attack, which used to simply 
 be done by pressing the jump button while in the air, has become a separate button. Many people 
 used to playing traditional 3-D Sonic iterations will take a while to get used to it, but it isn't 
 before a second problem occurs. Once you get the Air Boost item somewhere near the middle of the 
 game, the Homing Attack gets somewhat replaced with the Boost. There will be many times where you 
 come across a small gap you'd like to simply get across with a simple Homing Attack, but you'll 
 end up boosting across and many times will fall to your death below. It simply isn't right and 
 it isn't fair that you should die due to the excuse of the Air Boost replacing the Homing Attack.
 
  
  Sonic games were never really known for their story, and this one is no exception. It starts off 
 with an untold adventure where Sonic has already started raiding on Eggman's fleet of ships, and 
 just as it looks bleak for Sonic when he gets captured by Eggman, he turns into Super Sonic with 
 the seven Chaos Emeralds and continues his assault on the fleet. Eggman begs for mercy, but it 
 was mearly a trick as he captures Super Sonic, and using the energy from him, fires it from a cannon 
 straight into the Earth, unleashing Dark Gaia, a being that was in slumber for millions of years. 
 At the same time the cannon was firing, Sonic was transformed into Sonic the Werehog, and gets 
 blasted to Earth by Eggman. Now it's up to Sonic to put the continents of the planet back together.
 
  
  Though you will have some fun playing as Sonic in the daytime, nighttime is where the game starts 
 to fall into a slump. Whenever night strikes, you will revert into the Werehog, who in place of 
 speed, has some very boring combat. It's not till nearly the end of the game does the Werehog actually 
 get some interesting combos, but you'll have to fight relentless enemies which become bland and 
 repetitive by the second level using just your extendable fists and claws. The Werehog can also 
 use his extendable arms to get to hard-to-reach places. He can grab onto poles and certain ledges 
 as well as balance on some narrow paths. The platforming is fun at times, but it's bogged down 
 by constant enemy battles that you rarely ever get to just go into a room and just do some simple 
 platforming. 
  
  The game has also incorporated a leveling-up system, which is done by defeating enemies and picking 
 up the yellow orbs left behind them. It can be used to either level up Sonic's speed or increase 
 the Werehog's strength as well as getting new combos, though the question lies, "Why are you playing 
 a Sonic game where you have to level up his speed to get the real blue blur out?" It resembles 
 the system used in Sonic and the Secret Rings, though it's less irritating.
  
  The level design is mixed. While all of the daytime stages may be really fast and fun to breeze 
 through, you will die a lot of times during the first run-throughs of many levels. That, in turn, 
 makes just about most of the game based on memorization and a bit of luck on some parts. There 
 are also many quick-time events placed in each level, which is initiated by going onto a specific 
 ramp, and if you screw one up, you'll fall to your death right away. It's fine when at the beginning 
 of the game, it's used to get to secret paths of the levels, but it's a problem when it's the only 
 way to get through the level. The Werehog levels are bland. It's the same process over and over: 
 defeat some enemies, platform for a minute or two, more enemies, and the process repeats. It's 
 rather annoying and makes you wish you could see the light of day again, especially since the levels 
 tend to last 10-15 minutes each.
  
  The presentation, though, is one of the biggest highlights of the game. It utilizes the brand new 
 Hedgehog Engine, which was said to be in makings for three years. The game looks absolutely gorgeous, 
 and the prerendered cutscenes are some of the best out there in the business. In the sound department, 
 in turn of the rock music seen in previous Sonic titles, we now get a soothing sountrack which 
 all fit in well with many of the levels. On the other hand, the voice acting could've used some 
 work, especially with Chip, your new sidekick, who actually becomes more irritating than help to 
 you.
  
  While this may be the fastest Sonic game to date, the inclusion of the Werehog pins this game down 
 from being as good. This game is definitely not for everyone, but if you're in the mood for some 
 of the best speed levels ever, then you should check this game out, but just remember that you'll 
 have to deal with the bad to get to the good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperdarksonic
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2009 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Before we start, let me just say that, yes, I am a Sonic fan. I have been so ever since I played 
 Sonic 2 back in 1994 (Good times) . Anyways, on with the review.
  
  Sonic has been through a hard journey. Hard to believe that a series could survive this long on 
 only about 5 really good games (And those were all 15 years ago) . Yet, Sonic still remains one 
 of the most well known and well respected characters, even if he is kind of a gaming "purist" punching 
 bag these days.
  
  I saw this game announced and as always I hoped for the best. The first couple of screenshots were 
 great, and so was the trailer. Throughout the games development I was still excited as the game 
 was shaping up to look great. I was a bit disappointed though when I saw the Crash bandicoot/God 
 of War/Prince of Persia hybrid known as Sonic the Werehog though. Seemed stupid. Why change Sonic 
 in such a way? Well whatever, I still had hope.
  
  And then I played the game. And this is where the real review starts
  
  Story 7/10:
  Sonic 
 games have never been much for story telling. This game follows the same basic plot of all the 
 other 3D games. Robotnik wants Chaos Emeralds so he can feed some weapon which eventually turns 
 on him. This time, Robotnik tricks Sonic into his laser thing. When the machine absorbs the emeralds, 
 Sonic transforms into a werewolf of all things, and is sent flying back to earth. With the help 
 of Chip, who is named such for liking Ice Cream, they go off to restore the Chaos Emeralds and 
 the Planet to stop Dark Gaia.
  
  Ok, pretty stupid, but it's a step up from previous Sonic plots as it's not super serious, angsty, 
 and it doesn't contain making out between a hedgehog and a person. The game also cuts the characters 
 down a bit. So well done Sega, you finally learned that putting 12 underdeveloped characters in 
 a game is a bad idea.
  
  BTW, I didn't know this through my first play through unfortunately, but you can skip the cutscenes. 
 Hold start down for long enough (or press it 3 times, I forget which one) it is possible. I just 
 found out too late.
  
  Graphics 9/10:
  This is one of the most beautiful games I've ever played. Even if you don't like it, you cannot 
 deny how great the game looks. Sonic Team and Sega did a real good job developing the Hedgehog 
 engine, and I really hope to see it in future titles. Granted, it's not perfect. Later levels in 
 the game, such as Abadat and EggmanLand, experience slowdowns (Especially Abadat) . The game also 
 has framerate dips during Werehog fights when there are too many enemies on the screen. (These 
 are less frequent if you install the game onto the harddrive, but Abadat is still pretty bad) .
 
  
  Also, this is the first Sonic game where the cutscenes are actually well made. The mouth moves 
 properly, no choppy movements, no running in place. Also Sonic and the gang have in game models 
 that no only look close to those of the CG cutscenes but also fit the characters perfectly. Remember 
 how Sonic looked in Sonic 06? Ya I don't want to remember either.
  
  Gameplay:
  I'm dividing this up into three catagories
  Sonic Day time 8/10:
  Sonic Team came very close 
 with this one in my opinion. Only took them about 10 years to figure out a good 3D gameplay type, 
 but it seems like they finally have the foundation done. Let's keep it that way please. The greatness 
 of the gameplay can be seen when zooming for levels. New moves like the drift and quick step really 
 help you move through levels, and the level design isn't as bad as previous Sonic games. Unlike 
 the Wii version, this game has more hit and misses. Some levels are great, like Mazuri, Apotos, 
 Empire City. Others like Abadat and Chun-nan suffer a bit due to water running (Water in 3D sonic 
 games means Bottomless pits BTW) and some cheap gimmicks, especially in Abadat, where it seems 
 like erupting water things get in your way. The Wii version has levels that are all safely in the 
 middle. Nothing that wowed me though, but this review is about the 360 version. 
  
  Sonic moves a tad bit slippery when slow. They should really implement some sort of gear system 
 for Sonic, like in a car. Jumping isn't too exact but with the homing attack it's not like that 
 matters too much, unless you are doing some precision platforming, such as in Spagonia Act 2, which 
 is hell on earth (This is really the only level which I refuse to play anymore. It's just bad) . 
 Despite the problems, the levels contain more paths than in the past 3D games, and Sonic has never 
 played better in 3D. But he played a lot better in Sonic 3 and Knuckles. Also, the day time levels 
 have some really fun and memorable bosses. Best bosses I've played in quite a while, possibly ever 
 in any Sonic game, 2D included. But they should have mixed it up a bit more, having some fights 
 involving you not running constantly.
  
  Sonic Nighttime 5/10:
  I didn't really hate this. As far as unnecessary padding goes, this is by far the best secondary 
 gameplay type in a 3D Sonic game. But what is it really running against? Treasure hunting, mechs, 
 shooting, fishing? Obviously it would do better than those.
  
  The werehog starts off slow. Due to a level up system, you start off with the bear minimum as far 
 as a move set goes. You have little combos, you're weak, and you can't go super charged (Unleashed) 
 for very long. This makes the game run at a grueling pace. Since the enemies get stronger as you 
 keep playing, it's still slow during your first play through. Playing the levels afterwards isn't 
 so bad though. After you have fully upgraded the werehog, he moves quickly, and is really strong, 
 making the levels ok to play, but it makes you think, why did I have to wait this long to actually 
 enjoy the werehog and why would I want to play the level again? None of the levels are too bad, 
 except occasionally non-responsive controls often get in the way (This doesn't happen too much, 
 but it pisses you off enough when it happens) . Bosses are ok. Nothing is too memorable as the werehog. 
 Likely you'll find yourself playing this game just for the Sonic levels. I adjust to become good 
 at whatever they throw at me, but that doesn't mean I bought the game for that type of gameplay. 
 Is it great? no. Is it bad? Also no. It's just ok. Nothing that I would play again for another 
 couple months (Unlike daytime levels. I pick those up every day or 2 for a quick run through)
 
  
  Hubs 5/10:
  Get rid of these please. They aren't bad, they just get in the way. I want to play a level! I don't 
 want to run around hubs talking to people (As the gamespot review made people believe, they said 
 that you had to talk to people. Not true. Only once do you have to talk to people. The rest is 
 entirely optional, unless you're a completest like me) . Navigation is pretty easy. Unlike Sonic 
 06, where the Hubs were massive and bland, these ones have character and pretty tiny. Getting to 
 the Entrance stage is pretty easy. They tried to put a bit more stuff into the character's personalities 
 this time around, which is always nice, but still unnecessary (Although I'll admit I did find it 
 funny talking to the gay guy and the fat rapper in the New York level) .
  
  Entrance stages are fun. Basically, it's the only important part of the Hub. You run around to 
 find level entrances. It's funner than it sounds don't worry. Either way you'll get to the level 
 quickly... unless you don't have the right number of medals D:. You'll also find upgrades for Sonic's 
 powers in these Hubs, kind of like in Sonic Adventure 1.
  
  Music 9/10:
  It's great, and pretty memorable. I put it right up with the soundtracks for the classics (Well 
 slightly below anyways) . The great thing is that they got rid of the crap rock for a more Sonic-y, 
 upbeat type of Soundtrack. It makes the levels more enjoyable. Unfortunately, the Nighttime songs 
 can't be enjoyed as much, because some repetitive jazzy battle theme comes on EVERY TIME you fight 
 an enemy, which is a lot. So I suggest you get the soundtrack onto your system, and play the Night 
 songs off of that.
  
  Additional stuff:
  Medal Collecting 2/10: It's not easy and not very fun to collect all 400 of these. The fact that 
 they're required to unlock certain levels is bad. Very bad. Not rewarding either. Collect them 
 all and you get achievements. That's it. D:
  Experience points and level upgrades 6/10: Works pretty well. Better than the system in Sonic and 
 the Secret Rings. But it's pretty pointless. If Sonic is the fastest thing alive why does he need 
 to upgrade his speed?
  
  So that's why I gave the game a 7. I do think this is the best 3D Sonic game, but that's not saying 
 much. Almost every game before this was a glitchy mess, with Shadow the Hedgehog and Sonic 06 topping 
 them all for awfulness. But this game did something different. It was a good attempt. It was made 
 by a new Sonic Team. New director and some people fresh out of college looking to make some games, 
 so they're still enthusiastic.
  
  But it wasn't perfect. It may have been well executed but that doesn't mean the idea behind it 
 was any good. Granted, Sonic turning into a werewolf turned out better than I could have ever hoped 
 for, but why would you do that in the first place? Who thought that was good?
  
  In closing I don't think this game is Sonic's triumphant return. But I no longer think that Sonic 
 is on the path of destruction (BTW to the people who want Sonic to die... not seeing it, Not as 
 long as he makes profit) . This game is the start of the road of recovery. If a new team of a couple 
 of inexperienced yet enthusiastic programmers under a first time leader that actually listened 
 to the fans a bit can make what was the best effort for a Sonic game in about 8 years, I have faith 
 that the next game will be even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sunamaru
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Sonic was the first video game I've ever played, and ever since then I've loved Sonic. Now Sonic 
 Unleashed is a nice solid sonic title.
  
  The Sonic levels is where this game shines! There super fast and very colorful and just plain fun! 
 They have the charm of the old games that everyone loved so much now the were-how is what brings 
 the game down from a 10 to a 8. Its not really bad but it is just not plain wanted, but it's not 
 all bad. Theres some cool combos in there and some fun boss battles.
  
  the gaphics are very good, but they really shine in the day levels. There coloful live and charming. 
 almost CG quality at some points. The music sorta reminds me of the older games there happy and 
 upbeat and electric and slow when they need to be just like a sonic title should have. Bottem line 
 I love this game no matter what reviews say. this is a game worth playing for anyone.
  
  
  Sound- 9.0
  gameplay-7.0
  story-7.0
  graphics-9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Little_Tommy_M
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  I only review games that really wind me up. Sonic was probably the biggest single thing that got 
 me into gaming and so every time a new sonic is released i hold my breath and pray for a return 
 to glory. It will never happen.
  
  This game is indeed split into 3 parts and while most of this review will have been said before 
 im in a very bad mood after playing. The night time warehog stages are bog standard slow platforming, 
 you jump or swing from ledges before entering an arena and fighting abit. I actually didnt mind 
 the fighting, the combos look pretty and suitably devestating and while you probably wont care 
 to memoriese them, simple button bashing gets a good result. There are some lock on issues and 
 at one point i was forced to consult Youtube for an alternate route when the main one simply failed 
 to work. While this isnt sonic in any way it is at least pretty and colourful, gets old fast but 
 works most of the time.
  
  Hub worlds... Ohhh the hub worlds. For me these represent by far the worst aspect of the game. Now 
 most games progress automatically, as you complete one part you carry on to the next. Thats just 
 common sense. In SU however progression relies on the collection of medals. These are found anywhere 
 in any type of level or behind plant pots. Without these the game wont progress since you cant 
 enter stages. This is POSSIBLY THE WORST GAME MECHANIC EVER CONCIEVED. This means that while you 
 might know you have to go to one area to progress, you must first re trawl previous areas to locate 
 medals. Why? the hub worlds are populated by cartoony peoples who vomit inane babble. Very little 
 of what they say is relevant to anything, who cares if whats his name has asked out whats her name?! 
 The people dont talk, just mutter with subtitles and after afew mintures you will want to masacre 
 them. The hub worlds ensure that the story becomes fragmented and that just getting the game to 
 progress becomes a primary goal. These worlds exist merely to increase the length of the game.
 
  
  The day light stages are the best of the game. And the closest Sonic team has come to recreating 
 the fun of the 90s. At least the early ones are. These stages capture the speed of the old games 
 brilliantly, its sometimes startling just how fast you can go. They dont last long which is a shame 
 and take up much less of the game than they should but they do offer a quick blast and can be real 
 fun. Unfortunatly they get harder. And not in a satisfying way. Early on bottemless pits are rare 
 and the mechanics are tight. Later you will be falling to your death almost constantly. Moves like 
 drift dont really do what they say and rails arent always as reliable as they are in the first 
 levels. These levels were the only thing keeping me playing but after god nos how many attempts 
 at one level ive decided that it cant just be me, im a better gamer than that.
  
  Technically the game is competant, which is surprising. The graphics are bright and detailed, some 
 of the environments really merity a 2nd glance, some even a 3rd. Water, grass, explosions all look 
 good in a disney pixar way. Overall good work with that. Its not enough though is it?
  
  So there you go, the 3 parts of SU brought up and knocked down. Nevertheless this is an important 
 game. The daylight stages show a glimpse of what 3D sonic might be one day. Unfortunatly Sonic 
 team has lost the plot, they have become so obsessed with bolting on lame extras that they have 
 forgotten why people played sonic games in the first place. Time for a new team me thinks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gregson616
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 6:52 am PT
Review:  Hello all, 
  
  I've played my mates game and I have downloaded the demo. And initially I liked the look of it. 
 The fast paced game play, the speedy graphics, the colourful scenery. 
  I thought this would be a game I could spend hours playing and working through. 
  This was until 
 I played it for an hour. I started to find out that it was very repetitive, and the transfer in 
 camera from 3D to 2D was a nice feature, but too much. 
  
  So, it's only a quick review, but at the moment, that's all I feel this game deserves. The positives 
 are, the graphics, the initially game play are great, fast and fun. But as the time goes on, it 
 gets dull and repetitive. The use of dark sonic nearly gives it a bit of a change, but not enough 
 in my opinion to save the game. 
  In all honesty, I feel once you've downloaded the demo, that's all you need. There's no need to 
 go wasting your Christmas money on this when there are some brilliant games out there and soon 
 to be out there on the gaming market. 
  
  So i'm going to give it a middle of the road, 5.0. It scored that high, for the scenery etc.... 
 But scored that low for the boredom, and similarity of the levels.
  
  Cheers for reading
  
  Gregson616
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alan_stealth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 11:19 am PT
Review:  Let me just start by saying I don't use this website Gamespot anymore because they are so far off 
 the mark on everything that isn't dogmatically commercial it's painful.
  Seriously.
  
  You want some real feedback stick to the community reviews, or visit another site.
  I mean 3.5?
 
  Are you kidding me?
  
  
  I'm a massive Sonic fan from back in the day, and saw the errors in Sonic Adventure, but forgave 
 them for the breath of fresh air born into the series...
  
  This is more of the same.
  But stupid reviewers like this, who will forgive a FIFA game for being wholly unimaginitive year 
 after year after year, and other toss.
  SO play it for yourself.
  
  If you liked Sonic, loved Sonic Adventure or any platforming game, yes it gets annoying, and some 
 parts could be better, but in terms of the recent crap we've had spewing out the Sonic brand, and 
 in comparison to any other platformer that's still trying to find it's place in the "new age" it's 
 better than most.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: b1zki7
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:06 am PT
Review:  not being a sonic fan (except the 1st) i was willing to give this a go. however, it's controls 
 are awful, its camera is the most annoying i have yet met and it is certainly not aimed at kids! 
 even as an experienced gamer i find it far too frustrating to be fun! the day levels are too quick 
 for the unresponsive controls, and the night levels are simply dull! added to tis are the adventure 
 levels which are dull and monotonous, and require half an hours searching just find the next level. 
 Seriously, i would not recommend this abortion. Having said this when you do manage to get passed 
 a section of instant death falls where the camera wont allow you to see what you need to do, or 
 wont let you get the right angle to judge a jump etc, it is very satisfying. however i seriously 
 doubt many people are going to bother with the hours of tedium required to get passed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildcat2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I usually only review games that I feel were underrated or overrated but having seen many fans 
 reactions and thoughts I can't say its either one. I guess the most important thing to mention 
 is that all of the major reviewers, like GS and IGN, have lied about everything in thier reviews.
 
  
  The problems they mention are ridiculous, just playing the game for a few hours and you'll see 
 thier scores were nothing more than prejudice/biased bashing perhaps because they didnt like the 
 slower Werehog levels. Whatever the reason is just ignore them because they dont offer any valid 
 information.
  
  Now for the most part the game really feels like 2 diffrent games in one. While the Werehog levels 
 heavly focus on platforming and beating up enemies your only real goal in the speed levels is to 
 run through them as fast as you can being careful not slam into enemies or falling off cliffs.
 
  
  I know alot of people complain about the Werehog levels and I wasnt too fond of them at first either, 
 but I actually found them pretty enjoyable. Like I said they focus on platforming so if your a 
 fan of plaformers you'll feel right at home with them.
  
  The beat'em parts are nothing special and really just require some light button mashing but it 
 is fun to use some of your unlockable attacks and sometimes you'll need them for a few of the really 
 difficult parts. Just when you feel the Werehog levels might be getting old you're at the final 
 level so they never become too boring if you don't particularly like them.
  
  Which brings me to my first complaint. I feel like the game was kinda short. There are plenty of 
 other side levels you can play but if you just play through the main quest it feels like they could 
 have added a few more levels/Parts of the World. Either way its no biggie.
  
  Now my biggest complaint are the Quick-Time-Event moments, when you are forced into punching in 
 random button combinations to make it across gaps or to damage bosses. Sometimes they are made 
 up of 4 or more buttons and they barely give you enough time to punch them in.
  
  More often than not you'll end up dying because you accidently pressed the wrong button. If that 
 wasnt bad enough there are two levels where you do nothing but these random button combos, each 
 with the same boss at the end. Everything is happening so fast in these two levels that sometimes 
 you cant tell whether you actually got it right or you just got lucky.
  
  This whole punching in random buttons thing makes no sense for any platformer game, Sonic never 
 needed them to get arcoss cliffs before so why now? I want to play Sonic... NOT Simon Says. Now 
 I do have one more complaint but if you havent beaten the game don't read the following.
  
  SPOILER-
  
  I was quite disappointed with the final battle. Instead of it focusing compeletly 
 on Super Sonic you first have to fight using this giant rock type monster thats made up of all 
 the chaos emerald temples in the game. This thing is slow and clunky especially when you have to 
 avoid the stuff being thrown at you. Seriously a snail would have a better reaction time than this 
 thing.
  
  In between all that you yet again have to punch in some more button combos (though not quite as 
 hard this time) and you must run through some brief speed segments before your time runs out. When 
 you actually do become Super Sonic all you do is fly around doing homing attacks on these tenticle 
 like arms that dont even move. Your biggest threat is running into rocks that get in your way. 
 After thats done all you do is a few more button combos and your done.
  
  First of all the whole first part when you play as the rock monster is pointless and should never 
 been added, as soon as you beat Eggman for the last time you should go straight to becoming Super 
 Sonic. Second Super Sonic should have done something more exciting than just fly around dodging 
 rocks, plus its harder than you think.
  
  END OF SPOILER
  
  Like I said I only review games I felt were underrated or overrated so I dont really know why I 
 reviewed this, maybe because I felt really letdown with everything I mentioned about the length, 
 button combos and ending.
  
  Bottom Line, it is a very enjoyable game, even more so if the few problems I mentioned don't bother 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameBeaten
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog's games have gone through a rough time as the years go on. While his 2D games 
 have been considered classic by most people, his 3D games have gotten many mixed reactions. Sonic 
 Unleashed is one of those Sonic games. In the past, Sega and Sonic Team have given a rather poor 
 performance in Sonic games. Sonic Unleashed however slightly breaks the mold of poorness and delivers 
 a slightly much enjoyable experience.
  
  The game starts off with Dr. Eggman and a fleet of his battleships in outer space. It is never 
 explained why he is out there, but you are just going to have to assume he has done some long time 
 planning and is finally taking action. Sonic somehow shows up on Eggman's flagship and is immediately 
 attacked by robots. Sonic eventually needs to transform into Super Sonic, who is soon decieved 
 and captured by Eggman. Eggman proceeds in draining the power from Super Sonic and the Chaos Emeralds 
 to power his gigantic laser which blows apart the Earth into a few large chunks, prematurely releasing 
 an evil monster known as Dark Gaia. Dark Gaia's minions and what-not then spread across the Earth. 
 Sonic, after being infused with some dark energy from Dark Gaia, has turned into the what the game 
 calls: a Werehog. Eggman then sends Sonic flying out into space with the drained and powerless 
 Chaos Emeralds causing them to fall down to Earth. Sonic lands head first into the planet's surface 
 where he finds an unconcious dog who can't remember who he is. Sonic later names the pixie-like 
 dog: Chip. Sonic and Chip eventually embark on a quest to restore power to the Chaos Emeralds and 
 stop Dr. Eggman and Dark Gaia.
  
  Story aside, Sonic Unleashed's gameplay is probably what people want to know about most. The game 
 features two types of Gameplay. In day-time stages, you play as Sonic running through levels as 
 fast as you can. In night-time stages, you play as Sonic's Werehog form which plays as a beat-'em-up. 
 Before you can enter most of these stages, you have to collect a certain number of Sun Medals and 
 Moon Medals. These medals can be found in levels and in hub worlds.
  
  Sonic Unleashed's hub worlds represent a number of countries. The hub worlds are filled with people 
 you can talk to, but usually these people don't have anything interesting to say. You can take 
 on tasks and side quests from these people, but most of the time you probably won't feel like talking 
 to them at all; and you don't have to. You can also buy food to feed Chip in order to become better 
 friends with him. Also within each hub world is an Entrance Stage. The Entrance Stages are where 
 you can find and enter the day-time and night-time stages.
  
  The day-time stages have to be the best Sonic Unleashed has to offer. Unlike Sonic stages in past 
 games, these levels; or Acts, are better than those of most recent 3D Sonic games. The camera is 
 usually behind Sonic at all times, but will switch to a side view from for a while. Sonic Unleashed 
 allows Sonic to use a boost gauge, which can be filled by collecting rings. Boosting causes Sonic 
 to go redicuously fast. This can be a problem in most cases since you can go flying off a stage 
 into a bottomless pit of death. In most cases, each stage will cause you to slow down to some extent 
 so you don't die. The only real solution to this is to memorize how day-time stages are layed out 
 so you don't fall into the abyss.
  
  The night-time stage are a completely different story. As mentioned earlier, the Werehog's gameplay 
 is like a beat-'em-up. You go through these stages beating the snot out of Eggman's robots and 
 Dark Gaia's creatures. These segments also include small puzzles, like putting a block on a switch. 
 The night-time stages also include tight-rope walking and pole swinging. This where playing as 
 the Werehog can get extremely frustrating. Not only is the tight-rope walking nerve racking, but 
 the pole swinging and pole grabbing can lead to many deaths. In most cases you'll have to double-jump 
 to reach these poles. You grab onto the poles by pressing B, but it is HIGHLY recommended you hold 
 the B button since you won't be able properly time your B button presses. While day-time levels 
 can take three to ten minutes long, the night-time levels can take up to fifteen to thirty minutes. 
 For some people, this can be just way too long.
  
  These stages can be completed without hassle, as long as the game's controls don't become a problem. 
 Sonic's gameplay segments have little problems, but that is almost rare. Sonic now locks on to 
 his enemies, but this can be a problem at times since there might not be any enemies due to how 
 the camera can be positioned at times when it is unmoveable. Sonic also seems to slip around a 
 bit, but since he is going so fast, can you blame him? For situatuions with tight turns, you can 
 hold the B button to drift. Drifting however can be hard to pull off most of the time. In most 
 cases it is better to turn with the left analog stick. Sonic Unleashed also features quick time 
 events, or QTE's. In Sonic's case, you'll have to press a series of buttons to reach a different 
 part of the level or jump over a pit of death. This is frustrating sometimes because, depending 
 on your reaction time, you may not be able to press the buttons in time.
  
  Controls are even more frustrating in the Werehog levels. When on a moving platform, either the 
 game or the controller seems to have lost it's sense of direction. You may want to carefully move 
 in one direction, but you go in another. The only way to solve this is by jumping in place and 
 face the way you want to go. There are quick time events here as well, but they are used as finishing 
 moves on enemies and bosses. The quick time events here are more frustrating because it seems you 
 have a smaller amount of time to pull them off. Luckily, you don't have to perform these on regular 
 enemies most of the time.
  
  Also, as Sonic the Entrance Stages, he moves around the same he does in his day-time levels. So 
 expect to see him slide around a bit.
  
  There are also two levels in the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 versions of Sonic Unleashed with Sonic's 
 fox friend Tails, that require you to fly in a plane and shoot down enemies with button presses 
 QTE style. These can be annoying to some length.
  
  Perhaps the most frustrating thing about Sonic Unleashed is the final level and one of final bosses. 
 Especially the last level where you might need a little luck.
  
  Sonic Unleashed's sound is acceptable. There are a few moments of bad voice acting and the music 
 is top notch as well as the sound effects. However, the sound of a doorbell after completing a 
 QTE is questionable.
  
  Finally, the graphics. The quality of the CG cutscenes in the beginning and end of the game are 
 amazingly beautiful looking. The rest of the game's cutscenes use the in-game graphics which are 
 good as well. The level design is colorful and great. The character animations move well and have 
 little to no problems.
  
  For those who haven't liked Sonic's recent 3D games, you might have a dislike to this game as well. 
 For those people, give it a rental and see how it is. If you can withstand the layout of Sonic 
 Unleashed's levels or have been waiting to buy a good Sonic game, this is the best you'll going 
 to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gecko-boy
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  This time, as always, I am reviewing te Xbox 360 version of this game.
  I used to love SEGA Sonic games, though in my opinion, they have been getting worse and worse but 
 this. This draws a line.
  
  I'm going to keep this review short nd simple. Whether it is any better on other consoles like 
 the Wii for instance i don't know, but this is what i have to say about the 360 version. [-] = 
 bad comment [+] = good comment [=] = Could be both positive and negative comment
  
  Day time Levels (Hedgehog) :
  
  - bad level design, not too bad, but the worst i've seen in 
 Sonic games.
  - Terrible for unresponsive buttons, this makes the game harder and more frustraiting.
  + SEGA 
 has taken Sonic's speed into mind nd put it to a more of a good use, but it aso lets the game down 
 in certain areas.
  - Terrible 'homing' system. Sonic's 'homing attack' first of all has changed from pressing 'A, 
 A' to 'A, X' which gets confusing at the start to 'classic' SEGA Sonic gamers. And also, Sonic's 
 'targeting' is bad. Having missing what you want him to hit alot.
  + i have to give a thumbs up to Day-time boss battle thouh.
  
  Night time levels (Werehog)
 
  
  -Terrible camera angles
  -It reminds me alot of 'Tomb Raider: Anniversary' Gameplay if you have ever playing it.
  + Cool 
 multi-combo moves you can unlock throughout the game
  = Bosses are simple and easy, but we all like a challenge, right?
  
  General
  
  + Good 
 music
  + Good graphics
  = SEGA have eliminated many Glitches from his game... but not all of them...
  + Interesting storyline
 
  - Sonic and Werehog are only playable characters
  - It's frustrating to have to search through level-to-level just in order to find you media (Music, 
 artwork and film) one-by-one
  
  I can come up with 7 bad points off the top of my head without thinking and 6 good points. I can 
 think of 2 point which can have both a negative and/or possitive effect on the game depending on 
 your opinion.
  
  Overall, i rate this game 3.5
  
  Thanks for reading
  
  P. S: My advise, Rent this game first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldthechao
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  What the hell is wrong with the reviewer?! Did he have something shoved deep in his butt-crack?! 
 
  
  This game is pretty decent compared to the other 3D Sonic games. Seriously you guys that think 
 is bad are either judging it on the Werehog or are just being cry-babies and are still holding 
 grudges against Sonic (seriously, let it go) . 
  
  This game has some goods points while having certain bad ones. 
  
  I'll start with the bad: 
 (1) The Werehog levels lack proper design and also the battle music sucks. (2) The stupid token 
 system cos it seriously slows down the game by miles. (3) No Knuckles, no Shadow and no Silver. 
 Sega have gotten mixed up with the hating of too many characters so they've went and only put in 
 a few. And (4) Chip's voice. I like Chip himself but I hate his English voice that makes him sound 
 all... well, like a dork. 
  The good points: (1) Sonic is finally incredibly fast without the aid of boosters. (2) The Towns 
 and Villages don't get in the way they did in Next-gen. (3) Jason Grififth has improved as Sonic 
 and Mike Pollack is better than before (aka: He's epic) . (4) The fighting in the Werehog levels. 
 When you minus the frequent puzzles and crappy music you might like it. (5) The humour in it. The 
 main character for humour is Chip. He's actually funny at times and has a strange obsession towards 
 food. And finally the graphics are amazing. The music is alright but not as good as the music of 
 the Sonic Adventure series. 
  
  This game has really improved. It isn't the same as Sonic Adventure 1 and 2 but it is the best 
 sonic game that was made after Sonic Adventure 2. Sonic isn't back at his greatness, yet, but Sega 
 are getting it right for once. If they continue it like this and take some of the stuff, that sucks, 
 away then perhaps Sonic will be close enough to his old peak. He'll never be the same but he can 
 improve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I know I could write a better review then this but I just don't feel like spending the next few 
 hours typing one. I merely listed the goods and the bads of the game and gave it a proper score. 
 Clearly "+" means a positive and "-" is a negative.
  
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  + Cartoony aesthetic suits the Sonic series well (Eggman could actually blend in with these people)
 
  + Each stage has it's own unique look (just try to compare Apotos and Adabat)
  + CG cutscenes look truely amazing
  + Character models contain a good amount of detail
  + Environments 
 contain excellent detail
  + Astounding draw distance in some stages
  - Some objects seriously lack any detail
  - Occasional Pop-up
  - Dark Gaia enemies are rather 
 ugly
  - Some of these "cartoony" humans are just plain ugly
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  + Sonic stages have a fair, old school difficulty (starts off easy, becomes insane)
  + Sonic 
 stages have a very fast pace
  + controls are smooth and responsive (both Sonic and Werehog)
  + Hubs contain alot to do outside 
 of the main story
  + Boss fights (both Sonic and Werehog) are all unique and fun to fight
  + Multiple paths (Sonic stages) lead to plenty of replay value (and there are ALOT)
  + S-Ranks 
 aren't overly difficult to get (For Sonic stages, move as quickly as possible. For Werehog stages, 
 do as many finishers as possible.)
  + Multiple acts are incredibly challenging, yet fun, each in their own way (anything from all grind 
 rails to all quick-time-events)
  + Werehog combat is easy to get used to
  + Werehog platforming is reminiscent of old school 3D platformers like Crash Bandicoot and Banjo-Kazooie
 
  + Leveling up leads to more replay value without drastically effecting the gameplay
  + Camera rarely gets in the way
  - Memorization is almost required to get a good rank (Sonic 
 stages)
  - Quick Time Events are occasionally very punishing
  - Frame rate drops in Adabat (Day) ruin what could have been one of the best stages in the game
 
  - inconsistent frame rate during combat (Werehog)
  - Werehog combat can get repetitive after leveling up a few times
  - Some Werehog stages have 
 major difficulty spikes
  - Collecting medals to progress through the story is a chore
  - Some Werehog stages (Adabat and Shamar come to mind) have force you to stop and fight enemies 
 far too often
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  + Soundtrack is very diverse
  + Some of the catchiest tunes in Sonic history
  - Werehog fight music, while fairly good, frequently 
 interrupts some of the best tracks in the game
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
  If you own a 360 and like platformers, this game is definitley worth your while. Keep in mind that 
 there is a demo on XBL if you want to try before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_3691
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 5, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game can be summed up in a few words 'Not as bad as usual'. For you see the recent Sonic the 
 Hedgehog games have been terrible with the series hitting an all-time low with Sonic 06 which managed 
 to combine crap platforming and the one of the creepiest storylines ever to craptacular effect. 
 So when I heard that Sonic Unleashed would have high speed 2D Sonic sections my inner fanboy exploded 
 with excitement and then I read about the Werehog and promptly dismissed this as SEGA's stupidest 
 idea since Shadow the Hedgehog. 
  
  Ok lets get the story out of the way. Dr. Robotnik (I refuse to call him Eggman) tricks Sonic, 
 steals Chaos Emeralds power, turns Sonic in to Werehog, world splits apart for some reason and 
 Dark Gaia is released. If this sounds over convoluted that's because it is. Now I know Sonic games 
 aren't renowned for their stories but if any SEGA developers are reading I am going to solve this 
 problem for you in just a few bullet points, ok,
  
  Only let the story focus around Sonic and don't let him transform into anything.
  Stop introducing 
 bloody side characters NOBODY likes them.
  Get rid of all the crap characters you've introduced over the years and if anyone complains ignore 
 them because they are idiots.
  Stop making HUB worlds, just move from one stage to the next.
  Finally make Dr. Robotnik the 
 main villain and not some other creature.
  
  Just do that and it will at least be bearable .
  
  Now the Sonic stages of the gameplay switches 
 from 3D to 2D in one seamless movement and this works well. While the 3D sections focus on speed 
 and destroying enemies the 2D ones focus more on platforming. Plus for once the camera is very 
 good and didn't cause too many problems at all. My main gripe with the Sonic stages are that Sonic 
 goes so quick that avoiding upcoming obstacles on the first run through is nigh impossible and 
 thus trial and error gameplay starts to occur but the speed is so exhilarating that it can be forgiven 
 to an extent I just wish Sonic Team slowed him down just a bit. As ever there is a feeling that 
 the game is on rails and that your just their to press the odd button but the inclusion of the 
 side step and drift buttons gives a lot of control back to the gamer. There is no doubt that this 
 is the best Sonic gameplay since the Mega Drive days it is fast, exciting and gives a challenge 
 as well. If the game was made entirely of these sections it would have gotten a much higher score.
 
  
  The Werehog sections is were this game falls down it should have been tricky platforming with exciting 
 combat instead what we get is clumsy platforming and repetitive combat. Now these stages are almost 
 bearable but the controls are so awkward that you'll miss jumps and ledges and poles when you shouldn't 
 have and it becomes very frustrating. Also why have Sonic Team included so many platforming clichs 
 such as jumping/swinging from pole to pole, shimmying along ledges, balancing on beams it is so 
 unoriginal and if you have played any Crash Bandicoot game before then you know what to expect, 
 throw in some clumsy controls and you have a recipe for tedium. The combat isn't as bad and is 
 very God of War in its style but the enemies are generic and can all be defeated by pounding the 
 Y button. Also these sections go on for at least 30 minutes and account for over half of the total 
 gameplay it feels like Sonic Team thought the game was too short and didn't have a stupid enough 
 gameplay mechanic. Really though a Werehog? Is their anybody with more than 2 brain cells in Sonic 
 Team?
  
  Other points of annoyance include the HUB world were you can talk to people to accept side missions 
 and the like but these missions usually include the Werehog and are tedious anyway. Also why would 
 you want to talk to them they're as annoying as every other character and why is everyone so happy 
 to talk to a hedgehog isn't it just the tiniest bit weird to them? It's the collecting of medals 
 that really gets on my nerve though, these sun and moon medals are scattered throughout levels 
 and you need a certain number of them to go to the next stage. This means trudging through Werehog 
 levels looking for missed medals and it just adds to the tedium.
  
  On the plus side the J-Pop/Rock crap from the past games is gone and replaced with music that suit's 
 the level apart from the Werehog battle theme that is the same every Goddammned time. The graphics 
 though are spectacular using the new Hedgehog engine it is alive with colour and makes a welcome 
 change from the depressing colours of most 360 games.
  
  Overall Sonic Unleashed is a game of two halves since the Sonic sections are the best I've seen 
 in a long while but the Werehog is so bad it overrides the good points. Essentially SEGA need to 
 keep what this game does well and make it longer and hopefully Sonic and the Black Knight will 
 do this. I mean there are no stupid ideas there right? What do you mean he has a swordOh I give 
 up.
  
  Pros
  
  + Fast paced Sonic Sections that are a lot of fun.
  + Bright and Colourful graphics.
  
  Cons
  
  - The Werehog sections are terrible with awkward 
 controls
  - The story is stupid
  - More side characters
  - HUB worlds are boring to navigate
  - Collecting medals feels like a cheap way to extend the 
 games length.
  
  Overall
  
  6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Sonci Unleashed is a bit of a dissappointment when comparing it to the standards I had for it. 
 Sonic's werehog form is a bit of a letdown. It is really slow unless you dash. Also, while you 
 are running around with Sonic, he does not go as fast as you want to. The achievements are also 
 pretty hard to understand (in my case anyways) . Also, there is these medals known as Sun medals 
 and Moon medals, which you need to unlock levels. That sucks because you can pass them as Sonic 
 or as the werehog. Also, when you are fighting a boss (I only beat the 1st one, so I might change 
 this later) , Sonic continues to move, and it is hard to see if you are passing a medal or not. 
 The game kinda gives you the Sonic Adventure DX feeling because you can go around the world in 
 the same fashion. During the levels, there are some yellow diamonds that you have to collect in 
 order to level up Sonic the Hedgehog's speed or ring energy (which can speed him up if you want 
 the extra boost) . Sonic the Werehog's stats that need leveling up are lives, strength, combat, 
 and a few more. The werehog levels are really long and are kind of tiring after a while. It takes 
 one move from regular Sonic to take down a normal robot, while it takes several attacks in order 
 to beat one with Sonic the Werehog. Overall, Sonic Unleashed does not live up to the expectations 
 I put in, so if you are mainly getting this game because of what you expectated the Werehog to 
 be, save your money, but still, this game is not all that bad, just really long and can get repetative 
 after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 6:11 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are sonic of course and you run and also attack through each level. The game is 
 about stopping Eggman from destroying the world but earth is broken in half and sonic also turns 
 into a werewolf. The werewolf form slows sonic down alot. Is really strong and has alot more stats 
 to gain xp on. The game has really nice graphics. The controls though are not the best to use. 
 The side clips are awesome to watch and see. Before you do each level you can explore around just 
 like the new Sonic the Hedgehog game and you can talk to people about what is going on and that. 
 I think the game should have more levels and better to controls then it would be pretty good. Sonic 
 also has a new attacking. Everytime you run you can press x and sonic deos a really awesome attack 
 to push all the enemies back and destroy them. The werewolf attacks are scraping and he can stretch 
 his arm really far to grab and attack things with. You also have this annoying partner that can't 
 remember a thing named chip. He deosn't do much really besides gives you controls on how to get 
 past the levels. 
  
  The good of the game is that the werewolf form is really fun to be. Leveling up sonic helps alot 
 in the game. The levels are really amazing. 
  
  The bad of the game is that monotous combat. Imprecise platforming. Some controls are terrible. 
 Terrible camera angle. 
  
  Overall this is not the best sonic game to play. I rate this game 5.0 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Poor, poor Sonic. Though he's been the iconic speed demon of video games for years, he just hasn't 
 achieved the next-gen rebirth he desires, at least not on the 360. The speedy blue hedgehog isn't 
 having a good run on the Xbox 360. After the slow sales of his last 360 adventure, Sonic the Hedgehog, 
 Sonic Team has decided to rebuild Sonic from the ground up with all-new levels, controls, and design. 
 Outfitted with the Hedgehog Engine, Sonic looked to have a fresh start on the 360. But with Sonic 
 Unleashed for the Xbox 360, Sonic takes another step towards mediocrity on Microsoft's newest console.
 
  
  The story starts with Eggman and Sonic battling atop Eggman's newest space fleet, with Sonic nimbly 
 avoiding attacks from a slew of robots. After transforming into Super Sonic, it looks like the 
 battle is won in Sonic's favor, but Eggman strikes the final blow in the battle by unleashing his 
 newest plan: to drain the planet of its essence. Within the planet lies the dormant energy beast 
 Dark Gaia, who Eggman aims to awaken and bend to his will using a big ray gun, which also breaks 
 the planet into pieces. Unfortunately for Sonic, the ray affects him and the Chaos Emeralds, draining 
 the power from the Chaos Emeralds and transforming Sonic into a Werehog. With Dark Gaia working 
 its way towards rebuilding itself and Sonic falling fast to Earth, all hope seems lost. Miraculously, 
 Sonic awakens safely, but also discovers a weird flying amnesiac creature whom he dubs Chip. Together, 
 the duo aims to stop Eggman, rebuild the planet, and restore Chip's memory. It's almost become 
 a ritual for Sega to introduce another character for a new Sonic game. This time around, though, 
 the developers have gone the extra mile, making Chip ridiculously annoying, even more annoying 
 than Omochao. The whole Werehog transformation isn't really explained either. The story as a whole 
 isn't too brainless and possesses a degree of epic scope at times, but you'll probably find the 
 characters' roles to be way too saccharine this time around.
  
  During the daytime, Sonic retains his classic hedgehog form and the game does benefit from that. 
 Sonic's sequences are fast-paced, reach-the-goal sequences. Throughout the diverse levels, Sonic 
 will run through loops, grind on rails, and many other traditional Sonic actions. Sonic can also 
 collect rings to fuel his Ring Energy gauge, where the collected energy can be spent on a fast, 
 enemy-smashing boost, a la Sonic Rush. The first few selections of these types of levels are a 
 blast. Sonic will tear through debris, dash through corkscrews, and rush through beautiful locales. 
 It generally accomplishes what many gamers thought would never happen: it actually feels like Sonic 
 Adventure. It's true that there are moments that feel like the game is playing itself, but that's 
 been a part of good Sonic games for a while now. However, once you get to the later levels, you'll 
 notice a severe problem with the level design. You'll no doubt run into bottomless pits repeatedly, 
 get hit by random spike traps, or fail at the far too many reflex-demanding quick-time events. 
 While the inclusion of so many of these traps may have been tolerable in the 2-D Sonic games (where 
 the speed wasn't nearly as fast) , in a game so blazingly-quick, these concepts fall flat. These 
 obstacles break up the speed too much and there's little you can do to avoid them aside from memorization. 
 The challenge level then goes from smooth and simple to difficult and punishing. It's crushingly 
 disappointing, really. It was so close to making a 3-D Sonic formula that could match the original 
 Sonic Adventure, but the poor level design really breaks the whole thing apart.
  
  During the nighttime, Sonic is affected by the Dark Gaia energy and transforms into a growling, 
 howling beast known as the Werehog. What this essentially means is that Sonic loses nearly all 
 speed in exchange for brawn. Instead of running through loops, corkscrews, and ramps, you'll be 
 climbing poles, grabbing ledges, and beating the crap out of literally thousands of enemies. This 
 seems incredibly out-of-place in a Sonic game and in all honesty, it is, but what really drag the 
 whole thing down are the sloppy controls and punishing level design. During these sequences, Sonic 
 controls so inconsistently, that something as simple as running can be an ordeal. The jumping is 
 especially bad, as making the many platforming jumps relies too much on absolutely split-second 
 timing. Timing the Werehog's jumps is annoying and the fact that he can't grab any old ledge makes 
 these sequences frustrating. To make matters worse, the level design is downright punishing. You 
 will find many moments where you're faced with a bottomless pit to avoid, and unless you're extremely 
 perceptive, you won't make it first try. Checkpoints don't seem to follow any particular pattern 
 either. While some will appear frequently, in some of the worse scenarios, they'll be much farther 
 back, forcing you to tread through the entire set of traps and pits over again if you fail.
  
  The combat, though pretty cinematic, feels bland. To the game's credit, the method of fighting 
 the enemies using God of War style quick-time events does result in some cool actions. Well-timed 
 button presses will benefit, as Sonic will deliver different animations like a barrage of punches, 
 a quick throw, or a colossal suplex. These are great to watch, but you'll watch them far too much, 
 mostly in part to the lack of enemy design. There are only a handful of enemies to battle and they're 
 reused far too much. Also, while Sonic can upgrade his stats and skills in battle, you'll mostly 
 benefit from increasing your health and attack power, because simply hammering on the X and Y buttons 
 will usually get the job done in most battles. There really is no point in offering so many different 
 combos and skills when you can usually take out an army of 50 or so enemies repeatedly using ONE 
 TYPE OF COMBO. While the combat definitely spices up the Werehog sequences, the lack of any variety 
 really hurts the already frustrating levels.
  
  Then there's the hub world, which is easily the worst part of the game. Many times throughout you'll 
 see Sonic appear in claustrophobic towns with the same traction-less movements seen in the rest 
 of the game. You'll have to talk to weird, cartoony characters about where to go next and hear 
 about their different issues that they usually expect you to resolve. What really hurts the hub 
 concept is entering levels. Levels demand that you collect different Sun or Moon medals to open 
 them. Once you reach a level's entrance, you'll usually be missing some of the required medals. 
 Where do you find these medals? Inside the earlier levels. While this may pass in slower paced 
 platformers, it just doesn't work in Sonic Unleashed. You'll have to do one of two things: slow 
 down in the Sonic levels to find medals, or go out of your way in the Werehog levels to find medals. 
 Either way, you won't enjoy it. This will let you get more longevity from the game, but having 
 to trudge through past levels repeatedly to open new ones really isn't fun at all, and Sonic Unleashed 
 suffers critically from it.
  
  If you can ignore all of the game's problems (good luck with that) , you'll actually find a very 
 good-looking 360 game. Sonic's levels deliver a great sense of speed once they get going; the lighting 
 effects and grandiose architecture are some of the most inventive seen in a Sonic game yet. Some 
 levels really take the presentation to new heights, as Sonic will accomplish feats like ricocheting 
 of walls or riding the back of a humpback whale. It's great to see such dynamic emphasis on the 
 levels' presentation. Even the Werehog's levels which, though not as expansive and lively, look 
 great. Sonic's character moves with an animalistic walk and his attacks blast through the enemies 
 with ferocious power. However, as stated before, the enemy design is still very slim and it would've 
 been better if the battles had a bit more variety. To match the graphics, an updated soundtrack 
 drops the hard rock sounds for a powerful orchestral score. Jaret Reddick of Bowling For Soup presents 
 the new opening track "Endless Possibilities" and while it doesn't present the same strength and 
 intensity as the hard rock of Crush 40, you'll find it catchy and a great listen. The levels have 
 wonderful orchestral sounds that do add a new degree to the game's presentation, rounding out one 
 of the best looking and sounding Sonic games in recent memory.
  
  Pros
  + Looks amazing
  + Nice soundtrack
  + Has its moments of being fast and fluid
  
  Cons
 
  - Werehog levels are frustrating
  - Sonic levels are poorly constructed and ruthlessly difficult
  - Hub world is difficult to navigate 
 and confusing
  - Mindless collecting is downright unnecessary
  
  Sonic Unleashed for the Xbox 360 isn't the Sonic rebirth that anyone was looking for. Sonic's levels 
 are definitely fast, but the poor level design makes the game annoying and punishingly difficult. 
 The entire Werehog concept is ridiculous on its own, but the gameplay in the Werehog sequences 
 completely lacks polish and variety. The frustrating level design and annoying enemy design make 
 the Werehog levels even worse. Though it is beautiful, has excellent sound, and has its times of 
 being truly well-designed, you have to dig far too much to find the much better moments inside 
 the game. The hub world and level requirements literally force you to go back into levels, making 
 the game longer, but much less fun. All in all, the 360 version of Sonic Unleashed is a wreck. 
 If you want to see Sonic Unleashed without the annoying hub, mindless collecting, and poor level 
 design, pick up the vastly superior Wii version instead and forget the mess that is the 360 version.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorch799
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Okay, we all know that Sonic the Hedgehog has been in a downward spiral recently. Shadow the Hedgehog 
 and the disastrous Sonic the Hedgehog game in 2006 has made many people swear of Sonic or declare 
 him dead. But Sega actually took a step in the right direction with Unleashed. It has its fair 
 shair of problems but isn't the awful game that Gamespot has made it out to be.
  
  Finally, Sega made a 3D Sonic game with just Sonic and none of his awful friends playable. In fact, 
 only 2 other friend characters appear, Amy and Tails. You only play as Sonic, and his stages are 
 amazingly fun The graphics are impressive (more cartoonish but better than the poor "realistic" 
 edge that was attempted with more recent titles) and Sonic handles well. He's fast, and some of 
 the new moves aren't awkward. There are still super speed-esque sections from the last game, but 
 they are much more fun. Rather then dart forward, you have more control over Sonic's movements 
 and speed, preventing the absurd difficulties of '06. There are also points where the 3D view switches 
 to 2D, a very welcome throwback. Whether its speeding through stages or beating bosses, you really 
 get the sense that Sega has started to perfect what a Sonic game should be.
  
  Note that I said "started". There are some 10s and 9s from reviewers on this site, but the game 
 isn't THAT good. You may have heard of the werehog, an awkward take on Sonic, because as much as 
 people wanted a game with just Sonic, you know Sega couldn't just have the game be about speed. 
 The werehog stages are actually fun at times, but they usually become very tedious after a couple 
 of minutes. Its pretty much just a button masher when you're playing as the werehog, which isn't 
 what Sonic is supposed to be about. When climbing poles, Sonic will often get stuck and you may 
 have trouble detaching. The autolock will occasionally not detect poles or objects your supposed 
 to swing with over bottomless pits, which will result in your death. You are also painfully slow 
 as Sonic the Werehog, making what are actually short levels seem very long. Still it can be fun 
 grabbing and beating on enemies, especially as you level up and they are helpless against you. 
 For the most part though, the Werehog is a disappointment.
  
  You switch b/t the Werehog and normal Sonic depending on the time of day. The game will give you 
 the option to switch, but unfortunately, which form you have to take to progress is locked for 
 you. For example, you may switch to daytime but when you reach the area where you have to start, 
 you'll find that the next mission has to be completed as the werehog. You also have the ability 
 to level up based on exp gained. Experience is gained from beating enemies and eating food that 
 you buy (from stores, another neat feature) . This allows to build your character up, making the 
 game more fun as you progress. Town stages also return, but they're better than in '06. They're 
 small, you don't have to really talk to many people, and there are optional side quests. At night, 
 you can excorcise demons from people (part of the plot) , though this leads to a short Werehog mission, 
 which is somewhat boring. The story is good, though somewhat similar to previous games (Robotnik 
 trying to release some ancient demon again only for it to backfire eventually) , but Sonic's quest 
 is pretty original. 
  
  Overall, it's a good game, but not the full revival of the series that Sonic needs. However, it 
 is a step in the right direction and gives me optimism that Sega knows they need to start fixing 
 things to bring Sonic back to the list of great games. If your a Sonic fan, its a must-buy, if 
 not rent it first and decide for yourself. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcguy00
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog, a franchise well-known for it's sense of speed. It's most loved period was 
 the first set of games released on the Sega Genesis, where people were both introduced to and amazed 
 by the speed combined with pinball physics and original level design.
  
  Fast-forward to today, Sonic titles have been released on multiple platforms with very mixed reactions. 
 Most negative, and for good reason; many of the titles where a bit ambitious, or just didn't seem 
 completed for many reasons. Sonic Unleashed was marketed as a "repair" to the lackluster titles 
 of recent, and was said to be a step back to the franchise's earlier roots. This is where things 
 started to promise disappointment; it resulted in too many people making comparisons to the pinnacle 
 of Sonic's history. The worst part of this was the fact that a gimmick was added to the game, radically 
 different from the franchise's classic roots.
  
  That's just my analysis as to why this game is so negatively received. It's my goal to make this 
 a review of the game itself (Xbox 360 version) , not a comparison to the franchise's games of past.
 
  
  The first thing you'll notice are the visuals, this is one of the game's strongest points. The 
 animated fmv shown in the opening of the game is truly remarkable, and sets a good impression of 
 what the game has to offer visually. In game the character models are clean, and defined. The animations 
 of these models are impressive, and adds to the overall feel of the game. The stage environments 
 are also well-done, and give a good taste of the various locales around the world they're based 
 off of. Bright colors are used mostly used for the characters, but are handled nicely by the contrasting 
 environments many of which use more browns and grays for coloring. There is some clipping in a 
 few parts, but it's very hard to notice and isn't overly distracting. Slow-down is evident in some 
 areas, especially the nighttime stages where there are large numbers of enemies on the screen at 
 once, this can be a bit distracting but doesn't tend to take away form the game play.
  
  The audio stands out as well. The music consists of orchestral scores which tie in nicely with 
 the world adventure theme the title has. The sound effects vary in quality. The environment sounds 
 are solid, what seemed to stick out were the sounds that were made when you interacted with the 
 environment. Some of the decorations you bump into or attack in the stage seem to make odd sounds. 
 Take breaking down a door; it's awfully muffled considering you're snapping wood. Overall the sounds 
 are very light-hearted and cartoony, which works with the light nature of this game.
  
  The story isn't anything special. The world gets broken into pieces by an evil doctor, and during 
 the process he transforms the protagonist into a werewolf-like beast. The act of braking the world 
 unleashes a creature of great power whose evil is spread throughout the broken planet. It's up 
 to the protagonist and his friends to save the world. The story is fine, just don't be expecting 
 novel qualities. It can be compared with a Saturday morning cartoon.
  
  The game play is essentially split into three sections: The hub-worlds, the daytime stages, and 
 the nighttime stages. The hub-worlds are a stage-select of sorts and let you interact with the 
 residents of the area you're in before you head to an action stage. These characters provide information 
 about your quest, and sometimes provide opportunities for quests. Many of these quests are simple 
 fetch quests which are completely optional, they have nothing to do with advancing the game's storyline 
 and can be frustrating due to the lack of warning and cues. The daytime stages are fast-paced action 
 stages where you find yourself blazing through levels at amazing speed. The camera seamlessly changes 
 from over to shoulder to a more side-scroller point of view, which adds variety. The difficult 
 part about these levels are the areas where the camera goes behind your character's shoulder; It's 
 hard to maneuver successfully due to the speed you're usually traveling at. You get used to it 
 after a while, but it can be frustrating at first. The nighttime stages are much slower in nature 
 and are much more platforming and combat heavy. The combat is a simple beat 'em up styled system 
 with a fair roster of moves and combos to pick from. These combos are fairly easy to pull off and 
 only require you to push face buttons in a certain order. The platforming is solid, if not a bit 
 uninspired. Some areas are very streamlined and basic, whereas others feature simple puzzles and 
 take a bit longer to progress through. These two styles of game play are very contrasting, but 
 provide variety.
  
  Overall, I was impressed with this game despite some flaws that were present. If you pick up this 
 title with little to no expectation, you'll probably enjoy on some level or another. It's a solid 
 platformer with great production values and a lot to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAPITAL_BETA
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  The wii version was superb, I couldn't wait to pick up the 360 version. When I did, I began having 
 even more fun than on the wii version.
  
  At the beginning of the game, you start off really fast. And if that wasn't enough, there are stats 
 in the game that you use experience points to level up, Sonic has Speed & Ring energy (The Boost 
 Guage) , so you become even faster as you progress through the game so much that you can go back 
 to the first level, start boosting & then barely be able to see where you're going - it's that 
 fast.
  
  The best parts of these stages are the straight forward areas where you can run as much as you 
 like & kep a high speed, although most levels, sadly, have one or two tedious platforming sections 
 that kill your speed, but after the first time you do then, they won't be as annoying the next 
 time.
  
  The game features Hubs, were you can roam around freely, if not slowly. In the Hub Worlds, there 
 are people to talk to & shops to buy hidden items & souveniers from, these aren't the best hubs 
 ever placed in a Sonic game, the Adventure Fields in Sonic Adventure & the town in Sonic 06 were 
 better, but through the hub, you can access an area that contains the stages scattered around where 
 you speed is un-capped & you can pull off every move you have.
  Both of these places are worth looking at for items & medals.
  
  The controlls aren't as good 
 as they could be, for example, quickstep should be on the triggers instead of the shoulder buttons, 
 & homing attacks should be on A instead of X (Remarkable annoying once you get the ability to boost 
 in mid-air) , but having an alternative drift button on the triggers is a stroke of genious as pressing 
 B can slow you down.
  
  Medals, of cours, are needed to access levels, it can be a pain when you don't have enough, but 
 unless you're hopeless at this game, you should be able to maintain the right number of medals 
 for most of the game.
  
  When the sun goes down, Sonic turns into a "Werehog" who has beat 'em up-style stages. His stats 
 are divided into Combat, which gives you a new combo everytime it goes up a level, Strength, Life, 
 Unleashed, which is increases your Unleashed Guage, which allows you to go into unleashed mode, 
 a move that increases your agility & atack power, and finally, sheild, which makes your blocking 
 technique better.
  
  The Werehog's levels become emarkably huge mid-game, but can be bared if you take breaks for a 
 bit of a run whenever you're tired of these stages.
  
  In the night-time stages, the Werehog goes around smashing enemies to bits - which rewards itself 
 with a lot of experience points by the end of the stage - & doing quick & easy puzzles to open 
 doors & find medals & hidden items.
  It's a matter of oppinion on whether the Werehog is good or not, either way, you may get a bit 
 tired of long stages.
  Unlike in the wii version, you have decent control over the werehog, as in "You don't randomly 
 fall off the edge when you press the jump button," making platforming sections less of chores & 
 more of an obsticle that won't last long.
  
  The bosses in this game are rather good & fun to play, althouigh Dark Moray, the second Werehog 
 boss, isn't very well done, but all the other bosses are brilliant. The Daytime bosses aren't too 
 hard, & if you're good, you'll notice that if you boost after you hit them, you can get in a few 
 extra hits. The night-time bosses require concentration at points, for example, you need to pay 
 attention on the first one when attacking as buttons will appear on the screen that you need to 
 press, and the Werehog fights are never straight forward.
  
  SEGA have nearly got it right, this time. Next time, if they don't put in any twists, Sonic will 
 return.
  
  While this game doesn't quite deserve an 8.5, it does beat the wii version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyantheHedgehog
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  okkkkk
  
  where 2 get started
  
  k is 100% like marmite 
  
  now then thats out the way lets start
  
  sonic levels there fun, hard, what sonic should be, 
 fast, I think the next sonic game should b full of these levels
  
  k hears the bad bit sonic the werehog levels these r bad but not as bad as ppl say they r but u 
 can sometimes get in2 them (I said sometimes ;D) 
  
  now trying 2 find the levels this drives me mad but when I find out is a sonic levels is all worth 
 it 
  
  later on u have 2 find Moon Medals and Sun Medals by going back levels or look 4 them in the town 
 stages I like this it makes the game last 
  
  the town stages r just really really bad u cant go full sonic speed u have 2 walk theres nothing 
 good about the town one bit :' (
  
  but from all the pobs i think the sonic levels makes it all aok :D
  
  and that is that :D :D 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSmokeNinja
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I have already played and beaten the Wii version of Sonic Unleashed. Right now I'm still 
 trying to beat this 360 version ( I'm half way through the game) . If I had to say with version I 
 liked better I would have to say that this 360 version is better. I like this game better because 
 unlike the Wii version, this version is longer, more challenging, and the Daytime levels are more 
 interesting. Also, the story line was very interesting and I thought some parts of the game was 
 pretty funny. But, were theres good, theres bad lurking around a random corner. In this case, its 
 the werehog lurking in the corner just waiting for Sonic to run by so he could stick his leg out 
 to trip him out of his road to success. But before I go complaining about the werehog I'm going 
 to admit that it was pretty fun doing different combos and beating the bad guys around like rag 
 dolls, but the werehog missions got too repetitive and annoying. I'm glad that they didn't last 
 too long. The last thing that I have to say is something that I liked from both characters, Sonic 
 and the Werehog, and thats the boss fights. They were very fun and the boss songs to go with them 
 were great too.
  
  Well... that concludes my Xbox 360 review of Sonic Unleashed. 
  *teleports away* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecoman314
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  past overveiw : this is were i explain to new comers to this franchise a short mini review of the 
 other games. Im only going to talk about the 3-d games and if you want to go strait to the review 
 go to the next paragraph. So sonic made the jump to 3-d with sonic adventure 1 and 2. I love these 
 games in fact i would give 2 a ten out of ten. his next game was sonic heros. now this game started 
 sonic's downfall in my mind. dont get me wrong its a great game but after sonic adventure 2 left 
 me in aw i was dissapointed. next is shadow the hedgehog. this is when the crap started coming. 
 they really screwed up. sonic riders. this game wasn't terrible but it was just so boring i turrned 
 it of my ps2 after 20 minutes. sonic ( 06 ) , god help me this ganme just plain sucks. the gameplay 
 voice acting camera allmost everything except graphics. sonic and the secret rings. i would say 
 this started sonics come back. it was fun, fast and highly addictive. so does sonic unleashed bring 
 back sonic for good, well heres what i think.
  
  
  gameplay : first i'll talk about sonic's gameplay. sonic's gameplay is amazing! sonic goes amazingly 
 fast, it's fun, a good enough challenge, and i have never ran into glitches. so i give sonic's 
 gamplay a 10/10
  now the werehog. the werehog gamplay is great. it's really fun to go and kick some ass. also you 
 can get awsome combo's. the platforming is nice not fantastic but nice. there are some glithces 
 like the werehogs arms wont allways strecth when you need them to and this can lead to cheap deaths. 
 also his gameplay can sometimes get repititive. so i gives his gameplay a 8.5/10
  next is the tails shooting mini game. i think this is pretty good. it is a little boring but you 
 dont allways have to do it. it's also a good warm up for button sequences. so i give it a 8/10
 
  
  graphics : the graphics are awsome. they look great, stay great when going fast, and have a cartooney 
 feal unlike the stupid realstic feal. so i give the graphics a 10/10
  
  music : the music is also kick ass. it's a nice change of pace from the rock and roll from past 
 games. i really love the opening theme the world adventure. i hum it ALOT. so the music gets a 
 10/10
  
  voice acting : i think jason has really improved as sonic. he actully sounds like he's having fun. 
 now the other voices. well they are bad. tails amy and chip sound bad. the good part is you dont 
 here tails and amy that much. also i got used to chip. so voice acting gets a 7/10.
  
  story : i think the story is good in sonic standerds. it starts off with sonic fighting eggman 
 and then eggman captures sonic uses the chaos emeralds to split the world into 7 parts and turn 
 sonic into the werehog ( by accident ) . i like this because instead of collecting chaos emeralds 
 sonic needs to put them into temples and fix the world. so i give the story a 9/10
  
  overall the game gets a 9.5/10 i think sonic is back. this is what i've been waiting for in a sonic 
 game. thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tullistyler
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  It's true: I'm a longtime Sonic fan. I've been playing his games since he was first movin' with 
 a quickness in 1991. But you can trust my objectivity in this review because I'll be the first 
 to admit that recent titles in Sega's famed franchise have been utter garbage. Shadow the Hedgehog 
 and Sonic 06 were appalling excuses for games and Sega deserved the horrendous reviews they had 
 coming. Something is terribly amiss with this newest entry in the series as well, but it's got 
 nothing to do with Sega or Sonic. 
  
  When I initially saw Gamespot's review for Sonic Unleashed I was flabbergasted. I mean really-a 
 3.5/10? Conspiracy theories ensued. There were stories of foul play with IGN's reviewers not even 
 playing 24% of the game before dishing out a meager 4.5/10 and Gamespot reviewers passing judgment 
 for all the versions of Sonic Unleashed based on the Wii version alone. While the IGN scandal remains 
 suspect for concern, Tom McShea of Gamespot contacted me to assure me the Gamespot review was indeed 
 from the X360 version of the game and was in the best keepings with his organization's ethics. 
 At the end of the day, though, I was still shocked that Unleashed (scored 3.5) received a worse 
 score that the monstrosity that was Sonic 06 (scored 4.4) . This score sends a message, intended 
 or not, and I'm not content to let them get away with that message unchallenged.
  
  So I'm relieved and proud to say that the majority of the critics and I sharply disagree on the 
 worth of Sega's latest outing for its flagship blue mascot. Let me be clear-Sonic Unleashed is 
 the best Sonic title to be launched since Sonic 1-3 on the Genesis. This game has finally redeemed 
 a series widely worried to be in shambles by returning to the concepts that made it great in the 
 first place while ushering in a new era for gameplay and presentation. The average gamer simply 
 looking for speed or platforming won't be disappointed with Sonic Unleashed, but Sonic fans will 
 straight up love this game. Here's why.
  
  Presentation-Design, Story, Characters, Visuals/ Graphics, Audio/ Music
  
  The first feature 
 of this game that will capture your heart and drop your jaw is the stellar presentation. The art 
 design, cinematics, graphics and audio make this game. Unless you have a heart of stone Sonic Unleashed 
 will tug on it with its bright, cheerful and blissfully idealistic displays. The various environments 
 from hub worlds to sweeping action levels, the large cast of small but merry characters littered 
 throughout, and the creative design of the entire game are perfect. Sega has finally synched the 
 charm of the Genesis games with a 3-D realm and it makes Sonic's new world a pleasure to wander 
 through. 
  
  The story of this game is arguably the best in a Sonic title because it's simple enough to match 
 the ridiculous premise of a speedy hedgehog battling robots to save the world and but involved 
 enough to give you a reason to want to see it done. I find it funny when the critics nitpick the 
 story in games intended for kids; i. e. for the werehog having stretching arms or some other ridiculous 
 detail. You're playing a game about a talking hedgehog who can run at mach 2-what do you expect? 
 No critic will ever attack a Mario game for its story but they're the same every time.
  
  Sega finally paid heed to the Sonic fan community and made a game solely about their leading man 
 in blue. His best buddy Tails is still involved and even his would-be girlfriend Amy Rose makes 
 an appearance, but the game wisely stays focused on Sonic. The controversial, burly werehog form 
 grows on you after a while as well. Even the bizarre but tolerable new character Chip feels at 
 home in the game. He isn't laugh out loud funny but his antics do much to lift the spirits of the 
 already delightfully happy game. The rest of the cast consists of the myriad townspeople making 
 up the hub worlds. While many of them are mere bodies to bring the streets of towns to life, some 
 of them are truly amusing like Wentos and his Chao puppet. The voice acting is finally good across 
 the board (except for maybe Chip depending on your tolerance for that sort of tone and pitch) , 
 when in the past it's been practically terror inducing. The best comes from Sonic and Robotnik 
 in their banter and monologues, as fate always intended.
  
  The other major component to the presentation is the music in the backgrounds of towns and levels. 
 While none of it is particularly astounding it all serves to tie the player into the cartoony and 
 stereotypical cultures you'll wander into. The musical heel tapping vibrancy from the old games 
 has been restored to the series and it's a much needed blessing. While Sega could have used the 
 upbeat and high energy theme song "Endless Possibilities" and its variations throughout the menus 
 and opening, I'm glad they used the chipper and inspiring orchestrated pieces akin to Super Mario 
 Galaxy.
  
  Perhaps the crown jewel to the game's presentation is the jaw-dropping opening cinematic above 
 the planet where Sonic and Robotnik go head to head right off the bat. Absolutely gorgeous. The 
 graphics within the game, both from a technical and creative standpoint, are the best we've seen 
 in a Sonic title. The Hedgehog Engine drives forward virtually without a hitch with such quality 
 it looks like Sonic is starring in his own Pixar film whenever he's on screen. The new, cartoony 
 look of the world and its inhabitants ranging from out favorite anthropomorphic hedgehogs and duel 
 tailed fox to the many humans is the look this series has been destined for all along. Finally 
 a world in which it looks like Sonic and his friends belong, not to mention the roly-poly Dr. Eggman 
 (he'll always be Robotnik to me) . The "realistic" look of Sonic 06 was borderline creepy to say 
 the least. The amount of creative detail to each hub world in Sonic Unleashed is phenomenal. And 
 yes, of course the entire presentation is juvenile and for the younger crowd: it's Sonic! It's 
 supposed to be!
  
  Gameplay-Hub Worlds, Sonic's Speed Stages, and The Werehog's Platforming Stages
  
  So this 
 is where we come down to the real verdict on the quality of this game. The presentation will only 
 take any game so far-it's the gameplay that has to be the core of the experience. I'm happy to 
 report that this is Sonic Unleashed's greatest strength. There are essentially three segments of 
 gameplay within the game.
  
  The first is in the hub worlds where you interact with the people in towns. Here you'll be looking 
 for Sun and Moon medals to open new action stages, performing tasks for citizens (that you'll actually 
 want to help them with thanks to the alluring presentation drawing you into their world) and collecting 
 all sorts of other items hidden in town and at stores. It's always fun to enter a new world and 
 explore the luscious scenery. 
  
  The next component of the game is the standard daytime Sonic levels. This is where Sonic Unleashed 
 shines the brightest. Sega has finally taken the golden concepts from the best of all the Sonic 
 titles and brought them together for the fastest displays of speed, style and action you could 
 have ever imagined in a Sonic game. The daytime levels are just plain fast. I mean FAST. Sonic 
 doesn't just run anymore, he careens; blasting forward like fighter jet with the afterburners constantly 
 throttled. 
  
  The best Sonic levels in any game have always focused on one formula: a completely ridiculous but 
 stylish level laden with speedy tricks I can do throughout, badniks I can quickly dispose of in 
 cool ways, and a goal at the end that I feel like I should be trying to get to as fast as my red, 
 white striped, golden buckled sneakers can move. Sonic Unleashed delivers on all fronts. Suffice 
 to say this game has great level design, and to claim it isn't is to say the old school Genesis 
 design is bad as well since it's the exact same idea.
  
  You're moving so fast you often feel like Sonic is barreling forward out of your control, another 
 trait the critics have come to admonish. But what they see as a crippling weakness is in fact the 
 game's greatest strength. The feeling that Sonic is barely in your control because he's moving 
 so fast is what makes the game so exhilarating! I was absolutely blown away by the sense of speed 
 here. When push comes to shove Sonic is every bit as responsive as you need him to be, and once 
 you get a feel for the speed and level designs, controlling him will become less and less a problem. 
 There's just a learning curve. 
  
  A variety of new components to the old gameplay styles have augmented it and primed us for a new 
 era of Sonic action. The gameplay switches back and forth from 2-D and 3-D seamlessly, reminding 
 us of the old Genesis titles while holding onto elements from the "Adventure" titles like the homing 
 attack (the implementation of which finally has cleaver purpose and feels perfect) . New features 
 like the stomp and boost have been slowly weaned into the gameplay over the course of several recent 
 titles, but they finally shine in this game. 
  
  A typical criticism for Sonic games in general is that they play themselves; that they're more 
 about visual eye candy than actual gameplay. While this has always been true to a degree, Sonic's 
 new moves like drifting, boosting, strafing, quick time events, stomping, and wall jumps have done 
 much to make the game more interactive. The levels can certainly be difficult on the first run 
 through but it's because of the mesmerizing speed and variety of moves to pull off. Even when falling 
 to your death, however, you'll still be smiling and laughing out loud at the amazing speed you 
 just witnessed. Your heart will be pounding as you guide Sonic through his massive levels. Sharp 
 reflexes are a necessity to arrive at the goal ring, but satisfaction for doing so is unparalleled 
 in a Sonic game before this. 
  
  Make no mistake, though; while many elements of Sonic's past successes are implemented into Sonic 
 Unleashed, this is a new era with a new style. It's just plain faster than anything you've seen 
 before and that speed transforms the gameplay into a different entity. You can't just put your 
 head down and breeze through these levels like you could in Sonic Adventure 2 after you played 
 them enough; they constantly demand your full attention and readiness to react to new situations 
 and obstacles. Their intensity makes even the classic Genesis games look languid and the Adventure 
 games nothing more than speedy, Mario-esq platformers. Sonic is finally at home in his own gameplay 
 for this generation. 
  
  The last segment of the gameplay is the one critics have decried and fans have questioned at best. 
 At night Sonic turns into a whole different animal (pun intended) : a brawling, platforming werehog. 
 I myself originally couldn't believe this move from Sega (why not just use Knuckles if you wanted 
 a fighting segment, I thought) but it turned out to be a pleasant surprise. Contrary to what the 
 critics say, the werehog segments are indeed fun. They start slow because the combos are simple 
 and tedious, but as you level the werehog up and add new combat moves he becomes a fighting powerhouse 
 that you will come to have at least semi-fun with. It's no more simplistic than Star Wars Force 
 Unleashed or more notably God of War, as the gameplay was clearly influenced by, so I can't understand 
 why the heat has come down so hard on it. If anything it's just behind the curve. 
  
  The platforming and exploration is the fun part. It's no Super Mario but it really is up the same 
 alley. Many people have complained about the chore in collecting Sun and Moon medals in all three 
 segments of gameplay, especially in the werehog's. Gamespot calls the search "grueling" but I found 
 it fun to explore the levels looking for them and rewarding to map out the entire level. By that 
 logic it would be "grueling" to advance the plot or access new areas in any game that requires 
 you to collect something first. 
  
  While the addition of the werehog at first feels unnecessary and leaves an initial bad taste in 
 your mouth, when you get used to him it hits you that it really is amusing and essential to make 
 the game more complete. The regular Sonic levels, while amazing, wouldn't have been quite as entertaining 
 without the werehog's nocturnal platforming romps. Sonic's daytime adventures are almost too good; 
 it's an immensely fun but stressful and taxing few minutes of running. The werehog levels balance 
 the equation by giving you time to think and semi-creative platforming obstacles to figure out. 
 
  
  Side-Note: The Criticism
  I literally can't fathom how this game received such a bad score from giants like IGN and Gamespot. 
 If I could keep the interest of readers I'd systematically meet their reviews head on and dismantle 
 them point by point, but I hope I addressed the primary criticisms in my review above. Many have 
 also found issue with the camera, which is sticky and difficult to control at times. While the 
 game sets up the vantage points it thinks you need, which is helpful most of the time, there are 
 instances in which it would be nice to have more control over it.
  
  Overall, Gamespot claims Sonic Unleashed has "terrible level design, unresponsive controls, and 
 a poor camera" which "are just the beginning of the problems in this awful adventure." I just can't 
 understand why this game is being attacked so harshly. The exact same elements of gameplay are 
 present in Super Mario Galaxy that they rightly hail as a "9.5". Sure Mario games are more creative 
 level by level and the controls are near perfect as compared to Sonic's being almost too fast to 
 handle at times, but the difference between the concepts and creativity of Super Mario Galaxy and 
 Sonic Unleashed, for example, sure isn't 9.5  3.5 = 6. The discrepancy is nowhere near so large. 
 My message to Gamespot remains largely the same as the pre-review rant I posted in shock of the 
 score Sonic Unleashed received: quit drinking haterade for no reason and grade games based on the 
 merits of the game itself. You've always graded too harshly but this is ridiculous. At this point 
 I will be hard-pressed to ever trust one of your reviews again. 
  
  I cite this as evidence that every gamer should be his or her own reviewer and look to average 
 community scores first, not the singular one that one person from Gamespot or IGN posts. From a 
 casual gaming perspective I can understand a community review score of Sonic Unleashed around ~6-7 
 on most sites, but this game was unjustly crucified for reasons I just can't explain other than 
 the bias of reviewers. The bottom line is if you go in expecting to hate any game and are looking 
 to tear it down rather than going in expecting to have fun and look for merits, it will affect 
 your perception. Trust me: do yourself a favor and go in expecting great things. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  At the end of the day (again, pun intended) Sonic Unleashed is the best thing 
 to come out of Sega in years. The Hedgehog Engine has ushered in a new style of gameplay that takes 
 the best concepts of old Sonic titles and evolves them into adrenaline injected blasts through 
 diverse and energetic levels. The presentation is golden, finally putting Sonic and friends into 
 a world where they belong and can thrive. The replay value is almost as strong when our hedgehog 
 operated on the Genesis, and you'll be going back to the daytime levels in particular time and 
 time again. At best this game will completely redeem Sonic the Hedgehog, and at worst it took two 
 steps forward and one step back. Either way, it's a win in my book. 
  
  For the next game I'll look for a more complete package that involves more of Sonic's already established 
 world in the premise. There's plenty for Sega to work with without having to invent new mechanics 
 like the werehog. Why not go into the origins of the Chaos Emeralds or an adventure that uses Tails 
 or Knuckles in a new, creative way similar to Sonic 3? The Hedgehog Engine is here to stay I hope, 
 but Sega can certainly still improve on the concept they've created. Sonic Unleashed isn't perfect 
 by any means but it's every bit the step forward for the series that I dared to hope it would be. 
 I highly recommend this game to everyone looking for a simple but exhilarating action/ adventure 
 experience. To Sonic fans, this is arguable the most important game for us since the glory days 
 of the early 90s. I could say it's about time, Sega, but instead I'll just say well done and congratulations 
 on a great game you can be proud to show off. 
  
  Ahh Finally, it feels good to be a Sonic fan again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quadster
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  OK, when i came to this, i really wanted to give sonic unleashed a higher rating, I REALLY DID!!
 
  SEGA!!
  WHAT THE HELL HAVE YOU DONE??
  I played the demo of Sonic Unleashed on Xbox Live and i really liked the delirious sense of speed 
 which sonic is infamously known for and thats it, the night time levels just DON'T MAKE sense to 
 a long time sonic fan like me and many others, i mean, i know in the cartoons sonic came close 
 many times to being roboticized by Dr. Robotnik,
  (am i the only one who disagrees with his "eggman" name?)
  but never was he a were-hog, not in 
 the cartoons nor in sonic adventure.
  
  He was famous for his super speed, anyways.... like i said Unleashed was good for some good things... like 
 the high speed levels, the high speed boss battles especially against egg beetle, also... i liked 
 how they re-used the super sonic battle mechanic from sonic adventure (collecting rings to stay 
 alive) ..... and gave you ring energy. (brilliant)
  
  But broken level designs in a number of places was starting to irritate me, the WERE HOG, HAS TO 
 GO!!
  (I've said enough to justify how crap this game is, it could have been so much better)
  
  Please 
 sega, if you respect your fans, please stop making these crappy sonic games, and pick up where 
 you left off with Sonic Adventure's greatness, ditch the were-hog, keep the speed, and fix your 
 level designs, oh and test EVERY aspect of your games next time you give birth to another sonic 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIHitandRunII
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 22, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Wow.... Everybody actually thought that this game would save Sonic, It all began when they released 
 Sonic the Hedgehog on the 360, PS3. The game looked AMAZING! in terms of pictures and videos but 
 when people actually got their hands on it well people actually started to loose hope for sonic 
 games. This is represents the same features, it looks pretty cool especially the box cover but... 
 its a complete disaster.
  
  Graphics:
  Well graphics are not that bad it still has that sonic/cartoon feel to it which is pretty nice 
 but camera problems and other bugs within the game actually weakens the overall graphics in a technical 
 point of view although stage and character design are pretty fun to watch.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay well is like all 2D Platformers but again, camera problem kills the fun... BUT the fast 
 paced gameplay is fun, no exceptions.
  
  Story: 
  The Story is not the best Sonic Storyline but its still fun to watch cinematics but they could've 
 thought of better more realistic ideas like (Sonic the Hedgehog) which had a really fun story but 
 weak overall game. But its mostly the same... Destroying Eggman bla bla.
  
  Sound/Effects:
  Theirs nothing much to say about this.. Its just like every other game out there, 
 Nothing Special.
  
  Overall:
  6/10. Its not the worse game ever made, but the gameplay and Story really didn't live up to what 
 people actually wanted. I learned something from this whole thing. That Sega really know how to 
 attract people to buy their games, the cover really got my attention when i first saw it... I learned 
 that NEVER judge something from its outside cover.
  Well Sonic appears to be dying and we can't do anything about it so... We will see what happens 
 in the 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I havent played a good Sonic game in a long time. I had high hopes for this on my XBOX360 with 
 a nice tv and graphics. The levels are cool looking, very inventine, immersive, and have awesome 
 color and graphics!
  
  BUT the camera is always in the wrong place when you don't want it to be. Sometimes it right while 
 other times it's not.
  
  The part that ended this for my wife and I was the unresponsive controls. I worked very hard to 
 make it far through this came and along the way the controls would NOT register when i needed them 
 to! I hate when you press the buttons exactly as instructed, and have doen it throughout the game 
 but at other times it simply doesn't respond or work at all. Times like that made my wife and I 
 simply have to give up after working too long and hard to get to the end of levels and watch the 
 controls simply fall apart.
  
  This game was great for gameplay and graphics and the levels are awesome. But if the controls would 
 match with everything else I would have enjoyed the game til the end. But having to replay multiple 
 sections over again because the controls don't work just pissed me off enough to give up.
  
  My wife gave up before me, so I took over and made it much further through the game than she 
 did, only to hit a road block of non-working control sequences that made you die over and over 
 again despite doing exactly what you should be doing button-wise.
  
  Rent the game, don't buy it, if you can stand the controls, you're good to go. If you hate the 
 controls like I did, then you only paid the price of a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanPizza15
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 24, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  SONIC UNLEASHED IS AN EPIC FAIL
  
  I'm sorry, I tried to like it, I really did, but it's like thing that just eats away at my sanity 
 bit by bit. At 1st I was saying, this isn't so bad, I'll take these guys word for it, I'll try 
 to continue, I can get through these werewolf stages and hub worlds. I can't stand it anymore, 
 it's not like a bad game where I can turn it off and forget about it. It's just leaves me in anger 
 and hate towards who ever approved of this and it's not going away until I blow hole through my 
 head or express how much hate I have for this.
  
  Now let me say, I did not finish this game because I could not put up with more of this Bull!@#. 
 I stopped playing when I went to the China level because I had no idea where I'm suppose to go 
 or what I'm suppose to do to move on to the next stage. Yes, I know I'm suppose to find an elderly 
 woman's husband, I just can't open the next level portal because I need some key blade thing. I 
 just gave up and decided this is not at all worth my time when I could be playing a good game or 
 writing about it to make myself feel better. 
  
  Yea, this IS better than Sonic 06, but not by much. I wrote 7 pages on how much I hate Unleahsed. 
 Every little nit picky detail, every little glitch, every unresponsive command buttons.
  
  When I 1st played it, I was like "Wow, this is an incredible introduction, the CGI is as good as 
 Pixar, Chip is funny and reminds me of the 1st Sonic cartoon series, the 1st level was great, this 
 wont be a bad game after all." but it just turned sour.
  
  WEREWOLF (YOU DON'T SAY WEREHUMAN DO YOU?)
  
  My 1st complaint is the Werewolf. Now I never 
 played God of War, or Heavenly Sword, so I really have no current brawler to compare it to. You 
 people say there is no bad camera. I really hope you people don't become programmers. While I'm 
 basing every button on the controller, killing neon heartless guys, the camera always seems to 
 move behind a tree or I'm hidden behind an enemy. I can't see what I'm doing. Really doesn't matter 
 since it takes no skill. Platforming as Werewolf Sonic is a joke. There's always some ledges that 
 WereSonic can't climb over. It's pathetic, he should be able to do this automatically. I shouldn't 
 have to jump to get over a small incline the height of Sonic's shoe.
  
  BALANCING
  That balancing parts are broken. The camera is fixed to be at an angle. When I move the camera, 
 It just movies slightly to a direction and just shakes as if someone was pulling the camera out 
 of a wall it's nailed too. I just want the camera to be straight as I'm waling over the tight rope.
 
  
  COMBAT
  
  Combat feels like it was from a terrible movie licensed game. Why does the Werewolf have to stand 
 still to attack. This is a Sonic game, I should just be able to slash through the enemies killing 
 them as I run. I guess I'll get a running attack when I level up enough. If Sega was going to make 
 a beat em'up on Sonic, it should have been a fast paced brawler like Turtles in Time. In Turtles 
 in Time, the enemies take about 2 hits to kill and you get finished with the level in just a minute 
 or 2. It was fast and simple, and didn't take up so much time. Here, I should not have to take 
 18 minutes on 1 level in a Sonic game. That's about as bad as Knuckles' finding the Emerald Stage. 
 I rather be finding emeralds in SA1 and 2 because it feels a lot less of a chore and is much easier. 
 
  
  ANNOYING CUTSCENES
  
  A lot of the times, I walk into a room or something and the game stops you so it can show a door 
 closing behinds you, an enemy appearing or a platform. I get the point, I'm not suppose to go back, 
 I see the enemy, does it have to stop me just to show the obvious. Often in a game, it'll pause 
 me just to show some obstacle or where I'm suppose to go in the over world area. It doesn't happen 
 once, it happens every time you go to these areas. I saw it the 1st time, don't show me again. 
 This is just bad programming. Every time I encounter an enemy the same jazz music just comes up. 
 It's nice at 1st, but it gets really old if you have to hear it 30 times in 1 level. Also, do the 
 robots appearing remind anyone of Space Channel 5?
  
  GIANT KRYSTAL KEY THING
  
  Often I have to carry a crystal thing to some place to open a door. When you grab these crystal 
 things, Werewolf Sonic holds it over his head and walks as slow as possible to put it in the place 
 you need to place it. Look at Sonic Adventure 1, regular Sonic has to put a crystal thing to open 
 the Windy Valley Stage. In that game, Sonic can run full speed while carrying it. So can the rest 
 of his friends. Why does Weresonic walk 5mph while carrying the cystal thing and regular Sonic 
 can go full speed?
  
  CHALLENGE
  
  Yes, this game is hard, but not hard in a satisfying way. I go through a stage saying, "Glad I'll 
 never have to do that again." This isn't a fair hard, it's just badly programmed. The enemies are 
 too over powered. Grabbing a lever or a box is unresponsive. I have to press the grab button several 
 times to get a hold of something. When I'm on a pole, I try to jump on to another pole but I can't 
 do that. Sometime the jump button wont work. I try press right jump, until I realize you just have 
 to press jump, slight delay and werewolf Sonic will finally jump.
  
  QUICK TIME EVENTS
  
  Now, I hate Quick Time Events. There in so many games, it's just been so over used. Just to 
 name a few.
  God of War
  Resident Evil 4
  Heavenly Sword
  Force Unleashed
  Mercenaries 2
  Sewer Shark
  Spiderman 3
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance
  This game takes Quick 
 Time Events to a whole new level of over use. When you make a large jump as Sonic, it's a Quick 
 Time. You get on some launcher thing, quick time. As Werewolf Sonic, I sometime activate a Quick 
 Time without knowing it. I bash buttons like crazy and it goes into some quick time event, as I 
 keep hitting the bad guy, he picks me up and throws me on the ground and I lose a quarter of my 
 health. When I get knocked down, press more buttons rapidly. Opening a door, pulling a lever, moving 
 a crank, it's insane.
  
  THE TORNADO
  
  The kicker that blows Quick Time to all time low is the Tornado sky chases. When I 1st saw that 
 Sonic and Tales go on the Tornado to fly to the next level, I thought "Aw right, it's going to 
 be like Sonic Adventure and Star Fox." But I was sadly disappointed. Instead of giving you control 
 to fly around, shooting at Robotnics flying robot guys, it's just big quick time event. I have 
 to shoot the missiles depending on what button it tells me it hit. It's not hard since I memorized 
 the controller, it's just incredibly dull. I don't want to do this. This what we were doing back 
 on the Sega CD, it was a fail back then and it still fails now. Sega, you made the Sega CD, didn't 
 you learn from your passed mistakes? If they were going to make a big quick time event out of the 
 Tornado stage, couldn't they at least make it look like I'm watching a movie? The camera is just 
 behind the Tornado, it should be going at dramatic angles to make it look more intense. Sega, if 
 you're going to screw up a game with Quick Time Events, do it right.
  
  OVER WORLD MAP
  
  When you play a Sonic, what do you want to be doing most of the time? Playing the actual game. 
 Here, you spend more time in the exploration hub than the actual Sonic and Werewolf parts of the 
 game. Let's look back in Sonic Adventure. You simply walk to some location and trigger a cut scene 
 and able to move on to the next level. Sometime you're just guessing on where you need to go but 
 I can stand it. In Adventure 2, they remove the Hub map and let you go straight to the game. They 
 did this for the rest of the Sonic games until Sonic 06, but I don't want to talk about that game. 
 In this game, you get have to keep talking to people. I don't care what these people say, I just 
 talk until I trigger something. I find myself not knowing where to go or what I'm suppose to do. 
 I've spent more time talking to people and wondering around that actually playing the game. This 
 is ridiculous. No game should do this. I just want to play the game, let me move on.
  
  DAY TO NIGHT SWITCH
  
  Switching from day to night in the hub world is big pain. In the areas 
 you're allowed to talk to people, you can just press start and select "Wait for night/day" you 
 then wait through a 15 second loading time. That's bad enough but when you go to the Hub areas 
 in with the levels to select, everything changes. Instead of the Day to Night changer in the pause 
 screen, you have to hit some hour glass. Why? Why can't I just switch off in the pause menu? Sometime 
 as I play as Sonic, I hit these hourglasses by accident using the homing button. I have to wait 
 15 seconds for it to switch to night, then I have to hit the hourglass to switch back in another 
 15 seconds. This is bull!@#, why can't it have an "Are you sure" message?
  
  HUB WORLD CONTROLS
  
  Walking around in the Hub Worlds with people to talk to is a pain. Sonic 
 just walks way too slow, and he does not have the most accurate jump at all. When you jump and 
 do a homing attack, Sonic will fly forward and then just goes straight down. This doesn't make 
 sense, when you throw a ball; the ball doesn't just go straight and suddenly turns at a 90 degree 
 angle downward. When your on the hub that lets you select a level, Sonic is at regular control 
 when he's playing his speed levels. These controls weren't meant to be used on small areas for 
 exploring. Sonic goes way too fast and often falls off a cliff or goes into water. He's also just 
 so slippery; you can't jump on platforms with out falling off or going over them. I feel like I'm 
 on Roller Skates.
  
  MORE ANNOYING CUTSCENES
  
  The Hub World also has even more annoying cut scenes. In the Africa hub, you go near some area 
 where the next werewolf level is it happens. The game stops you, just to show you the next level 
 is up a tree. I saw when I got hear, I don't need to see it. When I died or quit the level, I left 
 and came back and it shows you the same Cut scene again. Why? Do they think I would forget? This 
 also happens in the China land level. Maybe the later levels this happens. I don't know. I stopped 
 playing this game at the China Hub because I can't figure out where to go or what I'm supposed 
 to do. I had enough of this game.
  
  LEVEL SELECT
  
  Sonic games are supposed to be quick and easy games I can play 5 minutes before I go somewhere. 
 I just want to play a quick game and I'll be on my way, but I can't, why? Because of no Level select 
 menu. You're on some hub area after beating a stage; you want to go back play a different leave. 
 You have to go back to the hub with people to talk to. Wait 10 seconds for a loading screen. Then 
 walk back to the exit. Wait another 10 seconds to get to the level select menu. Select your area, 
 and then wait 10 more seconds. Go to the level select hub. Wait 10 more seconds. Select the level 
 and wait 15 seconds. Then you can finally play the level you want. Why can't there just be a level 
 select on the pause menu? In Sonic Adventure 1 and 2, you could play a time trial and just go to 
 the level you want. Here, there is no such thing. It should not be such a pain to get to a level 
 I want to go. If your going to have a main Hub World as the level select, make it a small area. 
 Look at Mario Galaxy and Crash Bandicoot games. The Hub is a small area that takes a few seconds 
 to get to the level you want.
  
  SOUND
  
  In Sonic's stage, you hear him say "Yea! Wooooo! Doing Good!" every 20 seconds, they couldn't program 
 more reactions like "Gotta Juice!" or "Extreme!" In the werewolf stage, every time you encounter 
 a group of enemies, a music track will pop up. It's so annoying to hear that so many times.
  
  SEWER AREA
  There's this one scene that pisses me off. At the British area, you find this 
 elevator. To open it, you have to turn into a werewolf to pull a lever. It takes 15 seconds to 
 make it night time, once you pull the lever, the elevator opens. You go in and wait another 15 
 seconds to get to an underground sewer system. I assume you have to get across a giant stretch 
 of water, so I turn into Sonic in another 15 second loading time. I don't know what I'm suppose 
 to do. So I give up and turn into a werewolf for another loading screen. It's just a pain to get 
 through some of these parts since it's a big waist to go through these loading times.
  
  FLAGPOLES
  
  Weird thing to complain about but the flag poles bother me. Here, there's some 
 flag poles sticking out of the wall so Sonic can bounce higher. In Sonic Advance, Sonic and his 
 friends would grab the flagpole and sling shot their way up. In Unleashed, Sonic just bounces on 
 the flagpole like a trampoline. It goes on, way too slow.
  
  SLED RIDE
  
  Playing as Sonic in the snow area is very unfair. At one point, you are going through this large 
 half pipe tunnel on a sled. It would be fun except for the Ice Spike Ball things. They just blend 
 it with the half pipe, you can't see them. They're just a slightly different shade of white than 
 the environment. Is it fair? No, you won't know to avoid it unless you memorized this.
  
  SPEED
  
  This is strange to complain about but Sonic movies way to fast. Some obstacles that 
 Sonic can die from tripping over don't contrast well with the background. You don't know what's 
 coming unless you played this before and memorized the game. What if I made a racing game and I 
 have a brick wall suddenly appear in front of you with no warning. Is that a challenge? Or is that 
 unfair?
  
  --------------THE GOOD PARTS --------------
  
  STORY
  
  I love the story. The intro was incredible. I don't see why Sega doesn't make a CGI movie. I love 
 Chip, at 1st, I thought he looked like Aero the Acrobat and felt he was just going to be another 
 annoying character. He's hilarious, it's like he came straight out of the early Sonic cartoon. 
 This fits with the Sonic universe. I'm glad they didn't make another character like Shadow or Silver 
 saying "I'm so bad, I have a dark pass, I need to do something to save everyone" because that's 
 just lame. You can't take those characters seriously.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are beautiful. Everything is so clean and animates smoothly. They don't recycle the 
 NPCs in the hub areas. Worlds are bright an colorful. The Hub worlds are just so full of detail. 
 When you look at Sonic 06, it was just this bland, generic city. Here, the designers really put 
 a lot of time into the design. The only problem is Werewolf Sonic. His fur looks terrible and has 
 some weird graphical glitch. Conker from the last generation X-Box looked batter and so does the 
 Bee Queen from Mario Galaxy. The Graphics get a little choppy playing Werewolf Sonic at times. 
 This is probably one of the best looking games on the PS3 and 360.
  
  SOUND
  
  The music is very catchy; the orchestra does an amazing job. I love how they use the Sound effects 
 from passed games. I don't mind the voice work. It's is strange to hear large Yu-Gi-Oh's voice 
 come out of Prof. Pickle's mouth but I don't care.
  
  CHILE DOGS
  F*** Yea! Chile Dogs.
  
  SONIC STAGES
  
  This is the only fun you'll have with the game. 
 Sonic stages are fun, and feel a great sense of speed. There's really not much to say about this. 
 If only the whole game was like this.
  
  --------------HOW TO IMPROVE THIS GAME --------------
  
  HUB WORLD
  
  Get rid of the Hub 
 World. I think the only reason they put this in the game was because they wanted to make the game 
 longer just so people will have to buy it since they wont have the time to beat it when they rent 
 it. Just work off Sonic Adventure 2 idea. They got rid of the over world areas. I just want to 
 play a quick Sonic, game, get in, get out, I'm done. I had fun and not a lot of time spent. It's 
 really bad design when you have to spend more time on the hub than the actual game.
  
  GIMMICS
  
  Sega, we do not want to find emeralds as Knuckles, play a slow generic beat em'up 
 as a Werewolf, fish, use guns, levitation puzzles or any other random stuff added in. I just want 
 to play as Sonic. If your going to add more playable characters, be like the early Sonic games 
 and Sonic Advance. All the characters played the same except some small variation like flying or 
 gliding. The only good variation was Tails and Amy from SA1 but they were just slower and broken 
 versions of Sonic's game play.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Put more time into Sonic's movement. It should not take so many tries to got on one small platform 
 because of Sonic slipping off. Look at Adventure 1, I could control Sonic without him sliding all 
 around, and slipping off ledges. You can stop suddenly on control in Adventure. Was it realistic? 
 No, but it worked fine and I didn't suffer so many cheap deaths.
  
  
  
  Well I feel better after writing all that in 1 sitting. 
 I just know someone at Sega will read this, but they wont care. It's clear Sega doesn't care about 
 making their games good anymore. No matter how bad they make a Sonic game, the fanbase is going 
 to buy it anyway. You know what's going to happen next. Sega will say they'll have a new gameplay 
 mode and design team. The fans will stop praising Unleashed and say "Unleashed wasn't so great, 
 Sega will get it right this time" and then the cycle continues and Sonic will continue to get worse 
 and worse until the fans realize how bad these games are and stop buying them. Let me tell you 
 something, a fan doesn't call every Sonic game great. A real Sonic fan will be willing to admit 
 the problems with the game and not suck up to Sega as if they had decent programmers. I'd tell 
 you to stop buying Sonic games but that's not going happen. 10 year olds will buy it, the large 
 fanbase will buy it and Sega will just get rich off games with little to no effort.
  
  There, I spent 3 hours writing this just to make keep myself from going insane and blowing my brains 
 out. If you disagree with me then write me some hate mail. I love hate mail. Don't ever say this 
 is anywhere near Sonic's best because he could do a whole lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutHead41
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 19, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  For all of its faults (bad controls, cheap level portions) , the original Sonic games were very 
 well-recieved. I have very fond memories of Sonic sprinting at lightning-fast speeds through brightly-colored 
 levels. However, with the transition to 3D, mistake after mistake was made. First, Sonic X-Treme 
 was abruptly cancelled, leaving the Saturn without a major Sonic game. Then, Sonic Adventure introduced 
 sucky camera angles and hair-thin plots. Sonic Adventure 2 was the first game to feature the annoying 
 heartthrob of emos everywhere, Shadow. Sonic Heroes and Sonic the Hedgehog 2006 drove the series 
 to its coffin. Shadow's game nailed it shut.
  
  I heard about Sonic Unleashed and was willing to give it a try, thinking that there was nowhere 
 for Sonic Team to go but up. Boy, was I wrong.
  
  The graphics are much improved from Sonic 2K6, but still look poor compared to other games. They've 
 moved up from bad to mediocre.
  
  The gameplay, however, is where the suckiness shines through. Never before has a Sonic game been 
 this outright cheap. As in Sonic 2K6, glitches can cost you a ton of lives, but it gets worse. 
 Unleashed adds the new element of outrageously difficult levels that require memorization in order 
 to complete. I don't know about you, reader, but I much prefer a platformer that I can just pick 
 up and play, like Mario Galaxy.
  
  What's worse is, the stupid gimmick of the "Werehog" is not even justified by its levels. The Werehog 
 parts of the game are dull, repetitive, and uninspired. More could (and should) have been done 
 with it.
  
  Overall, this is yet another woeful affair for the Sonic franchise, and Black Knight doesn't look 
 much better. Sonic Team needs to take a step back and take a "back-to-basics" approach to Sonic 
 before time runs out for the franchise.
  
  Sonic Unleashed gets a well-deserved 2/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colemenkiller
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  YOU FAIL us yet again Gamespot this game is so freaking worth it I no longer have trust in there 
 critics don't believe GS they lie its a conspiracy to kill sonic. Support SONIC BUY THE GAME.
 
  DON'T Fall for the trick they lie it is really worth it though.
  I mean game play solid and graphics were beautiful. but the wolf part was a little boring in my 
 opinion but other then that I bought this game on sale and i had money and I wanted to test it. 
 TRUST ME I'M A N00B with good taste. But honestly when you pay attention to the speed of Sonic 
 that's what its about that is what sonic was always know for maybe its because I'm a die hard sonic 
 fan but I do agree the one's before this one recently were god awful but this one was awesome!!! 
 buy it if your smart. Gamespot has let most of their fans down its not worth listening to this 
 website anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netminder29
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed could have been the best 3d sonic ever made but thanks to a crappy decision it 
 was knocked back to a decent 3d sonic game. The daytime levels are the funnest sections in the 
 game and they pretty much nail what it is meant to be sonic, move fast in order to get to the goal. 
 there are a few problems in these stages but nothing major. The problem with the game is the nighttime 
 levels and the werehog it's utterly boring and the platforming sections are the only fun you have 
 with the werehog and they still suck because there is not a proper shadow to tell you were you 
 are in relation to the thing your suppose to land on. The final kick in the pants is the fact that 
 you have to collect damn medals to move on all this does is slow the experience down. the only 
 reason this game gets a 6.5 not a 5 for being half a game is because the daytime levels are too 
 much fun. if the kept the werehog in the closet got rid of the town stages because all they do 
 is slow you down the fun and are completely useless. Sonic Unleashed would have been perfect if 
 they just followed the old formula sonic runs through level fast and either moves on to next one 
 or goes to a story element and back to the level that is what sonic about and sega needs to learn 
 what made sonic fun in the past. Speedy platform not some half asses 3d town stages that are boring 
 and useless. They started to get it with the adventure series and then deiced people liked to play 
 as the other characters which no one does just stick to sonic just like the old 2d games and sonic 
 may come back to his former glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AXavierB
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed is truly an improvement in the series; an island of enjoyment in an ocean of mediocrity. 
 It's ridded itself of a great deal of the problems that have been present in the franchise. However, 
 it's probably going to be the most underrated, underappreciated game in the franchise. So sad, 
 but so true. 
  
  It's readily apparent that the game draws greatly from a few other installments of the series; 
 specifically, the more successful titles from recent years. Influence from the Rush and Rivals 
 games, plus Secret Rings, can easily be spotted during various parts of the game. It's nearly enough 
 to make you believe those games were just experimental titles used for developing Unleashed. Needless 
 to say, that the game draws influence from these games is nothing short of a good thing.
  
  Unleashed is separated into two completely different forms of gameplay, of course. These play styles 
 are based around a special day/night cycle. At the map screen, you're enabled to shift the position 
 of the sun in order to access stages at either day or night. In hub worlds, the cycle works by 
 selecting day or night from the pause screen. Entrance stages, which are accessed from the hub 
 worlds and lead to various stages, allow you to change the cycle by hitting special hourglasses.
 
  
  When it's daytime, Sonic is his normal blue self. His stages are based around speedy platforming. 
 There's a great deal of trial and error, and practice and patience are essential. Each level is 
 lined with traps, so you can't just plow through on your first try. You need to take it slow the 
 first time to learn the layout of the stage, but that's really where the fun comes from; reflex-based 
 gameplay and learning to swiftly and smoothly dodge the obstacles in your way. That's essentially 
 what Sonic's stages are; fast-paced obstacle courses.
  
  You get various speed-based abilities, such as the light speed dash, stomp, quick step, drift and 
 boost. The light speed dash has been a staple of every 3D game since Sonic Adventure, the stomp 
 is a variation of the bounce/bound jump, the quick step allows you to dodge oncoming obstacles, 
 the drift helps you turn tight corners and the boost lets you blast off at maximum speed, destroying 
 every enemy and breakable obstacle in your path. The boost is powered by collecting rings to fill 
 your energy gauge, similar to the tension gauge used in Rush.
  
  Sonic's stages also shift from a 3D to a 2.5D perspective. The shift is smooth and seamless. During 
 3D sections, the camera stays behind Sonic as he runs through racetrack-like segments. Minimum 
 platforming is required in these sections. The 2.5D sections play very much like a mixture of Rush 
 and Rivals. In fact, many of Rivals' signature gimmicks are used, such as poles extending from 
 ledges which are used to jump and cannons that launch Sonic to different areas depending on which 
 button is pressed. Like in Rivals, you'll receive a prompt for which button you should press.
 
  
  When the sun sets, Sonic becomes a lycanthropic creature called the Werehog. These stages are based 
 on platforming and combat. In this form, Sonic fights creatures called Frights, which are composed 
 of strange, glowing energy. Each Fright has different powers, and they almost always attack in 
 groups. This can get frustrating, especially when they swarm you. However, they are easy to dispatch 
 once you've sufficiently leveled up. 
  
  There isn't really much to say about the Werehog other than that; it's essentially just a beat-'em-up. 
 It's still fun, even if it somewhat detracts from Sonic's stages, but it's no worse than any previous 
 non-Sonic gameplay. If you have patience for the difficulty, you should be fine when playing these 
 levels.
  
  Now that the gameplay is out of the way, we'll look at details like graphics and music. The graphics 
 are nothing short of Pixar quality. They're absolutely gorgeous to look at, with surprising attention 
 to detail for this kind of game, from the vivid whitewashed look of Apotos, modeled after the Greek 
 island of Mykonos, to the lush South American jungle atmosphere of Adabat. There is a built-in 
 option to change the brightness of the picture, as well. At its brightest, the game is even more 
 beautiful than normal.
  
  The music is excellent, each song perfectly matching the stage theme. Apotos has a serene, watery 
 theme, while Adabat has ethereal-sounding flutes and drums in its background music. The title theme 
 is excellent as well, sounded lighthearted in contrast to previous Sonic themes, which have attempted 
 to have a dramatic sound.
  
  Replay value in the game is excellent. As you keep playing through stages, you unlock videos, including 
 three amusing extra animated shorts. You can also get extra stages by exploring the hub worlds 
 and collecting certain amounts of Sun and Moon Medals. By talking to people, you can obtain entertaining 
 sidequests and time trials. However, the fun of the Sonic stages is enough to add replay value 
 in itself.
  
  Overall, Sonic Unleashed is a fun game. Of course, it's not perfect, but in truth, no game is. 
 It has flaws just like any other human work, but they are by no means wreckers of the game. Sega 
 actually put effort into this game, and it shows spectacularly. The difficulty and lack of a "classic" 
 vibe may put people off, but if you evaluate Unleashed for the game it is rather than trying to 
 make comparisons to the retro Sonic games, chances are you'll find a smart and intuitively fun 
 platformer. If you end up not liking it, then get rid of it. Simple as that. 
  
  But fans of the series must pick this game up. If you're not a fan, at least rent it or download 
 the demo and give it a try. Even if you don't enjoy it, you'll still have formed that opinion on 
 your own rather than taking others' opinions as irrefutable facts, so for that, you should give 
 yourself congratulations and a pat on the back for a job well-done. Here's hoping Sega continues 
 to steer the series in this direction, and the little blue hedgehog will be back up and running 
 in no time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemanyeah
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Sonic's a troubled old mascot. With every new game he fronts, the realisation that he's not what 
 he once was becomes ever more apparent. What must be even more infuriating though, is that the 
 remedy to his problem is so obvious and easily achievable, yet to bring him back to his classic 
 2D roots, Sega never quite go the whole hog. Sonic Unleashed, the latest title starring the Blue 
 Streak on Xbox 360, does make a few somewhat successful attempts at capturing his former glory. 
 Rather than take a leaf from his old Genesis book however, Sonic Team lift direct chunks of gameplay 
 from their other close-but-no-cigar effort, Sonic Rush, on the Nintendo DS. At certain parts of 
 the daytime missions, the camera perspective switches to a side-on view, tracking Sonic as he races 
 through the level from left to right. Boost pads, springs, loops and grind rails bring both a real 
 sense of speed to the game, as well as adding some much-needed variation and visual flair to the 
 lengthy and sometimes sparse tracks. 
  
  This isn't quite the return to form you might expect; these sections are few and far between, and 
 they're deployed erratically, seeming like a tacked-on afterthought rather than, as they should 
 have been, a central premise on which to build the game around. The other, more dominant aspect 
 of the daytime missions is much more akin to the gameplay of another recent Sonic semi-success 
 of this generation: Sonic and the Secret Rings, on the Wii. For the most part of the daytime in 
 Sonic Unleashed, you control Sonic from behind, strafing him left and right to grab rings and avoid 
 dangerous obstacles. As you collect rings, your Ring Energy meter builds up which you can release 
 when you choose. As long as it's not empty, it'll give Sonic a short but incredible burst of speed. 
 It's pretty exciting stuff, but disappointing if you're suddenly stopped in your tracks by hitting 
 a wall or solid object. Also, despite the faced paced nature of this gameplay, it doesn't shake 
 the odd feeling that it's not proper Sonic. It feels like an ultra fast graphically-enhanced remix 
 one of the intermission Special Stages from his early games: a racing game in platform clothing. 
 Sonic Team have nailed the speed all right, but it all goes by in the blink of an eye with none 
 of the considered level design from his Genesis games. 
  
  One thing that's certain, however, is that despite their drawbacks, the gameplay templates of Sonic 
 Rush and Sonic and the Secret Rings, both of which make their way into Sonic Unleashed, work pretty 
 well. This makes Sonic Unleashed at least as good as those two titles in the parts of the game 
 where their influences show. One influence that's not quite so welcome, or indeed cohesive with 
 the rest of the Sonic Unleashed gameplay, though, is that which is taken from the rambling Sonic 
 Adventure games. Sonic Unleashed breaks up the speedy action with a quite pointless narrative about 
 him turning into a 'Werehog' at night. This gives Sega the excuse to slow the gameplay right down 
 with all manner of plot expositions, delivered by an annoying flying mammal thing called Chip, 
 by that same voice actor they use in every Western translation of the their dialogue. He'll interrupt 
 you at every possible opportunity, explaining things you already knew, or were obvious from the 
 beginning. Also, the game forces its adventure twist onto you quite heavy-handedly. It's divided 
 into hubs, a-la Super Mario 64, with doors that need to be unlocked with specific numbers of Sun 
 or Moon Medals. While this might work in a true adventure game like Super Mario 64 that places 
 more emphasis on exploration and item collection than speed, it just serves to break up and lessen 
 the impact of what should be the meat-and-bones gameplay of Sonic Unleashed: those breakneck-fast 
 speedways. 
  
  The nighttime missions also deserve some flak. It's here where Sonic Team inadvertently remind 
 us of the awkwardness of their old Sonic Adventure titles. As a Werehog, Sonic is endowed with 
 immense strength, and oddly enough, freakishly stretchy arms. He can use these to trash enemies 
 and climb up poles in search of the elusive Medals in these more combat-orientated nighttime missions. 
 These fights against baddies which spawn out of nowhere, quickly become repetitive, and are reminiscent 
 of the failures present in the Sonic Adventure series and Sonic Heroes. Although this time, the 
 combat arenas are walled in to stop Sonic plummeting off a cliff to his doom, the dynamic camera 
 still presents issues as it did before. 
  
  It's often too far away from the action, making combat quite hard to see. Also, Sonic's stretched 
 arm attacks don't always connect with their intended targets, making the sight of him flailing 
 around like a loon as frustrating as it is funny. The game works a lot better when the camera is 
 on a fixed path, and when movement is restricted to a 2D plane. If Sonic Team had realised this, 
 the game would have been a lot more fun. Sonic Unleashed is graphically eye catching in a  
 kind of way, and the sheer speed of it all captures the essence of Sonic well. The music and sound 
 effects are catchy, reflecting the environments the game presents. But all these elements are never 
 expanded upon as they should, and for every exhilarating ride though one of the game's exotic levels, 
 there's a dull combat section to follow. 
  
  In the end, Sega's insistence in holding onto these flawed elements transforms what could have 
 been a truly excellent take on the classic Sonic formula, into a messy, ugly beast of a game. All 
 these unnecessary nocturnal distractions end up outstaying their welcome even before you get tired 
 of them, and this whole feral business is beginning to wear thin.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ADZ06
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Sonic is back, and with the planet plit in two, and the chaos emeralds spazzing out, the whole 
 wrolds gone to hell.... no not really, but sonics now a erm.... werehog?
  yeah that's what i thought too.
  following up from Sonic the Hedgehog, this game really had to 
 bring back the Sonic thunder... but didn't quite deliver what most fans wanted
  
  
  THE GOOD
  
  . Impressive graphics.
  . Sonic's speed has been upgraded..... a lot!!!
  . voice 
 acting's better in Japanese.
  . Brings back bits of the 2D Sonic that we used to love *and hate at times*
  
  
  
  THE 
 BAD
  
  . Gameplay mechanics are pretty darn awefull.
  . Camera seems a tad bit messed up when coming from 2D to 3D
  . horrible world character designs.... seriously 
 this is Sonic not some lame ass game.
  . Level design doesn't do it for me, and i find myself falling... a lot!!
  . Still no physics 
 with water, or anything that i may fall onto.
  . I find myself thinking... why do i just go right through the water/floor?
  . World graphics 
 are quite awefull, only Sonic truely looks nice.
  . Doesn't quite mix in the aspects of 2D and 3D very well.
  . Bad story line.
  . Bad character 
 movement *during cutscenes*
  
  
  over all though... i thought the game was OK. Nothing more, nothing less.
  If Sega truely want 
 to bring back Sonic the Hedgehogs well profound fame and glory, and he had 15 years ago. Then they 
 really need to listen to what fans want.
  And what i want is.
  
  
  . Improve gameplay mechanics
  . Go back to the Sonic adventure days _
  . keep the mix between 
 2D and 3D, but please... blend it well.
  . Improve the camera movement.
  . Be a little more serious with your story line, no more transformations into the werehog.
  . 
 Get rid of the horrible world characters.
  . Little bit more serious looking robots... and not things that look like toys.
  . Improve stage 
 layouts.
  
  
  And i can honestly say.. that's AAAALLLL i want from Sega. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KronosIII
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I was really hoping for a good Sonic game this time around. I played Sonic since Sonic the Hedgehog 
 2 and been playing ever since. It all started to turn to crud after Sonic adventure 2. Sega can't 
 for w/e reason grasp how to do controls in a game. I mean homing attack was always the same button 
 twice, why change it to A, then X. WTF IS THAT ABOUT? And grabbing ledges is almost impossible 
 sometimes in werehog form. Another problem is towns, towns and talking to people in a game should 
 be quick and painless or not there in all in general. I should not have to talk to people to go 
 to the next level, I should not have to get these dumb coins to go further in the game. I mean 
 god damn Sega, I think iam done with Sonic after this game, because the black knight looks like 
 his death by sword. If they want to save Sonic they need to look back in the past and maybe bring 
 it back. LIKE MAYBE A REMAKE OF THE FIRST 4 GAMES???? If Zelda can pull it off, and Mario can as 
 well, why can't the blue hog? I mean sonic1,2,3 and knuckles are what made Sonic who he is today, 
 remake the games in lush 3d enviroments and bring back Robotnik. Not this joke he is now, Robotnik 
 used to be a heartless man that would never save or think about helping anyone but himself. Damn 
 Sega you piss me off...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weezie313
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Good game. It's sad to say that people harshly rated this game. Give it a chance. I like the night/day. 
 Change of pace. This is the kind of game you have to give a chance before you judge it. It starts 
 off very fast paced, putting you right into the action as a tutorial. Really intense speed, brutal 
 fighting at night. Awesome game. Fun factor is through the charts. Definitely a game where you 
 and your buddies can switch on and off between deaths. Sad to see that everyone rated this game 
 so low when if they did, they obviously hadn't given it a good enough shot to realize the unique 
 things in the game. The battle system and the speed of the game are just immaculent. The fun factor 
 of this game blew me away. Yeah yeah, I know there aren't any more "Chao", but the days of the Sega 
 Dreamcast are over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleAxeRX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Sonic is and always has been a very very good character. I find him even cooler than Mario. Sonic 
 is as they say, "The fastest thing alive." Unless you don't like near blinding speed this game 
 is likely to be one of your favorites or a favorite of someone you know.
  
  The graphics are beautiful and there are very intricate structures in most levels so the level 
 of detail is amazing. Don't think you wont be able to enjoy the detail because you'll always be 
 in tunnel-vision mode, you'll have to explore the levels in order to unlock new levels by finding 
 sun and moon medals. The framerates in the game are excellent, Sega uses a new engine which streams 
 the levels as you go through them, so you can spend 2-5 minutes depending on the level running 
 at the speed of sound without ever stopping (Seeing a loading screen or a drop in framerates)
 
  
  The other side of Sonic Unleashed is another game entirely. Sonic turns into a werehog when you 
 scout a level at night. His mission is to exterminate spooky yet colorful monsters and reach the 
 end of the stage. There are a few simple puzzles in the werehog stages and there is a lot of exploration 
 required if you want to find the max number of sun and moon medals. Sadly, the levels are very 
 long and seem drawn out and can get a little boring and tedious. Therefor, I find myself spend 
 most of my time in the daytime stages where I'm looking for medals or ripping the course up in 
 trying for a new record. Perhaps the werehog is here for good reason, the nighttime stages surely 
 add much more time to the clock and hence the game lasts much longer this way.
  
  No matter what mode you're currently playing the game in, enemies will give you experience points 
 when you defeat them and you can use the points to level up sonics speed and his max ring energy 
 which is used to continually boost to max velocity (Both of which make getting faster times in 
 already visited stages much easier) . You can also level up the werehog's abilities which make him 
 more effective in combat such as strength, combos, life, overdrive, and guard.
  
  The sound in "SU" is great overall. The sound emitted when a ring is collected is very old school 
 and pretty much identical to what it has been. The Voice acting is well done, voices are clear 
 and well balanced. The music is fairly interesting and memorable. The catch with the audio is that, 
 when you boost and gain speed, the music looses most of it's frequency response and is left sounding 
 trebly and strained (It is supposed to add to the sense of speed and it does a very good job) . 
 Basically it is important to note that the music - depending on how fast you want to be - is going 
 to be modulated to give you a sense of speed.
  
  The characters in Sonic Unleashed are rather funny and ... cute, I guess, except for Sonic. There 
 is a medium amount of interaction involved with other people and a medium amount of visiting other 
 continents and exploring their habitat and later, the stages you can play there.
  
  If you're a Sonic fan, this is arguably the best one ever. If you don't know much about Sonic then 
 let this game be an example of what he is (Rent Sonic Unleashed and see if you like it) . Also, 
 I hope you have good reflexes and remember that children are usually very good at that kind of 
 thing.
  
  Before warned that there are a few nitpick problems, but it is seriously nothing game-breaking, 
 if you want to know what they are: The running control is a bit gluey which will make navigation 
 something you'll probably have to get used to. The werehog doesn't control that well when trying 
 to make precision jumps. That's about it.
  
  Note that the Wii and PS2 versions are knockdowns of the X360 and PS3 versions so don't judge the 
 game by the knockdowns.
  
  If you have the slightest curiosity or interest in Sonic Unleashed, I recommend renting it as soon 
 as possible because it has great design and is an overall high quality game. If you're still scratching 
 your head because of negative reviews then all the more reason to rent it. It'll teach you something 
 about reviews.
  
  P. S. Don't take a score of 5 or lower seriously. This is a well made game for the most part which 
 is more than I can say for many many games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TuroX12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Now I know this game has had a very mixed reaction sadly the negatives are all on the werehog but 
 I feel that most people havent really given him ago, I know there long and sometimes frustrating 
 but I find that it has a lot to offer espeacially the puzzle solving etc it almost brought me back 
 to my lego star wars days where the aim of the game was to figure out what goes where etc. I do 
 admit that at the start the hub worlds are annoying but once you get to the part where your free 
 to choose where to go there not really much of a big deal (hey its no where near as bad as soleana) . 
 The combat system isn't perfect but its far from the failure that everyone says it is, its boring 
 if your a button mashing noob who constantly mashes Y then complians that he can't destroy a robot 
 in one punch, it can actually be fun if you level him up properly and learn some of the combos, 
 I actually had fun on the Mazuri level.
  
  Ok enough Werehog gagging, Time for what this game is all about and that is the daytime levels 
 which I must admit is the best Sonic experience I have played since Emerald Coast. There fast, 
 long and loads of decent platforming, reminds me alot of Sonic 2 (especially apatos) . The graphics 
 are just brilliant not the best on the 360 but for the kinda pixar style they were going for is 
 dead on perfect. The only complaint I can find about the levels are that someimes they feel automated 
 mainly at the first 20-30 secs of the level, i felt like I was playing sonic and the secret rings 
 for a while, till I got to the first 2d parts then I knew that this was nothing like SSR. 
  
  I have also noticed that reviewers are complaining about the humour and the story, why? its 
 meant to be for kids hence characters like chip, I personally like the childishness of the game, 
 much better than 06's as that game tried to be epic and ended up being the most cliched' game in 
 the world what with the aweful terminator like style with silver and the attempt at being a romeo 
 and juliet with Sonic's death with elise. The story for unleashed is simple, fun and in some places 
 interesting, it doesn't make me want to gauge my eyes out with a rusty spoon unlike 06's Sonic 
 and Elise laughter scene. Robotnik is back to actually being a threat to Sonic unlike the countless 
 monster enemies such as Iblis, he is now like he used to be and that is trying to take over the 
 world to make is well earned Eggman land and being the comic relief of the game.
  
  Overall this game is what i was expecting, I never had high hopes that it would revamp the Sonic 
 franchise but like so many others have said its definetly a step in the right direction, I can 
 only hope this won't be like Sonic's first step into 3d all over again, you know SA1 being amazing, 
 SA2 being almost as good but they tried to add to much gimmicks and characters, then Heroes which 
 kinda took a step backwards, then Shadow which they tried hard to make seem "cool" but just could't 
 cut it, then 06 which concerntrated too much to make it epic that they ruined the story, gameplay 
 etc. Lets hope the next game will expand on the daytime levels and maybe add tails and knuckles 
 but how they used to be, you know in Sonic 3 and Knuckles where they each had an advantage and 
 disadvantage.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: klonoa53
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  Ok, Im gonna give it to you straight. I am a Sonic fan, but just because I am does'nt mean that 
 I judge based on favortism. So Im gonna give you the truth, even if you guy's hate me for it.
 
  
  Well it looks like Dr. Robotnick's up to it again, silly man trying to take over the world. But 
 it looks like the blue speedster isn't gonna let that happen, and you know what that means guy's 
 :D ... no im not gonna fire my LAZARR! Instead im gonna be sonic and do what I do best, run through 
 colorfull levels and collect rings that I dont understand their purpose or existance being all 
 over the place, well anyway :D
  
  Ok, Sonic Unleashed is a good game. It has a solid random story that seems pretty simple with some 
 twists and turns. The beginnig scene starts off with Dr. Robotnick and his fleet of robots trying 
 to make "eggmanland" (really now... thats a gay name ._. ) by taking over the world or something... 
 I dont know... I lost track after Sonic 2006. But whats that in the distance  __ ; Its Sonic :D... 
 wait... how did he get in space ._.; So yadda yadda yadda, Sonic runs everywhere robots are xploding, 
 Robotnick getting his butt whooped, and Sonic goes super in the beginning... wait where do the 
 emeralds come from... Sonic doesnt wear pants ._.; Anyway, he chases him through space super and 
 whatnot and gets him cornered. Robotnick traps Sonic and extracts the emeralds from him while he 
 is super, in which I guess he uses the emeralds negatively and Sonic turns into a werehog ._. ( 
 emeralds good and evil reference to SA1 or SADX ) So I guess werehog is revers for Super Sonic 
 huh? Well anyway Robotnick hold the "A" button and fires his LAZARR : [ === at the planet and breaks 
 it up into seven peice in which sonic has to get back together. Ya know the story if you play the 
 game ._.
  
  Day time hit:
  
  Controls:
  So I started the level (finally) and come to the notice that... wow... Sonic is fast... and then 
 I noticed... damn sonic is fast... then I noticed... Sonic needs some new shoes because the grip 
 on these are worn BECAUSE YOU TURN LIKE SHADOW  :C 
  
  1.) Running
  Thats right, the controls for running in my opinion are slick. Its like Sonic has has chosen to 
 control like Shadow on his game, Its not bad for shadow because he has an excuse since his shoes 
 are jetskates.
  
  The 0-100 speed is kinda annoying too, especially when you want too stop all motion. Pleas retry 
 by letting the people from SA1 or SA2 give a go at the running engine. Final score C
  
  2.) Turning
  The turning sucks. END OF STORY
  It shouldnt take Sonic no time to turn, but apparently 
 in this its like im playing the Ice level all over again. Ya know where it takes a while for Sonic 
 to turn because he is slipping on a no traction area. D+
  
  3.) 3D-2D
  I have to say thats kinda neat and it adds a difference to the gameplay but at the speed Sonic 
 is runnig... might wanna pull the camera back a little more so I can see whats ahead of me so that 
 I dont loose my rings or die from falling off a cliff I couldnt see throu motion blur. People who 
 did this get an B-
  
  4.) Levels
  They are good and provide a challenge on both sides though sometimes too short. Beautiful at that, 
 the graphics team really outdid themselves with this one :D good job :D! A+
  
  5.) New abilities
  Ok so new ones this time around are Sonic boost, side step that helps a little, 
 and Drift that makes turning even worse but helps some times. Score C
  
  6.) Are the day levels fun?
  Yeah, they are. But they're to short unfortunatly, and can get hard 
 if you speed through them which will leave you with a bad score in the end. Score A-
  
  Overall score: A-
  The daytime levels are good and they have a certin style to them that makes 
 it fun to play. Plus... SONIC CAN FINALLY RUN ON WATER  :O BOUT TIME! Oh and he's finnaly fast 
 to the point of amazment. I like the boss stages for daytime as well too. 
  
  Night time Hit:
  
  Controls:
  Not bad but really do we need this? I mean really... you could 
 have added knuckles for this one. Just had the Classic Trio for this game. 
  Well when you first start off you dont really have a choice in combat, his running on all fours 
 makes things a little more difficult especially when you wanna get from one enemy to another in 
 a short amount of time. The fighting evolves over time. 
  
  1.) Fighting
  Well this is new, and it doesnt seem all that bad cept that this is a sonic game and I wanna run 
 ._. not fight. At least the fighting isnt all bad, the combat seems to evolve over time while you 
 level up and whatnot. Something new that have been appearing in alot of games is the new reaction 
 command that you can access through beating an enemy's brains out. This new style to Sonic is a 
 little more advaced through other games period. How, well if you notice, if the enemies health 
 is high and you are able to do it you have to have a quick reflex since the timer is based upon 
 health. Over time you get more moves that deal much more damage and just lets you own the enemies 
 and be the real "boss hog". Score A
  
  2.) Levels
  Ehhhh can drag on to over 10 minutes which is too long for me in a Sonic game, but I guess the 
 only reason that this is like that is because of all the extra stuff you have to do like open this 
 door and hit that button and all that good stuff... they give some challange, but get fustrating 
 sometimes through stuff like cheap deaths like missing the jump or the moving platform. Score B+
 
  
  3.) AI
  Though not the smartest, the give you a challeng if you dont keep on them like white on rice. I've 
 noticed that they sometimes fight like a team and that they really dont want you to pass on, which 
 apparently is their goal. Thats right... you may get your butt handed too ya. Score B
  
  4.) Is playing with werehog Sonic fun?
  You might think not, but it is sometimes..... SOMETIMES.... 
 but it grows on you. Its just the level and camera keeps me at an emotional distance sometimes. 
 Score B-
  
  Overall:
  Ehhhh I perfer day time levels, but its not all that bad. I mean it could have been worse... they 
 could have given him a sword ._. oh wait 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaEmptyTomb
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  I am a sonic fan since his 16 bit days when the franchise was a beat the clock type of deal. I 
 wished for so long for a basic game that was just sonic racing to the finish with amazing graphics 
 and just using the next gen power. i feel like this game is half right. i dont understand the werehog 
 thing, but its not awful, just annoying (mainly cause i just want to run really fast) . this game 
 is due an 8.0, but i gave it a 10 to undo those retarded reviews. Atleast rent it. and for those 
 of you who say the controls are too sensitive, the game is not worth a bad review due to your lack 
 of knowing how to play (thats why they instituted the LB RB dash!)  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hey_Cage
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  To be honest I was expecting Sonic Unleashed to be a great game, possibly saving the obviously 
 failing Sonic franchise from an untimely death. By now I'd be happy with an extremely polished 
 remake of Sonic and Sonic 2 with HD graphics. One can only dream...
  
  I've found this game to be extremely dissapointing. It was fun in snippets, but not overall. The 
 controls are really slippery and feel too sensitive, the slightest tap will Sonic spriniting off 
 an edge or into an enemy. I know this was supposed to add to the feeling of speediness that all 
 Sonic games should have, but not that sensitive. It's like if you took the Halo 2 sensitivity, 
 set it to ten, then doubled it. It's crazy. There are these really small platforms that you'll 
 encounter sometimes, which coupled with the sensitive controls, clunky camera, and a generally 
 innacurate platforming style makes for a frustraring experience. Once, I managed to speed across 
 a series of said small platforms, and felt a sense of satisfaction that should always come with 
 completing a difficult challenge. I also felt a sense of sadness at how great this game could've 
 been. If pulled off right, the game is fun, but it's just so hard to pull it off that the frustration 
 outnumbers the sastifaction.
  
  The were-hog segments are... okay. The visuals are at the top of their game here, and what more 
 could you want? Stretchy arms and fire punches, comeone. It's like the shuriken gun. But it's ruined 
 by the fact that the length of your stretchy arms seems to be random and the platforms you can 
 grab onto seems to be limited, which ruins one of the only redeeming aspects of this game. It's 
 fun, but only if you can actually get it to work. 
  
  Sonic fanbois will of course love it. kthnxbi.
  
  ~Jake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cool_modine
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  I've read the reviews, I'm not much of sonic fan really, but surprisingly this game was pretty 
 fun. This is yet again another case of "The game automatically fails because I suck at it" a'la 
 the previous installment and other such games like Lair which also were *gasp* pretty good games. 
 Although I wouldn't doubt the fact that SEGA doesn't pay out sites like gamespot and ign to BUY 
 a good review contributes to it's unjustly low score.
  
  Don't believe the haters or fanboys. It takes some getting used to, but once you have the hang 
 of it, the game is actually rather good.
  If you like platformers, definitely give this one a whirl.
  
  Don't trust the staff reviews 
 on anything. It's all money and business. Great games get bad scores, while mediocre ones most 
 of the time are held in high praise. It's disgusting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chosenone234
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  night time levels 
  gameplay 
  its a brawler its bound to get repetitive it does not stay true to the sonic style of gameplay 
 but is still good, not bad, ok or atleast not bull **** 
  sound 
  im not really good at rating sound effects but i dont see much anything to comment on 
  
  i 
 dont like the werehogs and most characters voices but sonic voice has atleast improved
  
  music 
  great music often but i absoululey hate the battle music from the start graphics very 
 good nothing special
  
  daytime level 
  gameplay
  perfect i had no problems with the controls what so ever the 2d and 3d gameplay is great
  sound
 
  same as night time levels
  music
  absoulutley beautiful no other comments
  graphics and level design 
  flawless
  
  note 
  having a few rpg elements is nothing to 
 complain about
  although the townpeople should have many missions to give that award something 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Im going to say that this game is probaly the best looking game I have seen on Xbox 360, or something 
 close to it. They finally made Sonic reach his potential in speed. But they are so many flaws in 
 this game that make you want to throw the game at your baby sister in anger, which i almost did. 
 The Good is no where near compared to the bad.
  
  Good-
  *Awesomeee Graphics.
  *Sonic can go to 300 mph
  *Achievements are quite easy.
  *A good rental to wait for Christmas 
 to come.
  *Tails isnt important.
  
  Bad-
  *Walking Slow as Sonic is basically not playable, you cant go straight.
  *The story is messed 
 up, doesn't even make sense?
  *The whole werehog is so bad, and not fun
  *Really Not fun at all.
  
  You can get alot of achievements by beating the story line, im not 
 quite sure yet how much but quite a few. But why the 20 Achievements all about Hot Dogs?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj1909
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  the controls are the worst part, especially with werehog. they give u a speed booster, but u can't 
 use it all the time, so if u want to speed through boards think again. graphics and sound are good 
 though. some of the songs get me hyped about the board, but its just so frustrating you just want 
 to throw the game away. sega thought they made it better, but they made it worse. why won't they 
 just make a sonic based game with no gimmicks in between like the ones on gameboy?
  
  the controls are the worst part, especially with werehog. they give u a speed booster, but u can't 
 use it all the time, so if u want to speed through boards think again. graphics and sound are good 
 though. some of the songs get me hyped about the board, but its just so frustrating you just want 
 to throw the game away. sega thought they made it better, but they made it worse. why won't they 
 just make a sonic based game with no gimmicks in between like the ones on gameboy? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrissieGirl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  It's probably something that gets said a lot, but Sonic the Hedgehog hasn't had the best of luck 
 lately. While the Adventure games were brilliant fun, and Heroes was a pretty good game in itself, 
 Shadow the Hedgehog and Sonic for the 360 were just plain awful, and along with spin-offs which 
 many fans viewed as mediocre titles, I'm honestly not surprised at people for being worried about 
 the next new Sonic game being released.
  
  The question is; is the latest entry into the franchise, Sonic Unleashed, any good? Yes, it is. 
 It is much better than a lot of recent entries into the franchise, and I'm going to explain why.
 
  
  The story of the game is nothing special, but that's unsurprising as very few Sonic games have 
 good stories. The story goes that Sonic confronts Eggman in his latest attempt to conquer the world, 
 and while it seems like he succeeds at first, Eggman has a trick up his sleeve which causes the 
 Chaos Emeralds to lose their life and power, essentially causing the Earth to split into seven 
 pieces and reawaken ANOTHER supernatural entity. As a side-effect, Sonic is turned into a werehog 
 at night. It's nothing special and the idea of Sonic becoming a werehog is rather weird, but to 
 be blunt, I have never played a Sonic game for it's story (barring Sonic Chronicles) .
  
  But what of the gameplay, the most important part of any game? Thankfully, it all holds up rather 
 well, some parts moreso than others. There are two types of stages; day-time stages and night-time 
 stages. As you can expect, day-time stages feature traditional Sonic gameplay including elements 
 of speed and platforming. The gameplay switches between 2.5D and 3D gameplay, which is fun to play 
 for those that prefer 2D gameplay for Sonic, while also including 3D Sonic for those that prefer 
 that. The gameplay here is amazingly fun, and if the entire game was compromised entirely of gameplay 
 found in the day-time stages, the game would still be just as fun as it is here.
  
  Night-time gameplay consists of Sonic in his werehog form, which features slightly more traditional 
 platforming gameplay with some areas of beating up enemies. The werehog isn't as fast as Sonic 
 in his normal form, but he is able to stretch his arms and perform effective combat moves. This 
 gameplay here is nowhere near as good as the day-time stages; the combat can get repetitive very 
 quickly even when levelling up the werehog to introduce new combos, the levels take far too long 
 to complete (approximately twenty minutes usually) and the camera is not perfect in a lot of instances, 
 and are placed at awkward angles making it difficult to see what you need to do. However, these 
 instances aren't common, and the camera is nowhere near as bad as what it was in Sonic 06.
  
  The 360 version does include two things that were not to be found in the Wii/PS2 versions of 
 the game; Tails flying stages and hub worlds. The Tails stages are not an altogether common occurance 
 in the game, and focus on pressing the correct buttons in order to take out enemies flying at you. 
 It requires the player to focus, and thus can either be challenging or not, depending on the player. 
 
  
  The hub worlds are smaller than the hub worlds in Sonic 06 while still remaining of a decent size 
 for exploring, which is rather pleasant as I felt Sonic 06's hub worlds were far too big in size. 
 Hub worlds do admittedly detract the player from getting to the next stage straight away, but it 
 does succeed in trying to extend the game and make it last longer than what it otherwise would. 
 There are a few framerate issues, but I don't get them enough to consider them a major problem.
 
  
  The graphics are absolutely gorgeous for a Sonic game; the Hedgehog Engine is absolutely brilliant 
 in that respect. I feel the graphics look much better than Sonic 06, and I much prefer the cartoony 
 look compared to the realistic look 06 had. The levels look really good, even if they did not have 
 the most fantastic of gameplay designs.
  
  As for everything else, I will confirm that the music in this game is pretty good, and can be quite 
 catchy on certain stages, and seem to fit the theme of each stage. The voice-acting, however, is 
 not perfect, but I will admit to it being far better than the voice-acting in previous Sonic games. 
 Jason Griffith now seems to be putting emotion into Sonic's voice and it works, despite not being 
 perfect, so I'd say Sonic's voice isn't as bad as what it was previously. The new character Chip, 
 however, has a very odd and annoying voice that just doesn't seem to fit him that good. For those 
 that don't like the English voice-actors though, you can switch to the Japanese voice acting.
 
  
  In conclusion, is this game worth getting? For the most part, yes. The werehog stages are nowhere 
 near as good as the day-time stages and that seems to prevent the game from being as good as what 
 it could have been. Despite that, it's still a fun game to play and is FAR, FAR better than Sonic 
 06. Even the werehog on it's own is better than Sonic 06 and that's saying something. I'd recommend 
 renting this one at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HsinadRamo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Great speed, great graphics, and the fact that it does not lag when you are running at top speed 
 makes this one of the best Sonic games ever. Some people might say the Werehog levels are really 
 boring... in my opiniaon, its actually quite fun. There many combos that look cool and there are also 
 the quick-time events that happen when there is a exclamation mark on top of the monsters. I actually 
 found out some easy tactics on how to really defeat the enemies faster in the night time levels. Some 
 are eggmans stupid robots which are a pain in the butt at times because they can still kill you 
 if you keep on pressing the x button all the time but it is easier with the y button because it 
 will knock them back. Okay on to the day time levels. Sonic is able to run at top speed that makes 
 simply love this game and the stunning graphics can leave you looking at the surroundings and not 
 pay attention to where you are going. Each day time level takes about....3-5 minutes but you can 
 always replay the stage and try and finish the level faster. Sega has truly improved the Sonic games 
 and they should continue making more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grungeman91
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Story - 5.0 - Some cool scenes don't change the fact that we have a new annoying sidekick, Tails 
 voice is still horrible and Eggman is just as annoying, Sonic saves the game from being complete 
 trash.
  
  Graphics - 9.0 - Next gen Sonic games has always had good graphics no matter how crappy the gameplay 
 was, That still don't change here.
  
  Gameplay - 7.0 - The Sonic speed was done right this time around but it's still hit or miss, Also 
 werehog is slow and annoying and the collecting was boring.
  
  Enjoyment - 7.5 - Sonic being back without a crappy outcome is just amazing, Having the speed levels 
 and some cool scenes also werehog not being a terrible idea as I thought it was going to be really 
 helps this game.
  
  Score - 7.0 - Now lets hope they keep the next game with the same formula and add a better story 
 and no annoying characters.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shackle_dackle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  We have heard GS complain about not going back into basics of sonic games. But when they finally 
 attempt it, SAME RESULT.... no worse than the last horrible game. I think GS has to get things straight 
 with their minds. There is no way that this game is worth 3.5. After that last sonic game (happens 
 to be first unfortunately) I hated sonic and just wanted to pick this one up for my son which i 
 reluctantly did. Guess what it was the most fun i've had in years.
  
  This game has sonic running through at high speeds that literally leave a blur. Sure its hard to 
 control him but honestly HES RUNNING AT THAT SPEED. The level design is very clever with every 
 placement of loops and trick rings to jump through. There are a ton of branching paths. It is far 
 from bland and unimpressive. (seriously i like to see others such as yourself try creating these 
 levels.)
  
  The werehog was repetitive sure, but compared to other games of the beat em up and plaforming genre, 
 its at least average compared to those. The platforming is sketchy sometimes but works most of 
 the time. 
  
  Music improved for sure, Graphics stunning compared to other games, voices are okay since they 
 fit each character.
  
  Overall, as a whole this game deserves better. it doesnt matter if werehog levels break up the 
 pace. Sometimes its necessary. Remember, we review games as a whole and not because its less than 
 its predecessors.
  
  Gamespot staff.... just because you guys dont like something personally, doesnt mean the whole world 
 must to follow you. You guys truly deserve the abysmal score. 1.0/10 for horribly reviewing a game. 
 I just want to know if the next sonic game that features only sonic and his speed without the gimmicks..... 
 will you still give it the same or lower score? I would like to see that answer.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: Give this game a rent at the very least and you will NOT regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Another Sonic game, and big surprise all the haters come out in force. If you are a Sonic fan, 
 or enjoy platformers in general, this game is definitely worth a shot. Unleashed is easily the 
 best Sonic game since the Adventure series on Dreamcast. It has taken several years, but Sonic 
 Team seems to be finally taking steps in the right direction.
  Eggman is back up to the usual no good schemes, follow Sonic and pals on the journey to restore 
 the planet back to its original form and stop Dark Gaia.
  
  Gameplay 8- Speed, speed, and more speed make up the daytime levels. Sonic is very fast and back 
 to the good levels where it is all about how fast you can finish. Along the way there are medallions 
 to find, secrets to collect and good-timed button presses to execute. Keep in mind that at the 
 insane rate the screen scrolls certain maneuvers can be difficult to time, and this can lead to 
 a lot of cheap deaths, especially on levels later in the game. 
  The camera doesnt help sometimes either by the way it goes to a fixed point or flips around to 
 another position that you cant move it from during an obstacle you are trying to get past. Aside 
 from these complaints the daytime stages are well done and are a blast to play once you get down 
 how to do everything.
  Nighttime is a whole other game: sonic becomes a werehog at night, and instead of blinding speed, 
 these levels are combat heavy. With simple puzzles inserted here and there. At first I was skeptical 
 about the werehog idea, but the more you play the night stages, the more fun it becomes as you 
 unlock more combos and get stronger. If you find yourself unable to get past something you need 
 to grab, make sure to hold B down, instead of tap it, that is a surefire way to not miss something 
 you have to grab in midair if you are in range.
  
  Graphics 9- The Hedgehog Engine is quite amazing. Considering how many things you fly past there 
 is virtually no framerate problems during the daytime. Night levels can have a little slow-down 
 during large combat sequences, but its not severe.
  
  Sound 7- The music tracks are okay, however nothing spectacular. They fit the general theme of 
 each area of the planet accordingly. The voice overs for Sonic and during the cutscenes are decent. 
 Some classic Sonic sfx are intact: such as getting a ring, hitting a springboard, etc.
  
  Replay Value 8
  
  Fun Factor 8- Once you work out how the game works; what to do during the 
 day, and what to do at night, Unleashed is great fun to play if you like this kind of game. However 
 it is rather difficult, and some stages will have you taking multiple attempts until you clear 
 them. It's nice to finally have a good Sonic game again, yes this isnt the glory of the Genesis 
 days, but it looks like the series is finally starting to turn around for the better. Those that 
 give this game a lower score than Sonic '06 are fools. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahmid_milad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  the game unbelievably fun to play it takes a minute or two to master 
  but ultimately you'll start pushing sonic to top speed through loops and even over water
  soundtracks 
 are good not great but good and the graphics are so good that you'll spend lots of looking at the 
 scenery when you should looking where are you going the since of speed is back and camera isn't 
 and issue any more, it actually switch to 2D to give you the old since of speed and to make easier 
 to steer 
  however i don't like the werehog stages becuse its just awkward watching sonic hitting with his 
 fist and claws even worse they are slow and boring bad AI and long but once you play at daylight 
 you get to play a real sonic game 
  but there is few things that i dont like in the game that you have wonder around and ask people 
 about where to find the next stage and that is frustrating and pointless but still the game is 
 still amazing that once you finish it you want to play again and again (specially the first stage) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeandsnoop2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  now let's get started sonic unleashed is a hell of alot better than next gen I don't know why game 
 spot gave it a 3.5/10 well your just wrong! now let me say the possitives good camera at times 
 good control if you get used to them and know the controls and their's a training stage where you 
 can train and when you get used to the controls Its a pretty fun gameplay in the day time stages 
 as for the night time stages its not as fast as day time stages but sonic makes up for it with 
 his new attacks its like a platform game and a combo fighting moves hash and slash freeroaming 
 gameplay its great well not all sonic game have to be about speed alot they could atleast made 
 a chalange to the gameplay like the sonic adventure games some of the chareters gameplay are not 
 fast pace yet still fun yet challenging in a good and a bad way to some sonic fan sure some people 
 complaining about its hard to find the sun a moon coins to get to the next level but thats the 
 challage of the game or have some sense to look at the instrctions booklet and there it says about 
 the sun and moon coins to get to the next level the critics says they don't tell you about the 
 sun and moon coins till later on in the game theirs still nothing wrong with the game game spots 
 I'll never forgive you for giving this game a 3.5 /10 this game deservers a 8.5/10 like what are 
 you trying to do let the poor sonic fan give up hope on sonic and then give a great sonic game 
 a 3.5/10 that is so wrong like sonic unleashed for the 360 is worth the $54.95 bucks for every 
 sonic fan world wide and now your going to make'em think this game is bad no its not its no way 
 near as bad as next gen way better then next gen. so sonic fans world wide don't listen to nobody 
 or critics or reviewers that lies saying that the game sucks get this game for the 360!!! trust 
 me this game is awasome their are a few gliches in the game but not as much as next gen is like 
 sonic and the secrate rings good the controls are alittle loose like sonic heroes a bit the werehog 
 is good with its great gameplay and also you can increase sonic the werehog's mov and his attacks 
 and life meter and combo attacks with exp points and day time sonic you can gain his speed and 
 his ring energy so its still an awasome game well that's all I have to say about sonic unleashed 
 for the xbox 360 please get this game oh and gamespot and ign play more than the first stage and 
 don't just assume the game sucks review the game more though get use to the controls know how to 
 use them train at it and then the game will be fun to play you bastrards!!!!!!!!! good bye and 
 get the 360 version of sonic unleashed see ya!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soniczback
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Sonic is a series where if there is 1 bad game, EVERY "Professional" reviewer bashes every game 
 after it. But i can see a great game from a mile away, and this is it.
  
  Story: The story is pretty much basic blah blah with a few twists. Eggman has a space fleet, Sonic 
 comes to stop him, Eggman actually catches sonic for once, but sonic goes super, destroys the rest 
 of the fleet, and chases eggman. But Eggman actually wins, sorta. After some events i won't spoil, 
 Sonic becomes werehog, falls to Earth onto Chip, and the story goes on from there. The entire story 
 is more than expected but not needlessly complicated. 8/10
  
  
  Graphics: This is where this game truly shine. If you thought the CGI of 06 was good, the in-game 
 graphics will make you faint. The lighting is perfect, the art style perfectly cartoony, and everything 
 else in this game looks very well done. 10/10
  
  Sonic Gameplay: The better half of this game. With a couple of rings and the x-button, sonic goes 
 300 mph, the fastest he has ever in a game. But he also has other abilities, like the quick step 
 to move sideways without going slow, lightspeed dash *insert SA1/2 fanboys cheering*, and many 
 others. And this with the speed is what makes it fun.9/10
  
  Werehog Gameplay: Not as good as Sonic, but it is still FUN! Here's the layout, run around, beat 
 up enemies, platforming, repeat a few times, then goal ring and or boss. It is a good formula, 
 but not perfectly done. The enemies and stuff can get a little TO repetitive. You can practically 
 tell when you fight and other stuff. So the gimmick of this game is not a bad one, just not perfect. 
 7.5/10
  
  Sound: The voice acting of this game is great, except for Chip. FYI, chip's voice is not Silver's, 
 but it still takes some time to get used to. Classic rings sound are back along with the spring 
 tone, and the other effects are well done.
  But some just fall short like the drift sound.
  8.5/10
  
  
  
  Rent or buy: If you like sonic and a 360, buy. Never played a sonic game, 
 rent if you're interested.
  
  Overall: A really fun and clearly underrated game where the others must have been bribed for the 
 scores they gave it. 9.5/10 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasxalis1987
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Crash who's getting worst by every game, Banjo Kazooie that left ALL of its funs DISSAPOINTED, 
 got higher critics/reviews. And Sonic got only 3.5 . Why. I shall tell you why!!! Because he is not 
 mounting slimes and because he is not creating vehicles!!! Guess that's the new trend nowdays huh? Pf.
 
  Sonic is back and he is really cool on his new adventure. Sega kept the basic concept of the title, 
 which is speed, and they added a new mode, which is the hack and slash (pretty cool i must say) 
 using Sonic as a Werehog. What i am trying to say. They kept the basic concept, and they JUST ADD 
 something different. They DIDNT CHANGE the whole concept of the game!!!!
  And as for the camera bad critics... it is not the game's fault if you are NOOBS.
  The sounds 
 and the visuals are quite cool and the controls are easy to handle.
  Sonic and Mario are the only games left that they kept their basic concept/idea, so you kiddos 
 who like mounting... things.... and creating vehicles go play with your Legos and get a pet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halberdierv2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  3.5... really GS, that's the best you think of this game? if you gave the game a 6.0 or 6.5, something 
 more along the lines of what it really deserves, then I would have no qualm. but really, a game 
 with some of the best speed levels we've seen in ages cannot be given a lower grade than sonic 
 2006 (which was a monstrosity of a failure) . even the so-called "FailHog Stages" aren't as bad 
 as you people put it.
  
  another thing I noticed gamespot conveniently leave out was no mention of the music, which for 
 once has a great variety in its selection, and a good change from that rock'n'roll stuff we always 
 hear from Sonic Adventure onwards.
  
  the voice actors are the usual, but even the werehog voicing sounds pretty decent.
  
  story, 
 well, your typical wacky sonic story; robotnik traps sonic, blows up the planet and awakens a dark 
 force inside it, and Sonic changes into a werewolf as a sideeffect, and he has to fix the planet, 
 stop robotnik, and fix himself.
  
  controls & camera, well, i cant speak for that, so ill leave that alone.
  
  all in all, if 
 they had more sonic fanboys on this site, i could smell another "Kane and Lynch" in the rafters 
 except in reverse. regardless, Gamespot, redo that review, or you really are as biased as everyone 
 else says.
  
  final score 6.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerc619
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  One question I got to ask......... why gamespot..... why hurt this game? I'd love to know, because, 
 let's face it, this is the best sonic game since the genisis and we all know it. It's definitely 
 better than the last game, that's for sure. The graphics on this game is almost real, and that 
 at least gives them a good score for that. I'll admit, there are some flaws to the game, like repeating 
 battles for the Werehog stages, but that's about it. 
  
  Now for the good. The daytime stages on the game are pure amazing. I love how they upgraded some 
 new stuff for the speed, and that's pretty much what everyone was hoping for a long time, just 
 plain speed. The Werehog stages are pretty good too, except it can be frustating at some times 
 when you can't beat some of the baddies. All I got left to say for this game is, you have to play 
 this game if you are a big sonic fan. And to gamespot, you really need to check that review again, 
 cause that is just too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gappy102
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  I would not disagree with gamespot's review of Sonic Unleashed. 3.5? Yea. That's a little harsh. 
 I would give it at least a 4. Maybe a 4.5. But the game's only shining moments are the opening 
 scene and a few cool visuals as you are zipping through some of the neat locales. There is a really 
 good sense of speed as you are blazing through the cities, rainforests, arctic deserts, and various 
 other locations, but that can not make up for the incredibly slow gameplay the other 93% of the 
 time - and no, it does not make for a good balance. 
  Simply put, Sonic is about speed. That's what he does. When a game about Sonic moves slower than 
 molasses on a cold day, something is terribly wrong. Especially when the gameplay is completely 
 bland and pales in comparison to similar platforming games. 
  Save yourself some time, frustration, and $$'s and play something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRedTree
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  When it comes to a Sonic title, two things are necessary for it to be a success. The first is unrelenting 
 speed. The second being great platforming. Despite sites like GameSpot and IGN bashing this game 
 to death, Sonic Unleashed is one of the funnest Sonic games you will ever play. I have found little 
 problems with this game, which I have beaten already. There are a few framerate drops but nothing 
 that is going to cause your imminent doom.
  
  The day levels are insanely fast that depend on the gamer actually paying attention to what is 
 going on. I found myself in awe at the speed of Sonic as blasted through the day levels. Yes, they 
 (day levels) go by fast, but was that not how things were back in the days of Genesis? People seem 
 to turned off by "how fast" the day levels last in Unleashed, yet whine about Sonic going back 
 to his "good ol' days". Make up your mind! My point is, the day levels bring Sonic back on the 
 path to what made him great. 
  
  The second half of the equation of a Sonic title is platforming, of course. The Werehog is not 
 as bad as the critics claim. Yes, the battling gets tedious at times (think Streets of Rage) , but 
 I personally enjoyed it. The button responses in this section were great for me as I had no problems 
 jumping from poles, or platforms, or rods or grabbing on to the aforementioned objects. The platforming 
 in Unleashed was some of the most intense sequence of events I've faced in any Sonic game (or any 
 other platformer for that matter) . 
  
  The camera angles are not a big problem as 90% of the time you can rotate the camera to help you 
 out. Unleashed camera control is infinitely better than the control in Sonic '06. Framerates drop 
 a little bit, but like I stated before, it does not cause any harm to you during gameplay. 
  
  The side missions in this game are aplenty and can be a little annoying, but they don't last 
 long. 
  
  Yes, you do have to collect sun and moon medals to unlock levels but that is not as big of a hassle 
 as you may think. 
  
  Hub worlds are easy to navigate and finding the corresponding levels is no big issue. I fail to 
 understand how "reviewers" have problems. 
  
  This is what I have to say in terms of getting this game: If you are cautious, rent it. If you 
 know you'll love the game, you will most likely love the game and just buy it. It is worth the 
 $49.99 you will dish out for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mi2k3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed has great control but bad balance between stages. Controling regular and Wolverine 
 Sonic feels right. But the game can get real hard, but it's not a real flaw. Once you get to the 
 balancing it's really bad. For every daytime stage Sonic has, there are three more stages for Wolverine 
 Sonic, which I didn't in particularly liked because the platforming is really fun. The graphics 
 in this game are really nice for all of the characters. You'll see some returning from the cast 
 such as Amy, Tails, Sonic (obviously) , and a lot more. Now, you have a new purple imp like creature 
 by your side who likes chocolate a little too much. That can get annoying because whenever he sees 
 someone, he asks them, "Do you like chocolate?" Also, if you've played Nights: Journey of Dreams 
 for the Wii, the slow pacing and sleepy music made you want to fall asleep? Yeah, you would expect 
 more of that in this game. So if you don't like slow pacing, stay away from this entirely. Overall 
 this game was a mixture of brilliance and frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Freak87
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  Do no listen to the gamespot review of this game.
  I'm a huge sonic fan, but also an educated gamer and this game deserves a much higher score than 
 a 3.5. i've played much worse sonic games and this by far isn't one of them.
  The level design in my opinion is quite good, and day time levels are a blast to play.
  Things 
 do slow down when you play as the werehog but it's not too bad, it's pretty fun and you do get 
 to beat the crap outta things so it's ok. kinda sets a nice pace what with the day time levels 
 being super fast and the night time levels being slower.
  This is one of the best sonic games to come out for a console in a long time, basicly ever since 
 sonic adventure 2 battle despite that being a re-release. Point is, this game is pretty good, and 
 is very fun. I'm not saying it's perfect because yes the werehog can be a bit frustrating, and 
 i really hate having to collect the sunshine and moon medals but eh, nearly every game like this 
 has some sort of collecting mechanic i suppose. But, going back to the main subject.
  This game does not deserve a 3.5, notice how it's gotten much higher scores from other reviewers 
 and user reviews. So, please for the sake of missing out on a pretty fun game. don't listen to 
 the gamespot review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wookie560
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:44 am PT
Review:  Gamespot make this game look like the worst in the series when it is by far not. I'll make this 
 quick and simple:
  
  The Good:
  Great sense of speed. Excellent Cutscenes. Awesome additions to controls, like Boost and drift. 
 Werehog combat is simple but great. No Clipping issues.
  
  The Bad:
  Some platforming areas of the werehog are annoying. Pointless character interaction. Loads of Trial 
 and Error.
  
  Overall, if your a sonic fan, I can guarantee you will not be disappointed with this addition with 
 this highly addictive platformer, with the fast paced adventure, as for the Werehog section, can 
 slow the pace down, but combat is entertaining enough. For some of the levels, you will find yourself 
 playing through them time and time again for the perfect run. And as for Gamespot, if you rate 
 this lower than the 2006 version, then you obviously shouldn't review games at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GotuXTP
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  First of all sorry... but if your saying this game is WORSE than sonic 06 then you lost all my respect. 
 I think all gamespot cares about is taking down sonic a bunch of notches. Game review sites make 
 me sick sometimes. IGN 4.5 on the xbox 360 version but 7.2 on wii version.. hmm.?? and now 3.5 on 
 gamespot now really? Ive played this game and i am quite pleased about it. Sure they didnt get 
 everything done right and no werehog isnt the best but ... if your a sonic fan then you've put up 
 with A LOT WORSE (Big the cat fishing... amy's slow adventure pace in Sonic adventure.... Tedius 
 shooting and hunting levels in sonic adventure 2) but like seriously sonic deserves a MUCH better 
 score than this. I think this was a solid effort to revive the franchise. After hearing the non 
 success of the werehog sega will know... and bring back more of the hedgehog formula (now hopefully 
 they spice up the adventure formula   
  
  
  In conclusion sonic unleashed is a valiant attempt to revive the blue blurr and i hope they bring 
 back more of the fast paced action in the upcoming games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guerudos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I must say, that I am outraged at GameSpot for giving this game such a low score. I am by no means 
 one of those Sonic fanboys who think ever sonic game is a gift to us just because its Sonic, but 
 when I played this game, I had loads of fun. Do not believe what gamespot says, this game is FAR 
 bettet than just a 3.5.
  
  When its daytime, the gameplay is just fun. I have no idea what gamespot is talking about. The 
 controls are VERY responsive and the new ring energy realy makes the game alot more fun. The drift 
 is an excellent move, along with the sidestep, and they make running at 300km/h very fun. The level 
 design is also excellent, and you switch through 3d and 2d thourhout the level. The levels have 
 lots of variety, one moment you'll be dodging on rails and the next your running up walls or on 
 water, it is very, very fun. The new quick-time events are also welcoming, and are by no means 
 a hazard or death trap. The Boss fights are a blast and the difficulty is just right. Sega should 
 have made the whole game this way.
  When the sun goes down, you are turned into a werehog. I've heard alot of review bashing this and 
 saying its slow, boring, monotonous, and totally a drag. I expected it too, but I must say, it 
 is not. It still isn't NEAR as fun as the daytime levels, but its still pretty decent. The platforming 
 is like anything you would see is a game like Banjo Kazooie and Super Mario, and are challenging 
 at times, keeping you on your toes. The combat however, is the best part of nighttime. If you like 
 Ratchet and Clank or Donkey Kong 64, you will LOVE the combat. The enemies are sometimes challenging 
 and always keep you alert. You also have access to different combo's which keep the combat fresh 
 and entertaining. I must agree with gamespot on the checkpoints though, they are pretty bad. SOme 
 of them are set just before a huge brawl, so you'll reach it, brawl alot of baddies, then go on 
 to platforming, fall in the water, then have to brawl everybody again.
  
  Sonic unleashed may not be the game everybody was hoping for, but it is by far worth a rent. Do 
 not listen to gamespot on this, it is very fun, and deserves much more credit than it has gotten. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Procheater
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  GameSpot doesn't know what they're talking about. Here, you want a proper review? I'll give you 
 the fairest damn review you'll ever see! It'll include PROS as well as CONS (let's face it, these 
 guys don't give Sonic any PROS, ever) .
  
  Sonic Unleashed: TOTAL Grade: B (7/10)
  
  Gameplay (it seems like a good place to start) :
  PROS:
  Contrary to the "official" reviews, 
 the control scheme is splendid when compared to the previous games. When the camera is facing you 
 from the side, you move in two directions; forwards and back. Being a game built for speed, you 
 won't have time to turn anyway.
  In Werehog form, it's exactly what you'd expect from a Hack 'n' Slash game. Attacks, special attacks, 
 reaction commands, temporary boosts of power. The puzzles are simple (and I mean "take this rock 
 and put it on the pedestal" simple) and aren't random or confusing. The combat system DOESN'T function 
 efficiently on buttonmashing, so you'll need to take care of your combos, like always.
  
  CONS:
  I seriously, seriously, can't find any. Don't call it bias, but nothing shows up here. 
 I think my mouth is stuck on 'smile'.
  
  Camera (another harassed topic with 3D Sonic) :
  PROS:
  It switches SEAMLESSLY between chase camera and side view. Following the trope of Genesis 
 that going to the right = going to the goal, Sonic will constantly move right unless he's pinballing 
 between springs and bumpers. That means that when the camera pivots, you make a casual adjustment 
 (along the lines up changing UP to RIGHT) without spinning to your doom while STILL maintaining 
 your speed.
  When you're travelling fast, the camera won't let you pivot, but it pans instead (let's face it, 
 when you're going Mach Speed, you're not going to look anywhere other than straight ahead of you.) . 
 This helps you to not slam headlong into a wall or plummet from a cliff.
  
  CONS:
  In Werehog form, the camera will adjust itself to tell you your next point of interest. It does 
 become awkward. An old problem we are all familiar with. Compensate accordingly, you should have 
 practice by now.
  
  Controls (ANOTHER hrrassed topic) :
  PROS:
  The controls are easy. Following the Genesis days that travelling right all the time will normally 
 get you to the Goal Flag, just HOLDING RIGHT is enough to get you a decent way. In stages where 
 the camera pans at Sonic from the side, holding UP or RIGHT will keep him going. Unless he's bouncing 
 between stuff, he will always travel right. The camera moves dynamically, and THIS TIME, making 
 a slight adjustment to your stick control will NOT kill the Hedgehog, but it will keep him smooth 
 and true.
  When you accelerate above a certain point, it becomes less of "hold the stick this way to move" 
 and more of a "maintain speed and steer" aspect. The controls are FAR from unresponsive, and I'm 
 shocked each and every time I see myself bunnyhopping between platforms with near perfect dexterity 
 over a chasm, because I have the previous games in mind. You tell Sonic to jump, he will jump. 
 You tell him to jump over THERE, and by the gods will he jump over there, and land safely. The 
 momentum he maintains when he lands is appropriate and easy to manage.
  The Tornado sequences give you a break. Tails will control the plane and Sonic handles the gunnery. 
 No aiming necessary, just push the button that pops up over each enemy. Not mindblowingly entertaining, 
 but you've just spent the last 20 minutes blasting ahead and creating sonic booms, I'd welcome 
 this opportunity.
  
  CONS:
  Sonic accelerates too fast, duh. Naught to sixty is nothing, but when you want to take it slow, 
 moving on two feet is a bad idea. In some of the Ring Collection missions, it's best to crawl because 
 you go a decent speed and you can steer perfectly.
  
  Design:
  The game is puerile. Many cartoonish aspects are drawn in, including, but not limited to: Breaking 
 the Fourth Wall; the Wile E. Coyote Syndrome (involving the influence of gravity) ; and slapstick.
 
  The characters do not look realistic. Some have big heads, some have big noses, some have big 
 eyebrows, some are fatter than life. While I do refer to townsfolk, the same goes for Doctor Eggman 
 (they gave up making him look realistic, and went back to his Sonic Adventure design, awesome) .
 
  If I could work out what species Chip is at this point (he is a Mobian animal of some kind, I'm 
 sure) , I wouldn't find any CONS at all. Except that it's corny, but then again, if you're a serious 
 person, you're not going to fully enjoy this.
  
  Music and Sound:
  PROS:
  Hell, the music is appropriate. It has a fast beat, it's not dischordant, and it's attractive. 
 When you use your Ring Boost, it mutes out, sort of. It sounds like it's playing in an oil drum, 
 which is a cool effect.
  
  CONS:
  It's short and so loops, 'nuff said.
  
  Story Concept:
  PROS:
  Sonic: "A planetsized jigsaw puzzle? Sounds like a great excuse to see 
 the world!"
  Seriously, a fragmented planet is a tried and tested plotline, and it works. It's interesting to 
 see Super Sonic AT THE BEGINNING of the game, so you can imagine a game taking place immediately 
 before this one. The werehog? We'll chalk that up to the Emeralds corrupting Sonic, along with 
 possible lunar energy that Eggman's cannon collects alongside the Emeralds' powers (compare 'Wallace 
 and Gromit: Curse of the WereRabbit') .
  
  CONS:
  Doesn't love and kindness usually restore the Emeralds? If everyone walked up to Sonic and hugged 
 him, he'd be Super in no time at all!
  
  Graphics:
  PROS
  Not realistic. It's good, because you can see every individual strand of Werehog fur. Things shine 
 appropriately (Super Sonic, appropriately, no longer does. That was Sonic Adventure 2) .
  _______________________
  There you go, an unbiased review, displaying good and bad points. Get 
 the game if you like Sonic. Rent it before you buy it. And always pay attention to PLAYER reviews, 
 like this one and others in this column. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkey2o
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  There's only one word I can use to describe Sonic Unleashed (X360) : disappointing. The day levels 
 are decent and the night levels are balls. Running super fast is great, but you usually need to 
 do a few run-throughs of the stage to figure out what to do. Even the night stages are very memorization-based. 
 The hub worlds could be done without as well. I do like how the game was made with Sonic, Werehog 
 or not, being the only playable character. However, the Werehog is like Amy and Big (SA1) , Teams 
 Dark, Rose, and Chaotix (Sonic Heroes) , guns and vehicles (Shadow) , and mach-speed sections, Silver, 
 and Amy (Sonic '06) ; completely unnecessary and/or aggravating. That's been the trend of all console 
 Sonic games from the Dreamcast and on. In my opinion, Sonic Adventure 2 was the best while Sonic 
 Heroes was second best.
  I've been a Sonic fan since Sonic 1 and 2 on the Genesis, and I've played practically every game 
 in the series other than the ones for the Game Gear and PSP, so I know what we fans want in the 
 next installment in the Sonic franchise: reasonably fast action, very little platforming, no gimmicks 
 (guns, vehicles, hoverboards, Havok physics engine, Werehog, swords) , no useless characters (stick 
 to Eggman, Tails, Amy, and Knuckles) , and no BS gameplay. I've come to the conclusion that either 
 Sonic Team is not meeting our standards or that Sonic is truly dead. The most I can hope for is 
 that he'll remain on any future Smash Bros. rosters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SearchBomber
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  WARNING: This review is based on the Xbox 360 version. The Wii/PS2 version is a totally different 
 game.
  
  The Sonic series has been given quite a bit of bad press as of late, due in large part to the cheesy 
 and halfbaked Shadow the Hedgehog and the horribly rushed and absolutely terrible Sonic 2006. Sonic 
 and the Secret Rings scored a semi-victory for the franchise, but the controls still drove many 
 away. Now, Sonic is back again in his newest console adventure, Sonic Unleashed. Is Unleashed the 
 success that many are desperately hoping for, or does it fail just as hard as Shadow and '06?
 
  
  The daytime levels, those that feature the blue blur as we've come to love (or hate) him, are definitely 
 the better part of the game. The sense of speed is amazing, thanks in large part to the speed boost 
 ability that made its debut in Sonic Rush. The game switches between 3D and 2D almost seamlessly, 
 further enhancing the experience. 
  
  The 3D portions play like a combination of Sonic Adventure 2 and Sonic and the Secret Rings. At 
 its fastest points, the game almost plays as if it were on-rails (like Secret Rings) , with the 
 new Quick Step move letting you move between "lanes" and helping you avoid spike strips and various 
 other obstacles. While there are plenty of fast moments in 2D as well, that's where more of the 
 hardcore platforming takes place at. 
  
  However, like most Sonic games, focusing on nothing except being fast will get you killed. A lot. 
 As a matter of fact, Unleashed's daytime stages are quite possibly the hardest stages in the entire 
 Sonic franchise. There are probably more pitfalls and speed traps in this game than Sonic Rush, 
 Rush Adventure and Secret Rings combined. It's rewarding to finally finish a stage after spending 
 so much time learning it and it's even more rewarding to be eventually be able to speed through 
 the stage flawlessly, but those who tend to spike their controller after dying two or three times 
 might want to stay away.
  
  The daytime stages are absolutely beautiful. Despite the levels being city-sized, the game (almost) 
 never misses a beat, further adding to the aforementioned sense of speed. There's an interesting 
 variety of stages for Sonic to tear through, from a peaceful village to an icy glacier.
  
  Not everything's perfect in the day, though. Sega's mapped all of Sonic's functions (not counting 
 the new sidestep move) onto the four face buttons, while they traditionally only used two buttons. 
 Sega had the right idea, as I recall divebombing to my doom while trying to Lightspeed Dash in 
 Adventure 2, but why in the hell would they map the Homing Attack to a separate button than Jump? 
 Lightspeed Dash gets its own dedicated button, which is pointless given how few times you actually 
 use it in this game. 
  
  This leads to perhaps the biggest flaw in the daytime stages: Air Boosting. After getting a certain 
 powerup, if Sonic jumps and isn't locked on to an enemy/object, he performs the speed boost, jetting 
 forward through the air. Extremely useful, but the Air Boost button is mapped to the same button 
 as the Homing Attack. The targeting system is extremely picky, often giving the player only a split 
 second to attack or dropping off at random. You can guess what happens from there...
  
  However, despite these flaws, the daytime stages are quite possibly the best 3D Sonic stages to 
 date.
  
  And then... there's the night stages, with Sonic the Werehog. No, the Werehog isn't the cancer that 
 kills the entire package like everyone's first instinct might tell them, but it sure doesn't do 
 anything to help the game, either. The Werehog stages play like the confused lovechild of a mindless 
 beat-em-up and a second-rate Mario/Sonic-knockoff platformer. The beat-em-up part isn't even the 
 true problem; it's repetitive at best and clumsy at worst, but the Werehog stages are actually 
 at their best when it's just you and dozens of the enemy. No, the real problem lies in the platforming. 
 
  
  The platforming in the Werehog stages can be absolutely insane. For every easy "jump from falling 
 platform to falling platform" segment, there's a "jump to some far away platform with no grabbable 
 ledges with so little room for error that it puts the Mega Man series to shame" segment, or sometimes 
 even a "walk across a tightrope under giant swinging hammers while carrying an object" segment. 
 
  
  As sadistic as that sounds, I would have absolutely no problem with those types of challenges if 
 the camera and controls didn't work against you. The evil camera, which has been a staple of every 
 3D platformer since their birth, is here with a vengeance. The camera switches between being fully 
 controllable and only giving a view of Sonic's left and right sides at random, but you don't really 
 have to bother; everytime you need to rotate the camera, it won't work. For the tightrope sections, 
 it's not uncommon for the camera to lock into a helpful position initially only to twist to some 
 angled view once you've made it halfway through. When grabbing onto a pole, Sonic has to be perfectly 
 still before he'll jump away, which leads to a great deal of frustration in the final levels when 
 everything that he grabs breaks away as time passes.
  
  Like the daytime stages, the targeting is annoying in the night, but it's much more apparent here 
 as you have to lock onto anything that you want to grab, even ledges. You can hold the grab button 
 while jumping and Sonic will automatically reach for the first thing that he locks onto, solving 
 the issue somewhat, but otherwise the timing is even more strict than the daytime missions.
  
  Just like Sonic, the game engine gets ugly once the sun goes down. The slowdown that's rarely 
 apparent in the day shows up everywhere when Sonic is the Werehog, including open fields and even 
 in cutscenes. The night levels lack the charm of their daytime brethren, and altogether feel very 
 dull.
  
  Overall, the Werehog stages are bearable when they don't ask you to do anything spectacular, but 
 get frustrating once the heavy platforming kicks in. It's not offensively bad, just mediocre.
 
  
  Both the night and the day missions are connected by several hub stages, much like Sonic Adventure 
 or Sonic '06. While I understand that many people love these, I feel that they're a giant waste 
 of time, and I began to envy the Wii version's menu-based system. 
  
  The music is varied and is overall great. Those that hate the franchise's rock music will be happy 
 to hear that there's only one cheesy song in the game, and it only plays during the credits. The 
 other audio is okay, I suppose; it would've been better if Sonic didn't open his mouth every two 
 seconds in the daytime stages...
  
  Sega found the formula for a good console Sonic game in Unleashed's daytime stages; but they felt 
 the need to artifically inflate the game's length with the night stages, and that's what keeps 
 Sonic Unleashed from being great. Those who loved the Adventure games should waste no time in buying 
 this; everyone else should rent and see if the Werehog and the game's tough difficulty is for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_Xarion_x
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this is my first review; I've never really felt the need to add my two 
 cents as most of the time, I feel the reviews done by the people at Gamespot are pretty accurate. 
 However, after reading through a myriad of reviews for this game, (all of which tear it to shreds) , 
 I felt this was very necessary.
  
  Now to the review; I have played many Sonic games in my day, I was around for the days of the Genesis, 
 and seen the good and the bad of Sonic. This game, I feel, finally goes back to what Sonic does 
 best, Speed.
  
  The speed sections of this game made my jaw drop, I cannot believe not only the speed, but the 
 sense of speed they were able to convey. The stages are well designed, and once you get a little 
 practice with them, it is easy to get up to and stay up to speed through the entire stage, which 
 is a ton of fun.
  
  This game also takes Sonic in a new direction and introduces the Warehog into the picture. Now 
 this part of the game really has a lot of people talking, (mostly bad) ; but to be honest, I really 
 enjoy this part of the game. I think it adds a little more depth to the game and allows a bit of 
 a break from the speed sections. It's nice to have the option to jump back and fourth between the 
 two.
  
  The story is cute but simple, Eggman has broken the world up and it's up to Sonic to put it back 
 together. Throughout the story you'll run into some old friends (and of course make a few new ones, 
 Chip is a pretty likeable sidekick) .
  
  Overall, I think the Sonic team has done a fantastic job with this game, and minor issues aside, 
 (I found some minor issues with the camera on the Warehog stages, but not to the point that the 
 reviewers have blown out of the water) . I think the controls on both sections are solid, the soundtrack 
 is a delight and the graphics are beautiful. Here are my thoughts on each:
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9.0/10
  Controls: 9.0/10
  Gameplay: 9.0/10
  Overall: 9.0/10
 
  
  Bottom line, this game does not deserve the harsh reviews it has been receiving. I'm not sure if 
 reviewers see Sonic in the title and form their opinions from that without even playing it, but 
 this game really does do a good job in picking the franchise up from many of the beatings it has 
 taken over the years. Thank you Sega for finally giving Sonic a chance to shine again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madprof666
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok im 28 yrs old and have 24 yrs gaming behind me. Ive never been a sonic fanboy, it was always 
 mario for me, but ill tell you what, i REALLY like this game! The traditional sonic levels are 
 blisteringly fast and unlike other games in the series, the camera holds up well, the levels are 
 colourful and entertaining and can be exhilarating when in full force. The new addition is the 
 nightime levels where sonic turns into were-sonic! these levels remind me of a cross between Kameo 
 and mario64/sunshine. 3D platforming sections with a copious amount of melee scrapping! again the 
 camera works fine for me and i think overall the game is far better than the last Wii version of 
 sonic (secret rings?) which had flaws, but was a guilty pleasure of mine. To top it off theres 
 the free roaming hub sections with a few little secrets to find, prolonging the overall experience 
 for those who like to find 100%
  
  overall im totally happy and surprised by my purchase and im seriously struggling with gamespots 
 review. i can fully appreciate that everyone has their own opinion, but its been a long while since 
 i disagreed so strongly, hence why i have written this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixbadboy001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 5:09 am PT
Review:  I've been a gamer for over 20 years and have been visiting your web site for about a decade, and 
 never in my life have I seen a more horrendous, and not to mentioned biased review of a video game 
 as I saw with yesterday's Sonic Unleashed game that was released by Sega for the Xbox 360. 
  
  I understand that you respect your reviewers' opinions and that once a review has being made 
 there is no way that it will be removed or the score changed. But when are you going to start respecting 
 your fans, and the rest of the gaming community? There is something terribly wrong with a review 
 when 80% of a game's fans have given the game an average review score of 8.0 which is a "Great" 
 based on your own review scale. 
  
  I have always respected your reviews, and have often agreed with many, but this one is a bit unfair. 
 Sonic Unleashed is a game that has been vastly improved over its original 2006 next gen release. 
 And so for this version to get a score that is lower than its predecessor makes it all seems suspect. 
 
  
  I'm not asking you to update or remove the review from your web site as that would not be my place. 
 I just want you to know how the majority of us feel about Sonic Unleashed. This game did not deserve 
 a 3.5, but the decision on what to do with this review is entirely in your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaction3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  a 3.5, a 3.5! Gamespot, what is wrong with you, there is NO WAY this game deserves a worse score 
 then Sonic Next Gen. Gamespot, you have now lost all credibility with me.
  
  This game doesn't suck, it's not perfect, but it doesn't suck and as a critic myself, I need to 
 explain people why they should ignore the Gamespot score here.
  
  STORY:
  It's not a perfect story, but then again no Sonic game has really had one. But there's been worse, 
 the story here is at least passible to entertain and give you a feeling of a few things. But for 
 the most part it's a pretty standard video game story so it's not the important thing here. The 
 idea of Sonic being a werehog is just akward, but does it ruin the game? Nope. I also want to note 
 that this is the second time ever that Super Sonic has been shown in the opening of a Sonic game 
 which we haven't seen since Sonic 3 & Knuckles.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Here's where we get to the important stuff. For one thing, the level design is bad, there are times 
 there are a few flaws, but they are manageable so it's not worth being a whiner about I think. 
 They get easier to over come as you play the level over again which is the point like in the old 
 days, level memorization so you can speed right through. And the controls are fine, the levels 
 are designed for them so they can work. You can't expect to be an expert in a game right away. 
 The Werehog stages, now these are not the best type of combat stages in the world I believe, but 
 play the Wii version then this and you will know how much better the beat em up gameplay is in 
 this game. I like it and I think it was more well refined in this version then the Wii version. 
 Also another thing, the hedgehog and werehog are more well balanced in this. Of course there is 
 a chance you will fall of a pit sometimes, but in this game, this time for the most part it's because 
 of your own trial and error, where as is Sonic Next Gen it was just error of the game. One thing 
 I got to ask to the fans is why hate the Tails shooting? It's a speed test game of focusing, something 
 the Sonic series is supposed to be about, it's not a bad thing. Games are supposed to be challenging 
 and hard, I hate the ones that are too easy and boring.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The Hedgehog Engine does well, showing lighting and stuff coming in at fast speeds, I hope to see 
 that in later games. But the lighting is a major important thing. There are times it can get in 
 the way visually, but it's a thing that is also adaptable once you get used to it. And best of 
 all, the characters are cartoony as they should be in comparison to the realistic look in Sonic 
 Next Gen which sickens me greatly. Sega is finally putting how Sonic should be on track it seems.
 
  
  MUSIC:
  FINALLY, Sonic has good music again, after Sonic Next Gen (which despite my passionate hate for, 
 I can admit it has awesome music) all Sonic games had bad music (save for Sonic Rush Adventure) 
 but Sega got that fixed and put the good music back into the series.
  
  VOCAL PERFORMANCES:
  I got good and bad points I need to make on this. Personally near all Sonic 
 games (since they gained voice acting) have had bad voice acting, with one cast picked purely by 
 Sega to the current one picked by both Sega and 4Kids. Here's the positives. I have to say that 
 the voice of Sonic, Jason Griffith actually did a pretty good job in this game. It's the first 
 time he sounded realistic where in past games the performances from him were fake sounding. While 
 I am not a fan of the vocal tone he has for the character (which I am not sure he can help or not, 
 but episode 1 of Sonic X shows MAYBE he can) his acting alone was great and he found a way to make 
 his own voice for the character work in it's own way most of the time in the cutscenes and I think 
 he was also pretty good as the werehog, though I also at those points, there was a decline in performance 
 abilities and just increase in tone abilities so it's a mixed bag, but none the less, Jason was 
 actually the best actor in the game I feel, so I applaud him for the first time ever in a Sonic 
 game. The other main voices were good too, Mike Pollock as Eggman, Lisa Ortiz as Amy, Amy Palant 
 as Tails, Dan Green as Prof. Pickle. All pretty enjoyable, but there was one english voice that 
 never should have been, the English voice of Chip. What were Sega and 4Kids thinking when they 
 hired the actor for the role? They should have hired Kerry Williams as she has an awesome voice 
 for those kinds of characters. If not Kerry then Lisa Ortiz with her Tony Tony Chopper voice from 
 the 4Kids version of One Piece, after all, Lisa voices in the game as Amy. All the extras in the 
 game sounded horrible so they are not worth mentioning. It bothers me actually, Sega has a wide 
 selection of actors who work at 4Kids Entertainment and instead they just seem to be cheap by using 
 the same actors over and over again. Though if English bothers you, you can always switch to the 
 Japanese voices though in a personal opinion, I think Eggman sounds better in English then he does 
 Japanese so with Japanese, that's my gripe there I guess.
  
  OVERALL:
  This game is not getting the praise it deserves, and Gamespot has shamed the Sonic community by 
 being bias about it as I see it, infact it's the most biasedly hateful review I have ever seen 
 from them. I was hoping for a decent or good review from them but instead we get this bias hateful 
 one on a game that doesn't deserve it. I've been known for being harsh on Sonic games I hated, 
 but I don't hate this one, I like it and I want others to like it as well. Give it a try, it may 
 surprise you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billysan
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This game came has a shock I turned it on only to find the most polished and complete Sonic product 
 since Sonic and Knuckles on the Sega Genesis.
  
  
  I was dreading the Werehog... why because I could only imagine how poorly it play because of Sonic 
 Team's last efforts with normal platforming and combat (What I'm i saying with all there recent 
 game efforts) . Strangely the Werehog is highly highly polished and features well designed platforming 
 levels yes the fighting is unnecessary for a platformer but it's well designed, deep and polished 
 combat system that never becomes a wall for you to hurdle over for the next good platforming segment. 
 Also even though the Werehog is slower than Sonic the levels seem to keep a steady pace with just 
 a few lasting 5 minutes to long.
  
  It does take a bit to adjust to a few of the control quirks for the werehog like holding B down 
 to grapple to ledges (don't tap B hold it down and let Werehog do the work) and double jumping 
 off poles but you quickly get into the rhythm and loose yourself to the platforming.
  
  The Sonic stages are what you came for and they are designed to be mastered you'll be coming back 
 to them just to see if you can make better time and preform prefect. Memorization is a big part 
 but with the generous amounts of extra lives and check points things never become to annoying. 
 Is memorization a bad thing... no not at all and next to games like Mega Man 9 this game is a cake 
 walk.
  
  The Sonic stages are such a blast though you'll be replaying them for a very long time. The only 
 issue I had with frustration is a extra stage which you have to boost across the water... though 
 the boost doesn't turn on after jumping some times... this is the only stage which you have to jump 
 while on water though so it's never a issue.
  
  The hub worlds are very streamlined and there is A LOT hidden in them and it's all optional beyond 
 walking to the level gate. While the game doesn't come right out and tell you, you have to talk 
 to Professor Pickle often (he opens new levels for you!) and you have to collect medals to open 
 stages. By the end of the game you'll find yourself 20 or so short for the last level but all it 
 means is replaying the first 4 easy werehog stages to collect them.
  
  Camera issues are almost null there a few awkward low angles in a few werehog stages and like nearly 
 all 3-D games it get's itself behind a tree or some other obstacle a few times though I only encountered 
 this during the combat sections. One other issue which may annoy you is the camera rotates when 
 reaching corners of tight rope sections it well throw you off... but after the first time you should 
 actually know to wait for it to change and it never becomes a issue again.
  
  Graphics are stunning nothing seems generic and everything seems rather colorful and creative. 
 The optional NPCs are never copy and pasted and have a very creative look to them which bring the 
 hub worlds to life. Slowdown rears it's head during some fighting sections has Werehog (blame the 
 fur) never enough to break the flow though. One Sonic level features some nasty slowdown in the 
 last 20 or so seconds of the stage. I'm surprised there isn't more slow down in the Sonic stages... the 
 frame rate is most solid during Sonic's speed stages.
  
  
  Music sounds rather nice, there are a few dull tracks and the werehog battle song plays to often 
 but over all it sounds good. Voice acting is the usual 4kids! style but is this really any worse 
 than Adventure 1 and 2... nope. In fact this game offers the least amount of lame dialog in a voice 
 acted Sonic game.
  
  
  Story... well do you really come to a platformer for story? Even so it's decent enough and the cut-scenes 
 are the most polished and well directed scenes ever seen in a Sonic game so far.
  
  
  The game isn't prefect but at it's core is a good game that is a must play for any platformer fan 
 and for Sonic fans this is frigging amazing. 
  
  
  Do yourself a favor and try this one out for yourselves before taking reviews seriously... be sure 
 to give it time though because the game only gets better with practice like most fine things in 
 life.
  
  Yep this game takes a degree of skill.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunarmeow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I only purchased the game today and my first thoughts were omg not another poor sonic title. And 
 i was seriously surprised from the opening sequence to the first level and the sonic levels are 
 awesome and the werehog section (which i was worried about) are entertaining. I just have one bad 
 point i wish SEGA would get back to the tried and tested Adventure series on the Dreamcast. Back 
 in 2006 when the first Sonic game turned up on the 360 i was excited but after playing it for like 
 10 minutes i was seriously disappointed I mean sections of a cutscene then loading start of a level 
 then loading. but with Unleashed Sega have outdone themselves great pacing, great graphics (even 
 in SDTV) and fantastic and fluid gameplay. and awesome flying section (which reminded me of the 
 flying levels on Sonic Adventure) . All i can say is the game is freaking awesome, dont judge a 
 hedgehog by his past, the game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:46 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me just say 3 things. Here we go, 1) This is the best 3D Sonic game so far. 2) 
 The Werehog stuff is not as bad as many people say. 3) I hate Chip. Okay, So I know Sonic fans 
 have been waiting for this game, and rightfully so, it seemed like a true classic. It's not, but 
 it's a pretty good game. It doesn't hold a candle to the old 2D games, but it IS hands down the 
 best 3D Sonic game yet. The game is split into two parts, the Hedgehog levels and the Werehog levels. 
 Wait, what? Oh right, Sonic gets turned into a Werehog at night. These levels have recieved much 
 criticism, they're nowhere near as fun as the Hedgehog levels. But they're not awful, and it's 
 even a bit fun at first. But I got to admit, near the end, they got very boring. They also have 
 a fair share of slowdown every now and then.
  
  The Hedgehog levels on the other hand, are all awesome. Okay, one exception, the jungle level. 
 But only because it had so much slowdown and severe framerate issues. The first ones are the best, 
 and if there were more of these and less Werehog levels, the score would undoubtedly be much higher. 
 However, I hated searching for Sun Medals even more. The boss fights are cool, yes, even some of 
 the Werehog ones. The last one proves to be quite a challenge in fact. Also, Amy's in it. I think 
 it's great.
  
  Sonic fans should definitely highly consider buying Sonic Unleashed. Others may want to look up 
 other games, as we all know, there are plenty of great titles to choose from this Holiday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Sonic hasn't had the greatest run since the transition to 3D, so finally it's good to see a Sonic 
 game that finally comes out great. Unleashed starts of with a great story. Eggman uses the chaos 
 emeralds power to split the planet into many pieces and releases a being known as Dark Gaia. Sonic 
 has to restore power to the emeralds and save the planet. To add to the chaos, is the fact that 
 strange energies have affected Sonic, and now whenever it is night Sonic transforms into a Werehog. 
 The Werehog is a surprising but welcome addition to the Sonic series. The controls are easy to 
 use, and the fights are fun to take part in. Unleashing Sonic's powerful attacks are great fun. 
 The normal Sonic levels stay true to what Sonic has always been about. Fast-paced racing through 
 the levels at top speed, switching between 3D and 2D view. Together the game comes togethern nicely 
 and turns out to be one of the best around, but it still suffers from a large amount of flaws. 
 The normal sections can sometimes be a little too fast paced, which isnt what you would expect 
 from a Sonic game. Your speed can get the better of you meaning you fly right off the entire arena 
 missing parts completely. The Werehog sections can sometimes get tedious, the jumping and climbing 
 puzzles can sometimes end up with you falling and dying. The platforming falls short in the Werehog 
 sections, but luckily they are evened out by the combat. Throughout games you will need to collect 
 Sun and Moon medals. The idea is good in theory, but it becomes tedious in the end, especially 
 when you need to find a certain amount of medals to unlock another section. Collecting medals can 
 be fun but it would most likely have been beter utilised to unlock other special features. In the 
 end Sonic Unleashed does suffer from some trivial and somewhat silly flaws, but still stands out 
 as one of the best Sonic games made to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emblem_2007
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Well to start this um i think that this is the best sonic game they made right now i love the sonic 
 stages its more better to run real fast to me and the songs for the game are great i love hearing 
 them my favorite stage is holoaska stages one because ice and two because peguins also the graphics 
 for the game is fantastic and the scenery too for the levels and also to see a new character chip 
 but to bad it looks like you never gonna see him in other sonic games but the where hog stages 
 are cool to but the more i played where hog stages the more it got harder just wish they put more 
 bosses i love fighting bosses also the hot dog stand missions are hard to but i never new wheres 
 knuckles shadow and any other sonic characters im thinking that the ps3 has shadow and the wii 
 knuckles but thats what i think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  Since 1998, the year Sega's last baby console dawned upon us all, and Sonic Adventure was unleashed, 
 hitting us all in the face with jaw-dropping CG cut scenes, Sega haven't been able to get it right, 
 unable to recreate the blistering and frustrating speed of the old 90's Sonic games. 
  After an attempt to reboot the dying franchise with 2006's 'Sonic The Hedgehog', the old speedy 
 veteran was truly on his last legs. Sega knew that one more screw up like that previous rubbish 
 of a game would cost them big, loosing their entire fan base (except for the freaks who actually 
 liked "next gen Sonic") .
  
  Sonic Unleashed is a welcome change to skin and bones. It features the blue hedgehog doing what 
 he does best, and that's run from start to finish of levels as quick as he possibly can. With the 
 help of a complex new game engine, dubbed the "Hedgehog Engine', Sega have truly re-captured the 
 blistering speed Sonic so sadly lost in the mid 90's.
  
  However, Sega seem unable to let the hedgehog loose on his own, and have thrown in a little spin 
 to the gameplay/story to make everyone wonder "why sega why". You see, Unleashed sees Sonic make 
 the transformation into werewolf, or rather, Werehog. This change is brought around when Dr. Robotnik 
 (I'm sorry, I can't refer to him as 'Eggman') uses the power of the chaos emeralds to shatter the 
 earth, and awaken an ancient evil known as Dark Gaia.
  
  The plot is weak, involving Sonic to re-power the emeralds, bringing the earth back together and 
 thus restoring order, but, Sonic has never really been about the story. In the 90's era, story 
 was never really there, even though Sega attempted to tell a grand tale, but the truth is, story 
 is never a reason we play Sonic, it's merely an excuse.
  
  As expected the Sonic levels play amazingly. The Sonic fan-boy that I am just has to say that Sonic 
 is back in these levels. The way he runs through levels at top speed, knocking everything out of 
 his way, how the background goes by in a blur, the whole experience is simply amazing. In typical 
 Sonic fashion, the levels get increasingly harder as you progress, almost to the point of frustration, 
 but hey, you expect that.
  When the sun sets, and the Werehog takes over, the game changes dramatically. You stumble your 
 way through platforming levels while beating the pulp out of anything that moves. Sega have attempted 
 to make a deep combat system here with the Werehog, but it just ain't moving past a two button 
 mash-fest. It is a weird concept, give Sonic all the speed and freedom he'd ever want, but then 
 strip him of everything that makes him good, and turn him into a brutish Mario who can't jump.
 
  
  Though I'm being to cynical. The Werehog levels aren't bad, there just long and in what feels like 
 a game that Sega is trying to re-deem themselves, it makes for an odd gameplay element. For the 
 matter of the game, its a concept that works well. There are just some serious problems with the 
 Werehog concept, some of which are levels that are too long, too slow, and repetitive combat. 
 
  
  The game is set up in a Sonic Adventure fashion, in that the world and its shattered pieces act 
 as a HUB, which then allows you to enter city levels where you can interact with the towns people 
 and perhaps help them out if need be. This all acts as way of extending gameplay, as well as break 
 up the levels, so your not simply jumping from one to the next. Personally I feel that this set 
 up in possibly the best Sega has designed, besting themselves on the Sonic Adventure framework.
 
  
  Sonic Unleashed is as one would say, great, but flawed. The Sonic levels are brilliant, and if 
 only for that, makes the game truly outstanding to play. The Werehog pulls the game back from greatness 
 and simply just makes it "good". Though if you have been a long time fan of the series, that this 
 will restore some of your faith in the little hedgehog, and if you've never played before, this 
 is possibly the best 3D game to start with. If you were scared away by 2006's train wreck, don't 
 fret, this game is a masterpiece compared to that.... thing.
  As I said, great, but flawed, Sonic Unleashed is a breath of fresh air, and a welcomed step in 
 the right direction 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed delivers a very promising and very impressive opening cut scene. Sadly, the rest 
 of the game is mostly a letdown. The daytime/nighttime Sonic transitions don't really work out 
 as well as they should.
  
  The "daytime" Sonic is really similar of all that has already been seen in the previous console 
 Sonic games, just not as horrible of gameplay. The "nighttime" Sonic levels are very, very cliche 
 and uninspired. They play out just like every other 3D platformer. This whole side of the game 
 doesn't even feel like a Sonic game. The fact that the daytime side of the game is so fast-paced 
 makes the nighttime side of the game feel very slow in comparison.
  
  The daytime levels aren't bad, but they are almost too fast to take in. When the screen switches 
 from behind you to a side view, it is a bit more pleasing to watch. If the whole game was a re-creation 
 of the classic Sonic game, in 2D platformer view that is, and had improved graphics with linear, 
 level-to-level gameplay, it probably would have been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tr3v3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  This game can certainly qualify for Sonic's Revival due to the high speed joy rides called "Daytime 
 Stages". These levels are brilliantly designed to switch from 3D to 2.5D and platforming has once 
 again become a part of a sonic game. The sole purpose to buying this title would be for the Sonic 
 stages anyway, because sonic team has made it clear, they nailed Sonic's gameplay.
  
  Theres two other gameplay styles I'd like to talk about...
  1) The Were-Hog
  2) Hub Worlds
 
  
  Alot of these professional reviewers are making the Werehog look like crap, and when you first 
 play the game, it may seem like crap. But the werehog gameplay gets better as you upgrade your 
 stats with EXP you gain during both gameplay style levels.
  
  The usual thing they complain about is how long the Werehog levels are, and people say up to 30 
 minutes, but its only that way because of the first time playing the level, you may get confused, 
 die a few times, take time to figure out a puzzle here and there.
  In reality, you can beat a Werehog stage in under 10 minutes.
  
  After going through the game 
 once, you can easily pick any Sonic Daytime stage from the world map, so basically, you can never 
 play as the Werehog again after the first playthrough as long as you choose to do so. Werehog actually 
 has some decent platforming elements and segments in this game. the Combat does get better, and 
 the only way it would get boring is either you hate that style of gameplay or you hit the Y button 
 over and over'
  
  Sonic Team has nailed down Sonics gameplay, but for the alternate gameplay styles, they still need 
 to work at it, but its not horrible, probably the best alternate gameplay style they could get.
 
  
  For the Hub worlds, well first of all, this game is stunning, the art direction is beautiful, The 
 people of hubworlds look cartoony and not out of place, and if you dis-agree with this, please 
 present the "pro sonic games are not ment to be cartoony" argument, because I would really like 
 to hear that discussion when the games about a blue hedgehog that talks and runs around stopping 
 a mad scientist. This game is ment for a young audience, so if you fear a sonic game being a little 
 silly sometimes, don't buy it.
  
  Anyways, Hub worlds are incorporated well, they never take too much time to go through as long 
 as you don't waste time, and if you do, its your fault. Upgrades like from Sonic Adventure 1 are 
 back for Sonic the Hedgehog that can be found in hub worlds. You get to the gaia gates.. (Entrances 
 to stages) from the hub worlds. Which here is my only complaint, collecting Sun and Moon medals, 
 at a certain point, you'll need 120 sun medals to beat the game, so if you see one, don't skip 
 it up. It is a annoyance but as long you effectively collect them, it shouldn't be a problem.
 
  
  The story itself is plain fun, never takes itself seriously, and You might hate Chip at the beginning 
 but he does grow on you. And he becomes a very enjoyable character. This game has tons of replay 
 value. This is due to...
  1) Sonics Daytime levels.. (Duh)
  2) Level Up/Upgrade System (You'll find it rewarding to lvl up to max all the way)
  3) Various 
 media, where you collect Cutscenes, Concept Art, and Music tracks from different hubs, and levels 
 of the game.
  
  By the way, loading times are quite effective, and are not long. but loading does kind of become 
 a problem at the end of the game, and you will know why. Plus they could of made the ending boss 
 a lot more fun. Besides this though, Awesome sonic game, maybe the next one is the revival we've 
 all wanted?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  What I liked about Sonic Unleashed is that the speed is back after who knows how long. He is fast 
 again and on some of his stages, he's so fast that you can barely see him or where you're going 
 and that's what Sonic is supposed to be about. I don't know why but the "Werehog" was pretty frustrating 
 but then again, this whole game can be VERY frustrating. You try to figure out where to go and 
 you're unsure of what to do but if you backtrack previous villages and stages to get items such 
 as sun and moon medals, then you're back on track. I was pretty lost and it took me half a day 
 to figure out what I should do to unlock the next stage but I came through. This game is pretty 
 much the same as other Sonic games: Dr. Eggman is trying to do something and Sonic has to save 
 the world but what makes it different is that Eggman did something to Sonic where only at night, 
 he becomes a monster that we know as the Werehog. There are continents in the game that are loosely 
 based on real countries and there are some pretty fun stages to play but it's only Sonic's stages 
 during daytime that are fun. I liked that the camera changes to side-scroll on some of his daytime 
 stages because it felt like I was playing an old Sonic game on the Genesis. I also liked his daytime 
 boss battles because one of them felt like Sonic & Knuckles. What I didn't like was that sometimes 
 and especially during the Werehog stages, it has some pretty bad camera issues like when I cross 
 a narrow bridge and I end up falling because the camera is usually far away and in an isometric 
 view sometimes. That was very frustrating for me. The Werehog stages are at times pretty cool when 
 you're fighting these weird monsters and then pulling off finishing moves by pressing a button 
 on the screen that plays similar to God of War. Sonic's daytime stages have those quick timer events 
 too where you have to press 3 different buttons like for instance B, LB, X or something like that. 
 The only friends of Sonic that you will see in the game are Amy and Tails so if you were expecting 
 to see the whole gang, forget it. Since Sonic is licensed by 4Kids, of course the voice actors 
 are voicing the characters so I just changed the voice acting to Japanese because 4Kids absolutely 
 SUCKS!! Super Sonic is still around and the theme song to the game is performed by Bowling For 
 Soup's singer Jaret Reddick... wow... Anyway, Unleashed was a huge improvement over the last Sonic 
 game that had clunky controls and too many unnecessary loading times. The only thing I liked about 
 this game was Sonic's daytime levels since they are fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjones1blj
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 19, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed is the latest game in the floundering Sonic the Hedgehog franchise. The game is 
 split into 3 types of gameplay. Fun Speed Sections, Repetitive brawling levels featuring a Warehog 
 and absolutely pointless Adventure fields. 
  
  Graphics
  This game is a huge step up over Sonic the Hedgehog 2006. The games worlds look absolutely beautiful 
 even when you barreling along at mach 1. The character models are brilliant and cartoony and even 
 the human inhabiting the hub worlds don't look out of place.
  
  Gameplay:
  As I explaned earlier, Sonic Unleased features three types of gameplay. speedy daytime levels, 
 slower platform nightime levels and adventure fields. The daytime levels are really fun. The level 
 design is better than in previous 3D Sonic games, and the camera for the most part stays where 
 its supposed to be. The games switching between 2D and 3D works well as it doesn't confuse the 
 controls. However there are still a few small flaws the control is still pretty loose, and sometime 
 trying to make Sonic jump accurately can be pretty frustrating, also he does turn very and can 
 sometime go flying off of platforms which don't have edges, the Sonic drift move which is supposed 
 to help doesn't work very well either. The warehog sections are much worse, simply put they are 
 repetitive and pretty boring. The levels also feature a pretty bad camera which can make the jumping 
 sections infuriating. The game also ask you to navigate the Warehog along thin beams, more often 
 than not you will fall to you doom because of the loose controls. The brawling section of the levels 
 are extremely repetitive, most of the time you are just bashing buttons, also when there are many 
 enemies on the screen there is slowdown. However the worst sections of the game are the Adventure 
 Fields, these are just simply padding. You have to go around talking to people with not alot to 
 say, it is really annoying that Sonic Team keeps insisting on shoving these things down our throat. 
 Another gripe with this game is having to find Sun and Moon medals, I spent an hour and a half 
 one evening going through different hub worlds and warehog levels trying to find 20 Sun Medals 
 to progress to the next Sonic stage. It got so frustrating I had to switch the game off.
  
  Overall:
  With Sonic Unleashed, Sonic Team has snatched defeat from the jaws of victory. They 
 have finally nailed down how to make Sonic speed work in 3D, but the game features so much padding 
 and yet another rubbish gameplay type. If they had done away with the hub worlds, and not even 
 bothered with the stupid warehog idea this game would have been worth a 8 at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic5678
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Whenever a new sonic game comes around, two questions will inevitably arise. The first, and it's 
 really a given, is whether or not the game will rise to the bar set by the classics, defy the infamous 
 "Sonic  become truly AAA and return the blue blur 
 to his generation-defining iconic status. Failing that, as is, unfortunately, so often the case, 
 the next question is whether or not it will at least please fans disappointed with the last outing 
 (*shudders*....) , and is it any good?
  
  The answers are as follows: No, but so close; and yes.
  
  First up, you'll notice that SEGA 
 have taken desperate measures in these desperate times. Finally, a return to 2d..... Finally..... a 
 massive character detox (no Rouge, no Omega, no G. U. N, no Shadow, not even *Knuckles* is spared) , 
 Finally, graphics worthy of current-gen consoles, Finally, the light dash is a different button...... but 
 even these things are overshadowed by what amounts to excessive padding by artificial lengthening.
 
  
  The Werehog levels are absolutely not the game-breaking piece of **** that we all feared they would 
 be, however, they don't reinvent the wheel, and are about as tolerable as those hunting and shooting 
 stages from SA1/2. The combat system is simple, but suffers from many bad action game quirks. For 
 example, you get extra combos as you level up Sonic's stats (the level-up system isn't a bad thing 
 , nor is it a good thing, it's just..... there) , and while they certainly look impressive and are 
 fun to pull off (slo-mo Sho-Hog-Ken into spinning mid-air piledriver ftw) , they're not essential 
 as you can just mash Y to get you through most sections, which in an action game is a absolute 
 no-no. There's also a block and dodge system, which is similar to DMC's, and it works well here, 
 and the overall werehog experience is no worse than the shooting/hunting games in SA1/2.
  
  It's just that the daytime Sonic levels are SO good, they make the Werehog look and feel *exactly* 
 like the game-breaking piece of **** that we all feared.
  
  Speaking of the Sonic levels, they are good. Really good. No, seriously, I mean it, Jungle Joyride 
 is up there with Final Rush, Starlight Zone and Metropolis Zone. They are an absolute joy, with 
 9 "main" sonic levels, ranging anywhere from 3 - 8 minutes in length on your first try, and about 
 18 more bonus ones - these are extra-super-duper-hard stages that will test your skill and patience, 
 some last 30 seconds, others 3+minutes. These day stages strip the Sonic experience right down 
 to the core, and are easily the best thing about this game. New features such as Sonic Boost, Quick-Step, 
 Sonic Drift, Stomp, and classic revivals like Light Dash and Homing Attack (now on a different 
 button, which anyone can easily get used to) all work fantastically well, and you will need to 
 master these moves in order to succeed. It's a blast. Jungle Joyride Act 3 will test your Quick-step 
 skills to the absolute limit. This game fixes all the problems with traditional Sonic game play, 
 it absolutely does not feel automated at all, and all accusations of non-interactivity and can 
 be shot down, right here, right now, by the daytime sections of this game. Sonic can work in 3D. 
 
  
  However, typical post-06 Sonic-game-structure-syndrome rears it's ugly head. Artificial lengthening, 
 Excessive padding, Mandatory replays, whatever you want to call it, the other major flaw with Sonic 
 Unleashed is the hub world exploration and medal collection system, forcing you to grind from level 
 to level replaying them in order to unlock medals. These medals will then unlock the stages you 
 need to progress. You'll able to get through most of the game with minimal grinding (in the RPG 
 sense lmao) until this happens:
  
  "You need 21 more Sun Medals to access this Gaia Gate".
  
  If the Werehog levels weren't bad 
 enough, you will find yourself playing through them again for they hold more sun medals than day 
 stages. So it took half an hour to wade through the stage the first time round, now it'll take 
 even longer as you'll be scouring for medals, and as such will make the game longer for all the 
 wrong reasons. It's a shame it all had to be like this. My advice: scour the stages for medals 
 on your first try.
  
  The soundtrack is excellent. Nuff said.
  
  For longtime Sonic fans, the day stages in this game are like Sega's gift to you for your perseverance 
 and sticking with the franchise through tough times. The werehog stuff is passable -barely- and 
 the game is beautiful to both eyes and ears. But this is ultimately a disappointment, considering 
 the proverbial bar is set so high by Sonic's legacy and fandom. While the bar is high, the day 
 sections of this game prove that it is definitely within Sonic Team's reach; that they can, they 
 are capable, of creating something truly great.
  
  Two years ago, after the crushing, humiliating blow of Sonic 2006, the prospect of a resurrection 
 for the blue blur seemed an impossibility. What SU gives us is hope, hope that Sonic Team can pull 
 of something great, and that we'll see this "second coming". After Black Knight, the next logical 
 potential release window for a new Sonic game is either Xmas 2010, or -in an interesting twist 
 of fate- 23rd June 2011, 20 years to the day, that sonic first appeared on our screens. That will 
 be an interesting day for everyone, and I for one, cannot wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lasadora
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Ever since September i was waiting a long time for Sonic Unleashed to be released and it is much 
 better than i expected, and i expected it to be good from the trailers i saw.
  
  The first thought that came to my mind as soon as i bought the game was 'speed' and alot of it 
 and the amazing thing is, is that there is so much of it, that the game seems to immerse you into 
 the shoes of the blue hedgehog, absolutely amazing. Sega have managed to create brilliant level 
 designs which allow the player to just boost all they want and get Sonic to just run at full pelt 
 for most of the level.
  
  However every game has its flaws, and unfortunately this game does have the odd flaw, glitches 
 in levels, awful camera angles at times which really puts stress on the player to use their instinct 
 on where to step next and 50% werehog. Though the werehog can be good, it hardly matches up to 
 the brilliant pace and speed of when you play as sonic himself otherwise the werehog would of been 
 quite good but it just seems to bring the player back to earth with sluggish pace and annoying 
 button mashing, however it just peps the player up for the next time they can break the speed barrier 
 yet again. However the werehog doesnt bring the game down at all as i said before it is quite unique 
 for the sonic franchise.
  
  However overall the game is brilliant, definitely worth buying. This game really does meet all 
 expectations of what Sonic should be about and it is definitely worth the 30 to play. The story 
 could be longer and there could be some extras added in like the return of the 'Chao Gardens' but 
 most of the time, you'll just want to replay your favourite level over and over again seeing if 
 there is something new you can find or just to simply go for a quick jog and sharpen your senses.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Alan
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Dear Sonic,
  
  We've been together for a long time now, but lately I feel like you've changed and you're no longer 
 the same hedgehog I fell in love with all those years ago. We've been together through good times 
 and bad, including your awkward transition to 3D, no matter how many strange sidekicks you befriended. 
 I even forgave you for that time you cheated on me with Mario at the Beijing Olympics. But this 
 time I can't take you back. It's over, Sonic. When we went to counselling after your disastrous 
 2006 outing Sonic the Hedgehog, we both agreed the only way for you to get your life back on track 
 was a return to what made you so great in the past. Remember those days? Blasting through garish 
 environments at high speed, smashing Robotnik's evil creations and collecting Chaos Emeralds. With 
 the lack of a third dimension to screw everything up, we could concentrate on the thrill of playing 
 rather than the fear of impending death. It was magical.
  
  Then tragedy struck. While Mario cavorted around in 3D, you struggled to adapt to the challenges 
 of a new generation. When you finally returned in 1998's Sonic Adventure, it was still your charming 
 face on the box, but the game just wasn't the same. What you never understood was that the old 
 Sonic games were never about pure speed at the expense of control. More importantly, they weren't 
 about fishing, hunting for emerald shards, or running around with a gun- elements Sonic Adventure 
 added, but nobody wanted.
  
  So here we are again with Sonic Unleashed and you've decided the best way to go "back to your roots" 
 is by transforming into a werehog for half of the game. Excuse me, but what the hell is this ****? 
 Whenever you say you're going back to your roots, they're not supposed to be the roots that fans 
 of the series have been verbally hacking at for years. The werehog sections rip off the PS2 classic 
 God of War in so many ways that if I listed them all, I'd run out of space. The only thing not 
 pilfered from God of War is sheer entertainment, which was plentiful in the aforementioned but 
 non-existent in Hog of War I mean, Unleashed.
  
  With the power of the new Hedgehog Engine under the hood, Unleashed is a downright stunning game 
 to look at. Of course, this doesn't count for much when the underlying game is so fundamentally 
 broken. Sonic's stages work perfectly until control is handed over to the player, where upon it 
 all falls apart quicker than a leper in a wind tunnel. Rather than controlling Sonic directly like 
 every computer game since 1978, you roughly suggest where you'd like him to go as he runs off cliffs, 
 crashes into barriers, or plummets to his death time and time again.
  
  As much as Sega would like to pretend that Sonic has changed for the better, a simple removal of 
 the third dimension is not enough. The camera's position makes it difficult to gauge what's coming 
 next and the unresponsive controls ensure the obstacles are impossible to avoid anyway. Awful level 
 design nigh-guarantees that any fun you'll have with Unleashed is always a fleeting experience. 
 Worse still, the game's developers know how poorly constructed the stages are and always provide 
 extra lives before punishing sections.
  
  The saddest thing of all is that there could be a genuinely entertaining game here, albeit buried 
 under hundreds of awful design choices. Why does Sonic have yet another irritating sidekick? Why 
 do you have to report to Professor Pickle so he can tell you what to do next? Why do you have to 
 "level up" Sonic in between stages to make him faster? Why does there even have to be a story, 
 never mind one about Eggman cracking the planet into chunks with a giant laser? Why does Sonic 
 actually do less damage to enemies after transformed into a giant hulking werehog with pneumatic 
 fists? Why does no one question a bright blue hedgehog running around having conversations with 
 humans? Sonic Unleashed is the ultimate evidence that Sonic Team have no idea what to do with the 
 franchise and probably never will. 
  
  So don't bother telling me you can change, Sonic. I've heard it all before and I see no reason 
 to believe that next time will be different. Don't call me, I won't answer. Don't write me letters, 
 I won't read them. While I'll never forget the way you were and how much you meant to me, I can't 
 forgive what you have become, werehog or otherwise. I'd really appreciate if you could box up all 
 of my things and leave them round at Mario's house when you have the time. But I'm keeping your 
 CDs.
  
  Yours, Alan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  Sonic has been wowing fans for over 17 years now. From the old classic tune of the Green Hill zone, 
 to the final showdown with robotnik, you would always think "I want to start it again!" and you 
 soon get hooked on them. But this time, Sega have really done it and put a great show on in Sonic 
 Unleashed.
  
  Now you keep seeing it's 2D. "How can it be 2D on such high platforms" You ask yourself. A special 
 engine has been used, that's why. Anyway, onto the game.
  
  The story is based that to get revenge on Sonic, Eggman splits the world into 7 continents. As 
 usual, Sonic must race against time to fix it. But it's not just speed in this game! As after a 
 experiment goes wrong, after night, a new creature is unleashed inside Sonic: The Werehog. His 
 speciality is power, as you can battle enemies using melee moves, but your speed and agility is 
 slower.
  
  The graphics are good, as the levels are based in real places like China and Italy. And nightime 
 looks like it as well.
  
  Gameplay at speed is still the good ole' classic. And melee is suprisingly good as the werehog.
 
  
  Overall, Sega have really done it this time, but they could have made this a special anniversary 
 game for such a good experience. The next sonic game expected is just after Christmas: Sonic and 
 the Black Knight, which will be released on Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonictrainer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Imagine some of Sonic's best abilities and elements from past games combined into one game. Now 
 imagine that Sonic gets an all new form that has its own abilities and characteristics. That is 
 what Sonic Unleashed is.
  
  When you start the game, you'll go through a quick tutorial on how to use Sonic. Next, you'll control 
 Sonic as he walks around an adventure world similar to the original Sonic Adventure. Here he can 
 talk to the locals to learn info, complete missions, and buy items from shops. Next, Sonic goes 
 into a hub area and starts the next Act of the area.
  
  The regular Sonic/Daytime levels are like playing Sonic Rush: You'll be using your speed boost 
 while also using new buttons to maneuver through enemies, obstacles, and bottomless pits. Also, 
 similar to the Rush games is the Quicktime Element mechanic which allows players to use different 
 paths when running through levels. However, they can also be your downfall if you press the wrong 
 button. In this game there are even more moves Sonic can pull off like the Wall Jump, which allows 
 Sonic to bounce off walls Mario style. There is even an experience system that allows Sonic to 
 improve certain stats such as speed and ring energy (your boost gauge) . Speaking of speed, that 
 is the best part of the daytime stages. You can go so fast in this game that there's even an achievement 
 that can be earned by reaching a speed of over 1000 mph! If you enjoy that feeling of going fast 
 yet being fearful of what you might run into you'll love this game.
  
  Sonic gains a new form when nighttime falls which is called the Werehog. He gains more muscle and 
 becomes even more of a threat. During Nighttime levels you'll control the Werehog as he pummels 
 through enemies while doing some platforming elements. In the beginning the Werehog has basic punches 
 and throws, but as he levels up he can do some serious damage. Some of his moves may remind you 
 of Street Fighter techniques. Also, when enemies are weak enough the Werehog can do finishing quicktime 
 combos similar to Kingdom Hearts. A lot of people didn't like the idea of using this character. 
 After playing the game though, I found using the Werehog enjoyable.
  
  This game uses a new graphics engine that makes everything look beautiful and detailed. The music 
 was also enjoyable while zooming through the levels. The story doesn't involve collecting chaos 
 emeralds but is still fun to watch as Sonic tries to save the world again while helping townspeople 
 and their own encounters turn out.
  
  There are no Chao to care for in this game but you will see them.
  
  Although this the best 
 Sonic game I've ever played there are some things I don't like. For one, they changed the buttons 
 for the homing attack. You have to press X after hitting the A button. Once you get the Air Dash 
 ability, this can cause you to fly past areas and lose a life. Also, for some reason they decided 
 players should be able to do a ring dash halfway through the game. Once you do have that ability 
 you have to press the Y button in order to activate it. Besides certain control changes, that's 
 all I have a problem with.
  
  To put it simply this game is awesome! If you're having trouble choosing a version to buy, I recommend 
 this or the PS3 version since the other versions are missing 2 levels and have sucky graphics. 
 If you're not sure if you're not going to buy it because of the Werehog, rent it first. That way 
 you don't feel cheated out on a game with a price reduction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniciscool15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  Most Sonic games start you off with a scene that has to do with later in the game, or just starts 
 the game right off the bat. This particular game starts off with Dr. Eggman and his fleet, and then 
 immediatly throws you into a war between the Doctor and Sonic, as Sonic rushes through the robots 
 with never before seen speed in a Sonic game, with highly stunning visuals and amazing sound design. 
 One thing that definetly puts this game apart from its older ones, is the voice acting. A Sonic 
 game hasn't had good voice acting since Sonic Heroes, and this game outdoes even that! You start 
 off in a town called Apotos, including the level, but at daytime. You start off a little slow, 
 but hence you figure out the controls, you go faster than ever before, and-there aren't even any 
 glitches like its before games. Afterwards, you are transformed back into the Werehog, the nocturnal 
 form of Sonic caused by Dark Gaia. You undergo a new style of gameplay, that have only been used 
 in a few sonic games. You take on platforming, puzzels, and combat, with plenty of splendid and 
 well put together techniques. This game has a new style of boss-fights for Sonic were you are running 
 at nearly full speed the entire time, and Sonic in his altered state, (the werehog) goes back to 
 what we all know from previous sonic games in a small combat area. With the quick step, new powers, 
 up-grading system, great graphics, no glitches, outstanding voice acting, and the brought back 
 adventure mode, including plenty of mini-games and missions to complete even after you've defeated 
 Dark Gaia and saved the planet, you still have plenty to do, and I thing any sonic fan will be 
 playing this game for years to come... P. S. HIGHLY RECCOMEND 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_kid15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed might be so far the best sonic game you might play. it brings back some old things 
 like that beautiful chime when you pick up a health. Sonic unleashed goes from 2D to 3D (sortof) .
 
  This sonic game brings that good speed we've always wanted. Remember playing sonic the hedgehog 
 06's level where you run really fast? well its as fast as that... even faster i think. the graphics 
 are quite well i thought they were good smooth looking and perfect. the story i find ok but sega 
 should stick away from god like creatures like iblis from sonic 06 (yes in sonic unleashed their 
 is another monster like iblis) . The werehog levels are ok i wouldn't say best its like going back 
 to shadow the hedgehog but with better camera and attack moves, the werehog stages are long about 
 15 mins top. Sega also did something lots of fans wanted... removing most of the other characters. 
 sonic (and werehog sonic) tails amy chip eggman are about the only main ones and sometimes we need 
 a sonic game without so many people and a black hedgehog with a gun... Overall sonic unleashed is 
 the best sonic gen game out there. if your a sonic fan get it for sure, even if your not a fan 
 get it because you'll love the speed and action in this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JacK_AsterisK
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  The game is much much better than the last Sonic games but would work much more fluidly if there 
 was better voice acting and no werehog parts. Although i admire the attempt of making an old school 
 platformer crossed with fast paced action game it just doesn't work right.
  
  There is a leveling up feature to the game which works well but doesn't appear to do much for you, 
 maybe it's just too slow to notice though, I'm not really sure.
  
  The hedgehog parts are giving very good graphics with high polygons and awesome textures blazing 
 past you so fast you can barely catch a glimpse of them. It also gives you very good control over 
 sonic and the only thing i have found that has bugged me about them is when you attack enemies 
 or home in on objects. Sometimes you just go the way you don't want to, but it's not a big problem 
 by any means. You have a lot of quick action events thrown at you throughout the levels and it's 
 almost an over use of it, but once again, it does not ruin the experience. The levels switch between 
 side scrolling, behind sonic, and everything in between and it works well and is a lot of fun. 
 In fact this area of the game I would give a 10 for the genre if only it was multiplayer, and i 
 know that's asking a lot especially with the engine working so great how it is, but it would really 
 add a lot more.
  
  Now the werehog parts is where the problems start. First of all the music that kicks in when you're 
 fighting is just awful and very repetitive which is not an issue in the hedgehog parts at all. 
 Other problems are bad camera, fighting parts too frequent, and buggy controls. The camera tries 
 to think for you which can become a problem if you're trying to jump one way and you end up going 
 another and dying. Fighting can be fun especially when you level up and have lots of skills but 
 you're put into a battle far too often. The controls themselves aren't necessarily bad but grabbing 
 ledges and things like it can not work properly and most of the deaths you encounter are most likely 
 caused by this. When you die there are never enough checkpoints to send you back to a reasonable 
 place so you end up doing something that took 5 minutes over and over until you get the end just 
 right which isn't that much of a problem as it is an annoyance. 
  
  Other than the problems the werehog parts are actually quite nostalgic of games like Banjo Kazooie 
 and other platformers and can be fun. But it fails to achieve the same goals. On the other hand 
 the hedgehog parts are what make the game so your decision on buying the game should really go 
 with that. Overall I would have to give it a 9 or a 9.5 because it is great but you have to suffer 
 through some annoying parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasori445
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed is one of the best sonic games in history. All the new cool speed mechanics, great 
 graphics, stages, and the 3D free-roaming area (HUB World) made this game a perfect 10, for me. Sonic 
 the Werehog is what I like most because Sonic always has been about speed, now with the Werehog 
 is about power and combat too, which made even better, they have the blue supersonic Hedgehog that 
 everybody loves with the cool super powerful Werehog that everybody fears.
  
  Next time, SEGA should have in mind to make more playable characters in the game and make new enemy 
 for the game because Dr. Eggman is getting a little boring. Sonic Unleashed is a great creation from 
 SEGA and they should make another game that will also feature Sonic the Werehog and more of its 
 awesome combat skills. I recommend this game to anyone who is a Sonic fan and newcomers to the world 
 of Sonic the Hedgehog that likes speed and combat action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearingJDVD
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Now i know what your thinking."The daytime stages look awsome but the werehog is gonna totally 
 mess up the game". Well i am sorry to say you  If u liked anything 
 about the classic sonic games u will LOVE this game. In the daytime stages you run faster than 
 speed racer after hes had like a thousand burritos. And those tense quick moments add some difficulty 
 but it never feels to hard. There are a BUNCH of new skills to. Dureing the night time stages u 
 are slowed down. You can still dash which is pretty fast so your never feel like a snail glued 
 to the floor. The combo system is graet there are over like 30 combos. And picking up enemies is 
 just so satisfying. To me it feels like a mix of Dragon ball Z and kingdom hearts. If your wondering 
 how long this game will last u let me say there are TONS Of unlockables. SUn and moon coins to 
 unlock new stages. Music artwork and movies to collect. Souveniers to buy then trade for in game 
 hints. Side quest (access via hot dog stand [im serious LOL] )
  Towns people to help out S ranks to get heck the game even keeps track of all the monsters u kill. 
 This game is great. If u want a game to occupy your time this holiday look no further.
  
  (NOTE: THIS IS NOT A WII REVIEW THE XBOX AND WII VERSIONS ARE 2 COMPLETELY DIFFERENT GAMES) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BatrozX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:27 am PT
Review:  Around ten years ago there was a famous game console called the Sega Dreamcast. This console was 
 the first step to next-gen at that time and brought many great things instead of just online gaming, 
 downloadable content, and web browsing for the first time. This console also brought practically 
 the only good 3D Sonic game we all thought we'd see, Sonic Adventure. Ever since that the poor 
 little blue blur has become... well... a blur. As Sega kept trying to fix him when the only thing 
 they needed to do was to bring the classic one.... which they do not achieve it in this game.
  
  The game starts with an impressive CG opening that lasts around six minutes where our hedgehog 
 is fooled by Eggman, and the planet splits into seven parts bringing life to a beast called Dark 
 Gaia. In effect to the use of the Chaos Emeralds, the hedgehog becomes a werehog and then Eggman 
 pummels him into space where our hero begins his adventure falling on the planet. Our hero finds 
 a small fellow which he calls Chip, who lost his memory and is trying to regain it. And so the 
 adventure begins to bring back all the world together.
  
  The core gameplay changes depending on what time of day your at. If it's in daytime, you'll use 
 Sonic at blazing speed of around three-hundred miles per hour on his great 2.5D stages, which for 
 the first time the camera NEVER gets in your way and you'll never loose control of him even in 
 it's fastest. The drift, sidesteps, and the boost are all greatly welcomed abilities for Sonic 
 on the game and are of great use. When night falls you get to use the Werehog, and instead of going 
 through gigantic stages at the speed of sound, you go through a more platforming yet God of War 
 like stages. Using the werehog is like using Kratos but... with a Sonic the Werehog costume, which 
 it's quite cool. There are a lot of moves, and the grabs aren't just grab and throw, you can choose 
 to either spin the enemy around to hit everyone around you, smash the enemy on the floor or if 
 it's a strong enemy you can do the cool grabs where a button smashing minigame starts where you 
 have to hit the buttons in certain time limits to make a critical attack. The Werehog are slow, 
 and the stages take far longer than the hedgehog stages and it has it's couple of camera issues 
 when fighting. You also receive experience by killing enemies in the game where you can upgrade 
 the hedgehog's speed and ring energy, and the werehog's combat, life, shield, strength, etc.
  
  Another thing added to this game are the World Hubs. Where you can walk around, talk to people, 
 do some missions, buy stuff at the store. search for medals, and go to different stages. The are 
 two types of medals: Sun and Moon medals. The more Sun Medals you collect the more Hedgehog stages 
 you unlock, and the more Moon Medals you collect the more Werehog stages you unlock, You can get 
 this medals by exploring the World Hubs, doing missions, or looking for them on the hedgehog and 
 werehog stages.
  
  The graphics look AMAZING. You feel like if your watching a Pixar made movie but in gameplay, and 
 the backgrounds on the hedgehog's stages are so fantastic that you may get a Rank E on the stage 
 for staying still just to watch a giant waterfall flowing smoothly on the background while you 
 run at great speeds or the great nature of trees or houses looking perfectly on the background 
 instead of an image for it like on the past games of Sonic. Not only that but the animation and 
 frame rate on the game are amazing too.
  
  Probably the most original thing on this game is it's beautiful soundtrack. Once you listen onto 
 the title screen music till the ending theme, you'll love each and every song that passes through 
 your ear in this game. Unlike other Sonic games, the soundtrack of this one includes completely 
 original music that fits to the ambient of where you are perfectly, not like other 3D Sonic games 
 that the only thing you listened to is rock genre music. This one includes music that it might 
 even remind you of the classic Sonic games or the Sonic Rush series.
  
  The flaws in this game are camera issues on the Werehog gameplay, frequent loadings... but definitely 
 not like Sonic '06 that where like 1 minute loadings. This ones are like 5-10 second loadings and 
 if you install the game it gets lowered a bit so it's not that much. The Werehog stages are a bit 
 repetitive even if you have tons of combos and stuff (fight then puzzle then fight) . Having to 
 collect Sun and Moon Medals to progress in the story is just downright stupid, and you will get 
 frustrated at moments on the hedgehog stages, since your going SO fast you won't see the pits that 
 you might fall on, and you could end up fighting against the game itself since the game is more 
 memory based on the stage and the stages are so badly made that the makers of this game even put 
 extra lives on the stage to "forgive" those falls. The story is the same as any other modern 3D 
 Sonic game: Eggman does something bad, Sonic stops him, then Eggman does something bad again, and 
 Sonic has to end up fighting a large beast in the end to save the world. What happened to saving 
 the animals imprisoned on Eggman's (Dr. Robotnik's) robots? Also all the enemies you'll find here 
 are practically the same, blue robot copies but with swords and stuff, and a couple of Dark Gaia 
 beasts.
  
  In the end, it's a good game... but not what expected. The game takes around 10-15 hours to finish 
 if you go directly to doing everything related to the story and even when you finish the story 
 you will still have lots to do with all the extra content in the game like unlocking the music, 
 art, and the cinematic events of the game, and collecting medals to unlock all the extra stages 
 available in each land, and believe me.... it will take you a lot of time to do all that. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyoumaru
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  After the disastrous fallout of the incomplete and broken SONIC THE HEDGEHOG (2006) , Sonic Unleashed 
 had a LOT to make up for. While it's a good game, it created an entire NEW set of problems by its 
 unique gameplay, but it's by no means unplayable.
  
  Graphics in the game are the best they've ever been, even higher par than Sonic 2006. Movements 
 are fluid and graphics are crisp and clean to the point of even being able to see the individual 
 hairs of Robotnik's mustache. The actual graphical style has received a heavy overhaul from the 
 semi-realistic look the series has held onto ever since Sonic Adventure 1. The humans look cartoony, 
 even goofy, while the structures and settings look even more photo-realistic than ever.
  
  Sound has taken a heavy turn from the older games. Whereas Sonic games have usually used an upbeat 
 rock and metal genre for its music, Sonic Unleashed uses a more heroic-sounding flourish. The most 
 prevaliant instrument in the game is noticably the trumphet, followed by other parade instruments. 
 Keeping with the "around the world" theme, Different cultural music is often used in conjunction 
 with a specific setting. However, it is a matter of opinion as to wether or not this new turn is 
 superior or inferior to the standards set by the previous Sonic titles. Unfortunately, yet expectedly, 
 the subpar quality of 4kids' voice acting has not even come close to improving.
  
  Control is a double-issue. In his normal form, Sonic is somewhat more difficult to control steadily 
 compared to older titles. However, since his levels typically focus on speed and nothing but, this 
 is hardly a problem. The gameplay is the fastest it's ever been thanks to the new "Hedgehog engine", 
 enabling it to move at speeds fast enough to make you speedsick. The game often switches from a 
 semi-3D behind-the-back camera reminscent of Sonic Adventure to a side-scrolling right-moving camera 
 reminiscent of the classic Sonic titles (as well as mixing in elements from the more recent "Sonic 
 Rivals" titles. However, the speed comes at a price, as you will often find yourself crashing into 
 objects you never saw coming, and in many cases, this will cause an automatic death (such as sinking 
 into the water you spent the last 5 seconds running on) . Regardless, the speed levels are a powerful 
 rush and a great deal of fun once you get accustomed to them. The dark side of the gameplay is 
 the "Sonic the Werehog" levels. These brawler beat-em up levels make the game feel as though it 
 was made for Knuckles the Echidna, but replaced him with a beefed-up Sonic at the last second. 
 Replacing the speed factor is an annoying, mind-numbing amount of puzzle-solving, pot-mashing, 
 creature-smashing, wall-scaling, flagpole-swinging, tightrope-walking gameplay that feels like 
 a recycled Zelda game and does not fit in Sonic's world. While it may seem fun at first, it ultimately 
 proves frustrating, leaving you wishing you were speeding again.
  
  Is Sonic Unleashed the savior game Sonic fans have been hoping for? The most likely answer is no. 
 It COULD have been had the Werehog factor not been implemented and the game based purely on the 
 speed, but sadly this is not the case. Regardless, the game is far superior to Sonic 2006, and 
 will prove fun if you give it a shot. Play it for the Speed levels, and endure the Werehog to keep 
 playing them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeAnDeKa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game is incredible. The best sonic game in years. If you like the fast paced old style sonic 
 this is the game for you. Your same Sonic story but with a better feel. Has a concept of both the 
 old cartoons. But a good overall story. Although generic at some points. Combat is Definitely Fun. 
 Very Smooth. The Werehog is awesome. A good twist. This game does reach new levels of speed not 
 thought possible. This game deserves a high rating. if you loved Sonic and its games don't listen 
 to the reviews. This game is amazing. The difficulty in this game can get a little high at random. 
 But overall the game balances itself out. I do not know if there will be DLC but the game requires 
 a good length of hours and there is a lot to do. Especially with the difference of day and night.
 
  Good Balance. Good Difficulty. Good Soundtrack. Incredible Graphics. Incredible Speed. Same Old 
 Sonic.
  Highly Recommended For Sonic Fans. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chirf
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  The sonic fans have been hoping for a game that will bring back what THEY want in sonic. Seeing 
 as how diverse the sonic fan base is, this is almost an impossible task. But sonic unleashed manages 
 to bring something to the table for everyone. 
  
  Daytime-
  
  The daytime levels are just plain fun, no questions asked. Grinding down towers or dashing through 
 narrow alley ways while maintaining speed never seems to get old in this game. And better yet, 
 the difficulty is just right. There is just enough for experts to have fun, while just little enough 
 to allow younger players to flash through the game.
  
  Nighttime-
  
  when you first start off playing, you think to yourself, "wow i can't believe i'm a werewolf...", 
 then you start to have fun.... but THEN you think to yourself "well the fun didn't last long". Sure 
 the werehog isn't all that bad, but when it comes down to poor check point placements and sometimes 
 frustrating platforming that hurt you more then pleasure you, the werehog is the downfall of the 
 game. if they only had a different approach to the platforming idea.... like maybe tails? 
  
  
  Very good title SEGA. I thank you for finally making a good 3D sonic game WITHOUT yuji 
 naka. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Ah yes, Sonic the Hedgehog, Sega's most famous video game character, and the single greatest game 
 character ever created. Sadly though, the Sonic Series has taken a nose dive in recent years, owing 
 to the downfall of Sega and bad game designs, with the last truely classic Sonic games being the 
 Dreamcast Sonic Adventure and Sonic Adventure 2. In the years following Sega's collapse, an occasonal 
 gem could be found, but usually these were collections of the old Genesis and Game Gear Sonic games. 
 
  
  It wouldn't be until 2008 that the Blue Blur would finally get a Next Gen game worthy of his name: 
 Sonic Unleashed. The storyline is fairly straight forward, Dr. Eggman is up to his old tricks again, 
 this time launching a full scale attack, that results in the planet being blown apart, releasing 
 a monster known as Dark Gaia from the planet, and once again it's up to Sonic the Hedgehog to save 
 the day. 
  
  Overall Unleashed is a vast improvement over the last few entries in the series, and fixes the 
 problem that plagued the 2006 Sonic the Hedgehog, in the form of quicker load times. Graphics wise, 
 the game looks excellent, and is extremely bright and colorful, an other wise vast improvement 
 over the extremely dark and graiy visuals present in many of the Post-Sonic Adventure games.
  
  The gameplay has also been vastly improved, especally in the day stages, which have restored 
 much of Sonic's traditional game play, of spin dashing into enemies, and running at supersonic 
 speeds through loops and jumping across platforms, which feels more like the traditional Sonic 
 gameplay. 
  
  Of course the big feature is that in this game Sonic has contracted a serious case of "Dr. Jekyll 
 and Mr. Hyde." Part of the plot line involves the machine used by Dr. Eggman altering Sonic's very 
 DNA causing him to transform into a Werehog at night. Over all these night stages are similiar 
 to the day stages, except that the Werehog is far slower then Sonic, and the stages are constructed 
 similar to beat-em-ups like Devil May Cry and God of War, which may appeal to fans of the beat-em-up 
 genre.
  
  While Unleashed is a vast improvement over previous Sonic games, it still has some flaws. The worst 
 feature of this game is the introduction of a new character named Chip, while intended to appeal 
 to little kids, Chip is by far the most annoying new character ever introduced, and believe me, 
 you won't get past his debut scene without wanting to reach through the screen and beat him to 
 within an inch of his life. The only reedeeming quality is that he's not present when you actually 
 play a level.
  
  The controls are actually fairly tight and responsive, however there is one problem: STOPPING. 
 During the night stages, it's fairly easy to stop, owing to the Werehog's slower speed, but in 
 the day stages Sonic is moving so fast that you'll probably find yourself saying "where are the 
 breaks on this thing." While Sonic is known for his speed, stopping has never been his best feature, 
 and at times you'll find yourself going so fast you won't be able to see an enemy, obstical or 
 the edge of a platform until you either run into it or off of it. 
  
  Overall, Sonic Unleashed is actually one of the better enteries in the Sonic Series, and is a must 
 have for Sonic Fans and casual gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sideshowjim
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge Sonic fan since the days of the Genesis. I was that kid arguing with my friends 
 on who is better Sonic or Mario and those arguments got a little heated at times. I have been disappointed 
 with the 3D releases of the Sonic franchise to the point of saying goodbye to my friend in blue. 
 Some of the many things that I think that plagued them were too sensitive of control and a camera 
 that was drunk. But the main thing was the sense of speed just was never there. 
  
  In Sonic Unleashed the sense of speed is there the control's are tight and responsive and the camera 
 finally works with you instead of against you. In the daytime stages are like a roller coaster 
 ride so just hang on tight and make sure your tray tables are in the upright position. It never 
 goes too fast to where you cant react to whats ahead but just right. The placement of the enemy's 
 and the level design are perfectly placed to either slow you down or boost you forward. The daytime 
 stages are a rush and so are the boss battles. They have also implemented experience points to 
 upgrade your speed for the daytime levels and attributes like strength, life ect, for the nighttime 
 stages and at anytime you can add more points just by pausing the game. 
  
  The night time levels though they have a different pace and feel to the game but surprisingly it 
 still feels like a Sonic game I can't explain it but it does. There is a fairly extensive combo 
 system, when you grab the enemy's bang their heads on the ground and then coninue hitting other 
 enemy's with the enemys in you are holding it just cant get any better than that. These levels 
 are very hard to describe but if I was to compare another game to describe it its like God of War 
 light. There are button sequences you can enter into to do a finishing move, you collect the essence 
 of the enemy's to gain exp and so fourth. Keep in mind this game has an E rating so things are 
 simplified but there is a challenge here for all ages. I was very skeptical about the werehog levels 
 but I am very surprised and impressed they took a non brawler type of game and gave it pretty sharp 
 claws.
  
  Story wise well it is very Saturday Mourning cartoon so its basic and the substance so far (I haven't 
 played through the whole game) is light but in the end this is a "kids" game so that's to be expected. 
 The voice acting is done well with the Sonic and Robotnick voiced very well. The story is no different 
 than any Mario Game.
  
  The graphics well can only be describe as beautiful with none of the dreaded slow down that was 
 plaguing the demos.
  
  You may be reading this and be thinking that I really liked this game (and I do) why is it not 
 a prefect score well here is why.
  The only thing that I think the sonic games need to get rid of is the hub system where you walk 
 around cities to find the level. It slows the pace of the game to a screeching halt. Now there 
 is need for a hub but in every Sonic game they seem tacked on and they don't have much substance 
 to them. But they made it worse there are now 2 hubs for each area. The City you went to and the 
 actual stage hub. Though the stage hubs do feel like a mini level in itself that should have been 
 the main hub and scrapped the city for use in cut scenes. One other thing bothers me why does Sega 
 think that every Sonic game has to introduce a new character why couldn't this game just be a Sonic 
 and Tails game. The new character Chip is annoying he feels like the bastard child of Daxter from 
 Jack and Daxter. This game should have just used Sonic, Tails, Knuckles and maybe Shadow because 
 in my opinion Shadow is the only other character that has been introduced since Sonic and knuckles 
 game that actually isn't annoying and is "cool". 
  So in conclusion Sega did a lot of things right FINALLY!!! and some things wrong. But the main 
 thing I feel they did was say to the fans of Sonic we hear you and we understand here is a game 
 you been waiting for. Buy this game you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  After loads of amount of Rushed in, half-finished, horrible sonic games, SEGA has decided to take 
 their blue mascot back to his roots, while adding some new gameplay elements. Can Sonic Unleashed 
 be the 1st game with the name "unleashed" in it title that won't suck, yes. Is it the best Sonic 
 game since 2005? Let's find out. The story starts with an epic cutscene where Sonic is fighting 
 against Dr. Eggman. He's captured, then turns Super Sonic and follows Eggman. When Eggman captures 
 Super Sonic, He takes the Chaos Emeralds and use their power to release an ancient being called 
 Dark Gia and break the earth into large chunks of pieces. Due to being caught between the blast, 
 Sonic is transformed into a wearhog. When he falls to earth, he somehow makes a shield and meets 
 little flying dog, he calls Chip. In order to save the earth and cure his wearhog transformation, 
 Sonic needs to collect the Chaos Emeralds and restore their power. The plot is an old school Sonic 
 story with it just being Sonic collecting the Chaos Emeralds, but it has a lot of moments that 
 you don't care about. Why do I want to see Chip trying to get some Ice Cream? It's nowhere as bad 
 as the previous games, and it's not all that bad. In Sonic Unleashed, the gameplay is mixed between 
 daytime gameplay, and night time gameplay. In story mode, you get a hub world, and it's just like 
 next-gens hub world, boring, lifeless, and you just don't to be around it. You go here to get moves 
 and get to the next stage. To the hubs credit, it's much easier to find different places. After 
 the story is done, you can go and play the different level. The day time gameplay is extremely 
 fun and addictive. It's the Classic Sonic gameplay of the Sega Genesis fans will remember and love 
 throughout. There's a constant switch between of 2-D and 3-D gameplay. The game gets extremely 
 fast, up to 300 miles fast. Controlling Sonic is reasonably well and there are tones of new moves. 
 1st is the Sonic Drift, this allows Sonic to drift and it works well and keeps Sonic's speed level 
 up. There's also the ring energy meter. The more you collect rings, the more the meter builds up, 
 and you can burst through anything. Think of it like the gauge in the Sonic Rush games. Lastly 
 is the Sonic dodge, which allows Sonic to quickly dodge but pressing the bumpers. There also quick 
 time events in the game which helps give the urgency that the series is known for. The Day time 
 gameplay is incredibly fun and addictive and defiantly the high light of the game. So what about 
 the wearhog gameplay? 1st, it's nowhere as fun as the Daytime gameplay. You basically go around 
 beating the living crap out of enemies. There are some nice combo's and they are a nice way to 
 break up the action, but there slow, and it gets boring and reparative. If this was 2-D Sonic on 
 a console, it would be perfect, but the Wearhog isn't bad, just not as fun and feels like an add 
 on. As with every new Sonic game, there's cost for full fun. Also, I felt like I was playing a 
 kid version of God of War. Sonic Unleashed is one fine looking game. The framerate is incredibly 
 smooth, despite the hectic speed. The environments and character designs look similar to Dragon 
 Ball Creator Akira Toriyama art work, with the Sonic Style thrown in it. The music has also gotten 
 a much more soundtrack with tones of memorable tunes with new style of beats. The voice acting 
 is decent, although some may not get over Sonic the Wearhogs voice. If your fan of Platforming, 
 this is a solid buy, if you're a fan of Sonic, this the game you have all been waiting for. Sonic 
 Adventure, Sonic Adventure 2, Sonic Heroes, Shadow the Hedgehog, Sonic next-gen, Sonic Riders, 
 Sonic Riders: Zero Gravity, and Sonic and the Secret Rings are nothing compared to Sonic Unleashed. 
 It is god compared to them. Too bad the next one will suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  After playing the disaster that was Sonic The Hedgehog 06 I thought I would never see myself playing 
 another new Sonic game, but I figured after seeing the screen shots and trailers for Sonic Unleashed 
 I thought I would give Sonic another chance with this game and to tell you the truth Sonic Unleashed 
 isn't a half bad game, but still it has its problems, but at least the game is much better than 
 Sonic 06. First off the story is almost the same as most other Sonic, but this one has a twist 
 to it. First it starts with Dr. Robotnik assembling a force of battleships to once again try and 
 take over the Earth, but Sonic of course being the hero he is goes to stop Robotnik and make sure 
 he doesn't succeed, but not all is good as Robotnik traps Sonic in a machine that drains the power 
 of the emeralds and literally makes the planet messed up and it's up to Sonic to repair what damage 
 Robotnik has done to the planet. Now the game play tries to blend the original 2D Sonic with the 
 3D world which works, but sometimes it doesn't and the camera is still a problem in areas, but 
 it's a lot better than what Sonic 06 had. Stages switch between the fast pace stages of normal 
 Sonic and at night it switches to more of a fighting style type stage with the Werehog. Now the 
 day time stages are what make Sonic Unleashed fun because it captures the high speed of the original 
 Sonic games while still maintaining the 3D of the newer Sonic games. The night stages are a mixed 
 bag sometimes they are fun, but sometimes they are downright annoying as the enemies will get the 
 better of you sometimes and make you restart again and sometimes the stages can get a little to 
 repetitive. Now I know Sega wanted to try something different with the Werehog and it works sometimes, 
 but most of the fun to be had is with the day time stages. Now as far as the voice work it's still 
 the 4kids voice actors, but I have come to terms with them, but still they don't do a good job. 
 Finally Sonic has a new partner that tags along with him called Chip who looks a lot like Snarf 
 from Thundercats, but he supposedly lost his memory and Sonic tries to help him get it back. Now 
 I know Sega wants to be helpful by giving advice on the game using Chip, but he is far more annoying 
 than the robot from Sonic Adventure 2. He pops up at times and tells you things that are necessary, 
 but sometimes it's just annoying. Granted that Sega learned their mistakes from Sonic 06 there 
 are still a few like the frame rate will drop at certain points and the side missions you can do 
 are annoying and not necessary, but all in all Sega has done some good with Sonic Unleashed if 
 you can get over the annoyance of the camera at times and the repetitiveness of the Werehog stages 
 then you're looking at a decent Sonic game.
  
  Pros:
  + Much better Sonic game than Sonic 06.
  + Day stages are a blast to play and give you the sense 
 of speed that was missing from the other Sonic games.
  + Sonic is the main character and game play focus on him.
  + Graphics are pretty good and show 
 the Hedgehog engine is great
  + Improved camera works most of the time
  
  Cons:
  - English voice overs are still not that good
  - Chip can get really annoying at times
  - Night 
 stages with Werehog can get repetitive at times
  - Minor camera issues with Werehog stages sometimes
  - Load times are still an issue sometimes
 
  
  Weighting in on the pros and cons I give Sonic Unleashed an 8 for being a solid effort from Sega 
 to try and repair Sonic's reputation. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
