-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic the Hedgehog
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/sonicthehedgehog/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The environments are at least colorful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Camera frequently gets in the way.
 full of little graphical and animation glitches.
 lengthy and frequent loading times always get in the way.
 town missions are just plain stupid.
 action stages aren't really much better.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.4
Critic Score: 4.8, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 2,378 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sonic the Hedgehog may share its name with the Genesis original, but this game is even more broken 
 than most of the other recent Sonic games have been. 

  In what might be seen as a move to reset and reinvent the series, the latest game to feature Sonic 
 the Hedgehog is merely called Sonic the Hedgehog. Sega's blue critter has been around since the 
 16-bit days, when his side-scrolling platformers were strong enough to take on Mario, the then-undisputed 
 kingpin of the platforming genre. Sonic's fall from grace has been slow, starting with a promising 
 first stab at 3D with Sonic Adventure, but it's all been downhill since those far-gone days, and 
 games like this new Sonic the Hedgehog are the culprit. With plenty of bad glitches, poor controls, 
 and totally lame gameplay on all fronts, this one's not going to restore any part of the Hedgehog's 
 name to glory.  

          Sonic and the crew are back with a lackluster adventure that isn't worth your time or money. 
     

  While Sonic's name is on the box, you'll actually spend most of your time playing as other characters. 
 The game is broken up into three different stories: one starring Sonic, one starring Shadow, and 
 one starring a new hedgehog called Silver. Each of the stories play differently because of the 
 way each hedgehog controls. Sonic is meant to be the fast-moving one, and he mainly attacks via 
 a homing jump attack that makes most basic fights as simple as timing presses of the A button to 
 bounce from foe to foe. Silver has telekinesis powers that let him pick up large objects and use 
 his mind to fling them at enemies. He's not as fast as Sonic, but he has the ability to float in 
 the air for brief periods of time, letting him cross larger gaps. Shadow the Hedgehog gets his 
 own version of the homing attack, but the big difference is that he can drive around in different 
 armed vehicles. Further watering the game down is a heavy supporting cast, so even when you pick 
 the Sonic episode, you'll still occasionally play as Tails and Knuckles. Other Sonic collaborators, 
 like Amy, Blaze, Rouge, and E-123 Omega also put in guest appearances. While the character variety 
 might initially seem like a good idea, most of them aren't too interesting. Tails moves almost 
 painfully slowly, and his fake ring bombs aren't any fun to use, so when Sonic levels occasionally 
 switch over to him, it's immediately boring. In addition to the single-player levels, you can play 
 the game in a two-player, split-screen tag mode that attempts to force players to cooperate as 
 you progress through the story. In addition, you can go back and play levels you've completed in 
 a battle mode.  

  While you play as many different characters throughout the main game, the same structure applies 
 across the board. The game's action stages are separated by town portions, where you'll be able 
 to take on dopey side missions to help out the locals or figure out puzzles to proceed. Each of 
 these side missions are bookended by two sets of loading screens, where it first loads up the exact 
 same scene, just with different text dialogue, then it loads up the actual mission. After that, 
 it has to load up some ending text and then load up the out-of-mission version of that part of 
 town. Each load time is fairly long, and when they stack up in this way, it almost makes the game 
 feel broken.  

  But since the frequent and lengthy load times don't quite do it, it's up to the action stages to 
 make the game actually feel broken. The camera is the most immediate problem, as it doesn't bother 
 to give you a good view of the action on its own, and your control over it is inverted, with no 
 option to change it. In some cases, the game changes angles at the worst possible time and the 
 controls don't automatically compensate for the new angle. In one Sonic level, you're snowboarding 
 down a mountain and must stay pointed in the right direction. When the camera flips around to give 
 you a new view of the action, you immediately grind to a halt, because you're no longer pushing 
 in the proper direction. This makes some sequences of the game a frustrating exercise in trial 
 and error while you attempt to compensate for this mess. This is but one of several cases where 
 the camera causes often-severe gameplay problems, and it gets frustrating to the point of being 
 nearly unplayable. Since none of the hedgehogs can swim and there's plenty of water and endless, 
 life-ending cliffs nearby, jumping or trying to do a homing attack when you're near a ledge is 
 often scary, since you're rarely able to get a good look at the world around you. Death can also 
 be a bit scary, because you have a limited number of lives and you're kicked all the way out to 
 the main menu when you run out. The game doesn't save automatically, and you can't save in the 
 middle of a mission, so special care must be taken to save immediately before you enter a new area, 
 just to make sure you aren't later forced to repeat lengthy sections of the game.  

          Sonic fans will be disappointed by the game's constant glitches and awful camera.     

 
  Graphically, Sonic the Hedgehog is a glitchy mess that usually looks extremely bland. The town 
 that Sonic spends most of his time saving looks like someone dug up some old Dreamcast-era artwork, 
 brushed it up a little bit, and released it onto current consoles. While his animation for running 
 and jumping usually looks OK, there are plenty of awkward moments, too, like spots in the level 
 that cause the camera to freak out or the way Sonic occasionally launches from platform to platform 
 with his head pointed directly at the ground. There are some better-looking levels in the game, 
 though, and Silver's first level at least starts off with a bang, complete with a nice-looking 
 devastated future city and a big fiery boss fight. Unfortunately, the very next level drops the 
 psychic hedgehog into a nondescript forest setting that doesn't look any better than Sonic's ugly 
 town, and it goes on from there. The characters are voiced in cutscenes with plenty of bad anime 
 enthusiasm, but it's neither good enough to work on its own or bad enough to be funny. The rest 
 of the game's dialogue is delivered through text. The music varies from fast-moving action themes 
 to random ska-influenced tunes. It's passable, but aside from the main screen's title theme, none 
 of it really stands out at all.  

  Only the most blindly reverent Sonic the Hedgehog fan could possibly squeeze any enjoyment out 
 of Sega's latest adventure. This platformer is a mess from top to bottom, and any of the occasional 
 moments that don't feel somehow broken only serve to make the game's other flaws appear that much 
 bigger.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (338 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FooleyAnimator7
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 1:28 am PT
Review:  I was definitely hurt by the fact that Sonic wasn't able to bring out his true speed. We all kow 
 that that blue, fast paced animal on two feet is either the fastest, or one of the fastest things 
 on the planet. But the boring levels, amd the extra work and all that stuff made me not like it 
 that much. And Knuckles and the others needed to be available to us as well. Either when running 
 through the city, or being in an okay level. Shadow and Silver had a nice roll in here too, but 
 the same goes for them. And why not give Silver a longer flight time. At least put a level up object 
 on here so he can fly longer and faster. And give shadow the ability to do Chaos Control at anytime 
 in the game, since he was the one who made those words famous on Sonic Adventure 2. Also with Rouge 
 and Tails, they need to let them be able to fly to special places that only they can reach or something, 
 since they ARE the only ones who fly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomAssViking
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  My very first video game was Sonic the Hedgehog 2, bundled with my first home game system, the 
 Sega Genesis. Ever since I have been a long time fan of the Sonic franchise. Last week I finally 
 bought an XBOX 360, and made sure I got a hold of the Sonic the Hedgehog 2006 game the same day, 
 because for the first time, I could finally sit down and play the game all the way through, since 
 before it was just once in a while when I knew someone who actually had it for a while.
  I had already knew the complaints about the game, and it's rating and all of that random information, 
 but it was Sonic, and I had to try it out. With all of the other Sonic games I had played and mastered, 
 the problems with the 3D Sonic games had become a kind of common knowledge and "something to expect" 
 with me that I had just learned to deal with and overcome, but to my dismay, it was worse than 
 I could ever think. I will break my new found opinion of this game down as much as possible from 
 graphics to the story. We will start with the graphics
  
  Graphics : 9/10  (Literally the best part of the game)
  Using the Havok engine, Sonic games 
 actually have some of the best graphics available today, which is what really makes it stand out. 
 The graphics of this game are beautiful and mesmerizing. The polygons that make up the models are 
 barely noticeable, only when you are actually looking for them. I noticed that some of the shadows 
 in the game are kind blotchy and look like tiny squares when close up during a lot of the cut scenes. 
 Other than that, the graphics of this game are very impressive, but I still know that they are 
 not the best out there, but close.
  
  Game Play: 1/10  (Frustrating at almost every turn)
  Out of all the previous Sonic games that 
 have been released in a 3 dimensional format, this is by far the worst one by far when it comes 
 to controlling your character. I don't know what happened, but it's like they didn't even try with 
 this one. Well I can't say that entirely, but I can say that they really should have worked on 
 a few of the bugs before they released it. We would honestly understand if it was pushed back a 
 little bit more, because that would show us that they actually cared about playability.
  The horrible glitches and cheap deaths begin with the very first level and has a grand finale in 
 the last level. The most annoying thing about this game when it comes to game play, and I think 
 every other player out there will agree with me, is the cheap, faultless deaths due to being thrown 
 into water/bottomless pit because you didn't hit a loop in the perfect spot to tell the computer 
 to keep you on track and not kill you. This happens in the very first level and throughout the 
 game. The developers of the game said they really wanted to capture Sonic's speed on a next generation 
 system, but instead they made the game play so faulty that you literally DO NOT want to go fast 
 in order to avoid uncertain death. Yes I say uncertain, because you cannot predict it will happen.
 
  I mentioned before, about the grand finale in the last level. I will explain myself, the last 
 level, "The End of the World", where you play with all characters to find the seven chaos emeralds, 
 is virtually unplayable unless you know exactly what you are doing. It took me literally two days 
 trying to finally getting it, after the first day I had to look up a guide, which there was one 
 for this specific level, of which I am not surprised. I understand making the last level difficult 
 and all, but come on. This part was so tedious that I almost gave up and looked up the ending on 
 the internet. Its not that it was difficult, because I did like the concept of the instant gravity 
 death eyes that kept appearing, and I thought it looked cool and all, it's just some of it was 
 just ridiculous and cheap. If you want to make something hard, make sure it is difficult, but not 
 to the point of where it is almost unplayable.
  
  Sound: 5/10  (Decent, but typical)
  The sound of the game is probably overlooked by many. Many of the sound effects are recycled from 
 Sonic Adventure 2, and of coarse, from the genesis games. The music on the other hand was average 
 at best. The most engaging music in the game has to be during Crisis City and Flame Core, but that 
 is mostly a matter of opinion. Generally speaking, the music is very typical to the Sonic games 
 SA2 and beyond. 
  
  Replay Value: 1/10  (Achievements only)
  After I completed the game, I honestly haven't picked it up again. The only way I can see myself 
 playing it anytime soon is out of boredom. The only reason I can really see anyone playing this 
 again is if they want the achievements. What they should have done is made the story mode like 
 they did on Sonic Adventure 2, where you could play the story by episode if you wanted to, but 
 instead they went with the Sonic Adventure format where you would have to create a separate game 
 save (in this case, another player profile) , if you wanted to play through the story again, and 
 I don't know anyone who would put forth the effort.
  
  Story: 6/10  (Good, but lacked presentation)
  The story to this game, like many of the other 
 Sonic games, is quite engaging. It is a very interesting story and concept, and I like how it was 
 played out. The only thing that ruined it was the presentation of the story. Since I do not understand 
 Japanese, I will be referring to the English voice cast. I will start by saying this, it would 
 have been a lot better if it was more believable. The 4Kids voice cast is known for this. Every 
 line and every word said in the entire game lacked emotion all together. The voice cast literally 
 sounds like they are reading from a script. Mike Pollock is the only voice actor out of that entire 
 cast that is actually good at what he does. In my personal opinion, he should have been the only 
 one hired after Deem Bristow's death. Well, I also do think that Jason Griffith makes a good Shadow, 
 but Ryan Drummond should have remained as Sonic.
  
  Overall Score: 4.5/10  (One step forward, three steps back)
  Aside from the story and graphics, 
 the game was overall a disappointment. In closing, Sonic Team should take this game and remember 
 it as a mistake they can learn from. Well I'm sure we said that about their previous games, but 
 this one was the mother of all mistakes that probably pushed them to make Sonic Unleashed what 
 it was. What they need to do is make a game that is specifically like the day stages in that game 
 with an interesting story, and some voice acting lessons. Thank you and good night. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_step
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2009 8:04 pm PT
Review:  It was nice when Sega had released Sonic for the next generation consoles. The game looked solid 
 if not a little cheesy, but hey, I have a soft spot for its potential regardless of some of the 
 antics they put in just to increase sales. 
  
  The game play was reminiscent of Sonic Adventure without the RPG element and some individual aspects. 
 The loading times were as cliche as it is, quite the opposite of what Sonic should be, slow and 
 painstakingly dull. The addition of a new character was solid, and particularly well thought out 
 as far as story and controls. The bosses can be difficult if you don't know how to beat them, some 
 of the characters lack individual bits that would make them stand out. The design of the normal 
 area, as well as the upgrade purchases feel dim if not second thought. The stages feel good and 
 solid to contrast this difference sadly. The story line itself feels cheesy as well as the pattern 
 as it is executed. I. E. something big and bad happens, robotnick is the enemy but it turns out 
 the seven chaos emeralds will allow Sonic to transform in order to beat the final entity. This 
 isn't a bad tactic, but to those familiar with the 2d series, can feel as though this cheapens 
 the effort of obtaining the chaos emeralds as well as becoming Super Sonic in the first place. 
 The dialog, well, it is worse than that of Star Wars, between having Sonic talk, juggling between 
 audiences (tough or childish) , and the inclusion of another human character (the symbolism trying 
 to be conveyed is odd and dumbfounding) is just cheesy if not embarrassing. 
  
  The sound effects retains the old mystique of the series but the new soundtrack of rock and roll 
 doesn't fit and shouldn't be included ever. 
  
  Graphically this game juggles between next generation graphics and pseudo xbox graphics. The cut 
 scenes are good but the background textures and certain enemies just seem out of place. 
  
  The replay value is as only good as the game rewards you for your hard efforts, which is little 
 to none sadly. Other than achieving S ranks, there is little reasons people would go through the 
 game a second time. 
  
  Overall I liked this game, but Sega seems to be dipping their fingers into small antics instead 
 of remaining true like games such as Mario. Sonic is one of the few titles out there where story 
 doesn't really need to change, game play or anything else. People want Sonic for Sonic and they 
 wouldn't change anything else for the world. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons_28
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  "Come on! Silver throw the box at the bad guy! Come on are you retarded! No don't throw it at the 
 wall! No you retard Simpsons_28 playing Sonic 06.
  PROS:
  no more guns.
  no more swearing.
  You don't have to play as silver!
  It has great graphics.
  You'll find 
 some fun with Sonic and Shadow... But not silver....
  It's got a cool cover!
  It shares the name with the genesis game!
  CONS:
  Silver
  Silver
  Silver
  Bad controls
 
  Bad camera
  Bad idea! (silver)
  Silver is unresponsive.
  Silver Silver Silver
  Do you get the idea yet?
  Silver doesn't throw anywhere you want him to..
  Silver's voice actor 
 is ear piercing.
  
  So Silver is a cool character he just doesn't control right.
  Sonic and Shadow actually respond to what you, cuz they don't have telekeneises. 
  SONIC THE 
 HEDGEHOG
  Silver. BAD IDEA
  Sonic. ONLY GOOD CHARACTER
  Shadow: VEHICLES CONTROL LIKE CRAP.
  So thats my review for sonic the hedgehog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoit
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  -Superb music
  -Tight controls (has some bad parts too)
  -Terrific voice acting
  -Grourges Visuals
  -Great sound effects
  -Great sence of speed
 
  
  The Bad:
  -Camera doesn't play nice
  - technical issues in the game deflates it experience
  
  I always woundered why people hated 
 his game and I wanted it back in 2006 and a playstation 3 and so 3 years later I tried it out on 
 my brothers xbox 360 to se how awful this game is and to tell you the truth i Liked it and I really 
 enjoyed it.
  I know there are some issues in the game which really sucks like the camera sucks for instants 
 and some bad parts in the control system like trying to jump instantly after you do a spin dash 
 for example.
  and the sound is fantastic like the sound effects are realistic and it uses the Sonic X Voice acting 
 (which is my favorite voice acting) and I can get enough of the music ( I love it!) and the graphics 
 are AMAZING!! I love them!!, it too good to look away from!!!
  And the game play has them issues to like in wave ocean I want to get to that rock by the ramp 
 it won't let you for instants and i think this is one that on the second part of the same level 
 if you touch ANYTHING you get hurt of die.
  And there are 3 stories, sonic is saving a girl, silver is in the future in a city that has been 
 destroyed but I don't know shadows yet because i haven't gotten there yet (i guess he's with Rouge 
 or someone)
  I Really enjoyed this game and you should try it out!
  I hope Sega Fixes the issues in the game and rereleases the game for wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHILRYABKIN
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  Sega you need to take time on your games!! Not rush them out for the Christmas season! That's the 
 problem with Sonic the Hedgehog for the Xbox360 it's also known as Sonic Next Gen. This game is 
 really bad sure it might have Sonic alone by himself. Unlike in Sonic Heros but this game sucks. I 
 have reasons why it sucks. 1. Sonic runs to slow.2. There are constinant gltiches.3. The loading times 
 suck it's worse than a Sega CD game.4. The controlls are crap. You cant seen to controll Sonic that 
 well and when your on a loop and if you move the controll stick just slighty. Sonic falls right 
 off.5. The plot sucks. There are 3 plotlines to be exact. It's for Sonic, Shadow and a new character 
 Sliver. They all suck. Sonic is trying to save a Princess. (Ripping off Super Mario Bros) Shadow is 
 trying to figure out his past and Sliver is trying to kill Sonic who he thinks is a demon who caused 
 the flames of diaster. Trust me they all suck. Overall I hate this game it dosent desvere the name 
 Sonic the Hedgehog. The only good thing I found about the game is the music and graphics. Everything 
 Esel sucked. Dont buy it dont even rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tedhlfc4life
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I dont know why people thinks this game is terrible i think it is a very good game with a couple 
 of flaws.
  
  The biggest flaw is no doubt the camera angles which suck ass! at one point where u are sonic u 
 are running down a hill then the camera angle move straight away and a big snow boulder comes down 
 the hill after you.
  
  Anyway there are three story modes in this game which all at some point link together. You do these 
 three story modes with sonic, shadow and at the time new character silver.
  
  Predictably the main enemy in sonic story mode is dr. eggman who has kidnapped the princess of soliana 
 and sonic on several occasions saves her but somebody always gets in the way like silver who gets 
 in the way two or three times.
  
  Shadows main enemy is a dark substance called mephiles who takes the shape of shadows body the 
 only diffrence is the the red lines on shadows head are blue on mephiles head.
  
  Silver is in my opinion the worst character he dosent run at high speed he uses telepathic powers 
 which are alright but not as fun. Anyway silver lives in a future which has been destroyed by a 
 fire monster called Iblis and silver is told who the iblis triggrer is and apparently its sonic. After 
 finding this out he goes back in time looking for the "iblis trigger".
  
  Overall i think this is a good game with a few flaws oh yeah and it also has a two-player mode 
 where you can use either sonic, shadow or silver where you can team up of battle each other. This 
 game has very good graphics if you like that. I rate this game. 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopy_101
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 7, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog on 360 is the first Sonic game to be released on the current generation of video 
 game systems. This time you play as three different hedgehogs, Sonic, Shadow and Silver, all with 
 their own scenarios and stories as they battle Dr Robotnick and new enemies to save The Kingdom 
 Of Soleana and Princess Elise. Sounds a lot similar to a certain OTHER platformer to me
  
  Lets get things straight however, Sonic The Hedgehog on Xbox 360 is a complete disappointment. 
 The reason for this though is because the game is plagued by three riveting, and gradually, game 
 crippling flaws. If it wasn't for these problems then perhaps Sonic 06 wouldn't be as misunderstood 
 as it is now today. 
  
  The first of these main flaws is load times. Sonic The Hedgehog has dreadful load times. Not only 
 are these load times lengthy and enduring, sometimes being as long as 30 seconds long with each 
 load screen but they're sometimes just cruelly pointless. An example being when you get given missions, 
 the game specifically takes its time to tell you what you're supposed to do, before then going 
 to another 30 second load screen to do the task itself. 
  
  Furthermore this is irritating because you're going to die a lot during Sonic The Hedgehog on 360 
 which leads me on to Flaw Number Two. The camera, its off. While we already know the camera in 
 3D Sonic games isn't great, Sonic The Hedgehog takes this to a whole new level where you'll almost 
 always be fighting the camera just to see what you're doing during the game. 
  
  Whether this means during a boss fight or picking off enemies with Shadow or Silver's abilities 
 the issues remains the same. The camera sometimes sticks in areas where you don't want it and stays 
 there. 
  
  Other times, the camera will be pointing at the wrong thing or zoomed in too close or too far away 
 to let the player get a good enough picture on what they're doing. There are no distinct camera 
 controls in Sonic The Hedgehog, and it would've proved very beneficial if the player was allowed 
 to function with them more properly, like in Super Mario 64.
  
  And lastly, Sonic The Hedgehog on Xbox 360 has terrifyingly poor slowdown which as unfortunate 
 as it sounds tends to happen frequently when action comes in to play with the game. It makes the 
 game so much harder to play which is a big problem on some levels.
  
  Still despite these three game impacting issues there are brighter sides to Sonic The Hedgehog. 
 Heck, the game is still very much fun to play with these problems. Sonic The Hedgehog plays a lot 
 like the Dreamcast Sonic Adventure titles that were released in the early years of the 128 Bit 
 era.
  
  Sonic The Hedgehog is similar to Sonic Adventure 1 in that you navigate between levels through 
 a world system. In this world system you can buy upgrades  a lot of them being familiar moves 
 from earlier Sonic games like the coin dash and you can also do side missions to earn coins. 
 
  
  The side missions are OK for the most part if you want to earn the extra medals in the game which 
 lead to achievements but are not really worth the effort on most occasions. At other times you 
 have to do side missions in order to progress furthur in the game and often can lead the player 
 in gathering information around the town or finding secrets in order to play the next level.
  
  The Sonic campaign is very speed orientated and the action is good too to support. At times 
 Sonic's levels can be annoying though as he can be too fast to control and his speed levels (where 
 Sonic moves faster than usual) are very difficult to navigate properly, thankfully though there 
 are very few of these levels.
  
  As for Shadow's campaign he gets to use vehicles and his special chaos control powers in his levels. 
 Shadow's levels tend to be quite fun with vehicles which range from buggies and bikes to hover-crafts 
 and hang-gliders. These vehicles all control fine and how you would expect them although can be 
 a little odd to get used to at first. 
  
  Shadow's levels are fast paced much like Sonic's levels as you might expect as a fan of the earlier 
 games. They tend to have similar problems that Sonic's levels have but the Speed levels are replaced 
 by hang-glider levels and with rocket launchers too. Shadow's hang-glider levels are a lot slower 
 than the speed levels also which is a huge relief. 
  
  Finally Silver's episode, which is by far the best, is unique thanks to his ability to manipulate 
 the environment around him using his telekinetic skills. I found his campaign the most interesting 
 as it varies from the normal speed formula of the previous two episodes and has unique puzzles 
 that have more challenge than Sonic or Shadow's episodes combined.
  
  Besides the episodes, you control other characters in the Sonic universe like Tails and Knuckles, 
 Amy, Rogue and even Blaze The Cat from the more recent Sonic Rush series. It is good playing as 
 all of these characters again and it is an original addition to the game.
  
  As for the boss battles in Sonic The Hedgehog, they're pretty much average for the most part although 
 some are designed interestingly and it is fun to discover how to beat some of the bosses like on 
 Shadow's levels.
  
  The graphics are spectacular in Sonic The Hedgehog and there is a lot of detail in the game, while 
 the animation is decent relatively speaking. Soleana and the world are lovingly designed and the 
 effort goes as far as small details on Sonic's trainers and minor patterns on Elise's dress which 
 makes this game stand out from other platformers in the graphical category
  
  The sound design is pretty good too and the game makes use of an orchestral track which is a little 
 out of the ordinary for modern Sonic games, especially considering its normal dependency on pop-rock 
 for the Sonic Adventure games
  
  The voice acting isn't half bad although it is nothing special either. This Sonic in particular 
 has an entirely new cast of voices, many of which are from the Sonic X TV series 
  
  Sonic The Hedgehog is a moderately long game but with enough enthusiasm could be finished within 
 a week. Although replaying each campaign has its replay value if you want to earn more medals in 
 the game.
  
  Summed up, Sonic The Hedgehog is an OK game but because of that it is ultimately disappointing 
 as well. We as gamers expected more from this Sonic The Hedgehog on 360 as a Sonic title. It makes 
 the game seem a lot more average than it actually is and sadly requires a lot of patience to really 
 get the best of. 
  
  If you do play through Sonic The Hedgehog and ignore its problems, a fun and entertaining game 
 shines through in the end. Otherwise however, it is best to avoid Sonic The Hedgehog and go dig 
 out Sonic Adventure 1 and 2 on the Dreamcast instead.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blitzyblitz16
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 31, 2009 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm not even going to waste my time breaking it down to you why this game sucks soo bad.
  
  Keep this game FAR I mean FAR! away from your 360... I think the reason the 360 breaks soo much 
 is because people been playing this game and the 360 could not handel how lame this game was... like 
 I can't believe the makers did not say to their self's while making this game "this is dumb! why 
 are we making this crappy game ?"... the game is soo bugged up it's almost like they did not even 
 test the game after the put it up for sell and Sonic is slow as crap! Shadow still rides around 
 in damn toy-cars when he is faster with out it.. sliver is lame and the others are pointless now... then 
 to top that off the loadings are LONG! you will spend more time looking at loadings then playing 
 the game! like this game sucks!
  
  Sega just give it a rest... you fail just like your damn Dream-Cast.. Sonic Adventure 2 should had 
 been Sonic's last game... just stop!
  
  I use to game now to play with my dog... it will never enter my 360 AGAIN! EVER!
  
  Sega can 
 suck it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersInThe-Sky
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Oh Sega, why do you do it? After several hit and miss installments from the previous generation, 
 soulless corporate mascot Sonic the Hedgehog comes to the next generation only to find himself 
 speeding straight into a brick wall in a title that redefines the word disappointing. And why? 
 To prove this franchise is finally out of gas.
  
  The laughably bad story centers around Sonic and his insipid friends, now too many to name, on 
 a quest to stop a time travelling monster using friendship and the power of bad dialogue. The result 
 is hours of events with worse writing than internet fanfiction, awkward cutscenes featuring Sonic 
 and a human princess prancing in a flower field like lovebirds, enough plot holes to fill a DC 
 comics story arc, and of course, the series' symbol of jumping the shark, Silver the Hedgehog, 
 a character that would have been pathetic as a 10 year old's fan character, all in a cheap attempt 
 to emulate the feel of a generic Japanese RPG.
  
  The graphics aren't exactly anything to cheer about either. Despite the cinematic flare of FMV 
 cutscenes, any and all visual enjoyment in the experience is hampered by the flat out poor art 
 direction. Picture if you will, a CG anime version of Lord of the Rings featuring Barney the Dinosaur. 
 The direction is all over the place, using styles that never mesh well together at all. In addition 
 to the poor detailing and sluggish framerate, the game as a whole feels more like a beta to a last 
 generation game than a step forward. And yet this is all before the controller is even touched.
 
  As previously stated before, Sonic the Hedgehog is a game that desperately tries to be an action 
 RPG. How does it go about this you ask? By forcing players to talk to the same 7 or so human character 
 models to perform mundane tasks such as poorly plotted races and fetch quests that usually translate 
 into aimless wandering around a large city with a mini map that tells you nothing.
  
  When you're not lost in the sparsely populated cities, you play "Action Stages". If by action, 
 you're looking for Sonic running at the speed of sound with a control reaction time so bad you'd 
 think your control pad was broken, Shadow needlessly riding vehicles with the same busted controls, 
 and Silver tossing metal crates like they're lighter than baseballs only to miss every shot, you'll 
 be in heaven. Anybody else with half a brain however will be driven mad not only by the game's 
 repetition, but its overall lack of polish. I've phased through platforms, stuck to walls, and 
 been killed by inanimate objects on every stage of the game at least once, a testament to the game's 
 poor programming and Sega's declining quality control. Hell, the last level is essentially a textbook 
 example of how not to make a game; an amalgam of every flaw in the mechanics played by 8 times 
 to work your way to an ending that retcons the entire game's events from happening. Gotta love 
 deus ex machina.
  
  And last but most certainly not least, the game's main course. Imagine walking through a town and 
 approaching a citizen in need of assistance. You accept their request and 20 second loading screen. 
 They return to tell you what you already know in one sentence and loading screen. Do the job, 
 loading screen. They thank you, loading screen. Results, etc. These 20 second buzz kills take up 
 about a quarter of the 20+ hour experience and pop up everywhere; in the middle of stages, between 
 cutscenes, before boss fights, after boss fights, before the results, after the results and so 
 on. What could this game possibly be loading? It sure can't be anything of quality.
  
  From top to bottom, Sonic the Hedgehog is an absolute mess. From the brain dead script and voice 
 acting, to the atrociously loose controls and frequent glitches, and the mediocre emo rock/orchestral 
 soundtrack, there is absolutely nothing redeeming about this game at all. Leave it to burn in the 
 abyss it has created for itself in hopes that maybe, just maybe, the developers will learn to play 
 test the shovelware that they push on their audiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FM_punk
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:24 am PT
Review:  It's sad to see such a clssic charecter to be in the worst games ever. First i didnt even buy this! 
 It came with my 360. When I started this I was like who the hell is that princess girl. The story 
 is jut complete trash. Also the levels are very annoying. Besides playing as sonic you get to play 
 as shadow and silver. I only unlocked silver and the first level with him dosnt help you at all. 
 These games are bringing the end to sonic. I would only get this if the only other game was barbie. 
 Sonic deserves so much better. Sega is now just milking sonic. WORDS WORDS WORDS WORDS WORDS WORDDS 
 WORDS WORDS WORDS WORDS WORDS WORDS WORDS WORDS WORDS WORDS WORDS  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Wolfman09
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I remember watching the old sonic shows. Even watching that old anime sonic movie that most peope 
 hated and I still backed it up. I remember playing the old Sega Genesis sonic games. Heck I remember 
 playing the Dreamcast Sonic Adventures 1 and 2 and I still backed it up even when people said it 
 was crap. Everyone was saying that this was the start of Sonic's quick fall to the bottom, but 
 I didn't want to believe it, but I just can't cover for it now, this really disappointed me.
  
  This game was bad in so many ways its hard for me to even acknowledge it as a part of the Sonic 
 franchise. Its so bad I only bothered to finish two stages! The point where you first fight Silver 
 is where I said "Screw it! I'm done!" it was just too frustrating! The main thing wrong was the 
 controls. They were so stiff and uncooperative that most of the time you'd feel like you were stuck 
 in mud, and when you got up to speed you couldn't turn to save you're self! The part where you're 
 supposed to be going at high speeds is extremely frustrating, you can't help but run into something! 
 And don't bother trying to be fancy with it or try and collect rings, it's almost impossible. Dx
 
  
  The side missions in the town were annoying and the people you had to find to do them were even 
 worse! I spent a half hour trying to find one stinking person, I swear I talked to everyone in 
 the town twice over trying to find that one person. And since when did Sonic have to use the rings 
 to buy crap!?! 
  
  The voice acting was crap and the two stages I did play were just as bad. That one boss in the 
 desert stage was retarded to fight. there one spot where he must be hit to win, and with the crappy 
 controls this becomes a chore. And finally the story, what the heck happened!?! I thought it would 
 at least stay around the main story as it's predecessors. I only played for a little while and 
 I can tell the story's already messed up (who ever thought of Sonic falling in love with the princess 
 must have been high) . 
  
  The only things I can say in defense of the game is the graphics. They along with the new characters 
 which was good, are the only things that were promising for the game, but did nothing to save it.
 
  
  All I can say at this point is that Sega needs to get their act together, I grew up on Sonic and 
 I really want to see him live on. I want the next generation of gamers to enjoy the blue blur as 
 I have back in the day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch_burns1
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total waste of time and money. I thought good deal 20 bucks for a sonic game and 
 I get gamer points cuz it's for the 360, wrong, wrong, and wrong. First off it isn't a true sonic 
 game, and second only the most dedicated gamer will give this game enough of a chance to get any 
 gamer points. The game starts off in the middle of a city, which reminds me way to much of my room 
 mates tony hawk games, then you go to the first level which is fine, but when you get to the second 
 boss he pulls some physic crap on you that isn't intuitively obvious how to beat and there are 
 no hints. turns out you have to keep your distance till he uses his powers then charge in cuz if 
 you go in sooner your going to die anyway the game just gets worse from there. you later run into 
 challenges that you have no idea how to beat and again no clues on what to do, and if you screw 
 up you have to sit through a million loading screens which take forever. btw they give you and 
 extra loading screen for every town quest sometimes more. yeah a loading screen so you can talk 
 to the guy and have him tell you one line, and it's a 30 second screen. anyway you get past this 
 really nasty one called the three musketeers which the first part is admittedly easy, but still, 
 the other two aren't and then you go to the next stage, it's not particularly hard, but if you 
 don't save after the 3musketers and you die then you have to do that again too cuz it doesn't save 
 for you there, I know gay huh, well at that point I was finally fed up with the game enough to 
 put it away for good, almost broke the disk too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kappazilla996
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog for the XBox360 and PlayStation 3 is a better game then what most people give 
 it credit for. One thing I'm going to focus on is the glitches that everyone complains about. They, 
 8.5times out of 10, don't affect game-play, so don't hold it against them. Another thing is the 
 "atrocious" controls, the way people say it makes it sound like pushing gently on the -control 
 stick makes the character just jet off to the side. And the so-called terrible storyline, is just 
 one of those hard things to understand, if you look at it hard enough, the story makes sense. And 
 the "terrible" dialog, isn't as bad as you think. And the occasional lag, not important because 
 it doesn't really affect game-play. And how everyone complains about how "slow" Sonic and Shadow 
 are compared to past appearances, it's 3D, they can't go too fast, or else you won't have as much 
 control. SO, in the end I give this game an 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSmokeNinja
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Before I got the Xbox 360 for Christmas, I had been wanting to play this game for a long time, 
 ever since it came out. I looked at the reviews and ratings of this game from gamesites and looked 
 at some gameplay images. I heard a lot of critism about this game but judging from the looks, I 
 thought this game would be a perfect Sonic game. 
  
  Okay, one thing that disappointed me about this game was the level design. Not all the levels were 
 horribly done but there were a few levels that seemed to me badly desingned, and some seemed unfinished, 
 especially Sonic's Aquatic base. I also found it very easy to get lost on some levels. The worst 
 the game was at the last part of some of Sonic's levels such as Ocean Wave, Crisis City, and Kingdom 
 Valley Sonic will automatically run to catch up with Eggman and you had to stay clear of running 
 into objects, which seems inpossible to do.
  
  The town missions were just plain and simply pointless. I hated the fact that I would have to play 
 as Silver and find 6 kids in the town just to find out where Sonic is, not only that but there 
 is no hints on the map that tells you where they are. 
  
  While this game has some bad things about it, there where some good things too. 
  
  The graphics 
 were awsome and the controls were kinda good. The game had a very interesting story line and great 
 cut-scenes and great sound effects.
  
  Last but not least, this game had great theme songs for each character, and the level music was 
 awsome.
  
  Well... That concludes my review...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: labolus101
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been greatly improved if some of the levels had been better play-tested. Overall 
 good game the story is strong, the town missions are painful and sad. The character cast ads an 
 extra element of challenge so that really good characters like Blaze and Silver are balanced with 
 someone like Amy (really difficult to do well with) . Omega 123 and Rouge are good additions to 
 Shadows story, and Tails and Knuckles seem almost a requirement for Sonic's. The environments are 
 very nice and the characters move (although they need tweaking) are satisfactory. Boss fights are 
 satisfying and all around fun. The camera is a problem but given the proper play isn't a problem 
 for most levels. A greater level of play-testing would have ensured that bugs with camera and attacks 
 were fixed. Overall a good solid game that only gets a bad reputation from small glitches here 
 and there but if its played through to the end its very satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hampsterman4
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Blech. Sonic the Hedgehog. TERRIBLE. I am a dedicated Sonic fan. I do not call a Sonic game terrible. 
 And yet... IT'S TERRIBLE. Here's a couple of reasons:
  1.) You can only play as 3 characters. Not too bad.
  2.) Why the h--- did they add Silver?! I say 
 he was a bad Idea from the start.
  3.) Shadow returned. I thought he DIED!
  4.) Shadow and Silver are slow. YOU DO NOT MAKE A SONIC GAME SLOW!
  5.) The animations are bad. 
 You get hit and the rings don't bounce around. They just land.
  6.) The enemies have LIFEBARS. You have to hit an enemy several times before they die. It slows 
 down the game. I must stress the point: YOU DO NOT MAKE A SONIC GAME SLOW!!!
  7.) You enter these super speed sections where if you touch ANYTHING you lose all your rings and 
 die.
  8.) They make EXTREMELY long levels so if you lose all your lives 14 minutes into a level, you start 
 over.
  
  8 reasons. I was going for 10. Oh well. While I'm talking about Sonic, they aren't making ANY good 
 games for him anymore. Here's my three part theory:
  1.) Sonic Team makes bad games.
  2.) The fans buy the games.
  3.) Sonic Team makes money and continues to make bad games. Cycle 
 repeats.
  MONEY. That's what they want. MONEY. Here's my three part solution:
  1.) Gather supporters at sonic-deserves-better. webs. com
  2.) Have a couple of testers decide if 
 the new games are good.
  3.) If it's bad: DON'T buy it. If it's good: buy it.
  That way Sonic Team will make better games. ; )
  Go to sonic-deserves-better. webs. com for more 
 information.
  (If you're reading this before 12/14/08, sonic-deserves-better. webs. com may not exist.)
  Got 
 all that? Good. See ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattH031
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  This is a great game even though it has flaws but which game doesn't? I have no idea why everyone 
 says it is terrible. Yes, it could be better but no game is perfect. In my opinion it is one of 
 the most underrated games, most people couldn't make a game at all. This is a really bad review 
 so i'm just going to repeat things in different ways to get over 100 words. I bought this game 
 just to see what it was like because i like alot of games even if they are said to be terrible. 
 I was surprised that it got such bad reviews, i loved it and i still do.
  The levels are great and have a great design, the story is really good and the characters are also 
 good. Some people don't like it just because Eggman looks a bit different which is a stupid reason 
 not to like it. It has a good variation between the characters so it isn't too repetitive and there 
 are side missions so you don't have to go straight to the next level and finish it too fast. The 
 only things i'm not too keen on is the unco-operative camera in some of the games and the things 
 the say when talking, i just think some bits are a bit embarrasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshishadow
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  only for graphics 1.5. that game is soooooooooooooo disappointing that load in a thousand years 
 i prefer play 100 sonic the hedgehog (Sega Genesis) than this trash. and in the end sonic kiss 
 the princess JAJAJAJAJA!!!!! and with the kiss transform in super sonic. in think i can complete 
 the game with one hand you have more action with your hands in a RPG like POKEMON (and POKEMON 
 is a million times better) i prefer see dora the explorer to complete this game again. this games 
 is for novice who wants complete a game with one hand and make them all with joystick and a button 
 and you will end that game with these requirements and you will see a ending of disney but..... 
 is a sad love bla bla, just missing that silver her with a kiss to shadow
  
  i like so much the games of sonic but for this game i prefer so much the games of Mario Bros 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtraker
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  I rented this game when it first came out and to be honest, besides improved graphics, there is 
 absolutely nothing to it. The gameplay is pretty basic but this is not the problem. The real problem 
 is when you have to go through loops and at the parts when Sonic starts to run faster for example 
 if you go in a loop in the previous games there was some sort of invisible walls that were preventing 
 you from falling but in this game there are no walls you could go through a loop and die like 10 
 times in a row and when Sonic starts dashing it's just plain frustrating because he runs really 
 fast but when you jump over obstacles it's like he doesn't stop going fast so if you don't time 
 it perfectly you can end up in a hole really far from where you jumped. So basically this game is 
 a complete disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emblem_2007
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  To me this is a really good game such good graphics good characters but the story seemed to be 
 to short and a bad thing about it that you cant really play the other characters when you want 
 and also the loading is to long some missions are great they hide the sliver medals good though 
 hard to find i havent played the ps3 version because i dont have a ps3 but i really like sliver 
 hes a cool character to bad they dont really show him in any other sonic game and mephiles to seemed 
 some levels seem kind of hard though and getting a S on the town missions is hard but slivers town 
 missions seem harder the story wasnt that great if they spent a lot of time on it then it whould 
 be a great story but thats what i think its still a good game to me really good but something i 
 dont understand is why did they put as sonic likes elise shes a human seems weird but good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brawl578
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog has been mistreated ever since its rushed release. Many gamers looked at the 
 negatives of the game, but what about the positives? Sure, this game suffers from a variety of 
 glitches, and maybe the camera can cause you trouble, but the gameplay is not as bad as it seems. 
 It gives you the old Sonic feeling of the Genesis days with all of its loops and obstacles that 
 make up the levels. But the main thing that people have been complaining about is the voice acting. 
 Personally, I thought the voice acting was good, it had a few flaws, but still good. Sonic the 
 Hedgehog also introduces us to a new character: Silver. Silver is a hedgehog from the future that 
 can use telekinesis to pick objects up and hurl them at his enemies. He's not as fast as Sonic 
 or Shadow, but still is fun to play as. Maybe this game could have been one of the best Sonic games 
 ever if it wasn't rushed, but Microsoft and Sony wanted it to be released on the day the PS3 came 
 out, so Sega had no choice but to rush it and hope for the best. Fans who liked this game (like 
 me) will be thrilled when Sonic Unleashed comes out, and it looks like Sonic is crawling out of 
 the hole he fell into. Hopefully, Sega will make a Sonic game that is so great that Sonic will 
 never hit a speed bump again. Here's hoping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gadesfn
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Ah Sonic..... You were once the biggest video game mascots in the industry, always trying to go 
 one better than Mario. Then you made the jump to 3D. While Mario evolved, you did as well, now 
 before I go any further, I thought & still to this day, love the Sonic Adventure series, I think 
 they are actually pretty good games & I'm in the minority that also thinks that Sonic Heroes was 
 also good. Then, Shadow the Hedgehog came out.... My God. So, 3D may have not been kind to the 
 blue blur but that hasn't stopped him, in fact when I found out that Sega was going to make a next 
 gen Sonic, I was thrilled, then I played it....
  
  First off, the graphics are good for a Next Gen title, the world comes alive, just like in the 
 original titles & the adventure series. However, that is probably the only positive I can honestly 
 think of... 
  
  Now the negatives, first off, the load times are horrendously long for a next gen title, especially 
 when games like Gears of War, Bioshock, I mean, punch-out on the NES is quicker to load than this 
 game... The second gripe I have is Silver, his levels are awful, the techniques are God awful & 
 his story, the Iblis Trigger? He could have been a cool character but he just fell flat down on 
 his face. Another, the dubbing, it just seems out of left field, you see Sonic talking & no voice 
 coming out of his mouth all of a sudden, finally, their is a so called love story between the human 
 princess (voiced by Lacey Chabert) & Sonic, which is just too strange & silly for my taste.
  
  Sonic used to be fun to play, he still is, just not in this piece of garbage, if you want a 
 sonic fix, get the mega collections, or the adventure series. This was the biggest let down in 
 video games in 2006. Hopefully Sonic Unleashed will be a better game but if not, maybe its time 
 to put the blue blur out of his misery, or on the DS or PSP....
  
  The Good:
  Graphics, some of the Music, Lacey Chabert
  
  The Bad:
  Everything else!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrex1212
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I decided to review this game today because this will be an easy and harsh review. I am in 
 a harsh mood and well, there is no nice way to put it, this game sucks. This game sucks very, very, 
 and I mean VERY badly. There is actually not one good thing about this game. Everything is broken 
 and the story is so terrible that it almost concerns me that we have gotten a mis-translated version 
 of the game.
  
  Every single achievement in this game lacks grammatical structure. The actual descriptions sound 
 like a japanese person trying to speak fractured english in a grocery store when trying to find 
 out what aisle the fish sticks are found. I'm talking someone who just came over here from Japan 
 and has never learned more than a few simple phrases of english, it wasn't me saying Japanese people 
 can't speak the language. 
  
  Onto physics. The gameplay is near to impossible to manage because well, you jump and in mid air 
 you can go from looking straight to looking backwards with a simple quick flick of the joystick. 
 I dare you to try and jump and in mid air turn 180 degrees. I'm sorry to say, but it is physically 
 and scientifically impossible to develope rotational inertia in mid-air without a force being applied. 
 Another problem is that the same thing happens when running, you will be able to run fast, but 
 handling is ridiculously unreal. You can make sudden turns that cause you to often fall off the 
 level at certain points in the game simply because the sensitivity is way too high.
  
  The actual game tries to use the different characters like it did in Sonic Adventure 2. The only 
 problem is that, even though Sonic Adventure 2 did have a couple noticeable glitches, they didn't 
 really effect gameplay, in this game it is actually hard to not glitch the game. The level structure 
 is the worst thing I've seen since Sonic The Hedgehog for the Sega Saturn. I can't remember if 
 that was exactly the name of the game, but this game is still able to fall into the same category. 
 Luckily I was able to make it to the end of the game with Sonic, unfortunately I was so fed up 
 with the brokeness of the game that I couldn't continue.
  
  The storyline is down right terrible. This game is pretty much any Super Mario game with a blue 
 hedgehog as the main character. Some random princess is captured by Dr. Eggman (although I still 
 to this day call him Robotnik because it is a million times cooler) and Sonic of course has to 
 save her because she is the princess of Soleanna. Yup, this is as creative as they could get I 
 guess, take Sonic and slap him in the middle of a real world scenario. This is pretty much the 
 cause of World War I, except it was the assassination of a Prince and well... there were no fuzzy 
 critters running around trying to save the day. 
  
  I can't even figure out what to say about this game without swearing or going into too many details 
 that cause this review to fail hard. All I can say is, if you EVER see this game, run away. Run 
 out of whatever store you are in, cover your ears and close your eyes, and pray to god that the 
 store sells this piece of junk to some other poor unfortunate soul. Seriously... I bought this 
 game on impulse because it was Sonic The Hedgehog. I bought this when it was a remarkable $14.99 
 too, now it's down to $7.99 where I have seen. I was tricked, but don't you be! This game is utter 
 trash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This is the hardest game I ever had to review. I put off playing this game for ages. After seeing 
 horrid reviews and playing a frustrating demo, I pushed this aside, moved onto Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings and figured that someday I'd play this just to see how bad it was but wait until a major 
 price drop and even then whenever I considered buying it, I'd see something else and took it as 
 a sign from God that I wasn't supposed to play it. But eventually we all have to pay the piper 
 and eat sh -- .
  
  What's worse was I was all prepared to verbally crucify this game and do my duty as an old school 
 Sonic fan. I spent hours looking up various ways to use the word "bile." But as I played through 
 this game, every time I was ready to bash the game's brains in, it would look up at me with sad 
 puppy dog eyes begging me for forgiveness. Don't get me wrong, it still deserves to be in the top 
 ten worst Sonic games, but it definitely didn't out manage to out suck Sonic Genesis or Sonic Labyrinth.
 
  
  I apologize that this review is long given the game has so many game play elements and there's 
 no way to sum it up quickly. So you may want to get a drink or a snack first.
  
  LOADING   
  
  Ok so the story goes that apparently Sonic has now landed somewhere between Final 
 Fantasy X and Final Fantasy XII. I swear the opening scene looks straight out of the rejected FF 
 story bin and Princess Elise looks like a rejected character from that series. Anyway Princess 
 Final Fantasy Reject is hosting this big ceremony and of course Dr. Eggman shows up to break up 
 the party. Apparently Eggman has been working out and had some plastic surgery because there's 
 this weird attempt to now make him look "realistic" yet his mustache is still wider than his face 
 and he still has his cartoony 4Kids voice and stealing a page out of Bowser's book, he kidnaps 
 the Princess but Sonic rushes to the rescue accompanied by his assortment of Care Bear colored 
 friends: Tails, Knuckles, Amy, Shadow, Rouge, etc. Thankfully lamer friends like Cream and Big 
 are sitting out this time. There is an attempt at an interesting story involving time travel but 
 that gets overshadowed by the vomit inducing love scenes between Elise and Sonic. That's what always 
 cracks me up about the Sonic series, is that it continues to try to take itself seriously even 
 though it has some of the worst writing and dialogue since Disney decided to ruin their beloved 
 films with awful direct to DVD sequels. The whole time this game stumbles between serious drama 
 and wacky fun never knowing which way to go. But play the game yourself if you care that much about 
 the story.
  
  LOADING   
  
  So where do I start here? The only easy way to do this is to break it down into each of the three 
 story modes. This game is essentially Sonic Adventure 3 and it's trying so hard to emulate the 
 previous two you can literally hear it straining. It's incorporating so many game play elements, 
 it feels insane at times.
  
  Sonic: You start out only selecting Sonic (as with SA) and you eventually unlock the stories for 
 Shadow and newcomer Silver. So as Sonic, you have high speed plat forming stages reminiscent of 
 Sonic Adventure. These might have been more fun except the controls are very slippery and take 
 a while to get the feel of. Sonic automatically runs through high speed loops and such which is 
 fun to watch but trying to control him at these high speeds can get crazy. At the same time, the 
 camera has epilepsy and jumps at inopportune times. Those with patience will eventually get the 
 hang of the stages when you have full control of Sonic, but even if you get the rhythm down, you 
 still might take a hit from a robot off screen you didn't see because the camera was looking at 
 a wall. Then come these ultra high speed stages which are horribly designed. Imagine playing Secret 
 Rings, trying to control it with your elbows, removing all attacks, sped up to twice its speed 
 and making it to where each wall, rock and obstacles is as damaging as an enemy. All you can do 
 is attempt to steer Sonic and make perfectly timed jumps. Then later come some of the most horrible 
 snowboarding levels known to man and our old friend, front view running sequences makes an appearance 
 just to annoy me. There's a couple of these stages where Sonic is carrying Elise around which is 
 essentially Sonic going slower and using the right trigger to make a powerful barrier appear around 
 them which is handy in wiping out foes. And finally the game throws in some short bits where you 
 play as Tails and Knuckles for nothing more than fan service. 
  Tails: Tails is fine on the ground, though his ring box attack is about as powerful as breaking 
 wind and then he has to fly. You're fine as you are going straight but the minute you try to steer, 
 he flies around like he's drunk and there's no way to cancel it so you just have to wait for him 
 to tire out and hopefully land where you wanted him to.
  Knuckles: Knuckles is slightly better mostly just running around and punching but he suffers mostly 
 from bad hit detection, but thankfully hitting the A button three times makes a large attack to 
 wipe out whatever is nearby.
  But it's weird because you barely play as them and it makes me wonder why they bothered having 
 them playable. As I said, probably just for fan service.
  
  LOADING   
  
  Silver: Silver's storyline is the next to be unlocked. Silver is a white hedgehog from 200 years 
 in the future who wears black eyeliner and subscribes to the Final Fantasy school of hair styles. 
 He's told by a mysterious creature who looks like Shadow that Sonic is the cause of all the problems 
 in his future and killing Sonic will save his world. Silver is slow but has telekenesis which he 
 uses to move and throw nearby objects as well as there are designated areas where he can use his 
 powers to levitate and move items. I will say, despite his slow movements, Silver had the more 
 functional game play. I only wish Silver had some sort of aiming technique and while he can pick 
 up cars and large boulders, it would've been awesome if he had been able to pick up smaller enemies 
 and throw them around.
  Blaze: First of all how Blaze in this game coincides to Blaze in the Sonic Rush games is a mystery 
 to me. In the Rush series she was from another dimension, but here, she's Silver's friend in the 
 future and I'm not dorky enough to sit here and reason it out. Anyway Blaze is faster than Silver, 
 but sadly she doesn't have the silky smooth controls she does in her DS games. Her homing attack 
 is a spastic flailing which works well when it wants to and then there's her flame tornado move 
 which has her spinning around forever waiting for it to tire out.
  
  LOADING   
  
  Shadow: Look kids! It's your old angst ridden pal, Shadow. Thankfully Shadow is back on his angst 
 medication and no longer toting guns and cursing and now ironically working for the GUN soldiers 
 who spent his last game trying to kill him. Shadow breaks into Eggman's base to rescue Rouge's 
 boobies and incidentally the rest of her and the two of them head off to investigate what Eggman's 
 plan is. Shadow mostly controls like Sonic, but better. His homing attack has him attacking like 
 in a wire-fu movie. He can also use Chaos controls which only seems to allow him to glow red until 
 his power runs out. Alternatively Shadow can drive vehicles. Shadow apparently gets his vehicles 
 from the same place as Master Chief meaning the cars controls like shopping carts full of bricks, 
 but thankfully you don't have to rely on some idiot CPU to man the gun or drive while you do the 
 other. But even better you don't hardly have to use the cars at all. I made a point to only use 
 vehicles when it was absolutely required. One of the best parts came in Crisis City when I was 
 in a car and I couldn't hit Y fast enough and then I was able to run through the city smashing 
 through monsters and watching my car roll off into the abyss.
  Rouge: Rouge controls like a mix between Tails and Knuckles. Her bomb is like Tails's ring box 
 and she glides and climbs like Knuckles.
  Omega: Oh my God, the rogue robot is back. And there's barely any point mentioning him as he shows 
 up and shoots at some things and just lingers around long enough to do a little song and dance.
 
  
  LOADING   
  
  All characters will travel through "Adventure Fields" between some action stages. You either love 
 or hate these. You can run around and explore, looking for hidden emblems and people with blue 
 exclamation points will offer side quests which you can opt out of as well as buy upgrades for 
 your character. While the side quests might be fun for completionists. They can also feel like 
 a mindless chore at times and it doesn't help that the quests are book ended by load screens that 
 often last longer than the missions themselves. 
  
  LOADING   
  
  Now I am playing the 360 version and I have an HD TV. The CG is excellent in the game and I'm not 
 kidding when I say the actual levels looks really nice. There are some really pretty levels with 
 a huge scope and great detail, and then you got the snow which looks like a sheet of fabric and 
 the most glaring flaw comes in the hub environments. The City is bland and lifeless and devoid 
 of personality. A handful of people wander aimlessly around and look like mannequins. I always 
 felt Sonic's world should be more colorful and have more anthropomorphic residents. The in game 
 cut scenes are not well done either. The dub work is poor in mouths don't move with the words at 
 times and the characters look like they're made of plastic. This is brought down more by frame 
 rate slowdown and seeing buildings pop in and out and seeing a character get hung up in a wall 
 or flickering on the edge of the sidewalk.
  
  LOADING   
  
  If I said I didn't like the music in this, I'd be lying. The sound track is probably the game's 
 strongest feature. Every level has some great tunes even if they didn't remake any old Sonic songs 
 from past games but the music is great and only hampered by the annoying voices, not just of the 
 characters but from the lifeless NPCs who love to make loud grunts and moans whenever you speak 
 to them.
  
  LOADING   
  
  Speed is a fickle thing in this game. There are those few shining moments where Sonic or Shadow 
 is blasting through an area at blistering speeds, but those are usually the times you aren't controlling 
 them. When you are controlling them, they'll jog along nicely and not really get fast unless they 
 hit a dash pad and sadly you have to slow down in order to get your bearings so you don't go flying 
 off a cliff or crashing into a foe. The other characters aren't fast at all, but worst of all the 
 entire flow of the game is ruined by the constant appearance of the load screens. Some of which 
 appear between sections of stages and it breaks flow.
  
  LOADING   
  
  Here's the thing. I spent the last several paragraphs slamming this game and God knows the game 
 has 100 petty annoyances in each level mostly due to the numerous glitches and yet, for some reason 
 I continued to play because there were these few shining moments where I found myself enjoying 
 it. I almost feel bad for this game. The developers admitted that it was shoved out before it was 
 ready and that they didn't have enough time or staff and it shows. Over ambition was the main problem 
 in trying to incorporate so many elements, but I think it could've pulled them all off. There was 
 potential for greatness here that some more polish (or at least a patch) might have brought out. 
 In fact, I'm probably going to try to at least finish the game, but I can't forgive the sloppiness 
 of the bugs, glitches, slippery controls, spastic camera and ever present load screens. 
  If you're an absolute die hard Sonic fan, you might be able to overlook the technical problems 
 and furrie love scenes, but if not, just pass it up and go find a nice copy of "Sonic and the Secret 
 Rings." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog may share its name with the Genesis original, but this game is even more broken 
 than most of the other recent Sonic games have been.
  
  The GoodThe environments are at least colorful. The BadCamera frequently gets in the way full of 
 little graphical and animation glitches lengthy and frequent loading times always get in the way 
 town missions are just plain stupid action stages aren't really much better. 
  In what might be seen as a move to reset and reinvent the series, the latest game to feature Sonic 
 the Hedgehog is merely called Sonic the Hedgehog. Sega's blue critter has been around since the 
 16-bit days, when his side-scrolling platformers were strong enough to take on Mario, the then-undisputed 
 kingpin of the platforming genre. Sonic's fall from grace has been slow, starting with a promising 
 first stab at 3D with Sonic Adventure, but it's all been downhill since those far-gone days, and 
 games like this new Sonic the Hedgehog are the culprit. With plenty of bad glitches, poor controls, 
 and totally lame gameplay on all fronts, this one's not going to restore any part of the Hedgehog's 
 name to glory. 
  
  
  
  Sonic and the crew are back with a lackluster adventure that isn't worth your time or money.
 
  
  While Sonic's name is on the box, you'll actually spend most of your time playing as other characters. 
 The game is broken up into three different stories: one starring Sonic, one starring Shadow, and 
 one starring a new hedgehog called Silver. Each of the stories play differently because of the 
 way each hedgehog controls. Sonic is meant to be the fast-moving one, and he mainly attacks via 
 a homing jump attack that makes most basic fights as simple as timing presses of the A button to 
 bounce from foe to foe. Silver has telekinesis powers that let him pick up large objects and use 
 his mind to fling them at enemies. He's not as fast as Sonic, but he has the ability to float in 
 the air for brief periods of time, letting him cross larger gaps. Shadow the Hedgehog gets his 
 own version of the homing attack, but the big difference is that he can drive around in different 
 armed vehicles. Further watering the game down is a heavy supporting cast, so even when you pick 
 the Sonic episode, you'll still occasionally play as Tails and Knuckles. Other Sonic collaborators, 
 like Amy, Blaze, Rouge, and E-123 Omega also put in guest appearances. While the character variety 
 might initially seem like a good idea, most of them aren't too interesting. Tails moves almost 
 painfully slowly, and his fake ring bombs aren't any fun to use, so when Sonic levels occasionally 
 switch over to him, it's immediately boring. In addition to the single-player levels, you can play 
 the game in a two-player, split-screen tag mode that attempts to force players to cooperate as 
 you progress through the story. In addition, you can go back and play levels you've completed in 
 a battle mode. 
  
  While you play as many different characters throughout the main game, the same structure applies 
 across the board. The game's action stages are separated by town portions, where you'll be able 
 to take on dopey side missions to help out the locals or figure out puzzles to proceed. Each of 
 these side missions are bookended by two sets of loading screens, where it first loads up the exact 
 same scene, just with different text dialogue, then it loads up the actual mission. After that, 
 it has to load up some ending text and then load up the out-of-mission version of that part of 
 town. Each load time is fairly long, and when they stack up in this way, it almost makes the game 
 feel broken
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StykShift
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  What the F*** happened to Sonic? You know Sonic the Hedgehog? I just recently got my xbox live 
 working and downloaded some demos of games I've found interesting. Like Sonic? I remember Sonic 
 as the fast paced, 2D, side scroller back in the 16 bit days. I remember the controversy between 
 Sonic and Mario. I remember a lot especially in the gaming genre. Like the People versus Mortal 
 Kombat!
  
  OK-Not gonna go there.
  
  Sonic Adventure for the Dreamcast was also a good one. Bringing the 2D to 3D was a smart step from 
 SEGA. So, I played the demo for the next gen Sonic the Hedgehog and what the f***? With plenty 
 of bad glitches, poor controls, and totally lame gameplay on all fronts, this one should be long 
 forgotten. The gameplay shows a sense of speed, but if you can maintain your direction, you're 
 not going to get far. I've spent more time cursing the controller than enjoying the game. I'm p'o-ed. 
 I feel let down like not making the team. He runs into walls, he jumps off the track, enemies pop 
 up and f*** that up, etc. The list goes on and on.
  
  So you can play up to four characters? I think, but why? Tails has always been GAY. Shadow is great 
 but just a "black" hedgehog. (kind of like the difference in Mario and Luigi back in the day) Silver? 
 Don't get me started. All characters have bad gameplay anyway.
  
  The cut scenes are the best part of the game, I do have to say. The graphics are kick ass. Sega 
 got that! But where's the gameplay, targeting system, story, etc. Sega focused to much on graphics. 
 It looks great though.
  
  Loading. Loading. Loading. There is so much loading forget it. I've played and loved "Lost Odyssey". 
 Both games had a lot of cut scenes (kick ass ones) and tons of loading scenes. You want an example? 
 Loading, Sub Mission text, loading, how to do the cut scene, loading, mission, loading, review, 
 loading, back to game.
  
  Sound and Music to awesome! I always loved the sound, from the springs and rings. Music is always 
 kick ass. Anywhere from Drum 'n' Bass to House, and now they threw in some goth/evanesense type 
 rock, which was cool too. I never payed too much attension to the voice work because let's face 
 it, the early games didn't have it and as long as you know how to read, who cares? Sub-titles... hmmm...
 
  
  Don't rent it. Don't buy it. Actually if you can somehow get a copy for free- THROW IT UNDER A 
 TRUCK. F*** you Sega! You destroyed my lovable hedgehog that I once knew in a looks like quickly 
 developed game. I hear there's another, but maybe we should finally put Sonic to rest. (gunshot 
 sound) (and then,) (rings) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikerfan116
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 3, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Usally, when you put in this game, the first reaction is gonna be "OMG, WHAT HAVE THEY DONE TO 
 POOR SONIC?!" I'm serious. Don't touch/buy/rent/look this game. It's that bad. I'll show you how 
 bad it is.
  
  
  Gameplay: Fairly standard, but the one thing that pissed me off, what happened to all the speed? 
 Probably the 2nd slowest Sonic game EVER (Sonic Labrinth) this game is an insult to the blue blur.
 
  
  
  Design: As well, very standard. Sonic goes into 3D with horrible speed changes and a VERY drunk 
 camera.
  
  
  Value: For $49, this game is a total DAMN DISGRACE! You put this in, expecting a funky fresh platforming 
 experience, you should look somewhere else. This game is just a mound of cockadooky.
  
  
  Controls: Mutilated, DAMN ATROCIOUS! It's like they were trying to spread the buttons out as far 
 as possible!
  
  Ending: Since no one reading this review is EVER gonna pick up this horrible game, I might as well 
 spoil the ending for you. SONIC DIES! THERE YOU GO! IF YOU HAD ANY DOUBT ABOUT HOW CRAPTASTIC THIS 
 GAME IS, THERE YOU GO. IT'S GONE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Sure its not perfect. But what game is. Halo cvame the closest but still had flaws. Sonic the Hedgehog 
 on Xbox 360 is a flawed game, But Fun. Bringing it to Next Gen was a good idea. The graphics in 
 this game are Great! The game features many cool touches, such as Collectible Coins and Bonus Missions 
 and Levels. Sonics Combat system is Very simple however, containing 2 Main Moves, a Jumping Crush 
 and a Swirling Leg Attack. But the thing most people dident like and i can understand why, is the 
 Camera. Designed on your basic RPG Style, it has a problem of not clipping through objets therefore 
 making corners and Hidden Spots Annoying and Frustrating. But the total game in it self is excellent, 
 Fun and has a great story. Sonic must save Princess Elise from Dr. Eggman and his plan to steal 
 her latent Powers able to Bring the World to an End and therefore giving him the ultimate power 
 to dominate. Seeing this game i cant wait for Sonic: Unleashed to Arrive. Hope they will have learned 
 from this one and Improved it into a Great Hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJF00P
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Well, here it is. Sonic's big debut to the new generation of gaming. And what happened? It was 
 a total let down. Of course, I only got it recently, for I completely forgot that they made this 
 game and I saw it for 30 dollars in a platinum hits case. As a huge Sonic the hedgehog fan, I quickly 
 bought it on an impulse, not caring at all to check any reviews or anything. The fact that this 
 game is a platinum hit makes me sad to know that thousands like me, have wasted their money on 
 something like this. For one thing, the places where you get to save kinda are horrible. Some parts 
 are impossible in levels where you always get a game over. And the developers decided to put these 
 parts right before you finish the level, so you have to do the level over. But other then that, 
 most levels meet expectations, they aren't bad, the bad spots and major bugs are. There is a bug 
 around corner. Someone should just bring in some pesticides already. This game is actually good 
 though. If you only count the levels. In between the levels are tedious tasks that bore me. It 
 would have been the 8/10, but the bugs and tedious boring stupids make it a four. Good job Sonic 
 Team... Good job... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 13, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Sonic's past 3D efforts have been iffy. The Sonic Adventure series was decent. Sonic Heroes was 
 a disappointing follow up. Shadow the Hedgehog was a nice departure but still not great. Sonic 
 and Secret Rings was terrible, but now how does the first non-gimicky 3D Sonic game in 5 years 
 stack up? Well, it's really a mixed bag. 
  
  The Good:
  Sonic is back with familiar adventure style gameplay. Shadow, is back and cool as ever and Silver 
 (while really ugly) has a great new gameplay mechanic. Rather than taking the cheesy Japanese story 
 route that previous Sonic games have taken. Sonic 360 has a well crafted intertwining story that 
 equally involves all characters. It plays out nicely with the three endings and with the lengthy 
 high quality cutscenes it's easy to get invested in the story itself. There are alot of characters 
 but since they are split up between the different episodes, they don't seem cluttered. The three 
 main characters play different enough for their stories to seem very distinct. While looking great 
 and sounding good enough, the length of the game makes your purchase well worth the money. 
  
  The Bad: 
  Load............... wait for it.............. a little more............... ok I think 
 you get the point.............. times. I don't know if the laser was looking for it's data randomly 
 on the disc or if the disc was just confused throughout the entire game, but the load times in 
 Sonic 360 are unacceptable. Not only are they long but sometimes they are literally back to back. 
 In the Soleanna town sequences, if you take on a lot of tasks, you can easily spend 30 minutes 
 playing with 15 minutes of load time. Also, the collision detection is holey and the controls are 
 unrelentingly sensitive. A simple nudge of the analog stick will send Sonic careening off a platform 
 to his death. Finally, I am really tired of seeing humans in Sonic games. The human allowed in 
 his games from now on is Eggman (Robotnic) .
  
  Had Sonic Team spent an additional 3-6 months developing and fixing Sonic 360's bugs I have no 
 doubt that it would have been Sonic's greatest adventure to date. As it stands, Sonic 360 is a 
 broken representation of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandpaFohawk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I heard loads of crap about this game but I heard the 360 version was better than the PS3 one or 
 the other way around but anyway im a huge Sonic fan so I bought it really cheap andddddddddddddddd 
 SONIC BOOM!!!!!!!!!! la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la l a la la la la la la la la 
 la la la la la la lllllll Sonic boom gah how many words do i gotta write gafg ga ga ga ga ga ga 
 ga ga g aga gaga gag ag aga g ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga ga g g g g g g 
 g gagga ga ga gag ag ag 
  aaaaaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aba a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a ada a da da da da 
 aa a a aa s s s s s s s s d d f x xz z z x x xz zzs sd d x z ddx s xd
  HITS ga ga ga ga ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja ja jj jj jj jj jj j jhh hh hh hh hh hh hh gg gvk. kl 
 mklmnjkl k knml ;lkjkj kj ;j; jpioupiu0pu u; lupupo; j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  An adventure field with any game is a toss up, but with Sonic, it's amplified more so because your 
 favorite speedy hedgehog needs room to run around.
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog's adventure field has a lot of room to run, sure. But there's no substance, 
 a lot of it is empty space. And not to mention there's a glitch if you have more than one save 
 file on an XBOX, and that glitch means you won't get to the third level. Trust me, annoying for 
 anyone with more than one gamer per console.
  
  Sega tried dearly to bring back speed, but with the 3D format, it's almost always not going to 
 happen. Glitches galore haunt this game in the all new "Speed levels" and they get very frustrating 
 and tedious.
  
  A nice thing about this game, however, is... Dr. Robotnik is back! Sonic finally isn't fighting 
 a Genie, haunted spirit, or black hole guardian. He's just doing what he does best, taking out 
 Robotnik and whatever huge robot he puts together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicnewgen360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Despite what everyone else says this game is definitely a great addition to the sonic series. It 
 still has all the awesome speed, moves, and characters that made sonic games great, yes it's not 
 the most perfect performing game but it's not nearly as bad as most people say. You need to patience 
 with it otherwise you won't enjoy it, there aren't as many glitches as you'd think. First I'll 
 review the bad parts about the game, most of the problems are in the town stages like getting stuck 
 against a wall or making the camera shake like crazy, but if you be careful it won't happen. The 
 loading screens aren't that long either their only15 seconds it's not like loading something on 
 dialup believe me, it does get annoying during the town missions especially when there is a particular 
 one that your stuck on. The act stages work much better but do have a few minor problems like slowing 
 down when theres a lot of action, or when using shadow's vehicles they get damaged just going over 
 a wimpy jump, and there is the occasional camera glitches ,but their not that bad. 
  Now for the good parts about this game. There are plenty of great moments to keep your interest 
 like when sonic or shadow are going over loops, rails, and other crazy jumps. The super speed stages 
 are insanely fast they are kind of hard though, but once you've done them a couple of times they'll 
 become really fun. Using shadow's vehicles is a lot of fun especially the buggy, the way it bounces 
 over the terrain is cool and shooting the rockets is fun too. Another cool feature is all the amigo 
 characters, tails, knuckles, omega, rouge, blaze, and amy, most of them are really fun like blaze 
 who can homing attack, do a fiery tornado, tails who can fly and throw dummy rings, rouge who can 
 glide, climb and chuck grenades, and omega who can hover and shoot lasers. Knuckles and amy are 
 very frustrating, knuckles' punches are slow and delayed and amy is slow and her hammer attack 
 has an extremely short range meaning you have to go right up to the enemy just to hit them! Silver's 
 levels are fun and very challenging, it's neat gabbing boxes and hurling them at robots, and it's 
 neat when you pull a log back with silver's powers and ram it through a wall! The bosses are some 
 of the best I've seen in a sonic game, it's pretty easy to figure out how to beat them because 
 the other characters tell you what to do. 
  Any way this very cool and shouldn't be criticized so much, it's kind of hard the first time but 
 once you beat the game you'll find more enjoyable, if you're a sonic fan like me who can't get 
 enough of sonic this game is definitely worth a purchase. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lantastik
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  The good: The rendered cutscenes look nice, a total hottie (Lacey Chabert) voiced Princess Elise
 
  
  The bad: Everything! Graphics are hideous, music is repetitive, camera control is abysmal, glitches 
 abound, missing features that are mentioned in the manual and missing entirely from the game, the 
 frickin' load screens, etc.
  
  I would write a lengthy review, but I won't bother. This game is pretty much comparable to what's 
 in my toilet after 8 bucks worth of Taco Bell and a vinti espresso.
  
  You spend more time looking at load screens than doing anything else. How does 30 seconds of load 
 screen sound to get a guy shaking like he has Parkinsons to deliver two lines of inane text sound 
 to you? If it sounds good, this is the game for you!
  
  Please don't waste your money or time on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5sonic
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Chances are you've heard of this game. Chances are you've heard that it was a total letdown and 
 it sucks.
  Well it was a total letdown, but definately did not suck.
  
  Graphics-The graphic in this game are really good, there are good textures and lush enviroments. 
 But the many animation glitches and a ton of water but no splashes, bring the otherwise great performance 
 down. 7.5/10
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay is basically the same as most 3D sonics (except sonic heroes) . You run through 
 levels homing attack bad guys and, while it dosen't work very well, you can do this breakdance 
 attack that will hurt bad guys too. Oh, and the town missions are stupid, really horrible. 7/10
 
  
  Controls-Here's where things get iffy, or I should say BAD. The controls are horribly imprecise 
 and even worse the game chucks endless obstacles expecting you dodge them, which is basically impossible 
 send you to a halt time, after time again.4/10
  
  Sound-The game has very good music with a totally awesome maintheme and great level tunes. Unfortunately, 
 
  the Akon songs don't really fit. The sound effects are decent, but some are overused just abit 
 too much. 6.5/10
  
  Normally I'd put multiplayer here, but since all it is going through the same levels with or against 
 a partner I'm going to review the story
  
  Story-All three stories intertwine perfectly making for a great balance. Both Shadow and Silver's 
 stories are good and well thought out. Sonic is like that a lot, but they tried to add a romance 
 between Sonic, a cartoony hedgehog, and a human Princess. EPIC FAIL!!
  The last story was okay until the Princess kissed Sonic. EPIC FAIl!! (again) 7/10
  
  Sonic 
 the Hedgehog had the potential to be a great game and reinvent Sonic. But it is obvious Sega shipped 
 it out premature for a holiday release. What they should've done was keep it in development for 
 another year ship it for a 2007 holiday release. I still play it and can have fun with it, but 
 unless your a hardcore Sonic fan, RENT IT FIRST!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carano789
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Things to say about this game well i'll number things 1 to 5 why this game is just so horrible.
 
  Number 1: The story is just the worst a sonic game has ever had
  Number 2: Glitches, well there are just too many and kills you eyeballs
  Number 3: Camera, just 
 plain awful can never see where your going
  Number 4: Voice Acting, it's getting worse and tails voice actor changes every game why?
  Number 
 5: AI, bloody hell this is probobly the worst AI system ever encountered
  Now i'll list the good things...
  Number 1: The Box is at least cool (and probobly why people 
 buy it)
  Number 2: Very colorful scenery
  And that's it so if the next Sonic game is this bad i will completely stop buying Sega games for 
 good. Please please make sonic unleashed awesome.
  The reason you don't get a 1.0 is because i like Sega for now anyway... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Sega have truly shown us how the mighty have fallen. Yes, way back in the 90's, Sonic showed us 
 actually how blast processing can create one of the very best experiences in gaming history, but 
 now, those magical moments are virtually invisable here in Sonic the Hedeghog for the Xbox 360. 
 Sonic The Hedgehog has lost all the traits that made Sonic so revolutionary for his time, and has 
 created a gaming adventure that is instantly unplayable and lacks any effort in this whatsoever.
 
  
  The story of Sonic The Hedgehog is one of the most silly narratives to ever exsist in a video game. 
 Princess Elsie, princess and soon-to-be guradian of the magical city: Solenna, and produces a candle 
 to contact the gods of the city to watch over them. Then, Princess Elsie and the whole city gets 
 attacked by Dr. Eggman, and Sonic shows up on the chaos. Sonic now has to save Princess Elsie from 
 the evil clutches of Dr. Eggman, and must stop a time travelling prophecy of his future. Wow, that 
 sounds pretty dumb right. Sonic The Hedgehog's story only relies on the 3D flash of it's cutscenes, 
 but beyond that, the story is about absoluetly nothing whatsoever. 
  
  The controls in Sonic The Hedeghog are absoluetly awful. When you command Sonic to do a Homing 
 attack, all he does is fall into a bottomless pit. The controls in Sonic The Hedeghog are so unresponsive 
 and so badly executed, this game feels like the hardest game ever.
  
  The only redeeming qualities of this Sonic adventure is the clunky yet somewhat nastolagic level 
 design of past Sonic games. Hill Valley will instantly remind you of the colourful vibrancy of 
 Seaside Hill from Sonic Heroes, and The City of Fire somewhat reminds of the fiery valley in Sonic 
 The Hedeghog 3, but, the surprisingly strong nastolgia in Sonic The Hedgehog does make up of the 
 game's lack of polish. His World is an excellent musical addition to the Sonic music, but, still 
 lacking the sharp beat of Crush 40's Sonic medleys.
  
  Overall, Sonic The Hedgehog is a huge, vast dissapointment for Sonic fanboys and keen gamers out 
 there today, thanks to an incredibly clumsy execution and awful controls, and a confusing, pointless 
 and baffling narrative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  Abysmal is a word i dont use much but this game manages to deserve it due to being the worst sonic 
 game i have ever played so let me explain why you should avoid this.
  
  The town stages are a joke and pointless and spoil everything about the game sonic is speed not 
 GTA so sega messed up on that part and the rest of the game to be honest
  
  Single player
  once you start running and get up to a decent pace y... NO I CANT DO THIS THERE 
 IS NO DECENT PACE I MEAN I COULD RUN FASTER THAN HIM its that slow im not joking its terrible.
 
  
  graphics
  the only good thing about this game they are decent and what i thought a next gen sonic would look 
 like i just did not expect the game to be so RUBBISH!
  
  Pros
  nice graphics
  
  cons
  Abysmal speed
  Abysmal everything
  
  verdict
  this game had the graphics but everthing 
 else is a joke i cant believe sega shipped it especially with its glitches and that fact it is 
 one of the worst sonic games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoman141
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 17, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Remember when you got your first sega Genesis with a copy of Sonic the
  Hedgehog trying to beat the final zone, trying to get that last choas whatever its called those 
 were good 'ol days. now a few years later soinc has got down hill. thanks to this game I lost all 
 Respect for soinc.
  
  
  
  (GamePlay) 3-10
  the gameplay for this "Gem" is bad and I mean bad. the Gameplay sucks
  and its gets worse because 
 the controls suck out loud wich add to crappy gameplay. Whats the most Importent thing about games.......... GAMEPLAY 
 and the gameplay sucks!!!!!!!!!
  
  (Graphics) 6-10
  the graphics are not bad and not good just in the middle what made me mad was the people moving 
 there mouths at supersoinc speed. really on come on your mouth can't move that fast.
  
  (Sound) 2-10
  I Hated the sound for this game I really hated it.  
 OUT LOUD come on in me opinon sound is the worse thing in this game I can't stand it.
  
  (Story) 5-10
  Story wise this is same o'l soinc eggman trys to take over the world but one theres 
 new charaters like Sliver the Hedgehog and Princess Elise but its got the same o'l soinc I seen 
 this to much now!
  
  (Replay Value) 1-10
  A other thing importent about games.............. REPLAY VALUE you want to play a great game over 
 and over again but this game you want to finsh ASAP
  and get it over with but theres one thing to the  CONTROLS! aggggghhhhh!
 
  
  Overall Score 4-10
  I am being nice to give this game a four. come on I am being really nice very Nice Plz Sega SAVE 
 SOINC PLZ!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HighNMitey
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Sonic was a huge disappointment to say the least, completely pathetic is really the best way to 
 describe the game. Since when did Sonic become a nice guy? and contain an anime storyline? Their 
 attempt in shoving the love story down our throats truely makes you gag and contemplate whether 
 or not the people in charge of production had even seen the old series let alone played it. The 
 game's pathetic attempt to make the game much more action oriented managed to kill the whole spirit 
 and soul of the game for the gamers buying the game because they loved the old series. The manufacturers 
 seemed to neglect the fact that Sonic is not popular with today's kids in the American market but 
 to those of us who remember the old series. This want-to-be cash cow for the American market surely 
 failed due to lack of quality and obnoxious and unnecessary "action" forced into the game. Maybe 
 I am a little old-school but a better alternative would be to buy it through Xbox marketplace and 
 play the original with no crazy anime storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironbat25
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is good fun like the sonic games on the other systems but in 3-d. The game is fast pace 
 and fun you can play as sonic, shadow, and silver. Sonic is fast and fun to play as. Shadow is fast 
 but is not as fast as sonic. Silver is new to the sonic series and he is not fast but he has the 
 power to pick up objects with his mind and throw them. The game has three single-player campain 
 you play with sonic, shadow, and silver. Once you beat the three story campains you will unlock another 
 level where you play as some other sonic charaters like knucles, tails, and some other people. The 
 game also have multi-palyer where you can race aganist someone or you can play aganist the levels 
 with a friend. The graphics are great but with some glitches. Even though there are glitches the 
 game has great details and great charater animations. The sounds are some of the beat sounds ive 
 heard in a sonic game. This is good for any sonic fan but if you dont like sonic games then you 
 may not like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links14
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. I have the platinum family hits verison and the game runs smoothly, you don't 
 fall though the ground. On the back of the case in big bold letters its says THIS TIME SPEED WON'T 
 BE ENOUGH... so the characters wouldn't run as fast as they do in Sonic Heroes. This game is like 
 other sonic games but now you have town missions. You complete the missions, get rings and with 
 those rings you can buy moves for sonic, shadow and silver. The mutliplayer is bad. You can go 
 head to head with another person or play as a team. The only thing I really like about this game 
 is using the support cast like Amy, Knuckles, Rouge, E-123 Omega, Tails, and even Blaze. My favorite 
 character. The new character Silver is the slowest but he is physic. He can levitate, shock creatures 
 and life creatures and objects. If you like sonic you should get this game and it's cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf9303
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 5, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is broken and boring. the game itself is glitchey, lagged up, and has a shallow overacted 
 story. the one thing that is definitly the worst is the veichle driving in shadow's episode. it's 
 dry, un-original and most of all sucks. the rest of the game is just boring and offers little to 
 do. the loading takes forever just for someone to say a four word sentence. this game is also broken 
 in quite a few ways. for one if you run into a wall you usualy will get stuck on it, forcing you 
 to restart. another thing is, sounds sometimes get mixed up and characters sometimes will just 
 stand still. the music is also extremely repietitive and will get on you're nerves. multiplayer 
 courses are cheap immitations of single player levels that are confusing and boring. characters 
 in multiplayer are limited to 3 simmilar hedgehogs and are boring to use. if you're thinking of 
 buying this game you may want to reconsider the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic-Speed
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:52 am PT
Review:  Pros: Graphics are good, power-ups are pretty fun to use, Big the Cat isn't in this game, the game 
 ends, X-plays review for this game is freaking hilarious
  Cons: Cut scenes are over-dramatic, No sense of speed, constant load times, Boring cut scenes, 
 Sonic is in love with a human, characters sound uninspired, mini-games are boring and repetitive, 
 camera is horrible, numerous glitches, enemies are easy to kill, bosses die soon, Shadow's levels 
 have to many vehicles, Tails uses freaking ring bombs, Sonic is way to slow, Sonic dies for 30 
 minutes, End Boss is to much like the End boss for Sonic Adventure 2, Dr. Eggman isn't very evil, 
 girl Sonic falls in love with is a *****, and so much more.
  
  If you read my pros and cons section, I'm sure you know how bad this game is. Since my list is 
 so long, I'll only talk about a few subjects. for starters, Sonic is slow. He runs as fast as a 
 2nd grader who hurt his foot. Sonic is way to slow, and puts all other sonic games in shame. This 
 isn't very helpful, as the camera is terrible. It's like they handed a camera to a drunk kid who 
 just got bashed on the head. It swivels where it wants and when it wants, leaving you to die. Plus, 
 the characters seem to hate being in this game. Uninspired and over reactive, they sound ashamed 
 of being part of this game. If you want to see how this game is, go to this address http://www. g4tv. com/xplay/reviews/1386/Sonic_The_Hedgehog. html
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abid9
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  The camera stinks, it`s also 4KIDS voice acting. The game is full of glitches. But Sonic Adventure 
 2 Battle and Sonic Heroes are way better. There is no Choa Garden. But there is a brand new character. 
 The graphics are great. The music is pretty good. The missions are mediocre. Shadow has his original 
 voice. The story is about Dr. Eggman kidnapping the princess and Sonic has to save her. Now don't 
 get me wrong, when I say hard I don't mean challenging, I mean tedious. If you want the game knowing 
 its the Sonic you know and love, you won't get it. You'll get a somewhat fond experience, if you 
 are a die hard sonic fan. Other wise, DON"T PURCHASE THE GAME! Well, now you can because it cost 
 $15. Heh, there some great moments, but they are rare, so I warn you, only get the game if you 
 find it cheap and want to see what all the fuss is about. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobguy94
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is one of my all time favorite mascots, so when i heard there was a new sonic 
 game coming out, I just had to have it. Despite the poor ratings I still bought it. Although it 
 wasn't worth the wait, it's a good game to have if you are lying around on a Saturday with nothing 
 to do. *SPOILER*
  In this game there are 4 episodes, sonic, shadow, and silver, and the final hidden episode. Each 
 character is unique in their own way. Sometimes in between a level, you may find yourself taking 
 control of a support character from the sonic universe. Most of them control pretty well with the 
 exception of rouge and knuckles. Most levels are straight forward with one thing in mind, reach 
 the goal. Although sometimes a level may add something to try to keep things fresh. But most of 
 the time it's a standard action game. The game does have minor and noticeable flaws. Like when 
 rouge is climbing a wall and she just can't seem to jump off. Parts of the game do become tedious 
 as well. But aside from the glitches, Sonic the Hedgehog was an underrated game and deserves at 
 least a rent, and if you decide to buy it (19.99) it will definitely be worth the money if you 
 are a fan of Sonic or action games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyalFace
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I realize that the Sonic series is progressively getting worse, but not THAT much worse. I enjoyed 
 Sonic Adventure 2 Battle, because I could get into the, switching of characters, but this still 
 has the, "Sonic gameplay" that I was looking for. In that sense, I got what I wanted. However, 
 I do have to tell what I thought was wrong with the game. It became repetitive, but, that wasn't 
 my main concern; Sometimes I just wanted to go to the main mission and mess up some enemies. This 
 was a problem because I couldn't find out where the heck to go! The town missions would confuse 
 me, in my searching. I wasn't sure if I had to do them in order to go to the next real mission. 
 I can't complain too much though. It was reminisent of other Sonic games, which, I appreciated, 
 but once you died too many times, boom, there you go, your done. You are actually put back in the 
 tedious town, in which, by the way, I could never find my way around in. All in all, I feel that 
 many people, and critics are being a bit too, well, TOO for this game. It has enough high points 
 in it that it will get a 6.5 from me. Don't get me wrong, I see the flaws, but I also see the work 
 put into this game. My advice, to wrap this up, is to organize the missions, and make the story 
 a bit more clear while doing that. This is why I call this game, fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Applepie565
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Just to tell you, this is my first review of a game I had 2 years ago. Well it is one of the worst 
 games I ever played acually. First off this game is just bad. When you first play the game you 
 see this huge cut sceen making everything look cool, a second later the graphics look like a gamecubes 
 which is just AWFUL. Before that you wait throught a loading screen that lasts a pretty long time 
 but these loading screen follows you everywhere. First except a mission loading screen, next get 
 instructions of the mission loading screen, do the mission loading screen, see your rank loading 
 screen, world appears again loading screens. THIS GAME HAS TOO MANY LOADING SCREENS GOD. Well the 
 loading screens are the only problems right, WRONG. When you play the great gameplay that was used 
 for the old sonic adventures are turned into a ugly controls. Your homing attack is so indirect 
 you can't do anything about it so you fall of a cliff, the camera is awful since when you change 
 it, it just goes back to the way you just changed it too, Speed pads kill you cause someone thinks 
 its funny putting one infront of a fire pit so you get hurt, and finally you dont know what you 
 can jump on so you die ASWELL. So the gameplays bad, graphics suck, and large load times. What 
 else can be bad, how about playing as silver. This new character is bad aswell. His ability allows 
 you to pick up objects and throw them, sounds cool right. WRONG AGAIN. Your ability is to pick 
 up and miss every hit and you can't even run fast, the point of sonic games is you go FAST. F. 
 A. S. T. not L. A. G. you also lag alot in the game, why sonic team did you trick me into buying 
 rubble. Also it's difficulty only because of its gameplay. Also you will play the game for a few 
 moments and drop it to start screaming at your TV about the hell you just died, sell it to gamestops 
 for 20 bucks, and walk home and play your old sonic adventures. Then you say, wow thank god I'm 
 playing a GOOD sonic game. The story is stupid as well it's simply save the princess, lose the 
 princess, save the princess, get some lone time with the princess, lose the princess, and finally 
 save the princess. VERY "orginal" sonic team. Only thing I can say it is good at, it looks pretty. 
 The only fun I had in this game are with friends, we both have a good laugh at us both failing 
 on the stages. Also the only people who could like this game a sonic fan boys which are the ones 
 on gamespot who give it 6 or up. OPEN YOUR EYES, its bad your just trying to hide it. 
  
  The Good
  it gives you a good laugh with friends and its pretty
  The Bad
  pretty bad with 
 weak story, bad graphics, bad controls, long loadtimes, a useless character called silver, and 
 it lags alot.
  
  
  Final score
  2
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamaster32
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the worst sonic game the storyline is terrible stupid missioins and the stages arent 
 quite right and i hate the speed run
  The game is post to be about prince forgot name that gets captured from the fat dude dr eggman 
 and sonic trys to savae her. and the new characters which i hate are silver and the blaze cat from 
 sonic rush but this game is awful toons of glitches stupid bots and the homing attack and the sliding 
 the game is boring being different characters the storyline is ok but still i like sonic adventure 
 2 way better this game is very dissapointing so dont buy it people if you like sonic has to be 
 the worst sonic game out there and o yeah the last super sonic the control is really horrible and 
 the acting the missions and all the stages dont buy it and the rings are very unluck the songs 
 are ok but worst of all its really bad not alot of action and the worst sonic game i ever played 
 so dont buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zephyr618
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 21, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Story 2/10: Sonic games have always had bad stories. This is usually ignorable considering the 
 game is self is USUALLY fun... The voice acting is OK, considering the crap they had to work with...
 
  
  Graphics 8.5/10: Perhaps the only good thing about this game is that it looks great. The graphics 
 look great at all times and the environments are colorful.
  
  Gameplay 1/10: I consider this the most important part of a game. You will NOT enjoy playing this 
 game. The control is pretty bad and gets worse when the camera constantly screws you up. The missions 
 inside the city couldn't be any less fun.
  
  Sound 7/10: The music in the game consists mainly of "His World" by Crush 40. But it isn't actually 
 Crush 40, the whole song (singing part included) is played by an orchestra. Each song in the game 
 seems to be an altered version of this song. This is extremely disappointing considering the music 
 in every other game has been fantastic.
  
  Online: I heard that there was DLC but didn't bother to check cuz it was probably as crappy as 
 everything else in this game.
  
  Overall this game was terribly made and extremely boring and I wouldn't recommend it to anyone 
 that I don't hate... 3.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBLACK-MAGEx
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 8, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  i think this game is pretty cool. though the camera is annoying, and controls are a bit floaty, 
 its not that big of a difference from any other sonic game....
  its fun fast and pretty. and the three characters to play as really change up the action. I also 
 like the realistic art direction taken within the game. adds a new dimension to the same -old -same- 
 old sonic games. its not even that bad, and personally i don't understand why its getting flamed 
 so much. the graphics are really nice and sinic and co. character models are really smooth and 
 animate well, the sound is of respectable quality (same sounds as all the other sonic games) and 
 theres a lot of diversity between character play. maybe its the fact that ive only played the sonic 
 adventure series before this, or the fact that i picked this up for 10 $ from a bargain bin, but 
 this game has turned out to be a fun, and fast game/diversion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thermophile118
Rating: 3
Date: May 2, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  poor sonic, he just never seemed to adapt to 3D platforming like other gaming legends, such as 
 mario for example. game after game sega always gave sonic the same problems that were keeping him 
 from greatness, the whacked out camera, the glitchy platforming mechanics, and loose controls. 
 despite our desprate pleas to fix these errors, sega just ignored us and said everything was all 
 right. so what makes this game that much worse than its predecessors? the fact that sega told us 
 this series would be at its best for sonics 15th birthday and it was all one big lie. segas present 
 to sonic was not glory and greatness, but the same repeating problems in any of his games made 
 10 times worse making this game unfairly difficult. The only redeeming factor about this game is 
 the graphics, but who's going to appreciate the graphics when the glitches and loose controls keep 
 sending players to their doom? After playing through this game, there is nothing more to say about 
 this other than this could be the biggest let-down in video game history and is truly a sign that 
 the sonic days are coming close to an end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxas17
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The latest Sonic the Hedgehog game has been though of as a complete mess. However, at its core, 
 the game is not really as bad as most would think. First off the graphics ahev actually improved 
 compared to that of Sonic Adventure. The environments look almost real. The music fits many of 
 the stages especially the Crisis City and Volcano stages. While it may sound the same as the other 
 3-d Sonic games, it fits this game perfectly. Now for the story, Sonic is in Soleanna to rescue 
 princess Elise from Eggman and learns that saving her can save the future. Shadow is working for 
 the government to help Rouge and get the Sceptre of Darkness but is attacked by Eggman who unwittingly 
 releases Mephiles the Dark who takes on Shadow's form. And Silver comes from the future after being 
 lied to by Mephiles. Silver is led to believe that Sonic is that Iblis trigger which Releases Mephiles 
 brother Iblis, a. k. a. the Flames of Disaster. Throughout the story everyone learns the truth about 
 Mephiles and Iblis. As for gameplay, it remains the same for Sonic and Shadow throughout most of 
 the game. However, Silver uses his telekinetic powers to get through stages while Shadow can uses 
 some of his Chaos Control abilities, and Sonic gains new abiltities with the use of gems. The game 
 itself is fairly challenging for every stage and boss but once you learn it, it's no problem. As 
 for the loading screen have patience since it's not that long, and glitches, well, not much really 
 just an occasional slow-down for about one second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ak47goodfella
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is a mess, it feels rushed and almost as like Sega did not play the game befor they let 
 it be sold.
  
  Their are alot of loads... they don't take very long but you will get hit with a loading all the 
 time, The plot is more for a 4 year old, it go's like this... Eggman kidnaps the girl then Sonic 
 saves her... then Eggman kidnaps her again then Sonic saves her again... you get the point ?
  
  The gameplay is broken, sometimes Sonic can't be controlled and he just runs right off the 
 road. Shadow rides around in cars and stuff which is not needed since he is faster with out it... and 
 you got Siver who is some corny new freak that can see the future!
  
  The other guys are pointless as can be like Tails who IMO should had never been in the game... He 
 is soo pointless, all he so is throw rings that he can't even get back... WOW! -_-
  
  This game is a fail and makes the older Sonic games look bad.
  
  Sega just put it to rest... your 
 done!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vader_300
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  What happened to Sonic? He used to be "faster than the speed of sound" as the song would go, and 
 along the way, there were spin-offs galore; Shadow the Hedgehog, Sonic Riders, Sonic Rivals, you 
 name it. Also not to mention he is being gradually weighed down with each passing game. 
  
  Playing the demo and five minutes of the full game is all it took to convince me how terrible this 
 game is; personally, the one of the only good things I find about the game are the graphics. Gameplay, 
 above all, should be the highest priority when making a game, and in this one, it seems they try 
 to do something new, but in the end, it had only completely shattered everything. Why should I 
 have run at a slow pace, speed up, and then slow back down again when the game demands it? Why 
 can't I do it on my own, this game feels like a slave-driver when it comes to that. Also, why are 
 there stationary enemies in the fast parts? They're not even doing anything so what's the purpose 
 of having them there? 
  
  Another thing I want to touch on, is Sonic's speed, you might be thinking, "oh, it's a Sonic game, 
 you're supposed to run fast, right?" Wrong. Well, that would the response this game would give. 
 Remember the golden days of Sonic where he used to be fast? They're gone now, and this game confirms 
 it. I can't even run as fast as Sonic used to go, everything just feels weighed down to death, 
 and even worse, the game just rubs it in your face by adding a storyline, in which I could really 
 care-less about. Who's Elise, and why the heck do I even have to protect her? It wouldn't matter 
 anyway, because it turns out that in the end, none of this actually happened. Also, why does Sonic 
 run fast in the cut scenes, and not during the actual gameplay?
  
  The camera seems to be more broken than ever, it can't even follow the character without hitting 
 a damn wall or tree, I find myself constantly adjusting it just so I can see what my character 
 is doing, and when I need it most, it's never there. It reminds me of Shadow the Hedgehog, but 
 only more of a hassle. The action stages feature pretty colorful environments, but they are just 
 a pain to go through because the camera is so unresponsive. In this game, death is your worst enemy, 
 when you run out of lives, you go back to the last save-point. The problem is, you can only save 
 while in town, and there are no save or auto-save options during stages which makes it imperative 
 that you save frequently between stages.
  
  When you're not trudging through action stages, you can walk around town aimlessly, talk to people, 
 buy stuff and just screw around. There are also town missions you can do, but they are just even 
 more disappointing, especially when you bring the load times into account. Failed to break the 
 five boxes? Retry? Ok! And then it goes through a five minute load time just to set up the same 
 five boxes again. Being that we're in the seventh generation of gaming, this is unacceptable at 
 this day and age, heck even Super Mario Galaxy had an annoying mini-game where you had to blow 
 up all of the trash in thirty seconds, it's a great game don't get me wrong, but at least it didn't 
 involve load times of this length. 
  
  You can play as other characters of course, but I couldn't give a damn about that, being that I've 
 only played as Sonic and I rather be honest than cover it up and give half-assed arguments. There 
 is also a multiplayer mode as well, but it all just feels like one huge mess, and the placement 
 of objects, is mostly to blame. Here are some of the many questions that come to mind when playing 
 multiplayer: "How do I get over here?", How do I get over this fence?", "What am I supposed to 
 do?", "Why can't my character jump that high?", and most likely, most of these will go unanswered. 
 Other than that, the controls are broken to the point where it's impossible for me to explain them, 
 and there are inconsistent frame rates and numerous graphical glitches. Well, at least the music 
 is good. 
  
  Bottom line, Sonic the Hedgehog isn't that bad of a game, but it is bad enough for me to classify 
 it as one. For those new to the series, it'll be anywhere from average to mediocre, but for the 
 purists of the series, this one will feel like a kick in the nuts. 
  
  
  DISCLAIMER: Anyone reading this should know that any review (independent or professional) is ultimately 
 just an opinion. Biased or not, I respect your opinions, and I expect the same in return.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillFreeTagger
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  In gaming history, there has been Sonic the Hedgehog and games that are wrongly accused. Arriving 
 in 2006 was a combination of both. The first next-gen Sonic game, Sonic '06 had the makings of 
 greatness and people just brough it down. Here's my review.
  
  The setting for Sonic '06 is different from past installments. The game starts out in the city 
 of Soleana. A ceremony led by the city's Princess Elise is crashed by none other than Dr. Ivo "Eggman" 
 Robotnik. Who comes to the rescue? Sonic of course! He grabs the princess and runs off, unknowing 
 of the ancient secret she holds.
  
  Sonic '06 kicks off the next-generation of the Sonic series with new play styles and graphics. 
 There are three playable characters in the game: Sonic, Shadow, and a newcomer named Silver. Each 
 had their own style of play. Sonic uses classic series gameplay, Shadow uses some of the mechanics 
 from his self-titled game, and Silver introduces telekenesis to the series. During each scenario, 
 these three characters will come across a familiar Sonic character (Amigos) which will help you 
 in your quest for the Chaos Emeralds.
  
  First and foremost is the graphics. The look of Sonic '06 is very inspiring in terms of the Sonic 
 series, but not as high quality as we've seen in other 360 titles. Even so, Sonic and the gang 
 have never looked better. The environments look absolutely gorgeous! Never before have we seen 
 such detail in a 3D Sonic game! My only problem, where's a new fully 3D Green Hill?! J/K
  
  The Sonic franchise has always been known for its excellent musical score. Sonic '06 is no different. 
 Crush 40 along with Hideki Naganuma and other collaborators return to give the thrilling sound 
 experience that we've come to love since Sonic Adventure. The theme song for the game "His World" 
 is what fans like myself look for when thinking of Sonic fanfiction or fantasy.
  
  Controls are still pretty much the same as previous installments. Pressing jump twice will make 
 Sonic do a homing attack and such.
  
  Other than Silver's powers, new additions to gameplay (some not so new) make a debut. Like in Sonic 
 Adventure, characters will able to run around Adventure Zones and converse with locals before moving 
 on. A day to night feature has also been added which is ok.
  
  Now like most games, Sonic '06 has its problems which everyone has **** about. The camera has a 
 mind of its own and can get in the way at times. Complaining about this is stupid as we've praised 
 games that had horrible camera angles (Resident Evil anyone?) . Another main problem is that there 
 are graphical glitches that rarely show up, but that's easy to ignore.
  
  We real gamers learn to overlook crap like that and enjoy the game.
  
  Sonic '06 is a game 
 for a true fan or gamer. Great graphics, epic story, addictive play, a few light problems. This 
 game is another example that reviewers and fans alike can be very wrong. Makes you wonder if there 
 is hope for the future of the gaming community?
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog is a great game and wrongly accused of being poor. Ignore negative reviews and 
 go check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruth7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  -Great graphics
  -Sonic stages are great and fast
  -Decent amount of sidequests.
  
  Cons:
  
  -Glitchy
  -The other playable characters...
 
  -Bad camera controls
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sonic is back! This time on the 360! Is it finally good?... It's just decent...
  
  First thing you'd probably notice is the great graphics... nothing else to describe it but... great 
 XD
  
  There are three playable characters, Sonic, Silver, and Shadow. The Sonic levels are VERY good 
 (with some problems of course) while the other characters are just "okay." Each character path 
 lasts a decent amount of time... probably 10 hours each...
  
  Big problems with the game include it's huge glitches. "speed" levels are fast, but have terrible 
 controls and are incredibley hard. The camera angles and especially the controls are bad and does 
 take some getting used to. 
  
  Overall, the game is just "decent." Is it worth getting? If you're a Sonic fan, then yes, if not, 
 then rent it first... you can actually probably finish it by renting it XD
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASYLUM-INMATE1
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 7, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  this game is like a runaway frieght train it doesnt deserve to be on the shelves. Not only is the 
 game absolutelty horrific and plays as if sonic is on acid. The visuals on the game are pretty 
 good except from the fact that Doctor Eggman is no longer a comedic villain. Also in one level you 
 are running from a flaming hurricane and suddenly the camera changes direction so then you have 
 do the level in reverse. The source of completing the game is the timing element you have always 
 got to be precise. Also Sonic is a complete and utter moron saying things like" the whole cities 
 on fire" when you can clearly see that right in front of your eyes. All in all one of the worst 
 games I have ever played.
  
  PROS
  
  1. the graphics
  
  CONS
  
  1. the camera
  2 Doctor Eggman
  3 the hurricane
  4 the gameplay
  5 the snowboarding
  
 6 the glitches
  7 the game is so horrificly random
  8 the first level feels way to easy
  9 sonic is an idiot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This was supposed to be Sonic return to greatness, but instead sega screwed us over, while it's 
 not the worst game in the series its far from the best. The plot isn't terrible, but it's sorta 
 confusing. In the city of water Soleanna, Princess Elise holds the secret of the flames of disaster 
 (a. k. a Iblis) . During a ceremony of the sun Dr. Eggman appears tryin 2 capture the princess, than 
 guess who saves her? It's Sonic. He runs off with Elise in his arms than you see a white hedgehog 
 and he calls Sonic "The Iblis Trigger". Anyway gameplay is what makes a game right? That isn't 
 so great in this game. Sonic's controls like this: A-Button jumps, A-Button twice does the homing 
 attack, tap X to due a spin kick, hold down X while standing still 2 do the spin dash (useless 
 in this game) . while running hold down X and release to slide, near a trail of rings hit X to do 
 the light dash, D-Pad selects you gems, right trigger uses them. Theres also this bar on the screen 
 as sonic, but it has no purpose, it's just there. Shadow is almost identical to sonic except for 
 his chaos boost which is activated by the right trigger. Silver is different than the other hedgehogs, 
 A jumps, A twice levitates, Right trigger activates psycokinesis, X shoots stuff held by psycokinesis. 
 Alright graphics wise the game looks pretty good, but many technical gltiches screw up what could 
 otherwise be a beautiful game. The games msuci is really good, but the vocie acting is laughably 
 bad. The game has no replay value unless you want all the silver or gold metals, and half of the 
 achievements can't even be obtained. The game couldve been good if it was finished, but sega rushed 
 what couldve Sonic's best game, but instead we got Sonic's worst in 3-D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magiciandude
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Please note that I do not own a 360, but I played this game over a friend's house for two days 
 and did research on this game.
  
  Preview: In E3 2005, Sega showed us a click of what would be the worst main series Sonic game in 
 history. It was meant to "reinvent" the Sonic series and to make up for the disaster that Shadow 
 the Hedgehog did. When demos were being displayed, people complained about the broken controls. 
 No big deal, thought the community, it's just a demo, it'll be better in no time, right? WRONG! 
 This game is even MORE broken Shadow the Hedgehog, which is sad because Shadow the Hedgehog gave 
 the Sonic series a bad reputation.
  
  Gameplay: Put it this way, play a copy Sonic Adventure DX (not the original) , and look for bugs, 
 then multiply that by 2 and you get this. I crashed every where Sonic and it's not my fault either. 
 It's easy to get unfair deaths in this game. Shadow has the best controls, but that's like calling 
 Wario the skinniest kid at camp, because that's not saying much. His vehicles can get stuck easy, 
 and it just makes want to smack myself in the head everytime that happened. Silver is what made 
 me the most angry. The last time I played a SONIC game, I played it because it involved a HEDGEHOG 
 THAT COULD RUN AT THE SPEED OF SOUND AND CAPABLE OF HAVING AN ATTITUDE (which is Sonic has lost 
 over the years) . I did NOT play this game so that I could play with a hedgehog with psychic powers. 
 Just shows you that Sega relied on another useless gimmick to attrack its fanbase (see Shadow the 
 Hedgehog game) . Sonic feels a lot slower in this game. Another thing I hate is that you're forced 
 to play as other characters, even if you're not playing in their story mode, in MIDDLE of a level. 
 For example, Sonic's story, you're still forced to play as Silver. What? Did Sega thought that 
 kids were so stupid that they couldn't figure what who to choose? Why am I even forced to play 
 as other characters? Why can't I just play as Sonic? Even the old characters such as Tails and 
 Knuckles feel broken. Also to note is that the PS3 version suffers more bugs and glitches than 
 the 360 even though it came out a few months later.
  
  Voices: Once again, Sega relies on the damned 4Kids voice actors. If you don't know who they are, 
 just watched the dubbed versions of Pokemon, Sonic X, One Piece, THEN you'll know why they're hated. 
 The main point is, the 4Kids voice actors shoud only be for dubbed anime shows, NOT for games.
 
  
  Graphics: Most realistic Sonic game, which was a bad idea. I was displeased to see what they had 
 done with Doctor Eggman. He doesn't even LOOK like Doctor Eggman. Sega made this game as "if Sonic 
 was real". Yeah, I didn't know they had to look like they took steroids. The game subpar to the 
 compared to the better looking games for the 360.
  
  Story: The story is divided into three parts in the game, with the three hedgehogs. Sonic's story 
 involves him saving a princess. No, not an anthro, but a HUMAN princess (who looks like a retard, 
 btw) . What's worse is that they start having affections for each other. Ewww. Shadow's story is 
 just simple, just stop the half-god entity known as Mephiles. And yes that whore Rouge is in this 
 game. Silver's story involves him in a destroyed future and he goes back in time to destroy the 
 Iblis Trigger, who he believes is Sonic. He feels insecured when he's alone. His best friend is 
 Blaze the Cat, the one from Sonic Rush. How does Blaze even fit into this? Last time I checked, 
 Blaze came from another dimension, NOT the frickin' future. But no, Sonic Team had to be lazy and 
 make a plot hole. And who cares about what a Shadow-wannabee feels? Boohoo, he feels insecured 
 when lonely, You know, I don't why I'm suppose to care. After all, this game is called SONIC THE 
 HEDGEHOG yet I have to care what some nobody feels? Ugh. Sonic games fail at emo stories. 
  
  You can tell the game rushed when you get to the Final Story, that is, if you even bother going 
 there. Some spoilers, but Sonic gets impaled by a bright light. No, after all Eggman's creations 
 and traps, all it took was some bright light and an aura beam to kill Sonic. That's it, how imaginitive. 
 Boohoo, the princess cries, which causes the world to end. You know, this game alone could've killed 
 Sonic from the beginning. Sonic comes back alive, yadda, yadda, yadda. It was a shame that Yuji 
 Naka left half-way during the project, but at least he didn't have to suffer the embarrasement 
 of this game. Yoji Ogawa, months later, admitted that the game was rushed and not finished. Now 
 tell me, do you want to play an unfinished game? That would be like having The Legend of Zelda: 
 Ocarina of Time rushed. Oh dear God, I don't even want to go there, I don't want to have nightmares 
 of that thought. 
  
  In closing, this game did nothing to "reinvent" the series. As a matter of fact, it did quite the 
 contrary to what Sega promised. If it weren't for Sonic and the Secret Rings, I might have given 
 up the Sonic serie altogether. This game was going to be ported to the Wii, but that would be much 
 more suffering. If you are desperate for a new Sonic game, buy Sonic and the Secret Rings, you 
 will not be disappointed. I don't know why this game even has the same name as the first legendary 
 Sonic game. Either Sonic Team couldn't come up with a name, or thought that people would think 
 of this as a remake (I'm betting that it's the former, while Sonic Team used the latter as an excuse) . 
 There is a reviewer online that gave this game a nice title that I will use from now on. That title 
 would be "Sonic the Disaster". 
  
  Stay from "Sonic the Disaster", it's a disgrace to the whole series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakes3425
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox and Xbox 360 have long been known for there increadible graphics, and for introducing 
 the world to heroes like Marcus Fenix in Gears of War, Capt. Mitchell in Ghost Recon, and their 
 own flagship character: Master Chief in HALO.
  
  These days, the classic characters like Mario and Sonic are relegated to bit parts in hopes of 
 selling games based soley on their name being in the title or having them as a selectable character.
 
  
  Dispite the flaws this game has, it's nice to see a familiar face, namely one of the greatest video 
 game characters of all time Sega's mascot: Sonic the Hedgehog. Though out the game you of course 
 meet all the classic Sonic Characters: Shadow the Hedgehog, Tales, Dr. Eggman, etc. The game takes 
 full advantage of the 360's processing power, to create a life like versons of these classic characters. 
 Possibly the game's best feature is the fact it still has Sonic's trademark game play, namely speed, 
 quick jumps, but the best thing this game has done is introduce the world to a new Sonic Character: 
 Silver the Hedgehog.
  
  However there is no such thing as a perfect game, and this game has it's fair share of flaws. The 
 first is the plotline, the plot of this game is more like Sonic the Hedgehog meets Final Fantasy, 
 you have your typical Sonic trying to stop Dr. Eggman from taking over the world, but they added 
 rescuing a princess, like that hasn't been done a million times before, to the mix, the worst thing 
 about the plot is this: IT'S AN RPG, and it takes forever to reach any bad guys. Of course the 
 worst flaw this game has is it's controls, the controls are very lose, which makes controling the 
 characters very very difficult, especally when it comes to jumping.
  
  Over all this game doesn't deserve the negative hype it's gotten, it's an extremely fun game, and 
 does appeal to die hard Sonic fans, or fans of the classic games. But this is one of those games 
 that should be rented first before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1001001
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Sonic games have been seen on just about every system out right now. There is always a new twist 
 to the series with each new game, but Sonic the Hedgehog is the closest game to Sonic Adventure. 
 
  
  The story is what you'd usually expect in a Sonic game. Eggman wants to rule the world and needs 
 the Princess of Soleana because onl; y she knows the secret of the Flames of Disaster. Sonic comes 
 to the rescue and runs away with the princess. Eggman later captures her again and Sonic now has 
 to rescue her. Meanwhile, a hedgehog named Silver who has telekinetic powers lives in a destroyed 
 world with his friend Blaze the Cat. They are fooled by a new villian named Mephiles the Dark into 
 thinking Sonic was the "Iblis Trigger", and they go back in time in to kill him. Shadow infiltrates 
 Eggman's base and saves Rouge. They then meet up with Sonic and eventually Silver.
  
  The gameplay is average here. Sonic runs fast and you can use his Homing Attack and other moves 
 that you buy such as the Bounce Bracelet and Light Dash. Shadow is a bit slower than Sonic, but 
 can do combos to enemies in the air and use his Chaos Blast move. He is also the only character 
 that can ride in vehicles such as hovercrafts and air gliders. Lastly, Silver is the slowest, but 
 can use telekenesis. He can pick up or paralyse his enemies. He can also grab other objects and 
 throw them or stop a barrage of bullets. Silver can float over short distances as well. 
  
  The game is divided up into levels and an adventure field. You will always start out in the Adventure 
 Field and from there, you will have to find the next level or a new town mission. The levels are 
 pretty linear, except for Silver's, where you'll usually have to explore the level. The town missions 
 are actually really boring and pointless. There are only some that are required to beat the game, 
 and some that'll just give you achievements. Some missions have you finding someone or having to 
 go through a trial of rings or enemies. It gets old fast and is just not fun.
  
  The graphics are actually really good and colorful, but in some places, there are horrible textures 
 and details. The pre-renderings, though not the best on the system, look great nontheless. The 
 actual graphics during gameplay don't look as good though. They are way behind of what the Xbox 
 360 is capable of handling, though it does bring out the colors that Sonci games are known for. 
 Some parts like when you're in the water, the water is lifeless as if you hadn't just fallen in. 
 There is also a lack in the variety of enemies.
  
  The music is really good and there's a lot of it. Each level is composed of music that fit the 
 level perfectly like the Crisis City level. They are all well made and sound great. The sound effects 
 sound average with the classic sound effect when you get hit and lose rings. Some sound wierd though 
 like the gunshots that the robots make.
  
  There are also many technical problems to be found in this game. The camera tends to get in the 
 way and in some places, it's just hard to have control over it. There also many glitches where 
 you'll wonder how you died, but you really fell through a wall. They tend to ruin the fun since 
 there are a lot of them in this game. The biggest issue in this game is the constant load times. 
 They constantly ruin the action. They appear everywhere like if you're talking to someone and you 
 take on a mission, you'll get several load screens before you even start the mission. It's annoying 
 since they are about 20 seconds long each.
  
  There is also a Multiplayer option in this game. You can play with one other person in one of the 
 levels in the game and race. You choose from the three main hedgehogs. It's fun, but the one who 
 has Sonic will pretty much always win. At least the multiplayer option is just there.
  
  Even with all the technical issues, it's still a fun game, especially for the true Sonic fans. 
 It's also the closest game to get to Sonic Adventure. If you can deal with those issues, you should 
 check the game out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meleemario360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  I dont own this game but ive played it over my friends house for the first time on his 360 thinking 
 it would be bad, but then i found it extremly fun and addictive! Sega have got the best bits from 
 sonic adventures 1+2 and Shadow the hedgehog, then combined it into one fine game. The gameplay 
 is just like SA2 Battle but with all those annoying 'Action windows' cut out to leave a pretty 
 good control scheme. sure the auto running sequences are a bit annoying, but these sequences are 
 fast and look gorgeous. Speaking of the garaphics, they really do look next gen and look better 
 than any other sonic game. there are slight graphical glitches (the camera can sometimes get caught 
 in certain areas or sometimes a character can pass slightly through objects) but at least they 
 dont break the game. Overall this is a great game for any Sonic fan and It almost gets the Sonic 
 Formula right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChargeMan1991
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is the first Sonic game on a seventh generation console . I was really excited 
 to play this. I wasn't after I played it. / 
  
  
  Gameplay-1.5: Everything is broken.... EVERYTHING! There are a few ok stages but they're also broken 
 and what's with the storyline with Sonic falling in love with a human princess? Wow what will Sega 
 think of next? I mean come on now really.
  
  Graphics-4-: Looks mostly like a sixth generation console game with a few upgrades. 
  
  Sound-6: 
 decent music.
  
  Replay Value-5: Unlike other 3D Sonic games, this game game will be a little more quickly. 
  
 
  Overall-1.5: I'll never look at Sonic the same way again. 
  
  Pros: some stages are ok, decent music
  
  Cons: the whole game is broken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonichtl1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  Ok sonic the hedgehog for the 360 overall its an ok game i know its not the best in the series 
 but i don't deserves the crap that it is getting from gamers yea it has problems in the gameplay 
 and lots of loading which takes up a lot of time in the game and some times gets frustrating but 
 it is basically the same as all the other sonic games before it in some of the pros of the game 
 is that you get to play as shadow and the new hedgehog sliver which is an enjoyable character and 
 the gameplaylevels is not that bad and an other thing that i liked about this game is its price 
 drop you can now get this game new for 20 dollars at your local walmart which is a good price since 
 this is a decent game but if you dot like this game you can always trade it in at your local gamestop 
 for sonic battle 2 which is alot better but if you are a sonic fan i would recommend picking this 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicfannumber1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Sonic has been around for a long time so if you have played a sonic game, you should know how to 
 play it. The game has great graphics, good storyline, and fun boss battles! I've beat this game, 
 but it was not easy. The final battle against Solaris is hard for me but... I still beat it!! I 
 think this game is very very very underrated!!!!!!!! It has a few flaws, but for the most part, 
 it's an awesome game!!!!!!! Definitely not 4.4, this game in my opinion, is in the 8s, 9s or 10s! 
 I'd recommend this game to any person who likes sonic, and is a big fan of him like me!! I'd say 
 this is my favorite sonic game in the whole series!!!!! Get an Xbox 360 if you don't, cause you 
 need to get this game!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I like playing as Silver. He is my favorite character to play 
 as. When he battles Sonic, it's so easy because silver has phsycokinesis, and sonic can't get to 
 silver when he pushes him back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materchief999
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I really, really like being an owner of this game because of the music and the final epic fight 
 with Solaris to save the world. Even though the achievements are really hard its one of my favorite 
 games to own for my Xbox. Even though some people say that this game stinks because Sega rushed 
 to release it in November 2006, i can't really tell that this game was rushed. I like being Silver 
 and having the power of Psychokinesis to manipulate objects and enemies. I also really like the 
 missions for Sonic, especially the "High Speed' portion of his levels, such as Wave Ocean, Crisis 
 City and Kingdom Valley, where he runs as fast he can to the end of the level, and controlling 
 him is fun. One time i collected almost 200 rings in that one section. This game is a nice addition 
 especially if you want a 1000 gamerscore, it may take a while but it is possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdude85
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog was a game I was looking forward too for a such a long time. When came out, 
 I couldn't believe how badly people viewed it. After I bought it, I could see the many reasons 
 why some hated and liked it.
  
  Plot: It takes place in the country of Soleanna, where residents are having a festival in honor 
 of their of the sun god named Solorias. Things go terribly wrong when Dr. Eggman shows up and destroys 
 a portion of the city. Dr. Eggman confronts the princess of Soleanna named Elise, and says he has 
 come to obtain the secret to The Flames of Disaster and kidnaps Elise. Sonic the Hedgehog shows 
 up just in time save her, and escape from Dr. Eggman. Sonic soon encounters a mysterious white 
 hedgehog named Silver, who says he's from the future and refers to Sonic as "The Iblis Trigger," 
 the one caused the destruction of the world in the future. It's now up to Sonic to stop Dr. Eggman 
 and Silver before it's too late.
  
  Game Play: The controls are really sensitive, often it's hard to control Sonic and he'll either 
 bump into enemies, objects, or fall off cliffs. Move Sonic with the left thumb stick, to make him 
 jump press the A button, to do the homing attack press A again to hit an enemy. If you press and 
 hold the X button, Sonic will do a spin dash, if you just press X once, Sonic will do a kick attack. 
 With Shadow, the same controls still apply, however after you do a single homing attack on an enemy, 
 press A repeatably and Shadow will do punch and kick combo in midair. Shadow is open to many vehicles 
 throughout the game. However controlling some vehicles like the armored car and motorcycle are 
 really difficult. You press A to accelerate, pressing the RT button will fire the weapon mounted 
 on the vehicle, press X to brake, and if press and hold X you'll go into reverse. In most cases, 
 you won't have to use the vehicles a lot, but in some levels you'll need them. With Silver, jump 
 by pressing the A button, if hold down the A button Silver will levitate for awhile. Press the 
 RT button to pick up objects with your psychic powers, and press X to hurl the objects at enemies.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics look really great in levels and in cut scenes. However the game suffers 
 from many glitches. Some you will encounter a lot, other times may encounter a certain glitches 
 that barely appear in the game.
  
  Sound: The music in the levels are pretty good, and the soundtrack is ok. The voice cast also does 
 an ok job voicing Sonic and everyone else.
  
  Overall, Sonic the Hedgehog is an ok game. While it may not be the best Sonic game, it's certainly 
 not the worst. While its positives such as good graphics, sound, and neat levels stand out. The 
 negatives that include long load times, glitches, and sensitive controls ultimately blocked it's 
 full potential. It's at least worth a rent, so try it if you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheConscience
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  [THE GOOD] Huge cast of new and old characters - Deep and epic storyline - Rich environments - 
 Return of Adventure Fields - Greatest sense of speed ever - Sonic's gems are like in-game cheats 
 - Huge and fun bosses - Lots to do if you have the time
  
  [THE BAD] Plentiful loading screens - Adventure Fields' return isn't necessarily good - Some Amigos 
 suck - Small technical glitches
  
  There's something about Sonic games that I can't help but love. There's no better feeling than 
 playing through one of his games (any game, actually) for the first time. You never know what to 
 expect while going through the levels, you never know how the story will turn out, and you hopefully 
 will enjoy it. And there's no other game series I enjoy more than Sonic. Prepare for a long review.
 
  
  Unlike most people who reviewed this game, I wasn't a fan of Sonic in his Genesis, Saturn, and 
 Dreamcast days. I first heard about Sonic in 2002 (February 3rd to be exact) with Sonic Advance. 
 I played through it and got the gist of the Sonic series. You speed around the stage while killing 
 robots, collecting rings, bouncing on springs, and reaching the end. I thought the story needed 
 work though, since it seemed cliche.
  
  A little while after, I bought Sonic Adventure 2 Battle for the Gamecube to get a bigger taste 
 of the Sonic universe. I was greatly impressed by the games controls and gameplay, rich environments, 
 creative enemies, and (what I wanted) an in depth storyline. Sonic Mega Collection came out sometime 
 later, and that's when I first played Sonic's classic ventures on his original consoles. Sonic 
 Adventure DX was my favorite though. The intro of a new mysterious character Chaos, longer levels, 
 and giant Adventure Fields were only the beginning. The Super Sonic versus Perfect Chaos fight 
 was epic and gave me another feeling of what would be a long relationship with Sonic. Then Sonic 
 Heroes was released after much anticipation and the fun continued.
  
  I started hearing that Sonic's 3D venture was going downhill around the time Shadow the Hedgehog 
 was released (I never actually knew that people generally hated Sonic Heroes) . I was personally 
 excited about this one, and I didn't expect everyone to hate it. I read that the guns ruined the 
 gameplay and Shadow's new status as a main character angered critics and fans. Maybe Shadow did 
 darken the storyline a bit, but I never sensed a "dramatic" change.
  
  When I found out Sonic was getting his own game on the 360, I was shocked. Why would SEGA make 
 a game on the console of the company that replaced them in the console war, especially when they 
 "copied" the idea of the AB controller (as opposed to the BA controller of Nintendo) , MU controller 
 ports (on the original Xbox) , and the L/R triggers (instead of buttons) . Despite this, I tried 
 all I could to get a 360 just for this game.
  
  In the months before I finally got this, I searched every nook and cranny of the net and found 
 the horrible news: Sonic Next Gen was a FAILURE. ... At first I couldn't believe it. How could a 
 game that received so much publicity and anticipation possibly fail?! I read every review on Gamespot 
 and many from other sources to figure out what went wrong. Apparently the game was plentiful of 
 loading, many features were left out of the final version, and people complained about the speed, 
 control, and camera. It seemed I had lost hope for this game.
  
  So what was the point of this long (and possibly mind-numbing) history lesson? To explain what 
 I think about Sonic, how much I enjoy playing Sonic's games, and to set up the rest of this review. 
 
  
  The story takes place right after Shadow the Hedgehog. Sonic's adventurous drifter lifestyle brings 
 him to Soleanna, a city of water that worships their inter-dimensional sun lord, Solaris. Sonic 
 comes just in time to stop Dr. Eggman from taking Princess Elise who holds a dark secret inside 
 of her (which Eggman wants to use to take over the world, as usual) . Sonic takes her away from 
 Eggman but he takes her back and flies away. Sonic meets up with Tails and their latest adventure 
 begins. Sonic's story will eventually tie in with Shadow and newcomer Silver's ventures along with 
 a cast of new and old heroes and villains. Shadow deals with another newbie, the crystalline Mephiles 
 in his story, while Silver confronts the fiery Iblis. Mephiles and Iblis are the two beings that 
 make up Solaris, but I'll cover that in the Last Story later.
  
  Gameplay in Next Gen is fairly simple. The controls feel very much like the Adventure titles but 
 now you have something called an Action Gauge which Silver uses for his psychokinetic powers and 
 Shadow's works like in Shadow the Hedgehog. This new feature works very well and improves the game's 
 experience. Some levels are even remenescent of levels in past 3D Sonic games. Kingdom Valley feels 
 very much like Lost World, and Radical Train resembles Sky Rail. There are many more but I'm not 
 going list them all for obvious reasons.
  
  Anyone who is slightly familiar with either of the Adventure games will find themselves saying, 
 "Hey, that's from.." Most of the elements from Sonic Adventure 1 and 2 return in this game, making 
 for a great possibility that this could've been the Sonic Adventure 3 we've been waiting for since 
 2001. Multiplayer is another fun option, with both Tag and Battle modes. Special moves for each 
 character like in SA2 would've been nice, but it's fun nonetheless.
  
  One thing Sonic has that Mario will never come close to is Sound. Sonic has a reputation of including 
 full-fledged songs sung by Crush 40 and various other bands/composers in his games. Included in 
 this game are "His World" by Zebrahead, a remix of "All Hail Shadow" by Crush 40, and "Dreams of 
 an Absolution" by Remix Factory. Each one represents the 3 different hedgehogs and His World is 
 also the main theme. The music, sounds, and effects during the levels are good, though some are 
 a bit bland (Dusty Desert, for example) .
  
  The graphics are nothing less than expected. Heck, they're 24 times better than I expected. As 
 always, SEGA fails to disappoint with the first and last cutscene of each story (and some in the 
 middle) . The graphics look as though you're watching a movie in HD DVD Blu-Ray on a 74-inch flat 
 screen with four dozen subwoofers around you in Dolby Pro Logic II Surround Sound. Seriously. Even 
 the in-game graphics are stunning and are very realistic. Unlike past games, if you defeat an enemy, 
 it shatters into pieces of metallic scrap metal. Even the crates and boulders smash into smithereens 
 when hit or attacked.
  
  The Story Mode wraps up in the Last Story, where Mephiles finally gets the last Chaos Emerald and 
 kills Sonic with a devastating dark beam. This causes Elise to cry, thus releasing Iblis and Mephiles 
 fuses with him. Solaris is reborn, and an interdimensional rift occurs. All the game's characters 
 meet up and find the Chaos Emeralds so Super Sonic, Super Silver, and Super Shadow can defeat Solaris' 
 existence once and for all. At the end, Elise blows out the flame which keeps Solaris alive, therefore 
 erasing all the game's events from history: Solaris never existed, so Elise never met Sonic, Sonic 
 never met Silver, Mephiles/Iblis never existed, Silver's future is saved, and Elise's father is 
 still alive. It sounds very Super Mario Bros. 2, but you'd never see it coming.
  
  That's the good. Here's the bad.
  
  Now loading... 
  
  That's what you'll see for a good 
 deal of the game. Each screen lasts about 10-15 seconds, and there's normally 3 for each Town mission/Action 
 Stage. Although these get very annoying and may tempt you to shake your fist angrily at the screen 
 and/or throw your controller at the screen, you'll get used to them. Patience is a virtue.
  
  Another bad is the Adventure Fields. While their return may sound good, it gets old quick. 
 They were a neat feature in SA1, but now they've become "rusty". The random people scattered about 
 are annoying and make weird noises while talking to them, but it's fun to attack them. After a 
 while you could get pretty creative in bothering them.
  
  The Amigos are another thing that may sound fun, but some don't control very well. SEGA shouldn't 
 force you to play as someone you don't. Oh well. Tails actually is an improvement, since you can 
 attack while in the air. Omega is fun to be, as is Blaze. Knuckles, Rouge, and Amy are the bad 
 ones though. Knux's punches are lame, Rouge sucks at climbing, and Amy's hammer has a very short 
 range. I suggest SEGA puts only 3-5 playable characters in the next game; 9 is way too much. The 
 game also has some small technical glitches but they don't seem to interfere.
  
  One thing I've constantly heard is that Sonic is "straying away from his 2D roots". Come on, people. 
 Look at Mario. He's barely tied to his roots at all! in Galaxy, he's flying through space in random 
 costumes in zany, weird worlds. Now don't get me wrong, I love Mario as much as the next guy, but 
 people give Mario all the credit for trying to go in different directions and try something new. 
 Then Sonic gets yelled at for doing the same. For shame.
  
  Another bit I always hear is the "cheap deaths" excuse. It's called a challenge, people. If a game 
 has problems like this, just think of it as an added challenge. That's what I did, even though 
 I only experienced a couple of these deaths. 
  
  Now to compare this with Secret Rings. Next Gen has to be the better of the two. Secret Rings removes 
 most of the classic Sonic elements like robot enemies and is a big sidetrack in the series, but 
 it delivers a great sense of speed and innovative gameplay. Next Gen on the other hand is chock 
 full of the Sonic elements we love and features many characters, which happens to be good. Both 
 are great buys but Next Gen is slightly better.
  
  Sonic Next Gen is the Sonic Adventure 3 that never was. It has its memorable and forgettable moments. 
 It greatly resembles the Adventures and will make you think of them. After beating the game, you 
 stop and think how hard SEGA worked on it. They didn't rush it on purpose, they were told to because 
 they had to develop the PS3 version in a limited time. It wasn't their fault.
  
  Even though many features that were promised are not in the final version, this is still a great 
 addition to the series. I respect Jeff's score completely but I believe it deserves better. I hope 
 this review showed you what a true Sonic fan thinks about this game and how SEGA really cares about 
 their fans. 
  
  On a final note, I am NOT saying this is the greatest Sonic game in existence. That's Sonic Adventure. 
 Nor am I saying that you have to buy it (although at only $20, you should) . I'm just saying that 
 I love this game and I don't give a crap if you hate it.
  
  And at least we didn't hear "Maria" at all throughout the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Sonic, I rember you when I played Sonic the Hedgehog for the 1st time. How could Seag do this to 
 you. Make you a god damm joke. When Ist saw this game, I though it was going to be awesome, kick-ass. 
 But no, this is just a rushed in game for the fan boys to love. This game sucks. Every Sonic game 
 has had a point and lived up to expectaions, or failed a little disapointing. Sonic 1 was to start 
 it all, Sonic 2 introduced Tails and contiue, Sonc 3 introduced Knuckles and kept the speed of 
 2, and increased it's difficulty, Sonic C. D Was the best int the series and introduced Amy and 
 Metal Sonic, Sonic 3-D sucked and had no point as well as Sonic Spin-ball, Sonic Adventure 1 showed 
 Sonic in 3-D, Sonic Adventure 2 Improved by getting the 2-D speed and introducing Rouge the Bat 
 and Shadow the Hedgehog, Sonic Heroes showed what a 2-D sonic game would be like, Shadow the Hedgehog 
 was made to show Shadow's past and tie up lose ends. Sonic Rider's had no point, Sonic next gen 
 was to reborn Sonic, and it doesn't. Let's start with the gameplay. Sonic 1st. The controls for 
 the game are easy to learn. But, Sonic controls are so loose, its hard to control him. You can 
 buy things to do different moves, but there hard to do. Sonic also moves so slow, an average athlete 
 could keep up with him. His story shows that Sega is for beasteyality and say that it O. K for kids. 
 Now let's go to Shadow, who's a bit better. 1st off, Shadow isn't as fast as Sonic, he moves slower 
 than him, it's the speed if someone was on Skates. Shadow's Story is the best and confusing. Basicly, 
 Shadow meets a recolor of him and must beat him. Shadow controls are just as loose as Sonic's. 
 Shadow has some fighting combo's that are nice. Shadow also use's vechiles, and unlike Shadow the 
 Hedgehog, you are force to use them. While his chaos powers are cool, there not as use full. They 
 can also get anoying bosses. Now, for Silver, the new guy. Silver' s gameplay looked intresting, 
 but sucks. His controls are even Looser than Sonic and Shadow's togeather. His attacks either just 
 miss alot, or just don't seem to work. Silver's story alos is just generic. It just one of those 
 been there done there things. Come from the future, restore the past, and it that's it. Now, Silver 
 in not a bad character. Now for the amigo characters. Tails just sucks. Tails moves slow, and is 
 hard to control when flying. He just throws ring bombs that just suck. Knuckles and Rouge are the 
 worst. Rouge is a little better in attacks, but still bad. Knuckles attacks just are just useless. 
 Also there is a glitch that makes stay on a wall. There all sorts of glitches. There eveywhere. 
 The load times are also long and frequent. In between cut-scence, going to a different part of 
 a level, and much more. Then there's Elies. I hate here. She is just Princess peach, Maria Robotnick, 
 and Kairi put in a bleeder and set to $%!+The voice acting is just $%!+ for the characters (except 
 for Blaze and Dr. Eggman) Tails sounds like a girl, Knuckles sounds like a retarted indiot, Rouge 
 sounds like a 40 year old in her mid life Crisis, who's high, Shadow sounds like a bad Snake rip 
 off, and Sonic, ohh god I can't tell any body how much Jason Griffith has ruined Sonic, and this 
 was his worst preformence as Sonic I have ever heard. He sounds so Bland, Dorkey, and stupid. Then 
 there's that god damm speach pattern. HE always MAKES sonic SOUND like A gayer AND retared VERSION 
 of GOOFY. Griffith, stay the hell away from Sonic, quit while your a head. Sonic was not on top 
 of the world. Among Video game characters, He was a god, a god amoung Mario, Master Cheif, Ratchet 
 and Clank, and what not. Now he's a joke. Damm you Sega. It's not the worst game you will play, 
 but it is one of them. This should go ups Satian's ass. Just stay away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyco2007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is extreamly underapriciated. It may not be the best Sonic game but I think it's a good 
 game. Sonic next gen has it's ups and downs like the few glitchs in the game and somtimes bad camera 
 angles, sadly too many people (mostly critics) just focus on the few bad things whitch they should 
 focus on the good things about this game. The game play is very fun. With Sonic you mostly just 
 run fast and the superspeed areas are fun but a tad annoying, the bad thing about Sonic's story 
 is that the relationship with him and Elise, humans and headgehog's don't mix ( Just watch Sonic 
 X) . Sonic is also slower in this game then in others.
  
  Shadow's gameplay is my favirote, he is slightly slower then sonic but he sees much more action 
 and scince of his improved homing attack and Chaos Boost and viacles, he makes he's story really 
 fun.
  
  Now we have the newcomer Silver. His gameplay is very unique. You use his Telekenisis to pick up 
 objects and trow them at enimies, throw enimies attacks back at them, solve puzzles and levitate 
 over huge gaps. Sadly he is not very good at fighting as the other two.
  
  Overall this game is good. It is not as good as the Sonic Adventure series because the annoying 
 side missions, slower headgehogs, glitchs, and camera angles. But it's still better then some other 
 3D Sonic games. This game would have been alot better but Sega rushed Sonic Team into making this 
 game so early. Anyway this game does not get the apreciation it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicFan754
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I don't believe the crap everyone is saying about this game being the worst 3D sonic game. In fact 
 its actually pretty awesome. The graphics are absolutely STUNNING and the game play is pretty decent. 
 They have brought back the adventure field from sonic adventure which was a positive thing. But, 
 the loading screens and the glitches just kill me. Other than that its pretty AWESOME.
  
  Sonic, Shadow and Silver are the main playable characters. Then there is the supporting (Occasionally 
 playable) Cast: Tails, Amy Rose, Rouge the Bat, Blaze the Cat, and Knuckles the echidna.
  
  The voice acting kinda sucks though. Ever sinced the original video game cast got replaced by the 
 4kids cast (Sonic X cast) The Voice acting went down hill. If you've played the game you'd know 
 what i'm talking about
  
  Other than that this game pretty much pwns. I got it for christmas and other than the negatives 
 i'm enjoying it. If your a true sonic fan like me then i recommend this installment of the Sonic 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIMANICUS
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 19, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  If by now you haven't heard of Sonic, there is something seriously wrong with you. If you are familiar 
 with the Sonic franchise you will know that as of late there have been quite a few mediocre titles 
 that have followed on from the Genesis originals, most notably Shadow the Hedgehog. But now comes 
 Sonic the Hedgehog for the Xbox 360 (and PS3) which some could see as the terrible sequel to the 
 terrible Shadow the Hedgehog.
  
  Sonic on next-gen consoles controls bad, looks bad, sounds bad, plays bad, tells a bad story and 
 almost everything about the game is flawed in one way or an other. The guys at Sega clearly put 
 no effort into checking the game for game stopping bugs, a camera which can't keep up and buggy 
 animations.
  
  Sonic looks like it's Shadow the Hedgehog counterpart on last-gen consoles, and the quality of 
 its graphics changes in each and every instance. The FMV sequences look OK, but the cutscenes which 
 usually occur immediately afterwards, look crude and the characters look like they're made of plastic, 
 and the in-game graphics range from basic (yet colourful) environments to last-gen and generic 
 character models. It sounds generic but the soundtrack definately sounds like a Sega game.
  
  The story is convoluted and confusing, as most games involving time travel are, and there are 
 lots of little plot holes which conspire to make the story a confusing mess. Elise brings nothing 
 to the story other than to cause the player constant grief when she gets captured, again and again 
 and again.
  
  Sonic games have always been about sharp control, and Sonic next-gen does not deliver, not by a 
 longshot. The control is terrible, overly-sensitive and totally imprecise. The camera does not 
 help at all, the camera gets up close and personal at times and the butterfingered control of the 
 camera is enough to make you want to wish that the game was a 2D-platformer like it's predecessors.
 
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog on the Xbox 360 and PS3 is a subpar attempt to remake the dying Sonic franchise. 
 Note to Sega, don't let Sonic go the way of Alex Kidd. Please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrissieGirl
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  A year ago I bought this game along with an Xbox 360, and at the time, I loved it. Like the blind 
 Sonic fangirl I used to be, I denied the flaws in this game and tried my utmost hardest to pretend 
 they don't exist. Eventually though, I opened my mind and upon playing it again recently, realized 
 just how bad this game really is. Why is this game so bad? 
  
  I suppose what it really took was adjusting to controls in good games; this game's controls are 
 incredibly sensitive in a majority of situations. I noticed that the faster you run, the harder 
 it is to control your character with comfort. It's even worse in the mach-speed stages with Sonic, 
 as turning him even slightly will lead to him moving quite a lot.
  
  The three main characters are Sonic, Shadow and Silver. Sonic is the speediest of the lot, or he's 
 supposed to be. I'd like to know WHERE his speed has gone, because it only really shows itself 
 in the mach-speed stages. In actual stages, Sonic seems to move slower than what he did in the 
 Adventure games and Heroes. Sonic is meant to be FAST. Mach-speed stages look fun, but the loose 
 controls pretty much kill any enjoyment you can get from it.
  
  Shadow is even slower than Sonic, despite how fast he was in his own game, Shadow the Hedgehog. 
 He doesn't use guns anymore (thankfully) but he does use vehicles on occasion, sometimes needing 
 them to complete a section. His controls feel even looser than Sonic's, if that's even possible.
 
  
  Silver is mildly fun to play as, but not enough to save this game from it's awfulness. He is the 
 slowest of the three hedgehogs and uses telekinetic abilities to pick things up, throw them and 
 create paths for himself. The good thing is that throwing things at enemies is actually kind of 
 cool in that they will be more likely to hit, even if the camera's not facing where you want it 
 to.
  
  Aside from the three main characters, you also have amigos, who help you on your journey. Sonic 
 is assisted by Tails and Knuckles, both of whom play awfully. Tails is incredibly slow, and his 
 Dummy Ring Bomb attack leaves him vulnerable. He can fly, which is an improvement over him being 
 stuck in a vehicle in SA2, but still the bad controls make it difficult to get Tails where you 
 want him to go when he's in flight. Knuckles is also terrible - he's not only painfully slow, but 
 his attacks, like Tails, can leave him vulnerable, for he has to attack enemies in close proximity. 
 He can glide, which is a bonus, and he can climb, but his climbing is ruined by a glitch which 
 causes him to become stuck to a wall, and you cannot jump off.
  
  Shadow's amigos are Rouge and Omega - Rouge plays almost exactly like Knuckles, except for the 
 fact that she runs faster and has different attacks. She throws bombs, which is an improvement 
 over both Tails' and Knuckles' attacks as she can do it at a somewhat safe distance. Still, she 
 can glide and climb, but she also falls victim to the awful glitch which makes her get stuck to 
 walls. Omega plays fine, apart from bad controls. He has weapons with which he can shoot enemies, 
 which is decent as it enables him to attack from a distance and closely without becoming vulnerable 
 to attack easily.
  
  Silver's amigos are Blaze and Amy; Blaze is easily the best amigo in the game. She plays like Sonic, 
 with homing attacks as well as various attacks of her own. The only gripe I have here is that Blaze 
 seems to run faster than what Sonic does in his own levels, but if you can put that aside, all 
 you need to worry about with Blaze is the bad controls. Amy, however, is the worst amigo in the 
 game. Not only is she the slowest character, but her hammer also makes her vulnerable to attack 
 and she is so SLOW at attacking. She can also go invisible, which, while it's a handy ability when 
 trying to sneak past enemies, it also feels like it was randomly added in to make Amy seem more 
 likeable in terms of playability.
  
  The story is dark; it features Eggman trying to kidnap a young Princess called Elise because she 
 has something known as the 'Flames of Disaster'. Sonic comes to her rescue and tries to keep her 
 safe. That's pretty much the outline, but the story could have been so much better. I fail to see 
 why they needed to try and 'darken' the Sonic series. 
  
  The town missions would have been a tad more likeable if they didn't feature annoying load times. 
 Unfortunately, that's not the only time the game features long load times. The long load times 
 are terrible and are another downside to this already bad game.
  
  The graphics look decent, though certainly not the best the Xbox 360 has to offer. Despite this, 
 they do look quite nice, though the only problem is, it almost feels like they focused a little 
 too much on the graphics and not enough on what's the most important thing; the gameplay.
  
  The music is awesome. Easily the best part of the game. From the vocal tracks to the level 
 music, it's nice to listen to, so at least one area of the game is very good. However, with the 
 gameplay as bad as it is, itit doesn't mean that much. The voice-acting is terrible, barring a 
 few characters such as Blaze and Eggman, who sound really good. Knuckles, Shadow, Amy and Silver 
 are tolerable. Sonic lacks emotion and speaks in the same pitch and tone for everything, Tails 
 sounds feminine, Rouge also lacks emotion as well as sounding so much older than what she is meant 
 to be, Omega sounds strange and Elise sounds pretty bland. 
  
  So what can I say? Buy this game because the music's good? No. I cannot really recommend this game 
 at all. I love Sonic, really I do, and seeing him in games like this make me sad. I also feel pretty 
 angry at myself for denying all the flaws in this game because of my blind fangirlism. I won't 
 deny this game is rushed; several factors make this obvious, such as Shadow's Chaos Boost not making 
 him invulnerable despite the manual saying it would. I know people are not going to like this review, 
 but all I have to say is; I do care for Sonic, but I'm not going to be a blind fangirl and deny 
 how many flaws this game has anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranma17
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  I've seen a lot of reviewers bash this game and a fair few others praise it to the point where 
 we should apparently be throwing bags of gold doubloons to Sega to encourage them to make more 
 Sonic games.
  
  so the only way to see which category this game falls into was to buy it and play it.
  
  The 
 Story:
  Is the same old thing more or less. Eggman wants the 7 chaos Emeralds and some new thing to help 
 him conquer the world and the new thing happens to be something called The Flames of Disaster and 
 also as per it's Sonic to the rescue! ok so it isn't something that hasn't been done before and 
 better
  
  Characters:
  The Sonic series is known for pushing in characters at every chance it gets and this game is no 
 exception. not only do we have characters from previous Sonic titles but we are treated to 4 new 
 characters: Elise, Silver, Mephiles and an immortal being known as Iblis.
  
  Gameplay:
  Sonic's levels are the same usual run from one end to the other levels. this can be easy one moment 
 and stupidly difficult the next. several times in the first level i was killed because Sonic was 
 running around a loop and point blank refused to hit a ramp to take him to the next part and decided 
 that he would rather fall into the water.
  
  you'd think that would be just one problem I suffered? well in the Snow level he refused to jump 
 over the ramp on his board, in the future city he refused to Jump yet another ramp, he ran forward 
 at one point in an automated sequence to hit a Spring... and MISSED.
  
  Silver's Levels started off somewhat fun, but got annoying really quickly as half the time i was 
 throwing objects at his enemies, he missed. not to mention he's very slow, granted not every Hedgehog 
 is quick as Amy prooved.
  
  Shadow's Levels again started off fun, but also got annoying really quickly. a few times i was 
 told i needed a Vehicle to get to the next part but ended up losing a life. when i tried it without 
 the Vehicle i managed no problem. All the problems Shadows levels had i felt that they were better 
 than Silver's
  
  Finally there's the Amigo sections of levels! Tails' parts felt sluggish and boring, Knuckles' 
 parts were better than Tails' but not by much, Amy's were a joke, Blaze's were probably the best, 
 Rouge's were annoying cause she had Wall Issues every time i had to control her, and Omegas i felt 
 were ok.
  presonally i would've prefered it if Sega hadn't bothered to put them in as I prefered playing 
 as the character i started off with! 
  
  Overall the gameplay doesn't differ from other 3D Sonic titles too much. Running, Big loop-the-loops, 
 Springs etc. One part i felt totally pointless and Unnecessary were the parts where you had to 
 run around town, do some mini mission and THEN proceed to the next level. These parts were probably 
 the Worst in Sonic's Story.
  
  Other small points:
  The Music in this game is pretty good stuff, can't really complain. I've heard several people bash 
 the Voice Actors in this game the only one's i can actually say that i felt were bad were: Sonic's 
 and Rouge's -
  Sonic sounded uninspired and not sure what he was gonna say next. Rouge sounded sleezy but at least 
 she had more emotion than Sonic.
  as for the loadtime Issues, i've played so many games with bad loadtime that I've just learned 
 to ignore all load times.
  
  Final Verdict: 
  The game has many flaws but when the glitches weren't making themselves known It was fun, the only 
 problem is that the glitches happen more often than is liked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Sonic was ment to be faster and better but the only thing that was truly fast was the time sega 
 took to develop it. Its not a real bad game, but its no rebirth that was ment to be with the game 
 being unfinished ( it was 70% developed) .
  
  
  STORY: Each character has his own story being reviewed. All of them continan time travel, an ancient 
 prophecy, a supporting cast of characters and the chaos emeralds.
  
  Sonic 9/10: Its a celebration festival at the city of water Soleanna. All is well till eggman attacks 
 the city and demands the princess elise to come with him, and then comes the blue hero sonic the 
 hedgehog. Sonic's story line mostly revolves around rescuing the princess with a few other things 
 mixed in. There is also a slight romantic relationship between sonic and elise which you either 
 like or you dont. Personally i dont mind cause its even thought its romance, its not that strong 
 because many times this is just sonic's regular attitude so it shouldn't gross you out, some may 
 find it cute but me i just dont mind. There is also an improvement on eggman. In the past he seemed 
 a little less intellegent with his plans of eggman land but in this game he truly is an evil genius 
 with the plans to rule time.
  
  Shadow 10/10: After the events of Shadow the Hedgehog ( the game) , Shadow has joined G. U. N and 
 is on a rescue mission. The subject was rouge who had stolen a valuable item. At a certian point 
 the item breaks releasing a very darkn and evil character named Mephalis. Shadow journey is to 
 find out who mephalis is and seal him back to where he belongs. Mephalis brings a whole new type 
 of dark world and personality to the sonic universe and makes shadow's story quite enjoyable.
 
  
  Silver: 9/10: Silver is the new hedgehog from the game that comes from the future. His world was 
 destroyed by the Flames of Disaster, a creature known by the name of Iblis. Silvers journey is 
 to travel back to the past and eliminate the one who released Iblis. Mephalis also appears in this 
 story tricking silver into blaming sonic for the destruction.
  
  Total:28/30= 9.8/10
  GAMEPLAY: Each character has their own unique type of gameplay, however the whole game suffers 
 from glitches, some rare slow framerates and loading times that would be best used by getting an 
 item or refreshment while you wait ( but not all of them are like that) causing an immediate 2 
 point reduction
  
  Sonic 7.0/10: Sonic gameplay obviously contains speed but from right off the bat he seems to be 
 a little slower in this game. He still offers alot of loops, grinds, speed burst and homing attacks, 
 but has added several new things: 2 new types of gameplay and several gem items. Several levels 
 contian areas best referred as MACH SPEED in which sonic runs really fast. Theres no stopping and 
 only jumping but its speed is pretty fast making it sonics most enjoyable moments. Other times 
 when you rescue the princess you must carry her which brings the other new type of gameplay. These 
 levels are usually the same to sonic's regular levels but together they have the power to walk 
 on water and create a special shield. As you play through the game you will also unlock sevearl 
 gems that will give sonic the power to run at maximum speed instantly, slow down enemy movements, 
 and even allow you to make huge shortcuts. Many of the gems are really useful and add some unique 
 ideas to basic sonic gameplay. Along the way you'll play as Tails and Knuckles. With tails you 
 fly around bombing enemies and helping sonic but the main problem here is that tails now moves 
 incredibly slow unless your flying. Knuckles has the same idea of helping sonic but his gameplay 
 involves gliding, climbing walls and punching enemies. Most of the time its decent but one of the 
 most frustrating glitches takes place, some walls will not let you jump off them leaving you with 
 the only option to either climp to the top or die. Sonic's gameplay is fun but it seems that this 
 time the supporting chracters only watered down the gameplay rather than adding on.
  
  
  Shadow7/10: Shadow has similarities to sonic, but offers more combat like moves and occasionally 
 has you ride in vehicles. Shadow is slower than sonic but there are still segments of high speed 
 and the fact that the vehicles are sometimes faster than shadow leaves you better off riding in 
 them. Shadows combat is surprisingly fun and never gets old no matter how many times its used. 
 Further adding on to the combat is his usesage of chaos powers. These abilities create unique moves 
 or more powerful destructions but the 3rd one doesnt work well. Shadows gameplay is solid and like 
 sonic's gameplay it also includes others which are rouge and omega. Rouge is alot like knuckles. 
 She flies around searching for items and using bombs to destroy enemies but suffers from the same 
 wall glitch making small frustrations. Omega zaps enemies with his guns and hovers in the air after 
 a jump. With a charged shot he can attack more enemies and as for speed he moves pretty fast. Omega 
 has repetitive gameplay but the rare usage of him makes his gamplay quite enjoayble. Shadow's gameplay 
 as a whole is enjoyable but ironic situations like omega being faster has made him lose his touch 
 of identical speed to sonic making him less of an ultimate lifeform.
  
  Silver 7/10: New gameplay has entered and comes in the form of phycic powers. Silver is the first 
 character to have kynetic powers and is the 1st non-speed based hedgehog. He tosses objects and 
 levitates in the air and uses his powers to move objects or open doors. His gameplay offers alot 
 of variety as you can your enemies attacks ( like missles) and send them back at them. You even 
 gain the power to stun you enemies and throw them. It may only work about 90% of the time but its 
 still alot of fun. Silvers 2 side characters are blaze and amy. Blaze uses her power of fire to 
 bust throw enimies and has a special double jump. For those who have played sonic rush, you will 
 know that she is the speed character of silver's gameplay almost as fast as sonic. Amy is considered 
 to be very powerful but also very slow. She can double jump, turn invisible and use her hammer 
 to kill enemies in just one hit. Shes useful to get points on her sections of often requires standing 
 extremely close to the enemy causing her to recieve damage. Silvers gameplay offeres some unique 
 and new additions to the sonic universe but may annoy those who play sonic games just for speed 
 even when theres alot more to discover.
  
  Most of the glitches can be overcome, but if this was meant to be such a great game then why are 
 there glitches to overcome in the 1st place?
  TOTAL 21/30= 7/10
  
  Graphics 8/10: Sonics next gen game was truly next gen graphics. The environments look colorful, 
 some great new character designs ( like Eggman's) and some nice looking effects including explosions, 
 movement and the nice effect on silvers powers. The main hub world seems to be its only flaw. The 
 tall buildings look bland and seem to be just brushed up from previous generations. A dull hub 
 world but with great stages and designs makes sonic for the most part a pleasant game to look at.
 
  
  Sound 6.5/10: The sound is only passable with just a few extrordinary tracks. Only a few soundtracks 
 including the main theme song and certian stage songs will be epic as of what was to be expected 
 but for the most part the music is only there, just to have music on the stage. Voice acting is 
 also ok but with certian exceptions. The voice actors are from 4kids. tv which had a cartoon tv 
 show of Sonic the Hedgehog. While most are good, others like tails are annoying especially the 
 fact that Tails is a boy with female voice actor. It just kills certian moments to here some of 
 them talk.
  
  Extras 7/10: The 360 version is sligtly better than the ps3's with at least 1000 points of achievements 
 in the unlockables. Multiplayer is also in sonic but is just unfair. The modes tag and battle will 
 require you to ironacally work together either way and when it comes to competitions whoever is 
 playing as sonic will most likly win.
  
  Sonic the hedgehog was not ready to be released, and will only offer mild entertianment to most 
 fans. Even though its alot of fun its wrapped in a package of flaws sadly making sonic's 15th birthday 
 not a very happy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Task1000
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that this game got poor ratings from Gamespot, Gametrailers, and X-play, I was very 
 disappointed. Then soon when I was at Best Buy, I saw the demo of Sonic the Hedgehog 2006, and 
 when I played it....... wow this game dose suck. Infact this game sucks so bad that it wasn't fun 
 playing at all. The story makes no sense at all, the gameplay is very uncontrolable, and it has 
 "a relationship with a human princess, and a cartoony blue hedgehog with enormous glove hands (o. k. 
 then...) .
  The new character Silver seems like there putting extra weight in the Sonic Charcters. Sonic the 
 Hedgehog is overall unfinished, unfairly difficult, and most importainly just not that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riotai
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Adventure hit the SEGA Dreamcast in late 1999 as one of the best games for the console. Sonic 
 the Hedgehog's reputation since then has been a very successful moment. In 2001, Sonic Adventure 
 2 was released for the Dreamcast. Many fans claim this sequel to have been the "best Sonic game 
 ever." Fans have also anticipated the announcement of a third game. After so many years, this third 
 game has still been waited for. When Service Games, or SEGA, began their development for games 
 of the next generation, they announced Sonic the Hedgehog for the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3. The 
 game was said to have advanced gameplay, high definition graphics, and true similarities to the 
 Sonic Adventure series that had made such a great hit in the past generation. As a celebration 
 of the 15th anniversary of Sonic the Hedgehog's presence in gaming, the title was to be called 
 the honorable, and simple, Sonic the Hedgehog.
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog starts out when the land of Soleanna is suddenly invaded by Eggman and his mech 
 army. Princess Elise of Soleanna is kidnapped by the army for her special powers that may assist 
 in world domination. When Sonic is informed of this, he gathers his friends Tails, Knuckles, and 
 many other familiar faces as well as new ones and sets out for adventure to save Soleanna and the 
 rest of the world.
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog has very few pros but many cons to follow.
  
  The gameplay is very weak. For a game that is supposed to have high speed, action packed values, 
 the game slides around for speed and glitches for action. When you move a character around, he 
 or she will slide at a very quick rate. This makes precise movement very difficult as you will 
 most likely always fall out of the stage. This can be truly frustrating as well. However, the number 
 of obvious glitches can be more frustrating. The infamous "falling through the ground" glitch occurs 
 most in Sonic the Hedgehog than in any other Sonic game. Often times you will find that ramps, 
 bumpers, speed boosts, and simple loop passageways will lead you to your unexpected death. For 
 example, sliding in a speed boost will shoot you angled down, causing you to glitch through the 
 ground and die during freefall into the unknown abyss of sky and land.
  Glitching also causes you to stop in your tracks when trying to slide or jump near a wall. Gameplay 
 eventually grows on you if you are able to ignore or handle the many flaws.
  
  The graphics are very well suited for the next generation. There are some great attentions to detail 
 on many objects as well as the characters. High speed action does not lower the quality of the 
 graphics or blur them. It adds a nice touch of running past the image. Sometimes there will be 
 a pixel problem and the quality of the graphics will decrease slightly, but graphics are otherwise 
 very nicely accomplished.
  
  Voiceacting is impressive considering the terribly unsuccessful moments SEGA has had with previous 
 voiceacting in Sonic games. Sometimes there will be a long pause between conversations to try to 
 match the Japanese based mouth movements, which may throw your concentration off. Music is also 
 very well done. Some tracks, such as the theme to Crisis City or Flame Core, are very nostalgic 
 as they sound very similar to the music of the Sonic Adventure games.
  
  The camera is one of the easy-to-hate features of the game. When standing in place, the camera 
 moves slowly. If used during motion, it will move fast. Most of the time, the camera will refuse 
 to point in the correct direction. Sometimes, however, it will work on your side.
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog is no fans'-favorite, and it isn't a must-have. If you're truly a fan of the 
 series, it is at your own risk of anger to purchase and play this game. The storyline is decent 
 and allows you to see a new light of what is going on in the series. It is also a pleasure to view 
 the new characters, maybe even some for a second time such as the new Blaze the Cat. However, you 
 should consider your options before placing Sonic the Hedgehog on your game shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the graphics, the graphics are really good with some really good 
 shadings to the characters and the water and with the rest of the environment. The plot is good, 
 there are 3 main stories you play, you play Sonic's [of course] story mode, you also play shadow's, 
 then you play as the new character in the Sonic series, Silver, and their main story lines are 
 always the same and never get off task or anything. There are quite of bit of stages to play in 
 this game, there are over 10 stages to play and they are quite lengthy, if you play for your first 
 time, one of the last stages in the game can take you up to 15 minutes [remember, this is if you 
 are first playing] . The boss battles are really cool and some take awhile to kill, and some are 
 really easy, so overall the boss fights are mixed difficulty. In some stages, instead of just playing 
 just as sonic, you may end up playing as tails or knuckles which is cool if you are getting really 
 bored of playing as just sonic, or like in shadows story, you play as rouge and omega [that robot 
 from sonic heroes that was on shadows team] . There are many missions to do in this game, some are 
 really easy and some are a big challenge because you may be on a time limit or you may be in a 
 "life-death" situation. The rankings come back in this game, instead like sonic adventure 2 and 
 sonic heroes you get A, B, C, D, E, in this game is measured in S, A, B, C, D, this is really nice 
 if you want to know how well you did in a stage. Again, this is one of them games that if you want 
 to 100% complete, you may be playing this game for a long time, to complete this game [beat solaris] 
 it may only take you 10 hours, but by time you look for everything and getting rank S in all stages, 
 you may be looking up to 40-50 hours till you 100% complete. The multiplayer is pretty decent, 
 you can race to the finish line of a certain stage, or you and 2nd player can work together and 
 get all the chaos emeralds. The bad parts of this game is the loading time, this game is way overloaded, 
 a simple load time takes up to 15-20 seconds, and if you accept a mission, you get a loading screen, 
 then the person tells you what to do on the mission, then another loading screen, then you do it 
 then get your results, then another loading screen. There are some serious lag issues in this game, 
 if you go to one of those exploding boxes and break them, 9/10 chance the game will start lagging 
 for about 4-5 seconds. The camera angles are pure crap, you may be going straight when the camera 
 is behind you, then out of nowhere, the camera will switch to an aerial view and that can make 
 you die easily. The voice acting isnt really that good, sonics voice sounds like crap, he sounds 
 like he has no emotion in his speaking and some other characters also. Overall, again one of the 
 most underappreciated games i have ever played, i think this is a decent game.......... i will probably 
 get flamed for this review but oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarOceaner
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Sonic games could be compared to most celebrities careers. It's starts out great, but then they 
 slowly start getting worse and worse. That's what's going on with Sonic the Hedgehog. The blue 
 hedgehog that was great on the Genesis and the GameBoy games goes next-gen, but you shouldn't even 
 bother.
  
  The game centers around three different stories, and three different characters. You have Sonic, 
 Shadow, and Silver. You'll spend most of your time playing as other characters in the game more 
 instead of playing as these three. But everyone in the Sonic cast is there. Dr. Eggman, Amy, Knuckles, 
 Tails, on so on. Sonic is the fast hedgehog, Shadow has a bunch of cool vehicles that you can drive, 
 and Silver is the Criss Angel out of the three, because he can use Telekinisis.
  
  You never really understand the stories of each character. Sonic is supposedly trying to save Princess 
 Elise and Shadow is supposed to be this spy or something who is trying to infiltrate Eggman's base, 
 and Silver just wants to kill somebody who he feels is evil. The story is terrible and doesn't 
 make much sense, no matter how many times you play it.
  
  Sonic is difficult. Just remember those three words if you ever play this game. The game is very 
 difficult and you'll spend hours trying to figure out what to do. The game usually gives you an 
 objective, such as go to a castle. That's fine, except there is no marker on the map telling you 
 exactly where the castle is. So you'll spend hours talking to people and getting lost all over 
 before you actually figure out where you are supposed to be. 
  
  On top of the difficulty, the camera doesn't help much either. You'll be fighting a lot of enemies, 
 more than you can probably handle, and it doesn't help that the camera always gets in the way and 
 makes you die. But controlling the camera is more difficult. You'll get so involved in all the 
 action that you'll try to turn the camera one way, and it'll end up going the other way.
  
  Anytime you complete an act, you'll get coins that goes along with the grade that you recieved. 
 These coins can be used to purchase new abilities for your characters. But because the game tells 
 you what to do, never how to do it, you'll get an objective, and you won't even realize that you 
 have to go to the shop to get the ability.
  
  Despite what it says on the cover, there is no Xbox Live play. There is only local multiplayer, 
 and even that is terrible. You can either team up with a friend to take on a challenge, or race 
 against them. So the fact that there is no Xbox Live but it says so on the cover screams one thing, 
 liars.
  
  When you get so frustrated with the whole game, you can take a break and do some sidequests. And 
 yes, those are frustrating as well, and stupid. A little boy will ask you to find his dog, who 
 is really not the far away from him. Basically, everybody in the game has really dumb problems.
 
  
  Going away from the negative, the positive things about Sonic is the fact that the game is really 
 colorful. Let's face it, Sonic has never looked this good before. Or even sounded this good. The 
 game does have voice acting, and it's better than any other Sonic game or anything affiliated with 
 Sonic. (Shadow for PS2.)
  
  If you are dying to play a Sonic game, I suggest you get a GameBoy Advance and buy one on there. 
 Because it's much better on the GBA. Or you can purchase the old Sonic games off of the Xbox Live 
 Arcade. Sonic the Hedgehog for the Xbox 360 is just downright awful. One look at this game, and 
 you'll wish you had more. Overall, Sonic the Hedgehog is neither a rent or a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtlasVI
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is better than people say it is, but it's still bad. The game has a few 
 cool new features, though not too many, and it's fun until the camera and long loading times get 
 too frustrating. Silver the hedgehog's telekenetic powers are fun unless bad controls get in the 
 way.
  
  That being said, this game does nothing to help the bad reputation that Sonic games have aquired 
 over the past few years. The camera is even worse than the notoriously bad camera in the other 
 Sonic games. Sometimes it's easy to overcome, but most of the time it's not. Another thing that's 
 gotten worse in the Sonic games and is especially noticeable in this one is the spaztic controls. 
 One tap of the A button will send Sonic into some crazy, spazzy jump that will most likely result 
 in his demise.
  
  Sonic gets a new type of level in which he runs really fast and the player can't make him stop. 
 The player can stear, but will find that the slightest tap of the control stick will send Sonic 
 flying into the ocean. If Sonic crashes into something he dies, and the player must start this 
 frustrating process all over again. He also has new levels in which he must 'protect' the princess 
 during the level. This results in him carying her, but other than that, these levels aren't much 
 different than normal ones.
  
  You can also play as two other hedgehogs: the ever popular Shadow and a new guy named Silver. Silver 
 has some kind of psychic powers and can lift stuff and throw it, which is fun. The problem is Silver 
 is very slow, and even with his psychic levetation power-thing, his jumping isn't very good.
  
  Shadow doesn't really have a gimmik (like Sonic's annoying speed levels or Silver's psy-powers) 
 so they decided that he can drive "vehicles". This sounds really cool, and a lot of the vehicles 
 look nice and are armed with weapons, but the already bad controls get worse once Shadow gets behind 
 the wheel.
  
  You can also play as some supporting characters such as Amy, Rouge, Tails, Knuckles (I think) , 
 and Omega. This can be fun, depedning on which character you have. Amy's kind of fun, but Tails 
 is painfully slow and Knuckles sounds like Yu Gi Oh. And, unfortunately, Rouge is just as annoying 
 as usual, and when she dies she makes a noise that sounds like it belongs in an adult movie.
  
  The story aspect of the game is just awful as it has been in Sonic games for years. The people 
 at SEGA seem to think that if they babble about emeralds and special powers for a long time, we'll 
 eventually understand them. The story in this game is wierd enough that you get the impression 
 the SEGA team doesn't even understand it and was just making it up as they went along.
  
  Sonic has to save some princess' (named Elise) kingdom, and they begin to fall in love. The weird 
 and gross part about this is Elise is human and Sonic isn't. This part of the story is supposed 
 to feel touching and make you go "awww" but it will probably make you go "ewww" first. There's 
 also time traveling and amnesia involved, making the story even more confusing.
  
  All in all, Sonic the Hedgehog is a frustrating game that should really be left for hardcore Sonic 
 fans that just have to play every Sonic game that comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanhedden
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game because i wanted to get my kids and my old lady into the groove of the xbox 
 360 so my girl wouldnt **** all the time about my gaming. i mean, everybody loves sonic, right? 
 then i played it. what a pain in the ass. when did sonic become such a difficult game to understand 
 and play? the gameplay is alright, but whats up with the cutscenes and the graphics? this game 
 is not worth renting or buying. the plot is stupid and confusing, the city levels are retarded 
 and everything seems thrown together. i have controller marks in my walls from playing as tails 
 with his stupid ring bomb nonsense. the head to head isnt that great either but at least its more 
 bearable than the story mode. and why does everyone on the cutscenes talk like ms. pac man while 
 the story crappily unfolds? isnt this an xbox 360? cant they make the voices match the faces at 
 least a little bit? and i bought it when it first came out for 59 plus tax. could have waited and 
 got it out of the bin for 10. i still would have wanted my money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SingleClip
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 22, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Although Sega had a good game in heart, it's mascot failed to find a match. In this new game, Sega's 
 Sonic the Hedgehog attempts to make a transfer to Next-Gen, promising beautiful graphics, massive 
 environments, and more story than you can shake a chaos emerald at. However, due to rushed production 
 times, Yuji Naka's leaving Sega, and the fact that Sonic Team has no clue how to fix a camera when 
 you're supposedly traveling at the speed of sound, this game fails. Epicly.
  
  I'll start off with the environment. At first you'll find some nicely rendered environments, but 
 they just don't fit when you're supposed to be running around past this stuff. And of course, the 
 cut scenes are beautiful, but only the CGI. The rest looks like the last gen stuff, except the 
 camera doesn't collide into everything. Honestly, when people say the camera collides and is just 
 down right a "piece of crap," I laugh at them. There is no problem with the camera, unless you 
 try to adjust it and end up rotating it in front of you, but that's your problem. Then.... there 
 comes the worst part of the game, with will take up most of your time. No, it's not bad action 
 sequences, it's loading screens. You'd think with Next Gen technology, loading screens would be 
 a thing of the past. Unfortunately, they're not any better, because for this game you'll find they're 
 MUCH MUCH worse. You'll find yourself in single, double, and sometimes even triple loading screens 
 that take 5 minutes each. So basically, it sucks.
  
  Next character and character interaction. You'll find constantly through the game you'll have to 
 do mini-quests for guys and gals for the currency Rings. The loading times are horrendous, and 
 the quests just are no fun, period. Next, the characters. Constantly throughout the story you'll 
 find other characters that are completely useless in the useless story. And the poor voice acting 
 doesn't help either, whether it be bad low voices or squeaky voices you could murder. 
  
  There's nothing to be said about the story, except it's in between, typical, and gets really boring 
 in some parts and kind of intresting in others.
  
  The sound.... the sound is beautiful... well, beautiful-ish. You'll find some really nice music 
 in the game but at other points the constant jumping noise gets really annoying. But still, this 
 is another one for you Ipod.
  
  The controls are HORRIBLE. Just plain horrible. The controls are sticky, and frustrating to use. 
 Sonic's skills are either too fast, too slow, or too stupid to ever use. Silver's psychic skills 
 are annoying and hard to use. Shadows skills are okay... but his karate-wanna be attacks are slow, 
 slow, slow. Next, the side characters. Tails still has his flying skills, but now he throws Rings 
 that shoot electrical shocks. Knuckles flies around, and punches stuff, so he's not that bad. Rouge 
 (lol b00bies) is the equivalent to Knuckles, except used more commonly. Omega is a giant robot 
 that shoots stuff and has a hover ability, so he's actually quite enjoyable. Blaze (lol no b00bies?) 
 has fire abilities, and a spiny thing move, so she's a so-so. Amy (lol miniskirt but no b00bies) 
 is annoying, and has a disruptive hammer that's annoying to use. You also occasionley pair up between 
 Elise and Sonic, which pretty much just adds a shield for you. Not that intresting.
  
  Levels... eh. So-so. Boring. Intresting. 
  
  The sub-levels are vehicles and speed dashes. 
 Both parts are tons of fun, and very enjoyable.
  
  
  Overall, this game was an attempt in the right direction, but is weighed down with problems. Keep 
 on trying Sega, someday you might very well be a serious problem for Nintendo. I'll keep on hoping 
 for that day, you keep on playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzydennis
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is a step backward for the Sonic series, but it didn't kill it. 
  
  -Spoilers are in this!-
  
  Plot Overview: Sonic is watching some festival... Eggman arrives... Sonic 
 saves a Princess and runs... Sonic losses the Princess... Sonic gets the Princess again... Sonic sees 
 Silver... Sonic looses the Princess again... Sonic runs around... Shadow appears... Shadow is looking 
 for Mephiles always one step behind him... Silver wants to save his future... they become friends... Silver 
 goes back, Blaze dies... Shadow stops his story running towards Mephiles... Sonic then dies... everybodies 
 sad... They go to all the levels again with annoying wormholes and crap... Sonic comes back as Supersonic, 
 Supersonic and SuperShadow AND Super Silver fight Solaris... they win. Elise blows out some sort 
 of candle... and basically... THE ENTIRE GAME YOU JUST PLAYED NEVER HAPPENED!
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Sonic the Hedgehog are mixed. The game can sometimes look great and sometimes 
 it can look like a bad PS2 game! Sonic's model has become more evil look and it looks terrible. 
 The enviornments look great, but then there is repeating textures throughout. The draw distance 
 can look phenominal, but then everything is fog. There is even framerate drops in areas where there 
 may be one playable character and two robots!
  
  Sound: Yuck! Although SEGA is known for makign old sounds with new, the game gets annoying, Constantly, 
 you heard chimes and crap that you can't understand.
  
  Music: One of the higher points of the game. The main theme His World is very good. Also the action 
 stages music is great too. They hit the music perfectly, but the same can't be said about the rest 
 of the game.
  
  Voices: Ok, I like Jason Griffith as Sonic, but he sucked in this! Given, he was better than his 
 job on Sonic Riders. Eggman sounds like a good voice and Shadow sounds good too. Everybody else 
 just sounds forced to say their lines and it shows.
  
  Gameplay: What happened!? This game was looking so great. I'll talk about Town Stages first. Lame! 
 That's the one word to describe them. Especially as Silver. They drag out the game and don't add 
 much fun to gameplay. Worst of all... most missions don't have any connection to the story and others 
 are forced upon you. The Action Stages are better. Still it doesn't feel like much of an improvement. 
 Sonic is slower, Shadow... uses punches and crap, and Silver is actually fun to play as, but he's 
 just too slow. The Pyschokinesis is very fun. Certain levels are just repeptitive and boring. Constantly, 
 you'll die due to unfair cameras and too many enemies. It's strange when all of the videos made 
 the game look like it was going to be great. Multiplayer is more fun, but if one character is Sonic 
 and the other is Silver then, Sonic is going to be waiting a while for Silver to catch up.
  
  This game isn't Sonic's worst. It had potential, but ultimatly failed. It may be enjoyed by 
 some and it does have certain elements that make the game worth playing. Check it out if you want, 
 Sonic fans should enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame17
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  sonic for the 360 was a ok game, i wont say it was bad but it really wasnt good. the camera was 
 a pain in the butt, the controls were too ridgid and the levels were not all that impressive. I 
 thought it was cool only because i have been a sonic fan since i was 5. otherwise the game wasnt 
 really anything special.
  
  the controls were way too stiff, and the camera made things even worse. If you try running somewhere, 
 the camers always wants to be behind your character, even if it ment a wall obscuring your vision. 
 and in certain places in the game the camera always wanted to be in a certain place, no matter 
 how often you changed camera angles. because of the asqued camera, it was harder to get your character 
 where you wanted.
  
  sega... or whoever is making sonic games these days, has the ability to make a truly good sonic 
 game. like sonic adventure and sonic adventure 2 or the dreamcast and gamecube, but they would 
 have to actually take there time to make sure the camera and controls were good and spend time 
 making the levels more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicRaptor
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  I really can't say anything more about Sonic the Hedgehog for the 360 other than it's a lesson 
 in bad game design. I cannot even beat the first level (nor would I want to after multiple tries) 
 because the camera was absolutely broken causing me to fall into bottomless pits.
  
  It's annoying because this was the game Sega promised would return Sonic to his roots. Just a fast, 
 blue hedgehog running around with no strings attached. Then came the terrible plot filled with 
 ridiculous drama between the princess and the hedgehog, then came Silver but nothing came of the 
 camera. It's still as broken as ever driving itself into walls and really trying to get your goat 
 as you wrestle with the annoying controls. Do not play this game, ever. I'm not even sure if I'm 
 able to tolerate or look forward to another Sonic game after the disappointment this piece of garbage 
 was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMEMASTERHHH
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  To be really honest, this game is not that bad. Its just a high speed game with a couple of glitches 
 and mistakes. I don't know why Gamespot gave this a bad rating, it deserves a little higher than 
 what they put. The reason why I gave this a good rating is because the levels and music are kinda 
 fun and way better. Theses are Good and Bad facts of the game.
  
  
  Good: The music is really great, The levels are really better, Sonic looks more smooth and he sounds 
 better, You can play as differnt characters like Amy, Rouge, Knuckles, Omega. The story is great.
 
  
  
  
  Bad: Glithces, Bad missions, Loadings constly.
  
  
  
  Its not a really bad game to me, the levels and the music, the story is kinda excting so give it 
 a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShakouTH
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  How do I start this... We have the good factors.
  GOOD FACTORS:
  Pretty colors, not just one storyline, scrapped unneded characters, good music.
  Now, for the 
 time wasting BAD FACOTRS:
  The colors can be blinding during nighttime play, Way to many glitches, worst design for the characters 
 ever, didn't go with the storyline AT ALL, Brought a new character that we dont need, including 
 cheap recolors and edits, no reference of the chaotix, humans and hedgehogs don't go right, voices 
 get worse by the minute (especially Jason Griffith's) , mach speed levels are incredibly frustrating, 
 town missions are just boredom flaps, levels dont have any much more creativity, than the towns, 
 no exciting special effects, unbearably long loading times, Bad collision detection in the mach 
 speed levels, some parts of the game are WAY too god-modded, Sonic and Shadow, we don't need Silver, 
 anti-climactic deaths, and level endings. 
  
  This game is probably the worst of the whole Sonic series. Not only has Sonic made a downfall, 
 but every SEGA game has fallen since 2005, except the handheld console games. This game is a fusion 
 of 3 very good factors, put in the crappiest way possible. 
  It has an RPG style feel, where you earn money and buy Items. Unfotunately, the items are just 
 upgrades for Sonic, no clothes, or upgrades for Tails, Knuckles, etc., to make the town missions 
 a good idea for using your time. 
  It has a really retarded gate system, which you hit the window, not go through a gate, to go to 
 the zone, and then it loads... and loads... and loads. 
  The mach speed part of the certain levels are just very annoying, and sometimes you just cant see 
 whats coming when you first play it. It was entertaining at the beginning, but got dumb, and difficult 
 later. 
  The levels themselves, same monsters, over, and over, and over. Sometimes, the monsters didnt even 
 fit the enviornemt. You would see fire mutant lizards in the forest. Instead of making leaf element 
 monsters for that level, they copy and paste. 
  The physics are horrible, in Flame core (surprised I got this far in the game without burning it) 
 you can stand upside-down on the loop, if you jump near the middle. you can stand on the side, 
 too. What kind of physic is that!? It's somewhat understandable for Silver, but, how the heck can 
 sonic stand upside down in running shoes? That's virtually impossible. 
  Also, these designs are worse than the Sonic riders designs. It looks like what happened when Sonic 
 got down syndrome, and screwed every girl on final fantasy. It just dosent look right afterwards. 
 
  Also, Elise is a one time game character, but she was main. The storyline didn't go good. In Sonic 
 Rush, you think Blaze is from another dimension, and in Next-Gen, you find that she was born 200 
 years into the future, and that she knows Silver. Made no sense at all.
  
  This game could've been a heck-of-a lot better if:
  It went with the storyline.
  Used the old 
 well-known characters
  Didn't add new characters
  Was an origional Xbox game
  Kept the Sonic Heroes Designs
  Had more storylines
  Had less glitches
  
  Overall: 2.5/10
 
  Exact score: 2.3/10
  
  ShakouTH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Oh Sonic buddy, why?!
  
  When I first started seeing all the reviews about this one, I was stunned. "Impossible!", I thought. 
 All of the videos made the game look very fun and exciting. The only actual reason I bought this 
 game is because of Silver. I can't resist anything that involves telekinesis. My brother and I 
 began a multiplayer map on co-op, and were quite pleased with what we saw in the first little bit. 
 Then something happened... We finished it. We finished the WHOLE co-op in only 35:00, (not counting 
 the loading time though) ... if I had, than it would be nearer to an hour. Yes, the loading times. 
 When I read that people were complaining about each screen taking to long to load, I thought they 
 were being a little to picky. NO, I WAS WRONG! If you talk to someone in town who gives you a mission, 
 it takes about 15 seconds to load the first screen, then the person tells you of your objective, 
 and then comes another loading screen for 15 more seconds. If you accidentally fail the mission 
 than here comes yet another loading screen. Some screens take up to 30 seconds each. This may seem 
 like nothing to you, "ehh, what's 10 seconds y'know?", but I began to go mad with fear every time 
 I saw a mission.
  
  The main gameplay is to small to even enjoy... there are only 25 total act missions, but there are 
 53 annoying town missions...
  This game is quite difficult too. If it weren't for the constant messups in the level design ,we'd 
 all be goners. Heheheh... I remember in the last act mission when I had to be Rouge, I could just 
 climb up a pillar, jump off, and fly over the entire map, straight to the goal!!! There was always 
 some kind of secret, accidental path you could find. They must have given their game testers an 
 incredibly long lunch break, then shipped the game before they got back. (Another incident was 
 the multiplayer level, White Acropolis. It would normally take about 4:30 seconds to finish, but 
 there are a few boxes near a laser wall that lets you jump over and finish in 30 seconds!)
  
  The multiplayer itself is ok until Sonic gets what's coming to him. Abilities and gems. Sonic 
 is faster than Silver and Shadow, but now they let him slide under laser doors! The gems only make 
 it worse! He has a gem to speed dash, slow down time, perform a tornado attack, emit a barrier, 
 hold himself in air, teleport, and shrink himself. The shrinking one is the worst, it allows Sonic 
 to fly by tapping the jump button!!! 
  
  Silver's abilities are crap. You either have to throw boxes or get face to face and stun, then 
 telekinesis enemies. Later on you get the ability to jump in the air and stun the horde of enemies 
 around you. After that, just tap the RT twice to destroy the entire lot. It shuns his telekinetic 
 ability from total use unless to throw boxes at the enemies who are immune to stun. (Not to mention 
 that he can hardly get up a ramp because of his grandma-speed!)
  
  Shadow on the other hand has an amazing battle structure! You'll never get sick of jumping in the 
 air, flying down on an enemy, beating the crap out of it, and moving on to the next without even 
 touching the ground! Sonic, who still smashes into enemies in his ball form feels lame after playing 
 shadow. Shadow also can go 'Chaos Mode' after killing enough enemies. The good thing about it is 
 that he can perform a small teleport at enemies, which feels really cool. The letdown is one of 
 his powers, Chaos Blast, "Wipe out everything within a 10-yard range", sound cool huh? Well it's 
 not. It's 100% USELESS.
  
  The entire story to this game is childish... If there going to put out a game with teenage difficulty, 
 than may they please make a worthy storyline!!!
  
  Well there are HORDES of more terrible things in this game: Knuckles and grabbing on to walls, 
 Tails and his stupid ring attack, the crazy camera, the silver coin collecting!..... on and on.....
 
  
  Just Don't Buy This Game. Play Sonic on Super Smash Bros. Brawl! 
  
  And don't buy Sonic and the Secret Rings either! My dad bought that, and we ended up selling back 
 within the week!!!
  
  In fact the last OK Sonic game was Sonic 2 Battle... I guess... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vectorman23
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is stupid because its an unfinished game. ok why must you get me hyped up for a sonic 
 game but then you release it and it is the most glitchest game i ever seen. This game has poor 
 camera functions, controls just awful, graphic is good, gameplay is the worst part of this game 
 because there is long load times and isn't sonic supposed to be fast because he is only running 
 fast during those pathic seqences. Id i want you to buy the game and burn the game to death. Thanks 
 alot sega for ruining the coolest game of my childhood!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Habast
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 17, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Entertaining on multiplayer (for a while) , I'll give it that, but has a broken storyline on one 
 player. 
  
  I myself got sick of this game after like 3 hours of play, but I've played it much more than that 
 (probably 30 or so hours) because my little brother forced me to keep playing. 
  
  Unless you are a HUGE sonic fan, DO NOT BUY! You will thank me. 
  
  HORRIBLE voice acting as 
 well...
  
  
  The Good
  Multiplayer, to an extent
  
  The Bad
  Everything else
  
  The Just Plain Ugly
  Repeat 'Bad' section
  
  
  Overall:2.8
  Gameplay:3
  Story:1
 
  Sound:3
  Graphics:4
  Replayabilty:2
  Multiplayer:7
  Learning curve:10 min 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samherrett
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog Next-Gen shall I say adds to the series.
  The graphics are outstanding and the atmosphere is amazing, Voice acting is meh but still good.
 
  This game has been getting lacklustre reviews but i feel that there is nothing that bad about 
 it, Yes the camera is poor and when running very fast you tend to fall off obstacles and die which 
 is the weakest point of the game.
  It seems on this one SEGA have been focusing more on the graphics than the gameplay but the gameplay 
 is decent enough to play.
  It starts off by walking around finding tails and then getting straight onto high action gameplay.
 
  The game it self I bought yesterday for 12 from a second hand shop and to be honest its good 
 even thoguh I cannot get past the first level due to the PURSUE the egg carrier where I fall into 
 the river when I go up the hoop, The game is addictive and I will carry on trying to complete this 
 level.
  Die hard sonic fans this is a must buy.
  Others may rent this.
  And if your one who likes to get achievement points only this aint a must buy since the achievements 
 are very challenging.
  So let me finish off saying this is the sonic which could of set the series in an amazing direction 
 but this fails to do so but still gives people a thought that sonic can still get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Kitsune-
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game. I was a fan of the good old 2D Sonic side-scrollers from back 
 in the day, and I'd love to see a decent installment on one of the next-gen consoles someday. Unfortunately, 
 this disaster doesn't even come close.
  
  Oh, where to begin. The story is typical Sonic fare: Eggman is out to destroy the world, he's collecting 
 chaos emeralds, it's up to Sonic and friends to put an end to his dastardly deeds. Oh, and there's 
 also a princess for Sonic to save. Any questions?
  
  But of course no one plays Sonic games for the story: it's all about the speed! This is where some 
 of the most serious problems occur.
  
  Sonic is still nice and fast, and he can be fun to control, although cheap deaths due to a wild 
 and disorienting camera are still an issue in some spots. However, playing as any other character 
 just seems like a chore. Tails is especially horrible: he's slow and his ring attack is a pain 
 to use.
  
  The biggest issue with the game by far, though, is the excessive loading. You had better learn 
 to love that loading screen because you'll see it before each cutscene, at the start of every level, 
 and before every other significant event. A common scenario was to start a city quest, stare at 
 the load screen for a while, exchange a few lines of dialogue with the quest giver, then stare 
 at the load screen again and wait for the actual mission to start. This would be an extreme annoyance 
 in any game, but in a Sonic title, where everything is supposed to be fast, it's totally unacceptable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master1121
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Its terriable that 3 company's help make this game and none can get the gliches and loading right. 
 I am very shocked and dispointed in this game but i love the videos and songs in this game exspecially 
 Ellise's song in the end of the game.
  
  Sliver is a great addition into the Sonic family i like his power's along with Shadow's powers 
 as well.
  
  
  I do not like Sonic missions when you have to run in the last part of the missons that is VERY 
 hard to control i dont understand that at all.
  
  
  
  Poor dispointed game but the videos in the game is what saved this game for me to rate it a 6.0 
 Fair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theUNstopable13
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  When I first got my Xbox 360, this was one of the first games I got since I'm a total Sonic fan. 
 Once I got the hang of the controls in the game, I dashed over to the first ACT. I was really surprised 
 at how fast you run in the game and how the graphics were great. More and more I played it and 
 I saw why people gave this game a 4.4. I noticed that the graphics tend to "goof" up on you while 
 you play. The camera was a real problem with me but you just have to get used to it. I've seen 
 the graphics change too when you watch a clip about the story. Example: when watching Tails talk, 
 he starts to have black squares in his ears... Is that his shadow? Another Example: WTF? why does 
 the Princess have orange legs? I have noticed this plenty of times, not just those two, but a lot 
 of it happens when you get farther in the game. One thing I really enjoyed was the "Super Speed 
 Course." I've never seen Sonic go as fast as that in any of his 3-D games. As soon as you start 
 the first one in the game you were probably thinking, WOW, slow down man... but you were already 
 blasting off running like hell. Another glitch was that each time you hit something on the course, 
 you say, "ouch," and act like you barely got hit by something. Sonic doesn't really stick with 
 the environment when it comes to hitting something solid as his head. Example: when you run into 
 a tree, the tree disapears and Sonic just flips around like nothing just hit him. Although that 
 happens, it's still fun to blast through the "Super Speed Course." One thing that really bugged 
 me was the new adventure field. Solenana or whater its called wasn't really a great thing they 
 put in the game. Along with the adventure field, you have to do stupid TOWN Missions that are just 
 plain dumb. I don't know why they put this crap in almost every 3-D Sonic the Hedgehog game so 
 It's getting really annoying. Some TOWN Missions are fun, but, they just weren't fit for the game. 
 Now, when it comes to loading screens, they aren't so bad. In fact I made some good use for them. 
 Each one takes about a minute and a half so I just pop into my refridgorator and grab a snack while 
 its loading. Most of the time the loading screens are annoying too because there are way too many 
 of them. Example: Mission: Beat Dr. Eggman! a loading screen....... Dr. Eggman says: hahahahaha! 
 a loading screen........ then you see yourself, another loading screen. It's really annoying but 
 it's not the end of the world. When it comes down to voices, I HATE THE CHARACTERS! I think SEGA 
 or someone just got lazy one day and put the r-tarded voices from Sonic-X. The voices really made 
 the game look like its a five year-old's game. The only good voices are, Shadow, and Rouge's voices. 
 As everyone wanted to play as Silver, they found out he wasn't the assasanator for Sonic, instead 
 they found another r-tarded voice that sounds like Trunks from Dragon Ball Z, only more gay. Silver's 
 gameplay was good but not good enough. Instead of telekinesis, he used this syco-thingy wingy. 
 When you pick up and object, it doesn't really listen to you when you want to throw it, instead, 
 it only throws the corresponding way the camera is facing and using your "bad" aiming skills as 
 an excuse for hitting something. Sonic's gameplay just stayed the same when it comes down to it. 
 3 basic attacks, homming, kick and bounce. Although he has custom power-ups, they don't really 
 make a difference because the don't really work. Shadow's gameplay was wayyy too hard. It made 
 the game look like it's for adults but in a five years-olds thought. Shadow's powers were only 
 from the game, Shadow the Hedgehog which also didn't fit in the game that well. The Achievements 
 in the game are also hard to get too unless you play the game 24-7. The #1 thing I hate in ALL 
 Sonic games is the S-rank. It is so freaking f***ed up that they are way too hard for anyone to 
 accomplish. The ending to the game was like, A COMPLETE WASTE OF TIME. It was like they never wanted 
 you to play the game because the ending just gave out a remark saying, "ha ha ha! you just wasted 
 1 year trying to complete this game when the ending said, 'this was a complete waste of time'." 
 Thats how I felt about it but I guess It wasn't a TOTAL let-down. If you'd ask anyone how the game 
 was, they'll probably say: Broken, Complete Let-Down, Waste of Time, Horrible, Disastorous, Rip-off, 
 Too Hard, Dissapointing, Check your Bargin Grid, and probably, Rent it First. I never thought these 
 thoughts when I played the game. I also didn't write this review just because It got a low score. 
 I wrote it because this is one of my favorite games of all time and nothing can change that. For 
 all the years I've waited... this was the best they could give people? so it is. This game should 
 get more than a 4.4, but at least a 7.0. Thats the score I would give it. Other people may have 
 other reasons, but this is my reason. I enjoyed this game no matter what people say or do, It may 
 have been hard and annoying but it's still a fun game for anyone to play. Thank you for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukevsLuffy
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 18, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a major fan of sonic, starting out at the original sonic the hedgehog. I was 
 a fan of all sonic games, even sonic heroes. This game however, just did not bring any of the sonic 
 action and magic that captivated us back on the genesis. This game brings the voice actors from 
 the show, which are different and sound wierd to me, who has beat sonic adventure 2 at least 50 
 times (exaggeration) .
  
  the voice acting is terrible. When someone inturrepts, they dont even finish their sentence like 
 a normal person would finish one. they would raise their voice into asking a question, and stop 
 talking, followed by the inturruption. Also, when someone says "AH" or "oh no!" they just do not 
 bring any sort of care. Rouge in one seen just goes "ahhhhhhhh..." like she doesnt care, but you 
 would think she would be screaming very loudly. Also, Omega is annoying because every step, or 
 move he makes has a squeak, whine, or clank from his armor. Sometimes, a sond does not even play 
 during a scene.
  
  Now about story The story is lacking interest, and just drags on. And they bring another hedgehog 
 into play, which just makes sonic feel not as original and quite boring, knowing next game theres 
 going to be a "hurricane the hegdehog" or "Rayman the hedgehog". it just ruins the fun.
  The story has many bad scenes also, which just dont make sense, and at one time, some cia guy asks 
 rouge for the "book of darkness". its terrible, because it is the scepter of darkness, and she 
 replies to him "no, it broke" or whatever. Also, sonic and a woman fell in love. For christsake!
 
  
  Gameplay is also at fault. Terrible camera, Terrible control, and terrible glitches ruin it and 
 cause hundreds of random deaths. Times when sonic "speeds up" are highly uncontrollable, and makes 
 incredibly easy deaths. Load times are a burden, 15 seconds each time, and happen at least 4 times 
 a level, while old sonic games would have a trigger in the level that caused whatever was to happen, 
 to happen instantly, and the loads were still shorter. All the bosses and levels are reused for 
 each character, so no new stuff which happens for each person.
  
  Some ups contibuted to the game, like the full cast from all of the other games, and the return 
 of a hub town, along with missions, that though they do take a while to load up, can be fun. 
 
  Also, the new character is a blast to control at times, though he may be slow.
  
  With a game like this, it may be hard to pick sonic and his friends up and continue along. Best 
 of luck ( I say this desperately to them) to the makers of the Sonic RPG, please, save sonic.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Broc_Samson
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I have been a hard-core fan of Sonic the Hedgehog since I was three years old and this game is 
 a travesty! I borrowed it about a week ago from a friend and after TEN minutes of actual game play 
 I put the controller down took out the disk and returned the game. How could it be so wrong? I 
 don't honestly understand! The classic Sonic games were just about my favorite games of all time! 
 Sonic Adventure was great game! Sonic Adventure 2 was also fairly good. Heroes was tolerable but 
 this is just like somebody in a Sonic costume took a dump on the ground and called it a game.
 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  The opening cutscene had amazing graphics... game play graphics... not so much.
  
  Gameplay: 
 1/10
  
  Its like a paraplegic man trying to compete in the Olympics.
  
  Plot: N/A
  
  Did not get far enough to care. (With a new hedgehog in there it was probably bad anyway.)
 
  
  I had heard bad things about the game but I wanted to give it a chance anyway. I really really 
 wanted to like this game but its a sad day when I give a Sonic game a 2... and it gets that only 
 because its a Sonic game. I really hope that in the future they can revitalize this franchise and 
 make a nextgen Sonic game on par with perhaps... Mario Galaxies?
  
  Bottom line... under no circumstances should you even touch a controller associated with this game. 
 And if buy it... you might as well buy a gun to go along with it my friend so that you can end 
 your own misery. For a Sonic fan such as my self I can honestly say playing this game was more 
 frustrating than watching all three "Child's Play" movies in a row. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MerkManMajora
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  
  Excellent
  
  Though does have its flaws like the long loading screens and the slower sonic but the graphics 
 are amazing and the action stages are full of color and action and multiplayer is great to play 
 with brothers or sisters but mostly brothers. All in all this game is one of the best sonic games 
 I have ever played. But I am glad there is no brooding anti hero like shadow . Dr. Eggman looks 
 really weird to! The story is a little strange but it works. Silver is really cool to with the 
 phycic powers and the love of throwing giant cars at enemies or eachother in multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 7, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  When you say next-gen, you mean advance and when you mean advance it is most likely to be better 
 and from what I'm seeing from this game, I think I already got a reason to argue on that.
  
  Sonic way back to genesis was a great game. The 2D platformer was great and was said to be 
 fun to play. But when this next-gen consoles started to use their next-gen graphic engine, they 
 really drag sonic from top to bottom. They really did not care about the gameplay but only on the 
 graphics to make it look like next-gen. And that is very, very disappointing. I own this game and 
 spent a few hours with it and now I am regreting that I not only wasted my money but my time as 
 well. I think this game can turn a sonic fan into a sonic hater but if you really want to try out 
 this game I suggest that you rent it first. I would really rather play it on 2D than on 3D because 
 it really just doesn't work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serj_tankian05
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  Man, whats up with Sonic these days? It seems my childhood hero is starting in with the Arthritis 
 or something... Look, you will probably never see me hate a Sonic game, but it's getting harder 
 with every game... I loved Sonic adventure 1&amp;2, so it's not the 3D theory that I hear everyone 
 saying... The main problem that I had with this game was the terrible controls. I had more fun 
 waiting for the 10 minute load times then i did with the actual game play. And it's not to say 
 that this game didn't have great intentions, I just feel that it was done all wrong. As I said 
 once before, the controls where no good, the actual game play was choppy at times and for the most 
 part, the graphics are not as they should of been... But on a positive side, the story was really 
 interesting and I like the characters available... Silver was a very exciting character for me 
 because I love the power of telekinesis, especially in video games... But it just wasn't enough 
 for me... I hope in the future for sonic, there lies another great classic from my true blue hero: 
 Sonic the Hedgehog... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDMF_TrueBlue
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game. I wanted it to be the next-gen revival of the 3d iterations 
 of my beloved childhood video game franchise. It wasn't. What was released was a buggy, glitchy, 
 overpriced, overhyped mess. The CG is stunning, and that's about it graphically. The stages are 
 large and represent all the classic Sonic stages, but are nothing special on the machine that runs 
 Gears of War. The controls are fine- as long as you are moving slowly. I had few difficulties controlling 
 Silver and the most when playing Sonic's speed sections. These controls twitch worse than a crystal 
 meth addict in rehab. The voiceovers are decent. The music is good. Sound effects are classic Sonic. 
 The load times are INEXCUSIBLE! Stages load anywhere from 2-4 times. At 10+ seconds per screen... 
 The story is serviceable, but not outstanding. At $60 when this game was released fans like myself 
 were ripped off. At $20 this game is worth a look, but there are certainly better 360 titles at 
 the same price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyranitar522
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't good or bad, so i just rated it halfway. It has good speed and action, even though 
 they Shadow, Silver, and Sonic run like turtles. I like the vehicles, but dont know why humans 
 like Princess Elise interact and ruin the game. The stages are designed well, and the voice actors 
 do a good job. But the music is so cheesy, and i had expected much more from a sonic game. This 
 game, i think, ruins the whole sonic series, and they should make future projects better. This 
 game has goods and bads, so thats why it was hard for me to decide. I finally made up my mind, 
 and decided to make it halfway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irockout1
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:53 am PT
Review:  if you buy this game your just wasting 50 bucks.
  This game has great graphics it might temped you but stay away its glichy, controls are diffciut 
 ,the gameplay is worse than horrible, there too many loading screens
  It is flat out boring, sometimes you dont even play and at if touch the contller your at risk at 
 dieing, the paths sometimes lead to nowhere or a big hole in the ground, the plot is sorta stupid.
 
  SEGA said that this was going to get sonic back to its glory days they said that this was the 
 game that make sonic the hedgehog famous again, well that game will have to wait, because they gave 
 us lies, this is not the game that will the series around. Hopefully someday sonic will return to 
 its past glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kh2riku
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This is a very solid game. If you liked the sonic adventure games, you will love this game. There 
 is some issues with the camera and one or two parts in a level that are unrealistically hard, but 
 with time you can get used to it all. I was disappointed that there was no chao garden but this 
 is still an amazing game that i recommend buying if you are a sonic fan.
  
  It says there is only three char to play with but you play as other characters during the missions. 
 Do not let all the bad hype fool you. Give the game a chance before you say it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HVPinc
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Normally, I would give an easy to read, well written review. With this game I will make and exception 
 though. I will now explain the game in a nut shell.
  
  -You walk around in a town looking for a dot on the map.
  - you find it, wait 45 seconds (loading...) 
 - the person u just found (the dot) will now have a 5 second talk with u in the form of an IN GAME 
 cut scene with sub titles. He tells u your mission
  - wait 45 more seconds.
  - You either have a 30 second mission where you have to hit a box or somthing, or you have an actual 
 mission.
  - In the event of the latter, if your sonic, you'll move really slowly and die not from the game, 
 but from the glitch where you fly off the jump your supposed to automatically hit. -If you play 
 as Shadow or Silver... You'll probably want to hurt your self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrinaxodon
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The worst game i have ever played on the xbox 360 was bomberman zero,
  but Sonic the Hedgehog is just as bad.
  After the theme movie/scene all kinds of bad things happened, 
 like to much and to long loading times, the worst camera i've ever seen, and the game is overloaded 
 with bugs and glitches.
  
  The game isnt playable at all, i had the urge to throw the disk against the wall.
  this game 
 wasnt a close call at all, it felt like a rag doll.
  i make a rap about this game, because its the worst thing i have ever seen, its a huge shame the 
 game is to blame, no thanks for collecting my money that day.
  
  
  Conclusion: don't buy this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejackal465
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I think that in order to truly appreciate what new game SONIC the Hedgehog really is, we must go 
 back in time to examine the Sonic series as a whole. Thus, utilizing my other worldly powers and 
 a bit of Chaos Control, I will go back in time to show the series:
  
  THE GOLDEN YEARS
  Sonic the Hedgehog-Sonic and Knuckles
  Not to be confused with SONIC the Hedgehog is Sonic the 
 Hedgehog for the original Sega System. In the world of console games, there were only two competitors -- Sega 
 and Nintendo. Nintendo was capitalizing on its mainstay of destruction, Mario, by the time Sega 
 started getting serious in the biz. Any other system would run in fear -- but not Sega. Sega ran -- but 
 ran for the goal -- ran straight for the robotnick face spinner at the end of every stage. Sonic 
 quickly saved Sega and became the company's posterboy. THE CRAPPY YEARS
  Sonic 3D Blast
  What began as a nightmare quickly became worse. While Nintendo's Super Mario 64 broke new grounds 
 with 3D playing, Sega's Sonic 3D Blast broke hearts and killed infants. The machine of death that 
 was Sonic 3D Blast was last seen in Wyoming killing for alcohol money and stalking teenage girls -- approach 
 with extreme caution.
  
  THE STRUGGLE FOR THE TOP
  The Sonic Adventures
  Following the atrocity that was Sonic 3D Blast was a duo of adventures. These titles took the series 
 in a different direction -- sacrificing Sonic's cuter image in lieu of one where worlds and lives 
 are threatened. Sonic's speed slowly (hahah, funny) made it's comeback as the series was slowly 
 build back from the rubble left behind from its predecessor.
  
  And here we are at SONIC 360. Realizing I am now pressed for time, I will dive right in. In terms 
 of controls, SONIC 360 is 12 steps up from the adventure titles. Sonic controls smoothly and precisely -- as 
 a gamer, I am no longer afraid of quick corrections in direction during speed-breaks because I 
 know that doing so will not ruin my acceleration. Some may complain that the controls are too smooth -- even 
 slippery. I disagree on the grounds that the same was said about Sonic the Hedgehog when it came 
 out, but it is still accepted as one of the better controlled titles in the series.
  
  In terms of visuals and camera angles, it is good/average. The game looks gorgeous with beautiful, 
 full environments, but it has the typical sonic camera -- the one that may as well have been filmed 
 by the creators of Children of Men. Glitches exist. At some points, Sonic may find himself stuck 
 against a wall (easily correctable, but very annoying) or missing a scripted jump (more annoying) . 
 On one rare occurance, the character, through some crazy turn of events, ended-up stuck on top 
 of a loop-de-loop. This happened to my sister at the start of one level. She chose to just jump 
 off and take the one-life deficeit, in doing so accideltally landing on the goal ring and completing 
 the level in 17 seconds (yowza) .
  
  In terms of storyline, SONIC 360 is all A's. Continuing the more serious tone set by the Adventure 
 titles, Sonic finds himself thrust into a three-way war between Eggman, the mysterious Mephiles, 
 and Silver the psychokinetic Hedgehog from the future. While saving kidnapped Elise, princess of 
 water-city Soleanna, from Eggman, Sonic is attacked by Silver, who calls him the Iblis Trigger 
 --the one who ruined the future by releasing the fiery devil Iblis upon the world. Silver was sent 
 back in time by newcomer Mephiles. Soon, even Shadow enters the fray as the one who accidentally 
 releases Mephiles (who immediately travels to Silver's time to manipulate Silver to kill Sonic) . 
 In the end, in the Final Story, all the storylines come together in one Oh Yeah! moment for the 
 player. Honestly, this game has the best storyline of any game I have ever played, Sonic or otherwise. 
 Shadow's story alone screams of baddass-ness, and his ending shows this (and is quickly followed 
 by his credits to the beat of ALL HAIL SHADOW! )
  
  My friend said that the game was too linear. I disagree and here's why: We're talking about a series 
 where the main objective of its first four installments was procede to the right. Clearly, SONIC 
 360 can never be too linear.
  
  HeadshotJackal's Rating:
  I give this game 7/10. It has its share of problems, but is definately a giant leap in the right 
 direction for the Sonic series as a whole. Besides, the involved storyline easily makes-up for 
 a few minor glitches. I had so much fun, I went back to replay the game on Hard difficulty -- something 
 I didn't even do for Metroid Prime... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryeinkazamoto
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  Sonic the hedgehog has had its ups and downs over the last few years. Ive been a very dedicated 
 sonic fan, but for some reason the creators seem to spit in my face. Sonic the Hedgehog for the 
 360 is just plain gruesome. The graphical part of the game seem pretty solid, with minor errors 
 and strange glitches, but for the most part its pretty solid. Some of the main city's textures 
 and some of the npc's that walk around could have been more detailed but, thats getting a little 
 to picky. The models for sonic, shadow and silver look pretty solid, and most the the backgrounds 
 and scenes for the action levels are top notch.
  
  The game play, however, is where it gets bad. The camera is a monster from my worst nightmares, 
 it switches up at seemingly random moments making it hard to control the blue critter. Example: 
 When running across the bridge in sonic's main city, the camera freaks out and makes crossing a 
 simple bridge a chore. It will turn you around in every direction and throw you off. Another horrible 
 game play aspect are the controls. They seem off. Sonic gets this neat slide attack, which seems 
 cool at first until you actually use it. You glide across the ground for a long while with no ablitity 
 to jump until this slide ends. When it ends... no one seems to know because it isnt consistent. 
 Moving around just feels wrong.
  
  Bosses are hard to fight because the game has no lock on feature, and with a crazy camera, its 
 hard to even find the boss. So you miss a lot of whats going on, until its right up on you zapping 
 away all of your rings. Notably irritating is the sonic boss against silver. Silver has the ablitiy 
 to stop you in mid air, or even while your on the ground and launch you across the screen. Alright, 
 that would be okay if the camera wasn't glitchy, the controls weren't off and if your hedgehog 
 buddy would move fast enough. What actually happens is this: You run around and collect some rings 
 real fast, he catches you because you didnt see him coming, he picks you up with his telepathic 
 powers slams you into some invisible force (To where you land right next to him... not on the other 
 side of the screen like your supposed to) and you get up (Very slowly) and hes standing right there. 
 Before you have a chance to move he doesnt again while saying This should end you and what do you 
 know? it does.
  
  The game does have some really good aspects, but they are drowned in a sea of negatives. The game 
 is really bad and only the most hardcore of sonic fans should even rent it. I give it a 2.5 out 
 of 10 (And thats just for nice looking graphics) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaSonicZX
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 13, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  God, this game is one of the worst video games I've ever played. I mean, I'm a huge Sonic fan. 
 I've been one since 1995 or so. Sonic 1, Sonic 2, Sonic 3, Sonic &amp; Knuckles, you name it all. 
 But this one is just crap. It's so bad, it doesn't even deserve to mimic the name from the original 
 Sonic game on the Genesis. I'll detail the reasons below.
  
  First of all, the controls are slippery and slow. For example, in Wave Ocean, when you're running 
 the first corkscrew loop, you're not as fast as you used to be in previous Sonic games. The first 
 time you take control of Tails, HE'S EVEN SLOWER THAN SONIC! And when you press the attack button, 
 Tails doesn't use his two tails to slash at enemies. Instead, he throws fake rings at them. What 
 the hell. Sega has obviously forgotten Tails' gameplay in Sonic Adventure for the Dreamcast. Oh 
 yeah, and the first time you fight Silver. IT'S THE CHEAPEST BOSS BATTLE I'VE EVER SEEN IN ANY 
 3D PLATFORMER. Silver paralyzes you with his telekinesis powers, then throws you. He does that 
 all the time. I stopped playing there. Anyways, everything about the gameplay sucks.
  
  Did I mention the super-frequent loading screens already? This crappy game has that. Say that you 
 talk to a person and he/she gets you to do a mission. You say yes and a loading screen appears. 
 Then the person tells you how to do the mission, and then another loading screen. You do the mission, 
 you complete it, and you guessed it, ANOTHER GOD AWFUL LOADING SCREEN. The game throws loading 
 screens right at you all the time. I declare this the most annoying part of the game.
  
  The only good part of this game are the graphics, and the sound and music are not that bad either. 
 Level designs are awesome, and the characters look pretty good except for Dr. Eggman. That's all 
 I have to say here.
  
  Sonic Next Gen is by far one of the worst Sonic games I've ever encountered, if not the worst Sonic 
 game ever. Don't play it, don't buy it, don't rent it, just destroy it or throw it in the garbage. 
 If you want a great Sonic game, get Sonic Rush Adventure for the Nintendo DS. It's way better than 
 this piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muncher65
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good installment to the sonic series. Outstanding visuals and fun action for almost 
 every one. But for a big percentage of the game you seem to be walking around talking and finding 
 people and things which sometimes gets a tad boring. still Sonic is lightning quick and puts up 
 some good boss fights and with help from his companions which you will be also playing as. I did 
 come across some glitches here and there but they were pretty hard to find. And even though there 
 is alot going on in this game it still runs at a smooth frame rate. 
  
  over all if your a fan of sonic and you have a 360 pick this up and give it a try ( questions and 
 comments appreciated, ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicNarutoFan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Its not easy but not hard. The game play is awesome you get to run 
 around town and go through levels. The levels have good graphics, and its fun to see all the detail 
 in the levels. I personally don't think theres a camera problem except in a few places. The multiplayer 
 needed a bit of work but its still fun ( i was hoping for a 4 player mode) . The story is also well 
 thought out and enjoyable. over all the game is fun and worth it, it also doesn't deserve a 4.4. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robotdeer
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 29, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  Wow just wow... this game is bad! avoid at all costs!
  It actually could have been somewhat good if they went back and looked at what made the older games 
 so great... but SEGA just won't do that! Sonic players just want action! AND FIX THE CAMERA! Even 
 though I think the single player game is pretty abysmal... the multiplayer is worse. If you see 
 this and think about buying it... just keep walking please. I got Sonic for free with my 360 and 
 I think I paid way too much. It makes me wonder if they even played this before putting it on shelves. 
 Get with the program SEGA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEARS1234
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  why is it that i have seen so many people giving this game a crap review i mean i borrow it last 
 week and i think it was really good worth playing maybe it's because they can't play it because 
 they are just crap a the game this game has got good grapihes, nice levels and is just really fun 
 to play i mean its fun to get all the S grades in the game. but the downer was the town missions 
 they were really boring plus the loading times but it did not bother me what so ever. If you like 
 sonic games get this by all means if you don't buy something that is a little bit easyer for you 
 because this game is not hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megax456
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I use to love sonic. He, s fast, cool and an all around favorite in the gaming world, lets face 
 it he's basicly an icon. but this game really butherd sonic in a horrible way. I mean what the 
 F@#% was sega thinking about when they thought of this game sonic and ellis love afair between 
 a gaint cartoony hedgehog with massive white gloves and a human princess who looks like she belongs 
 in WOW. The animators painstakingly slowed down every fram so the player can truly appriciate the 
 fine mahogony craftsmen ship.
  COME ON SEGA. Sonic fans never really cared much for graphics. I mean look at the sonic advance 
 series and the sonic rush series. they didn't have state of the art graphics or massive plot lines. They 
 were just plain fun like the good old days when sonic was a sega excusive which made me want to 
 buy a sega, but know adays I only seen 5 good sonic games scence sega consles droped out. the adventure 
 series, advance series and the rush series. This game could have been good if they had stayd away 
 from the whole sonic and ealis love thing, not have put shadow in it, made silver a bit faster 
 and cleand up the enviorment more. SEGA do us all a favor and stop putting out crappy sonic games. 
 Take more time think it over like Nintendo did with ZELDA TP, and stop getting 4kids entertainment 
 to play the vocies of sonic and tails get Ryon Drummor and Chris Petterson from SA2 to play their 
 voies everyone else is straight. becuase you guys could mess up a great franchise for good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendians
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Well I've haven't beaten the game, but my conclusion: Sonic The Hedgehog for the 360 was still 
 played the same way with Sonic Heroes except for some stages, some don't have free roaming control 
 which Sonic runs in high speed to pursue something in some missions. Other Sonic character also 
 plays in the game like Tails and Knuckles, but they too have been tune down their speed, Tails 
 seem to be the slow of all characters I play this game thus far, Knuckles seems to gain a little 
 speed than the Knuckles in Sonic Heroes. Shadow doesn't have a gun with him (like he did in Shadow 
 The Hedgehog) and he has vehicles that him to maneuver big objects. Now for Silver The Hedgehog, 
 he's something new to the Sonic series, he does some physic stuff, but that, he not that very useful.
 
  
  Gameplay: 5/10- Well the gameplay was pretty much the same as other Sonic titles.
  
  Graphics: 10/10- The graphics in Sonic The Hedgehog for 360 is pretty awesome to look and the character 
 was fully detailed.
  
  Sound: 7/10- Well the sound is pretty decent and music was alright for the part I played, but voice 
 actors seems to sound like Sonic X cast, it made me think that this game was like a show, but it's 
 game.
  
  Value: 1/10
  
  Gameplay+Graphics+Sound+Value= 2.3 (I like the old Gamespot rating more.)
  
  Learning Curve: 
 0 to 10 mins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagomesango
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I usually like the sonic series but this one was a huge letdown don't get me wrong the graphics 
 were great but they took out the best part what happened to the classic sonic now they have him 
 doing some fighting. This is only my opinion it just didn't quite spark my interest I only played 
 it for a little while and turned it off a lot of people might like it but the only thing that attracted 
 me to it was the graphics. I have to admit for a minute it was some fun but I lost intrest very 
 quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whoami111
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  WTF were Sonic Team smoking? This game makes school work seems fun.
  Gamespot must be going easy on this game's review to give it a 4.4. This game is so bad I don't 
 even no where to start.
  
  Ok, so let's just start with the storyline, because that is one of the worst things about this 
 game. The story is so simple, stupid, mushy, and a save the princess rip-off. I mean come on, Mario 
 and Link already did this **** Crappy story lines are for good games that don't need a storyline 
 and Sonic the Hedgehog isn't one of them. And sadly, there is more to it that make the already 
 horrendous storyline more horrible. The voice acting. Seriously, the voices in this game got to 
 be one of the worst especially Tails.
  
  The game play is no better. Sonic runs so slow and constant bugs in the game makes controlling 
 the blue **** more frustrating. And plus you constantly switch characters through out the level, 
 making the game more retarded. I mean come on, Tails already have a gay voice and now you got to 
 give him gay moves? Oh yeah, the cameras in this game is terrible. Why the f*** do you have to 
 control the camera all the time. And what's up with the loading screen? When I played this game 
 I feel like I'm using dial-up.
  
  Anyway, stay far away from this game. Not even Sonic himself with want to be in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PieRLuCSWeeNeY
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well the game looks a lot the lastest Sonic's games but HELL! Why are they putting 5-minutes 
 stages ? It's **** boring! The only stages that are good are the sonic-speed stages where Sonic 
 is running really fast! In fact, it's the only good thing of the game... but there's only three 
 of them... Shadow's stages are just about killing ennemies with the same **** attacks all the time... Silver's 
 stages are almost 20-minutes long each of them.... This makes the game **** repetitive!
  
  Graphics: Well, the graphics are the best to date... but that won't erase glitches like in all Sonic's 
 game.... but this one is gold for glitches! But, HELL! Super Sonic is **** hot!
  
  Sound: What ? Music is **** **** There's two good songs which are His World and The Inlet ... the 
 rest are painful... Where are the great songs of Sonic Adventures......?
  
  Value: This doesn't worth any Sonic's games (Still better than Sonic Heroes and Shadow The Hedgehog 
 but still, the songs are great in these ones...)
  
  Tilt: **** It's even ****ter than the others games of Sonic... Plus glitches, it makes it uncontrollable...
 
  
  Overall: Well, I hate to admit it but this game is REALLY not what I had expected... Why the **** 
 are they putting 5-20 minutes long stages? Why are they putting more than an houndred of monsters 
 in a stages? Why are they putting slow songs where a fast songs would be awesome? Why not put Chao 
 again? Why aren't they putting sonic-speed stages all the story? WHY THE **** THE PRINCESS (Sorry, 
 just forgot her name, I was so desinteressed of her...) IS KISSING SONIC? WHY NOT AMY (Every fan 
 would want that...) ? Why the final boss is so ****ty? Why are we searching our stages in a city? 
 This just **** dumb.... Why are they putting thoses **** Rank S? The stages are more than 5 minutes... Do 
 they really think I want to them again ? Well, no one knows. SEGA may want their fans to stop to 
 be interessed in Sonic's games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicdude123
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  ABSOLUTLY BRILIANT GAME ABSOLUTLY BRILIANT GRAPHICS OMIGOD IM GONNA FAINT anyway game play is absolutly 
 great i mean running around doing what ever you want to the environment at the speed of light i 
 mean is sonic not the best game ever? well i know i know i know the answer and it is... YES. sound... good 
 sound on movie clips and the levels. i love the environment looks gri loved this game and had a 
 lot of fun playing on it. i will admit that it was laking the spark that the usual sonic games 
 have but none the less it was playable.
  Graphics: they were absolutly awsome it used the Xbox 360 full potential and put it to great efect. 
 the enviroments were prety good looking along with the charecters.
  Gameplay: the worst thing about the game was the amount of loadin it involved. but other than that 
 i found the gamplay great
  origanality: it got the basic plot revolving around the chaos emeralds like usual, i would love 
 some kind of new object or player for the game to revolve around
  
  i personly think this game was great, dispite the harsh reviews its had i thin it well worth gettingeat 
 so my score is yes... TEN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyke_666
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game and had a lot of fun playing on it. i will admit that it was laking the spark 
 that the usual sonic games have but none the less it was playable.
  Graphics: they were absolutly awsome it used the Xbox 360 full potential and put it to great efect. 
 the enviroments were prety good looking along with the charecters.
  Gameplay: the worst thing about the game was the amount of loadin it involved. but other than that 
 i found the gamplay great
  origanality: it got the basic plot revolving around the chaos emeralds like usual, i would love 
 some kind of new object or player for the game to revolve around
  
  i personly think this game was great, dispite the harsh reviews its had i thin it well worth getting 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: focuskate
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  I think that if this game had been kept back, even a couple of months, they could've fixed most 
 of what is wrong with it. See I really liked the story of the game, and the graphics were definitely 
 looking good, the cutscenes were great, I mean not all of them, most of them looked like they were 
 don on an xbox or somethin', but you know nothing to really complain about. But the gameplay....?? 
 That's what needed the most attention, sometimes I felt like maybe it wasn't even worth it to keep 
 playing just to see more of the story, I wanted to seriously toss my controller through the tv. 
 Two things should have happened, either they should've fixed the obvious gameplay problems and 
 released it, or just have made a movie out of the story and not have released a game at all. But 
 see now I'm a sonic fan, so no matter how bad the game was or is, all sonic games will still get 
 a highscore from me.... so.. you know, no matter how much this game made my head hurt, I still liked 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: needgameinfo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Here starts my long list of reasons why this game sucks...
  
  Dumb camera is so freaking frustrating it makes you want to throw your controller out the window. 
 Its almost impossible for you not to notice the billions of graphical glitches that are constantly 
 happening throughout the game.
  The jobs you have to do in the city to help people are just plain ridiculous (most of them)
  The 
 game forces you to play as Shadow (The character who killed the series in the first place) and 
 Silver (Yet ANOTHER new character to cramp Sonics style)
  Even more gameplay glitches, like your game suddenly freezing up when your about to beat the level 
 you've been stuck on for quite a while, and then when it finally unfreezes, you turn up dead.
 
  Most of the time you'll be playing as the two other characters Silver and Shadow, which really 
 takes away from Sonics Lone Wolf (or in Sonics case, Lone Hedgehog ) attitude.
  Not to mention that at the end the human girl and Sonic actually kiss.... please oh PLEASE tell 
 me I'm not the only one who thinks that is just wrong.
  For the record I've been playing Sonic games since I was 4 years old and there isn't a Sonic game 
 in existence I haven't played to the end. So I'm not bashing Sonic or anything I'm bashing this 
 particular Sonic GAME.
  
  Honestly, this is the kind of Sonic game that will make you want to climb the Empire State Building 
 and scream out WHY SEGA WHYYYYYY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huntar12345
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  I haven'tplayed many of the sonic games but i think all 3d sonic games.
  I cant realy understand why this game got so low score. Ok there are a few problems but theres 
 a lot of good things to.
  
  good:
  Very nice graphics
  Fun multiplayer
  nice soundtrack
  fun gameplay
  and so on..
  
  bad:
  its kinda short
  annoying camera
 
  a looot of loading screens
  town missions are boring
  
  i bought this game this week im not done with it but i think if u are a sonic fan u should buy 
 the game but sonic adventure 1 and 2 are sooo much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meto_360
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 17, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Sonic has been around 4 many yrs. He had great games. But this is a load of sh*t. It's just terrible. 
 I mean this is a disgrace 2 Sonic. Tha story... doesn't make sense. And u play as Shawdow, Sonic 
 , and some silver thingi wit a bad hair style. And trying 2 add up tha things that happen, from 
 tha 3 characters doesn't make sense. So don't even try 2 think about tha game's crappy plot.
  And tha gameplay is stupid. Tha camera is messed up, tha controls r scrwed, and i have a whole 
 bunch of complaints that i don't wanna talk about. Cuz there's so much. Tha graphics... aren't 
 even xbox 360 graphics. It has tha graphics of Sonic Adventure Battle 2. It's just dull and lifeless. 
 So what ever u do don't buy this disgrace 2 Sonic. It isn't worth $60.00 plus tax. Unless ur in 
 DElware u won't get any tax. So don't buy this game stay away from it. If u have it in ur house 
 trade it in or throw it out. And if u wanna get creative smash it wit a hammer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwwpd
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  ok when i considered buying this i looked at the reviews and the were bad i havent played a sonic 
 game such the arcade one. I didnt buy it but when my friend got it in a bundle he didnt like it 
 and let me borrow it I gace it a try.
  It really isnt that bad i dont know where these reviews are coming from
  the graphics: good
 
  gameplay :not bad
  camera: ok not that great
  the loading time kills it i mean soooo many loading times each like 10 sec really annoying with 
 3 charater storys its round 15 hour gameplay just to beat and the aceviments arnet easy but if 
 you play all of it you'll get 150-200 gamepoints
  rent it but at 40$ dont buy it if you a sonic fan you can get over the downfalls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsychoDantis
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  As much as I like Sonic, it's been going downhill for years. Sonic Adventure and Sonic Adventure 
 2 were great, but were ruined by the presence of the other playable characters (Let's face it, 
 nobody would have actually chosen one of Knuckle's treasure hunting levels over Sonic's.) . Sonic 
 Heroes made things worse, with poor graphics and the complete elimination of any sense of speed, 
 because the player was constantly being stopped, having to change character to progress through 
 the level. Add the fact Sonic was barely in the game, and it was a pretty damn awful game. I still 
 played it though, and to an extent, I enjoyed some of it. Shadow the Hedgehog was next. They tried 
 to take Sonic, and make it dark. Needless to say, they failed (Which is why we aren't playing Shadow 
 the Hedgehog 2.) . Sonic + Machine-guns (That Shadow loads like a shotgun, no less.) + and awfully 
 handled vehicles does not equal good game.
  
  Because of this, I figured Hey, can't be much worse can it? .
  I was wrong.
  
  Sonic the 
 Hedgehog takes place in the Human City of Soleanna. Eggman is up to no good and Sonic sees it as 
 his job to save the day. Along the way he meets Princess Elise, along with the usual Sonic characters 
 (Tails, Knuckles etc.)
  
  You can play as three characters in the game, and each plays differently. You start with Sonic, 
 and then you unlock Silver and Shadow along the way.
  
  Before I begin talking about the gameplay, I feel the loading screens deserve a special mention. 
 First off, they're everywhere. If you start a sub-quest, then there's a loading screen, followed 
 by a description, followed by a loading screen. And these aren't short either, they can take up 
 to a minute each, and when they're this frequent, it's simply inexcusable.
  
  I'll start with Sonic, because his levels are the best (But that's not saying much.) .
  Sonic's 
 levels are standard fare. You run along through the level, the objective being to get to the end. 
 No puzzles, no complications. The problem lies in two forms: Bad programming, and perhaps the worst 
 camera on a 360 game. The camera is positioned behind Sonic. Not slightly overhead, so that you 
 could see the floor, because that would be useful. This means you can expect to fall down holes 
 you didn't actually see. In some of the faster sections, the camera will quickly switch between 
 behind you and in front of you, making control exceedingly difficult.
  
  Here's a description of me playing a level from Sonic the Hedgehog:
  
  The level starts on 
 a grinding rail. Sonic grinds down on a board of some kind (Where it came from is a mystery.) . 
 I reach the bottom and jump off the rail, still on the board. All around Sonic, there are exploding 
 cars falling from the sky. I dodge the first two, and the I dodge the third one. The game however, 
 thinks the car hit me, because of the bad collision detection. I die.
  
  So I start again. This time, I dodge the cars and get to a series of ramps. Text appears on the 
 screen saying Hold A and release to jump! , as well as Sonic saying Hold A as long as you can! 
 . So I hold A. I make it past the first few ramps, but the dodgy physics cause Sonic to go slightly 
 up in the air. The game registers this as me jumping, even though I haven't let go of A, and I 
 die. Again.
  
  But I'm a patient person. A couple of goes later, and I've made good progress in the level. I'm 
 now at a part where you're running down a long highway, being chased by a wall of fire. The look 
 is reminiscent of the bonus levels from Sonic 2, at least until you move. Rather than have you 
 move left or right, it has you turn left or right. And you can't stop moving, because Sonic is 
 running automatically. This results in perhaps the cheapest deaths you'll ever see in the game. 
 Because you can't stop, or alter your jump, you're having to jump in a perfect straight line. If 
 you don't you'll either hit a wall and die, or jump over the wall and die. This is when I stop 
 playing.
  
  Sadly, Shadow's and Silver's levels are no better. Shadow's levels are like Sonic's, but with vehicles. 
 Rather than go with a modern control scheme, i. e. Halo or Forza Motorsport, they went with a PS1 
 quality 'A= go, X= reverse.'. This means you have no control over the speed. Add in the huge turning 
 arc, and it's damn frustrating, and certainly not fun.
  
  Silver has the power of telekinesis. What you may not realise is that he can only use it on objects 
 within 2 feet of himself. And it's his only form of attack. Needless to say, these levels are really 
 bad.
  
  Now I'll discuss the sound. The music is okay. It's tolerable. It's also so quiet you'll hardly 
 ever actually hear it.
  The voice acting, once again, is pretty bad, but again, it's tolerable.
  
  The graphics are 
 debatable. On the one hand, it looks better than the last Sonic games, but on the other hand, they 
 all looked the same, and two were ported from the Dreamcast. Basically, the graphics could be done 
 on the original Xbox (Minus the self shadowing, the one highlight of the graphics.) .
  The textures are poor, the character models are good, but not incredible, and the environments 
 look no better than on previous games.
  
  The one advantage is that it will probably take a long time to complete, but that's mostly because 
 of the massive difficulty increase due to bugs and the bad camera.
  
  The bottom line is this: Sonic needs to move on. How about they get rid of the lives system, get 
 rid of the short stages you can't save in, get rid of the horrible 'emotional' storylines and fix 
 the damn gameplay. Why not make huge levels, in which you get checkpoints that you can save you've 
 gotten to? Why not get rid of the accurate jumping, and allow for human error? Sonic has arms, 
 surely he could grab a ledge? How about a witty story, filled with characters similar to Sonic 
 (That is, animals, rather than humans.) ? There was a time when Sonic was compared to Mario as the 
 'Platforming King', however now that comparison is laughable.
  Sonic needs to move on. Nintendo realised this with Mario, and it shows.
  Sega has to keep up, 
 or it'll get left behind.
  
  This game is worth a rent if you REALLY like the Sonic, but I wouldn't ever recommend buying it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panther023
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  If you have an nostalgic or He's cool feelings toward Sonic, get the game. There are definitely 
 frustrations with the game, but it's still Sonic. You still get to see Sonic run really fast. You 
 get to play as Shadow, Silver, Amy, Tails, and others. Each character has a different ability, 
 and some of those abilities are simply fun. Yes, it is true. The map area isn't done well. The 
 load times are a killer!!! But the gameplay is descent enough to want to keep playing it. My 5 
 year old son likes the game. We play it together (taking turns) . If you have a kid, this is a good 
 game to play with him/her without worrying about what kind of bad stuff will come up that I don't 
 want my kid seeing.
  
  I think my favorite part of the game is the story line. While it's not compelling, it's interesting 
 enough that I want to see what's going to happen next. It wasn't what I was initially expecting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MondoCool
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  This is just plain trash, hmm Ill move here woops I fell through the fawking floor. Nothing is 
 good about this game, its graphics look like **** smeared on meh balls. Alt F4 Now Your PC Has 
 Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 
 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 
 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 
 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria
  Alt F4 
 Now Your PC Has Contracted Malaria 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJDVegeto
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog was Sega's greatest project... but they ended up ruining it for this... you 
 get to play as Sonic, Shadow and the New Silver... and the levels are built around their abilities, 
 Sonic's are built around his speed, Shadow's are built around his chaos abilities and his ability 
 to use the vehicles in the levels, while Silver's revolve around his Psychokinesis. The environments 
 are elaborate... but the only thing I wish is that the Game LOOKED as good when you play it as 
 it does during the cutscenes. There are also a number of problems in the game... including the 
 camera which can be a serious problem when playing as Sonic as his speed will cause all sorts of 
 unintentional deaths... especially in the Mach speed stages. Another thing is that Sliver is pretty 
 much ALWAYS vulnerable to attack since he cannot use a homing attack on enemies to kill them and 
 has to throw objects at them... not to mention that it is possible to finish certain parts of levels 
 or entire levels with the wrong character... mainly in Sonic's and Shadow's Episodes... However 
 the good aspect is that the action tends to be fast paced even when playing as Silver who has puzzle 
 solving and you get to use three super forms in the end to take down a super powerful foe... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theassassin9107
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to say this game is amazing, and I'm not going to say people who say its bad are 
 wrong. But I honestly didn't find it that bad. The graphics were great, though I do think Sega 
 put more time into them than the actual game, and the story and gameplay are fairly entertaining. 
 I will admit the controls weren't perfect, and the camera decides to simply stick once about every 
 hour of gameplay. But the loading times seemed to be no problem for me. There weren't as many as 
 everyone said and the loading time were usually 3-7 seconds. The longest load I've had so far was 
 when I first started, and that was only 25 seconds long. Now controls, they aren't bad, but far 
 from perfect. I will admit that I downright HATE controlling Tails. He moves slow, his attacks 
 take so long to perform that you are practically dead before you hit them once, and is it just 
 me or does it seem he wasn't built for the game? I'll be moving at super-sonic speed with Sonic 
 and the game and environment runs smoothly, then I use Tails, and though he moves slow, the game 
 can't run at an even pace. His movements randomly lag, he and others around him randomly clip into 
 other objects, and the camera just seemingly freezes in one position on him. Tails, and his voice 
 actor, are the only major complaint I have. Everything else in this game seems rather enjoyable.
 
  
  Pros-
  Amazing graphics
  Entertaining story
  Fun gameplay
  Pretty nice soundtrack
  
  Cons-
  Camera angle could use some work
  Sega focused WAY too 
 much on the graphics
  The new voice actors aren't as enjoyable as previous
  TAILS SHOULD'VE BEEN LEFT OUT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max-Th3-Noid
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Occasionally fun, fast gameplay :: Non-game engine cutscenes look very, very nice :: Some good 
 epic musical scores.
  
  THE BAD:
  Poor level design :: Attrocious camera control :: Extreme difficulty, both in gameplay and achievements 
 :: Awkward and imprecise controls.
  
  ---POOR CONTROL
  ---BAD CAMERA
  ---BROKEN GAMEPLAY
  ---DISAPPOINTING
  
  Every so often, a Sonic game comes around. Most notable 
 are Shadow The Hedgehog, and countless compilations of old Sonic games. But remaking old Sonic 
 games is much better than most of the new 3D games, though they have all recieved a fair share 
 of unnecessary criticism. Going by the name of Sonic The Hedgehog (yes, a very immaginative name) , 
 this game is good for a while, then it gets tedious, then good again, then you have to play it 
 through again and try to do every last task! It's painful!
  All of the 3D Sonic games have been underrated by nearly every reviewer, but none so viciously 
 as this one. I won't be a fanboy and say that this game is faultless, and I won't slam it just 
 because suddenly it's become cool to bash Sonic, but I will give an entirely honest opinion of 
 this game. Number one: Camera issues. This is one of the main things that people bring up when 
 discussing this incarnation of Sonic, but in response I say What camera issues? The right stick 
 controls the camera and sure, it's not exactly lightning fast, but the camera always looks where 
 you tell it to look and doesn't ever flip out and do something weird which causes you to fall off 
 - something that nearly every other reviewer says. Number two: Loading times. I have never experienced 
 such nasty loading times as in this game. In the main levels it's fine, no problem, but in the 
 side missions... it's just painful. You get the mission, then loading screen. Then two lines of 
 dialogue (which is WRITTEN, not even spoken) , then another loading screen. Whenever I play a mission 
 I play my best - because I know that if I don't, I have to sit through FOUR loading screens (one 
 to load the mission failed type dialogue, one to load the city, and then back in) to start again. 
 This is just plain wrong. In the middle of a proper level, if you die, you INSTANTLY go back to 
 your last checkpoint with no problems. How come the side missions can't do that? The loading times 
 are the only major problem with this game. Seriously. But you have to just lump it if, like me, 
 you think the rest is great. Number three: Voices. As you all probably know, the voices since the 
 Adventure games have changed. For the worse. Tails is painful. Knuckles sounds like he's desperately 
 trying to be how he used to be, but failing - which makes it worse. Shadow isn't bad, but he's 
 still not like he used to be. Guh. Bad, bad voices. Apart from Eggman's - that's actually an improvement. 
 Number four: Character speed. Sonic's fine, Silver's fine - Silver's supposed to be slow. But Shadow, 
 I think, is slower than he should be. That's just me. And I miss the yellow glow that his shoes 
 had in Sonic Adventure 2. I've never played Shadow the Hedgehog so I don't know if they glow in 
 that, but I think they should. The other characters for the most part are an interesting change, 
 but Tails can quickly get frustrating. Number five: Storyline. This is the best storyline Sonic's 
 ever had. Bar none. Although the whole retconning the entire story at the end is a bit and they 
 woke up and it was all a dream. I can't decide if I really like that bit, or if it just annoys 
 me. The gameplay in this game is just like the other 3D Sonics, but better. Silver's especially 
 fun. Shadow's vehicles are pointless, granted, but you don't HAVE to use them apart from on about 
 three occasions. Shadow feels powerful on his own, which is nice, because he's supposed to be. 
 The oft-slated-on-Amazon mach-speed stages for Sonic are just like the Wii game - which gets rave 
 reviews. So I don't know what people are talking about when they badmouth them. They're damn hard, 
 but apart from that... If you like platformers, and you can bear loading times, buy this game. 
 I love it. And the music is awesome too. Especially Crisis City and the final boss - which is quite 
 typical Sonic fare. I think, without the loading times, this could have been the best Sonic game 
 ever, bar none. Sadly, with the loading times then Sonic 3 &amp; Knuckles retains that title, with 
 Heroes coming second (despite Heroes' abysmal storyline) and Adventure 2 third (the duller stages 
 let it down) .
  
  [Sources used] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jklbgdgklbnbn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Overall, Sonic the Hedgehog is a successful game. Sonic is back and for the Xbox 360 and the PS3. 
 This video game is one of the best looking sonic game of all. the lighting on different surfaces 
 and the shadows of people and objects make this game beautiful. The controls are very easy to get 
 use to (they are about the same as other sonic games) . One thing that I loved about this game was 
 the new appearance of Dr. Eggman (he looks more human) the story-line is very unique and enjoyable. 
 The three main characters that you get to play as are Sonic, Silver, and Shadow. You also get to 
 play as other supporting characters as well (Tails, Knuckles, Rouge, Amy, Omega, Blaze) The coolest 
 thing in the game is free-roaming in 3 different areas of Soleanna (I am a big fan of Sonic Adventure) . 
 But this game isn't perfect, the camera angle is sometimes annoying. The loading time are long 
 and they happen freaquently. there's been a lot of hate over this game but I don't see what there 
 is to hate! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ohio_Sux
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Well once I read Gamespots review, I was hesitant about playing Sonic the Hedgehog. I have played 
 every other Sonic game and I have loved them. But I rented it and it was actually ok. It wasnt 
 as bad as Gamespot said it was. The bad things about this game are the frequent and annoying loading 
 times, some control issues, and the camera will freak out sometimes. But its not all bad. I enjoyed 
 the action stages except when the loading screens came up. The multiplayer in this game is terrible. 
 But overall I did have fun with this game. If the loading screens didnt get in the way all the 
 time i would have given this game a 7 instead of a 6. But if you are a hardcore Sonic fan like 
 me, then you should at least give this game a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcustheman222
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 7, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  What are people talking about? Sonic is slowing down! Rubbish! This game is a game that as good 
 as Sonic on the good, old Mega Drive. The gameplay isn't perfect, but you just got to love the 
 graphics! And the videos are eye-candy and tear-dropping (just buy the game, you'll see!) at times. 
 Crush 40 are back, with 'His World', which is basically a song all about Sonic. Then the American 
 band Zebrahead sung it. THEN there was a soundtrack! But anyway this game rules! Sonic is still 
 going uber fast! Go Sonic! Oh, and I almost forgot! There are two more playable characters! There 
 is Shadow (don't even THINK of groaning) and new Sliver. Trust me, get to the final story, get 
 some tissues and prepare for more tears then ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scourgealicious
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  Sonic has had some of his great glory moments in some of his 3D games. Sonic Adventure, Sonic Adventure 
 2, and even Sonic Heroes. Then, Shadow the Hedgehog came out. It was hard and very boring. Guns, 
 vehicles, and cussing didn't make a Sonic game any more entertaining. Since I'm writing a review 
 for Sonic the Hedgehog, I'll try staying on topic. Sure, Sonic has never looked better (amazing 
 graphics that are so in depth you can see his fur) , but he's seen better days. Let me think.... some 
 of the  that's about the only good thing. Although 
 I did like Zebrahead's version of His World . The bads... huh... let me pull out the list (no joke 
 intended) .... gameplay was the same as SA2 (except Silver) yet Silver's gameplay just plain-out 
 sucked... too hard to aim (no aiming at all actually) , power meter used up too fast, weak with blocking 
 and catching items, etc. The story was okay, and I must admit Mephiles was a pretty cool character 
 addition. Sonic's story had the usual crap you'd expect. Someone's been captured, big bald fat 
 guy behind it all, some running, some jumping, Amy, 3 other hedgehogs, it's all the same old crap 
 we've seen a lot, but now it's just too many times. All in all, Shadow's story was kind of fun, 
 Silver's was hard and boring (hate the puzzle parts) , and Sonic's is the same dumb **** we're just 
 plain tired of. How about a new game that involves more than kicking and jumping, 2 more hedgehogs, 
 an edited storyline from 5 years ago, guns, and terrible voice acting (Silver's voice is just plain 
 annoying) . This game threw Sonic right where SEGA was hoping it wouldn't end up, and I'd rather 
 not mention where... Luckily Secret Rings brought it back out most of the way and hopefully Rivals 
 2 and Adventure Rush will do the same, as well as RPG. Even if you're a die-hard Sonic fan (which 
 I kind of am) , this isn't even good for renting, so don't even bother thinking about wasting 7 
 bucks on the rental. Save up, buy something better, like Guitar Hero or Gears of War, or even rent 
 those instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx51LLYR4BB1TxX
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Ill start of by saying i have a been a sonic fan for a very long time now but this game was abit 
 dissapointed in a few ways 1) it has the longest loading time in any sonic game that has ever come 
 out till now sonic games have never taken this long to load stages in this one it takes over 1 
 min to load stages and that gets very farutraed. 2) The game is very lagge and glithe like for 
 example when you do the jump and dash move for sonic it slows down and lags that has never happned 
 in any sonic game i have played and that like 1 of sonics most funniest moves to do also the camera 
 of the game is very irratting. And 3) You would think shadow would be a fun charcetr to play but 
 hes not becuase of those useless veciules they give him in some missions hes first stage is the 
 most iroing stage your play in the game. Now there are some good things about the game though like 
 1) best gracphics in any sonic game out so far 2) since sonic adventure 2 it has the best story 
 line. And 3) It has a very nice soundtrack. 4) It has a nice section of all star charcters in the 
 game tails amy knuckles which is pretty cool. And 5) sliver The Hedgehog is a nice addtion to the 
 sonic series hes a cool character. Above all if you are a fan of the sonic series your enjoy the 
 game if oyur not dont try it you wont like it better off playing the other sonic games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vangaurdius
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the wors, most frustrating games I have ever played.
  Graphics: Pitiful can describe it, this is a next generation consol, and on next generation consols 
 the enviroment isn't 2d. The characters are undetailed and very similar. The enviroments varry 
 but they still look ugly.
  Sound: First off, seriously, enough of Japanese people doing the English, get someone from North 
 America who has a North American accent and get them to do the English or is that to hard? It sounds 
 alot better then some Japanese man/woman trying futily to sound like an English speaking person. 
 They also tend to lack any sort of way to put emotion into their words. Take Crisis for example, 
 all the North Korean voice acting is actually done by people from North Korea who speak North Korean 
 because having someone speak Korean who doesn't have their accent sounds horrible. Actually, that 
 applies to all games from other countries that are being released in an English speeking country. 
 The music and ambient sounds are highly annoying and I found myself turning off the sound so I 
 wouldn't have to listen to it at all.
  Gameplay: I can some it up in a few words if you don't want to read all of this: totally and utterly 
 frustrating and seemingly impossible because of camera and bugs. The camera is the main problem 
 with the game. The camera is so impossible to control. One second its looking the way you want 
 it to and then all of the sudden it swerves around to some wierd angle, starts freaking out and 
 then you can't see a damn thing. That is very annoying in levels where you are going very fast 
 and then the camera spins around, then you have to switch the way your analog stick is pointing 
 so you don't crash, which would seem easy if it wouldn't do it instantly and randomly and you have 
 to respond in less then a second or you are dead. The auto-save feature, well there doesn't seem 
 to be one other then those gate things that you pass through that are placed stupidly far apart 
 forcing you to do whole levels again because for some reason the idiots who made this game won't 
 let you pause and save. I played previous Sonic games including the original and more donut coins 
 meant more health, but not in this one, instead you can have a huge amount and a single bullet 
 that grazes you will make you lose 2/3 of them making the health system total crap. The different 
 characters you play as all have some flaw like Silver who for some dumb reason doesn't have a melee 
 attack which is just stupid because the way they set this game up each character has to have one. 
 I have had to remove the game and play something else or take a very long break so many times because 
 you just get so frustrated with bugs and the camera. Some of the bugs are like suddenly dieing 
 for no apperent reason, materilizing through surfaces making you die, things materilizing a centimeter 
 away from you causing you to die, camera stops functioning thus making you die, the skatebord/snowboard 
 thing getting stuck on something, getting stuck on a box just because you walked up to it, the 
 skateboard/snowboard screwing up and preventing you from moving at all and if you can move it is 
 random, and many more.
  I am glad I just rented this game, and to anyone thinking of playing it don't even rent it, it 
 is a total waste of time and is a disastrous attempt at making a sonic game, let alone any game. 
 Plus, the multiplayer is just tacked on and you can't play the episodes differently so no replay 
 value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeMama365
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I have most of the previous sonic games and was excited to see an XBox360 version, but am disappointed 
 with this failure. Probably the worse thing about this game is the camera. The camera is poor and 
 the auto-tracking is so bad that you will die or lose time just because you cannot see what is 
 intended for the missions/levels. In addition, there are multiple glitches in the level that will 
 leave you throwing your controller as you have to restart from your last far away checkpoint as 
 you die for no good reason while there is no autosave feature.
  
  The graphics are decent for this cartoony game, but the storyline and characters are horrible. 
 At the very least you can play switch episodes when you get stuck. I have rented this game and 
 played for about four to five hours already and have not received one gamerscore point. I'm 40% 
 done with sonic episode and 20% done with Silver and yet all this frustration has not gotten any 
 points. So if you are renting for some quick points and to past the weekend, avoid this game. I 
 like getting stuck in games when I can't figure out a puzzle or a mystery, but when it because 
 I have to repeat levels because of a glitch or bad camera with the most annoying and repetitive 
 music during loading screen after loading screen, I playing truly a poorly created game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikedDeath
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Sonic games used to be fun  jump and smash  thats all there was to platformers back on the Genesis. 
 Now Sonic isnt fun The worst part of this game is the camera  it looks where it want to  even 
 when you try to move it. Another thing that is really bad about this game are the special abilities 
 and how theyre on the same button, so if youre trying to Light Dash, dont be surprised if Sonic 
 bounces to his death  because he probably will.
  The story is also lacking depth. A princess and a hedgehog  thats pretty much it. Sonic saves 
 her, she gets captured, Sonic saves her, she gets captured again Why cant princesses be like 
 Zelda when she is Sheik? Sheik is bad-ass
  There are three different stories to choose from  after unlocking them through Sonics. There 
 is Sonic (of course) , Shadow, and the new Silver from the future with psychic abilities. What kind 
 of hedgehog has psychic abilities? Silver is the worst playable character that has a story The 
 worst playable character is Miles Tails Prower  who attacks by throwing ring boxes. Why cant 
 it be like Sonic2? Where everyone jumps on top of the enemies and they pop
  Then there are Sonic killing glitches where you fall through the map and die
  And then there 
 are the loading screens - every 2 minutes a loading screen would appear and they'd last for 5 minutes.
 
  All in all  Sonic the Hedgehog for the X-Box 360 sucks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorch799
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog. This franchise has given us some good games in the past, so when it was announced 
 that the first Sonic game for next-gen would revitalize the franchise, anyone could want to give 
 this game a try. Unfortunately, Sega mislead everyone. This game is unbelievably bad, with a large 
 number of bugs and glitches. Name any problem youve ever experienced in a game, and chances are 
 this game has it. The game seems to have been designed to frustrate the player beyond belief.
 
  
  Story: 8/10
  The one area this game doesnt ever fail at is the story. It features a pretty good plot, with 
 twists and turns and an apocalyptic future. Sonic once again must stop the evil Dr. Eggmans plans 
 and in the process save a princess. Sonics story does feature a repetitive save the princess, 
 lose the princess, save the princess, lose the princess formula, but this isnt really important 
 to the overall story. Shadow the Hedgehog returns with a new enemy, Mephiles the Dark, a mysterious 
 guy with his own evil agenda. New to the game is Silver the Hedgehog, who comes from the future 
 to prevent the apocalypse. All three stories have mysteries and intertwine, and the plot is resolved 
 by completing all three characters stories and the final episode.
  
  Gameplay: 0.5/10
  This is the primary reason the game is bad. Gameplay is a frustrating experience for anyone, whether 
 theyre new to the Sonic series or a veteran. Like the past Sonic games, the camera can be a problem. 
 No, scratch that, unlike previous Sonic games, in which the camera can be a problem, in this game 
 it WILL be a problem. The camera focuses on various things that either cause you to lose sight 
 of your character, or the camera will flip at the worst time. Both instances can cause of your 
 characters death. Sonic and Shadow are very similar to how they have played since the Adventure 
 days, with new upgrades and problems thrown into the mix. Ill discuss Sonics problems first. 
 Sonics levels have an emphasis on speed, and the levels seem to be designed to have you run through 
 and attack enemies rather than taking your time. Like most previous Sonic games, the levels are 
 filled with bottomless pits, springs, boosts, and spikes. Although the levels are designed to have 
 springs and boosts used to your advantage, they often fling Sonic into bottomless pits or enemies, 
 especially if you press any buttons or use the joysticks. Another problem is the frequent unresponsive 
 controls. Youll press A to jump off of one ledge to another but instead Sonic will just walk off, 
 resulting in your losing a life. Sonic also has these new, innovative speed sections, in which 
 he runs forward quickly and you have to steer him like a car with no breaks thats moving at 150 
 mph. These parts are frustrating as well, as jumping to get an item often results in Sonic getting 
 that item but at the cost of flying off into oblivion. Hell also glitch into walls and the ground 
 and fall down and die, although this doesnt happen as frequently. Sonics optional upgrades are 
 pointless, giving little help unless youre trying to get silver medals for the achievement. Shadow 
 plays similar and has similar problems, only instead of speed sections he drives vehicles, which 
 is weird considering he used to be just as fast as Sonic, so I dont really see the point of using 
 a buggy or motorcycle. These vehicles can be hard to steer at times, and if you floor it with a 
 hovercraft over water, then the vehicle will flip and explode, killing Shadow. Shadow also has 
 optional upgrades to power up his chaos bar to use a special attack, although this seems tacked 
 on and isnt really needed until the last boss. Silvers gameplay seems like it couldve been fun 
 if it was worked on properly or finished. He picks up objects with psychic abilities and throws 
 them at enemies and can float over areas. These actions drain his energy bar, so one has to pause 
 and wait for it to fill to use attacks again. Silver, like Sonic and Shadow, often has unresponsive 
 control. Sometimes he wont pick up or stop objects, which can lead to frustration again. Throwing 
 objects is also buggy, as hell usually miss a few times before the box or missile or whatever 
 actually hits the enemy. In that time, your protected target or Silver may be blown to bits. Friend 
 characters are occasionally used in all three modes, and theyre useless. Youll finish a section 
 of the stage and then take control of a friend character, and youll soon learn to think, Oh great, 
 there go all my rings. The friend characters are horrible to move and theyre attacks are buggy. 
 Tails flies and uses dummy rings, which are not only stupid but also hard to aim and use. Omega 
 has shooting attacks that miss, Amy has to stand still to hit an enemy with her hammer, which mean 
 youll probably get too close to an enemy and take damage in an effort to hit that enemy. Blaze 
 goes flying all around when youre using her, at which point you may hit an enemy when youre vulnerable 
 or go off a ledge. Knuckles and Rouge can still cling on walls, with the same crawling animation 
 whether your moving left, right, up, or down. Its difficult to have them jump off of walls, and 
 theyre attacks also stink. Knuckles has to punch enemies, but rather than be simple he uses drill 
 attacks from the air and charges, making it difficult to hit enemies at times. Rouge uses bombs 
 in the same annoying manner as tails, although they are less buggy than his dummy ring bombs. Similar 
 to Sonic Adventure, there are town areas where you start missions. These really come down to whether 
 or not you prefer the town areas. I liked the ones in Sonic Adventure, but not these. The areas 
 are ridiculously huge, and theres not much to do other than town missions. It takes forever to 
 get from one side to the other, ruining the experience. And then there are the loading screens. 
 They appear between every mission, scene, and save point. Theyre extremely long and give the game 
 a broken feel. To start a town mission, you talk to a person who needs help. They tell you what 
 to do, then a long, long loading screen appears. Then they reappear telling you what to do again, 
 then another long loading screen. You complete the mission, then another loading screen and finally 
 youre ranked. Its especially bad in town missions with multiple tasks. Loading screens appear 
 between each task, so if you fail you have to sit through ten minutes of loading screens again 
 before you finally beat the mission. They appear between scenes, breaking the videos up. Especially 
 in the last story, where the opening video is composed of several scenes, this can be frustrating.
 
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  The graphics are amazing at the start, middle, and end of each story. Thats about it. The graphics 
 are mediocre, late previous-gen (Xbox, PS2, GC) at best, too bad this game is for next-gen though. 
 Considering the fact that the Xbox 360 and PS3 are supposedly able to keep amazing graphics through 
 the whole game, this is sad. The levels are okay, although since the same levels are used repeatedly 
 in each story with few differences, the graphics wont blow you away. Silvers first level, Crisis 
 City, an apocalyptic level, is the best, but all the other levels have ugly and unimaginative designs. 
 The characters themselves outside of the cinematic beginning, middle, and end scenes, are weird 
 looking. They move kind of strangely and dont look very real other than Dr. Eggman, who has a 
 new look for this game only. The mouth movements of many characters dont match up at many points. 
 The enemies have been upgraded from childish egg pawns and badniks to sleek, fearsome robots that 
 look surprisingly pretty good. Sound: 7/10
  Each level features a pretty good soundtrack, especially many of the boss fights. The voice acting 
 is another mediocre aspect of this game, at many points the voice actors dont really sound excited 
 or enthusiastic to be doing their job. Overall, the game is just plain bad. The story is good, 
 but all you have to go through to finish that story isnt worth it. The gameplay sucks, the graphics 
 arent good, the sound isnt impressive, and there isnt much to get excited about. The game can 
 be replayed for achievements, but getting those achievements can be another frustrating exercise 
 in an already frustrating game. When a game is very difficult only because of its buggy gameplay 
 and unresponsive controls, clearly there is a problem. I wouldnt recommend this game to anyone, 
 even a big Sonic fan like myself (and trust me, Im a big Sonic fan, not someone lying so someone 
 will listen to my opinion) . Its sad that such a recognizable and once great franchise has been 
 reduced to something like this. Honestly, you can try this game if you want, but chances are youll 
 regret it. It takes a lot to ignore all the problems in this game (I know Im forgetting some of 
 the problems as Im writing this) . Sonic the Hedgehog is an unfinished game lacking the redeeming 
 values a good game has. Its a true disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyoumaru
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Well, another Big time Sonic game. I had high hopes for Sega's blue mascot since Sonic Heroes and 
 Shadow the Hedgehog failed (miserably) to restore the Sonic franchise to its valued and rightful 
 spot in video game soceity. Unfortunately, this would not come to pass as this game shows a large 
 lack of effort on Sonic Team's part.
  
  The Sonic Adventure- style gameplay has been almost completely restored after the exceptionally-loose 
 gameplay of Shadow the Hedgehog, along with the return of the map world concept unused since Sonic 
 Adventure 1. The usual run and attack has been restored, with some new styles and attacks within 
 existing and new characters. However, with as many additions that have been added, there is also 
 a negative point. Sonic and Shadow now have trouble reaching the high speeds they are usually known 
 for without boost tracks. Tails is very oddly and unforgivably slow, and his bomb style attacks 
 are very difficult to aim and hit. Knuckles and Rouge are practically incomplete, being nearly 
 impossible to dislodge themselves from a wall they have climbed. The errors continue unfortunately, 
 further diminishing the game's rating. The new ESP style brought on by new character Silver the 
 hedgehog is both innovating and troublesome, often being unpredictable while moving. Although only 
 3 Hedgehogs are selectable characters, each has 2 additional characters you control at one point 
 or another through their respective stories. Sound is once again a mixed issue. The game's stage 
 music is beautiful and somewhat hypnotic, from the calm music of the map world to the hyper pulsepounding 
 music of Crisis city. Unfortunately, the vocal themes do not reflect the game very well, even more 
 considerably than previous titles.. Sega choose to outsource with several different artists, with 
 considerably poor results (save for Dreams of an Absolution ) ranging from the unbearable His world 
 to the (slightly) remixed All hail Shadow . Unfortunately, Sega has stayed true to their decision 
 with using the Sonic-X based 4kids voice actors since Shadow the hedgehog, none of which do the 
 characters justice. They are truly painful to listen to and beg for the mute button.
  
  Graphics is one of the game's strong points. Sonic Team pulled out all the stops in making the 
 game seem realistic as possible, heavily overhauling aspects such as Robotnik/Eggman's appearance, 
 changing the previously comical robots to more serious automations and putting heavy detail to 
 the human characters. There are oddities however, such as Sonic's form while running at max speed 
 , the strangely robot-y Omega and the somewhat spastic Amy Rose, although these can be overlooked 
 in the big picture. The level design is typical to the 3D Sonic games, although they are more detailed 
 and no longer subjected to the popup suffered in previous titles. The cutscenes are beautiful, 
 displaying Sonic and company in a more realistic atmosphere, as wel as replicating the human form 
 well.
  
  The game appears relatively incomplete and shows a lack of effort towards finishing touches, although 
 several updates and downloads have been released since the game's initial release, such as Team 
 Amigo and hard mode for each character. While the game is far from perfect, revolutionary or downright 
 great, it's far from horrible and worth an addition to the Sonic Adventure titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madman10
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Jeez, where to begin? I am a fan of all the previous 3D sonic games but this one is bad! The number 
 of loading screens and loading times are ridiculous. There are numerous glitches which almost always 
 results in your death. Did the developers even try playing the game themselves? If they didn't 
 it would explain a lot, but if not then, wow someone needs to take Sonic away from them before 
 they make another one of these. Other problems include inaccuracies in the instruction manual itself 
 this is incredible, I've never heard of such a thing before. Another annoying thing is promises 
 wheren't made even though there are achievements that require those promises such as super form 
 in ordinary stages.
  About the only good things I can say about this game is that the music is pretty good, and when 
 your not being bombarded by loading screens, action is pretty satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog has always been a video gaming icon, for over 15 years now, and Sega have tried 
 to revive their spiky mascot, with the next-gen title, Sonic The Hedgehog.
  
  You play as Sonic to start, and eventually you unlock Shadow and Silver, who are basically just 
 a bad attempt at making the game lengthier. There are many glitches during the game, and you'll 
 probably only play one time through. In saying this, the 2-Player co-op mode is alright, if you 
 have a friend who'll actually play with you. Originally, I thought the graphics were nice, until 
 I saw other games on the 360, and was I surprised. Every so often you'll get to play as one of 
 Sonic's many sidekicks, like Knuckles, Tails, Omega, Rouge, Amy, and maybe more, but these characters 
 are just frustrating, and you'll be asking yourself Didn't I pay for a Sonic game? The music is 
 awesome, with Zebrahead making the theme HIs World It is varied throughout the game, so you may 
 get sick of it by the end of the game.
  
  Basically, Sonic The Hedgehog is a game for ######## fans only, and even then, they will find this 
 annoying. If it weren't for Sonic and the Secret Rings on the Wii, I think this could've been the 
 end of Sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jecko750
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Note: I never played the 3D sonic games except Sonic 3D blast so don't blame me for this review.
 
  
  Sonic is going over the line in this next-gen game. You get to play almost all your favorite characters 
 including a newcomer named Silver. For you that are familiar with the previous 3D games, Don't 
 fret. You'll have some of your favorite moves to your disposal for Sonic and Shadow. You'll need 
 to aim some however for those who aren't that good at it. Unlike the original homing attack you 
 need to lead your character to your target. Silver you may not like at first but once you learn 
 some useful tactics than you'll be on a roll. Silver has the ability to use telepathy so he can 
 lift objects around you and toss them. If you want to be like Neo then go for it! You can catch 
 multiple bullets and hurl them back at your enemies! ... and lift some cars if you want to. Watch 
 them fly. Shadow has change a little but then not at all. He can use the homing attack and a new 
 move called chaos attack. It's useful but you stay in the air in one spot while using it. this 
 move allows you to to extra damage during a homing attack on an enemy. Simple but useful. If you 
 like some of the other characters like tails, knuckles, or even rouge then yes they are playable. 
 But the downsides is they are side characters and you can't switch between them freely. I love 
 knuckles but they never give him a lot of action in this game. He did have his moments... The gameplay? 
 I love the gameplay but if they just released it with a patch or update for that loading screen 
 for town missions then it may have of been better. Yes, you'll be able to walk or run freely in 
 town in the human world for the first time. You can also earn rings for completing ACT missions 
 or missions around town. The town missions have a annoying loading screen though but it's worth 
 it. The rings you earn can be used for the shop so you can buy upgrades for Sonic, Silver, and 
 Shadow. Sonic gets the good stuff from the shop since he is the only one that can use custom actions. 
 You can buy these from the store as well as they become available.
  
  Well, that's all I have on my review. If you want me to spoil you then don't bother trying spamming 
 me. I'll get you busted for that. I won't give you hints about the story because the trailer seems 
 to show you that partly.
  
  If this review helped you get an idea of how the game is like than please recommend this review. 
 Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldw
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Everyone says this game is bad. Don't believe everyone. The game is good with it's share of bugs.
 
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is your normal Sonic game. Your run, you jump, you kill, you reach goal 
 line. Yet there are some changes. Sonic's homing attack doesn't rapid fire like in other games. 
 But you can aim upward. That save my life so many times. Silver's gameplay is a mess with it's 
 good points. He's uses his physic powers to kill enemies. Yet, that's his only attack. What kind 
 of freaking gameplay is that. Also, he's slow as a mother f*****. Graphics- Graphics are a mixed 
 bag. Crisis City and Kingdom Valley look amazing. Yet the town stages and some of the weaker levels (ahem*White 
 Acropolis*ahem) look standard of the bunch.
  
  Music- Great. I liked the music.
  
  This game has been listed as the worst Sonic game ever. Try Sonic Genesis. This game is good, and 
 if you try it, you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatedudeguy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  As someone who actually has the game...
  
  Yes, there are some strong problems with this game. The camera control is easily one of the worst 
 things I've ever seen. And, the game is unfairly cheap at times. Does this make this a bad game? 
 No. Does it make it a game that should be avoided? If you love Sonic, I'd say no. To those that 
 don't love Sonic, yes, I'd say stay away.
  
  What makes it worth it to the fans? The speed, and the fact it really plays off to the fanboys. 
 The game will hit about every part of the Sonic universe, and won't let go of the same conventions 
 that were around back in the Sega Genesis days (loops, cheap deaths, etc) .
  
  Sure, the game is frustrating, but if you really want, you can work around these problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BestGame92
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Sonic just isn't what he used to be anymore, and Sonic the Hedgehog for the next-gen systems just 
 defines my reasons why. The fast-paced little hedgehog that used to get your blood pumping everytime 
 you played his games just isn't that same hedgehog he used to be. A bizzare aspect of this game 
 that just tells you he isn't the same anymore are the frequent loading times and glitches that 
 just makes this game completely unplayable and will make this game feel slow paced. Sure, the graphics 
 are pretty nice and the game may have a killer soundtrack, but that doesn't make up for what good 
 adventures Sonic used to have such as Sonic Adventure 1 and 2. Gltiches such as cheap kills, constant 
 pit falls, and just graphical issues itself already kill the gameplay, but thats not even all. After 
 every little step you take, you will notice long, constant loading screens appearing often which, 
 in my opinion, complely kills the fast pace action in the game. The camera is as well pretty awful 
 as it suddenly changes and frequently gets in the way. Sonic, his friends, enemies, and Eggman, as 
 always, look good and the environments and details look good too, and the sound in this game is 
 pretty decent as well, though isn't as memorable as the others. This game also has a good soundtrack 
 and the voice overs are also good, (even though most of it is in text) but that can't even compare 
 to the terribly rushed gameplay that Sega destroyed this game with. The story line is probably one 
 of the best out of the series, but yet its too short and can probably beat it in a week or two. 
 But overall, Sonic can be fun if you make it to be, and the visuals look beautiful itself, but 
 all the problems to this game just get in the way too much. But just try renting it first. This game 
 isn't the worst, but the problems are pretty bad and noticable. This is just a love-or-hate game 
 and when you try it out, whos knows you might even love it. But If Sega would have had Sonic the 
 Hedgehog in development for just a couple more months, this game could have came close to perfect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomass60r
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 30, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Sonic has been my childhood hero he is the blue hog after all but what happens when you put him 
 on the 360 do you get blurring stunning speed or a broken piece of crap well it aint the first 
 one thats for sure.
  
  story
  
  very bad basically because everytime you have to do a mission you have to talk to the residents 
 which is horrible and nothing like sega said it would be like and i aint going to go on about the 
 story cos there aint much to it but broken frustrating levels.
  
  Graphics
  
  nice visuals sonic looks great and the enviorments are nice to but gameplay hurts this.
  
  
 overall
  avoid at all costs this is nothing like sonic should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursednavi
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 28, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  When i heard sonic was coming out for 360 my favorite next gen console i was so excited. Since 
 the sonic adventure games and sonic heros games were amazing i new this had to be a good game because 
 the shadow the hedghog and sonic riders werent the greatest game so it was good to know sonic was 
 going back to how it used to be. It wasnt. The levels were really fun adn the story line was great 
 and the selection of charecters were cool but the game was amazingly frustrated and the sliver 
 levels were way to annoying to play. Though the games story line and fun levels (when there not 
 to frusterated made the game worth playing but its just not like how it used to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sho565
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Sonic+Sega+$=Good Avatar and great entertainment. For those of you that do not like Sonic The Hedghog 
 do not read this.
  
  After the press start menu you have four selections Single  those 
 four you can choose before playing. Inside single player you have Trial Select which has 2 options 
 Acts or Town mission's over again if you have completed them in episodes. Your first option in Single 
 player is Episode select you can only start off with Sonic and that's a good thing. For the last 
 option you can see your gold medals at Gold Medal Results here you can veiw gold medals you've 
 obtained.
  
  Multiplayer has Tag and Battle let me tell you a little something about Tag mode for Tag you need 
 to work togather if you want the stage completed also you and your partner share lives so if one 
 person increase or decrease lifes that's on them. When playing Tag you should always have a person 
 that can keep up with you and rivalry skills yes you can get Ranks in this mode Score, Time, Rings, and 
 Lifes you will see on top of ech screen. For battle you have to beat your opponent to the goal ring 
 good luck. Here's what I love about the 2-player you can use the gems from Sonic's episode, the chips 
 from Shadow's, and the power's from Silver's I don't want to do Silver's episode yet because i'm 
 working on Mastering my S ranks i'm doin goodgot most of em. If you think the stages on 2-player 
 are short like Sonic Adventure 2 and Battle well thier not and thier satisfying too. I love the 
 Dusty Desert lvl its so fun its like underground. I forgot to mention that you can use Light Dash 
 and bounce Bracelate.
  
  Gameplay is extreme like always you need rythem and that's what makes it so fun for Sonic you have 
 the 4 Super Speed Areas but some like to use Mech Areas either way all three are good and fast 
 .Sonic The Hedghog has the oppurtunity to purchase bounce bracelate, Light Chip, and Gems. Shadow 
 has the authorty to have vechiles in his town and act missions, Silver I don't know much about him 
 right now i'll edit this when I complete he's episode.
  
  Sound so good confortable music but the theme songs are very attractive and relaxing while playin 
 trust me I always listen to His World Zebrahead full version.
  
  Value is worth every penny I would pay $200.00 for it.
  
  Achievements are'nt a thing in the 
 360 version because once you start you don't care about the achievments.
  
  Xbox Live has Very Hard Maps/Stages for Microsoft points.
  
  I like the desighn of the cd and 
 the case.
  
  This game deserves a 10 PERFECT.
  
  This review is and inspirement to buy one of the greatest games in the world and have fun.
  
 
  Would you reccomend this reveiw? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandroDX
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 28, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog for the Xbox 360, months before this game came out, i was excited, very very 
 excited for this, i was sure this was gonna be the best Sonic ever.... unfortunaly it's one of 
 the worst Sonic games ever. Let's start with the graphics, while not exactly awesome, they are 
 pretty good, the character models look nice, and the environment looks good, very pretty on some 
 places. There's that ocasional framerate drop, especially in the city, but nothing too bad. Let's 
 talk about the sound now, the music is very good, each music fits the event where its played perfectly. 
 Unfortunaly the voice department doesnt shine the same way; yes there are good voices (Mephiles, 
 Eggman, Elise) but the majority is mediocre. Gameplay is where the game fails the most. You have 
 3 episodes at your disposal, Sonic's episode, Silver's and Shadow's. Sonic plays very much like 
 you expect only slower... but still fun. Shadow is Sonic's gameplay mixed with some martial arts 
 and vehicles, and while being cool at first, may get boring for some people after awhile . Silver 
 is the most diferent and original of the trio, he has special powers, you can lift stuff, throw 
 that stuff at enemies, you can even use the enemies to destroy other enemies, its pretty fun but 
 will get boring after some hours. One of the things that makes this game bad is its loading times, 
 Sonic The Hedgehog has too many (and long, about 15 secs each) loading times. This is very annoying 
 when doing the town missions, for example a character says some 7 words, and instead of getting 
 you right into the mini game, it goes to another 15 second loading time, then you do the game and 
 another loading time, the character speaks and another.... you get the idea. Oh and all the town 
 missions are just stupid and shouldnt have been in the game, instead a couple of more action stages 
 and epic bosses (the bosses in this game are actually pretty good) should have been the star! Overall, 
 Sonic The Hedgehog is a mediocre game, who should only be played by fans (like me) and even those 
 will cry when they see their favorite hedgehog in a game with this bad quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicRevolution
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 27, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  The game was a disappointment on most aspects; Sonic's speed is nothing like what it was in the 
 previous titles. It doesn't feel fast even when hitting the dash boards and when in the Super Fast 
 Stages , it may feel faster than the ordinary game play, but it certainly doesn't feel like you 
 have control over sonic any more. The only thing about this game, which I think has only really 
 been accomplished, was the colourful and well designed background graphics. The music is like it 
 always has been, but I wish I could say the same for the stage music. Sometimes it's good, but 
 sometimes it makes you want to turn your TV down. The thing which really annoyed most gamers was 
 the fact that, everyone expected this game to be an unbelievable masterpiece, but when it turned 
 out as bad as it was; gamers sent scores of disgraceful marks and reviews than the game really 
 didn't really deserve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbond904
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 24, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Aside the inuyasha run sonic performs all the time, this game is OK. They still haven't came out 
 with a game that gives you a sense of speed (almost like SSX on tour when your boosting and the 
 camera can't catch up with you) . The game also needs a free roam type of feel. for instance, if 
 you were able to run on walls and up buildings and find highways where you can run as fast as you 
 can or even run on water. but that sonic game still hasn't came out yet and aside from the shows, 
 sonic adventure 2 battle is the only game that I really enjoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uchihaboy
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 23, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I think Sonic is way better than the other ones. This one has the best graphics ever. My favorite 
 part is when you can run at a super sonic speed. All the other people that say sonic is the worst 
 game ever are so wrong they should be ashamed of theirselves. I mean come on it's like one of the 
 best games in the world right now. I mean I love  
 I have watched the show since I was 12. The first game that remember getting was Sonic the hedgehog 
 on Sega Dreamcast. don't get me wrong i like sonic but it isnt the best game in the world. I like 
 NARUTO **** more than sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snatte
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog ( Sonic Nextgen, Sonic '06 ) is awesome, floats on perfectly, No frame rate 
 drops, no glitches or anything, cool voices, nice gameplay...
  at least in my mind... do NOT get fooled by some of the hype, Belive this review, it hurts me to 
 write this, because i am a LOOONG time sonic fan. The game is fun, but rent it first.
  
  Gameplay: too slow for a sonic game, when playing as sonic and shadow.
  Playing as silver could've 
 been fun, but controls are clunky and difficult to master... it has some good parts, especially 
 the mach speed areas... which, strangely enough, are where the game works better then ever.
  All-in-all, the controls suck, just so you know.
  4/10
  
  Visual/Graphics: sonic look good, 
 so does silver and shadow... most of the side-characters look OK, but not awesome. The different 
 environments look dull and lifeless... while this game has a few nice looking visuals to it... 
 it isn't enough for a Current-Gen game. i don't know if anyone has noticed, but the overall framerate 
 for the CG cutscenes are lower then standard... go check it out for yourself. 
  5/10
  
  Sound: well... truth is... some of the songs grow on you, but their nothing special, sometimes 
 it's difficult to relate them to what you're doing.
  When it comes to the voices, they are un-synchronized and boring... i'm just gonna say that they 
 suck and move on... a game isn't about the voices after all... and i'll just have to accept the 
 fact that Ryan Drummond is gone... damn. 
  1/5
  
  Story: "hey, i got a great idea for the next sonic game! why don't we add a storyline about a human 
 princess who rocks at getting captured by eggman falls in love with sonic and tries to rape him 
 after he gets killed by Mephiles?" (whoa, long sentence) seriously, whoever came up with the idea: 
 "Sonic the HEDGEHOG + Elise the HUMAN rapist = true love" must have some child-related issues. 
 Oh, and *Spoiler* Blaze the cat dies? 
  and then returns in sonic rush adventure? whatever.
  2/5
  
  Other: the achievements are just 
 stupid... they are too annoying to get, and not worth you're time. Exploring soleanna is a slowdown 
 rollercoaster... and there isn't much to do... racing sonic wannabe (lol) doing side missions... 
 btw, the loading times... omg, the loading times... let me describe just how it looks when you 
 wanna take on a mission: you approach the dude you want to give you a mission, "loading for 30 
 seconds", the dude tells you what he wants you to do, "loading for 30 seconds", the mission begins, 
 you finish the mission and get a rank, "loading for 30 seconds" and then back to soleanna. trust 
 me... it is frustrating.
  so, the final question i guess you should ask yourself is: is this game worth you're (and my) money 
 ? Yes? No? Maybe ? Pineapple ? ...
  
  since i'm a sonic fan, this game was pretty much a must-have anyway. If you're not a sonic fan, 
 this may not be appealing for you... and you should probably consider something else to spend time 
 with... 
  oh, and if you're still a child, be aware that this game contains: Necrophilia, bestiality, A demon 
 with the Slavic name for devil (iblis) , brutality, death and worst of all... Amy Rose.
  
  Total: 4.7/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurfboi
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 7, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  When I first go this game I immediately thought thay it was terrible. I was right for the first 
 couple of levels but as you progress the story gets more interesting along with the gameplay.
 
  Wierdly, the game seems to get easier as you get further in. The levels are mostly all the same, 
 all you do is simply follow the track and jump at a few enemies. The combat with these enemies 
 is always just constant jumping. There is not an enemy in the game that cannot be killed by doing 
 this. The boss fights however are far better. Each one has a completely unique style which makes 
 you think in different ways.
  Occassionally, you will get a fast level where you don't have to attack enemies, you just run really 
 fast dodging obstacles until you reach the end. These are really fun.
  The main thing that lets sonic down is the loading times. You will talk to someone, then it will 
 load for around 30 secs then they will speak for about 3 secs then it will load again. The life 
 system is also bad meaning that everytime you die you have to start the whole level again even 
 if you had passed through several checkpoints throughout the level. This can get vey frustrating 
 and that little b*st*rd Tails doesn't help either.
  Overall this isn't a great game but if you like the Sonic series you'll probably like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverBluff
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 29, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is ambitious and very fun, but that's no excuse for it's
  technical difficulties. Sonic and the others look amazing, and the sound and
  music is great, but 
 the glitches take a massive toll on the good points in the
  game. The plot is varied on which character you play as, such as Sonic's
  storyline is tied into 
 rescueing the princess, Elise, and Shadow's storyline
  is wrapped around defeating the evil Mephiles. Silver's storyline is about
  how he must fight 
 to save the future, although he must sacrifice his best
  friend in the end. Sonic is very fun, very action-packed, and very thrilling, but
  all the glitches 
 make for one empty game. All Sega needed to do was keep
  it for a few more months. That's all. Then it would be one of the platforming
  genre's greatest 
 accomplishments. But I'm afraid that will never see the
  light of day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 22, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  this game is full of glitches but it doesnt make it a bad game. this game is simply amazing graphicly 
 all three of the charactars play good but silver the hedgehogs mode can get kind of lame. there 
 are also some unfair parts in this game but theres also an shhweeet (that means very good) story 
 line. there also is a ausome free rome where you do challanges. dont not buy this game just becuase 
 it has some miner problems this game is a great amount of fun. I dont get why game spot hates this 
 game becuase its just like any other 3d sonic game which in my tayst are fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: El_Jarvo
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 18, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Lately, Sonic games have been notorious for their unimaginative level design, increase in unnecessary 
 sidekicks and a gradual decrease in the sheer level of speed in the games, which pretty much defeats 
 the point of a Sonic game. Think back to Sonic 1, remember how cool it was? Then Sonic 3 and Knuckles. 
 Better than Super Mario World in my opinion. The 2D games kept getting better and better. Then 
 remember the first 3D Sonic game, Sonic Adventure on the Dreamcast. The game took Sonic to a whole 
 new world, and did it RIGHT. It had levels that were superbly designed, introduced new characters 
 that felt at home in the Sonic universe and ultimately was a superb game. Then Sonic Adventure 
 2 came out, and it was alright. I guess. It had its problems in the way that all the levels apart 
 from the levels where you played as either Sonic or Shadow were so dull it nearly reduced me to 
 tears, and gave you the option of PLAYING as Dr Eggman. This was a bad move. I really dont think 
 they should have given players the option of playing as the bad guys, it just took the whole heroic 
 perspective out of the game, because while playing as the Hero team you wanted to save the world, 
 yet playing as the Dark team made you want Eggman to take over the world. In other words, you didnt 
 know who to root for. The same applied to Sonic Heroes, where you were granted the ability to play 
 as different teams, but Sonic Team seemed to have done a major upgrade to the game. It was a LOT 
 more fun, basically because there were silly shooting levels or hunting levels, you just had to 
 get to the end of the stage. The way Sonic should be. Then, there was Shadow the Hedgehog. I have 
 no other comment about this game other then what the hell were Sonic Team thinking!? Dull, awkward 
 andwhy does Shadow have a gun and why does he need to drive a car!? Hes as strong and as fast 
 as Sonic and yet he still needs these things to survive? Maybe Sonic team would learn their lesson. 
 It seemed that they did with Sonic Rush. This proved that Sonic needed to stay 2 Dimensional. It 
 was fast, it was cool and it didnt have so many annoying characters or different playing methods 
 that it was drowned in its own needless complication. You could play as Sonic or Blaze. Eggman 
 was after the Emeralds, you needed to stop him. How to you stop him? By racing to the end of the 
 level as fast as you can and defeating a huge robot. THIS is Sonic in the purest form were ever 
 going to get him for a while. Nintendo Fanboys will argue with you all day and night about how 
 Sonic and the Secret Rings is absolutely amazing and shows that Sonic can work in 3D. Okay, it 
 did, but SATSR was only a good game. It wasnt great, I really didnt like the mission-based gameplay 
 and the story line was too cheesy, even for Sonic. I guess people just wanted to believe that Sonic 
 could be good again, because when Sonic Team got everyones hopes up with Sonic The Hedgehog for 
 the 360, it couldnt have gotten any worse.
  First, Ill start off with the one thing in the game I think is absolutely spot-on. Sonics in-game 
 character model. He looks as seriously cool and realistic as a big, blue hedgehog can be. And thats 
 about it. The rest of the character models dont look impressive at all. The humans just look stupid, 
 and as for water effects, forget them. Final Fantasy XII had some amazing water effects during 
 boss battles, and that was on a console half as powerful as the 360, so why did Sonic Team not 
 even include some nice water? Everything just looks like a suped up Playstation 2 game. Apart from 
 Sonics character model of course. Some of the FMVs pretty nice though. Sometimes. Other times, 
 itd be pretty easy for it to be recreated on any last-gen console.
  As for sound, the god-awful voice acting has returned. There has never been a Sonic game with good-voice 
 acting, and as long as 4Kids entertainment is in charge of the voice acting for characters then 
 there never will be. The characters seem to make grunts and screams for everything. Jumping, dieing, 
 falling, punching. and it gets annoying FAST. Because the voice acting is so bad, the characters 
 make half-assed attempts at screaming for their life when they fall. Tails is the biggest culprit 
 of this. If you ever make the same mistake as I did, and buy this game, drop Tails into some water 
 and hear him scream. It just makes me angry at how theyve ruined the characters with the worse-than-bad 
 voice acting. The music can be okay sometimes, but it gets repetitive quickly. The only music in 
 the entire game that I dont get tired of hearing is the games main theme tune. Its brilliant, 
 and if only the game had matched the same level of quality as the main theme we would have had 
 our second amazing 3D Sonic game.
  At the start of the game you can only choose to play as the blue speedster himself. And in all 
 honesty it should have stayed this way. Sonics levels can be pretty cool and impressive sometimes, 
 especially when Sonic needs to speed up. He dashes forward toward the goal and all you have to 
 do is steer him left and rightwhereve we heard this before? Sonics main running levels are equally 
 as fast at times; however they can be overly frustrating when you light-dash along a trail of rings 
 and a monster pops out and kills you for no apparent reason. Once you unlock Shadows levels youll 
 start to see the game go downhill from the start. Youre running through the first level, busting 
 enemies open with your homing attack and then smashing their remains with a chaos smash. All is 
 well. You run round a corner, only to then be faced with your worst enemy; a car. Seriously. Sonic 
 team obviously learnt NOTHING from the disaster that was Shadow the Hedgehog. The vehicles are 
 awkward to control, drive slower than Shadow can run and they have GUNS attached. Tsk tsk. In all 
 honesty, I havent even attempted Silvers levels, but from what Ive heard, theyre not much better. 
 I gave up just after I kept getting so far into one of Shadows levels only to die and be taken 
 back to the beginning because the checkpoints are spread way too far apart.
  The game is just badly built; its filled with bugs, some of the level designs actually prevent 
 the player from continuing through the level in the correct way and, apart from some of Sonics 
 levels, the game is boring. And they even tried to re-create the Adventure field areas from the 
 original Sonic Adventure, but they failed miserably. The games loading times are possibly its 
 biggest downfall. It has to load everything. And I mean EVERYTHING. Different areas to a level, 
 which Sonic Adventure loaded up in a flash; a boss little introduction sequence; but possibly 
 most painful of all is the fact that it has to load the individual missions that are available 
 in the adventure field. It doesnt sound too bad now, but take into consideration that it takes 
 an age to load. Then, when you accept a mission it slowly loads the NPC saying something like Jump 
 through the rings! Then it starts to slowly load the actual mission. Then, if you fail the mission, 
 it slowly loads the NPC telling you that youve failed, but doesnt grant with a retry option. 
 No, instead it painfully loads the adventure field and you have to go through the entire process 
 all over again.
  Sonic the Hedgehog is more than a disappointment. Its a sheer failure of a game thats so bad 
 that its caused me to lose all faith in Sonic and Sonic Team. And what terrifies me is that the 
 same team who made this abysmal pile of crap is working on the NiGHTS sequel. If Sonic Team tarnishes 
 NiGHTS title for being a spectacular game I will be writing a letter to SEGA, basically telling 
 them to dissolve Sonic Team and forget about every game theyve ever created, because they will 
 no longer deserve to be given praise for the awesome games that they have created in the past. 
 Im surprised that Sonic Team werent eradicated off of the face of the earth because of this failure 
 of a game. But there are no more chances for Sonic Team now. Get NiGHTS right and fix the damage 
 youve caused to Sonics once good name, or lose practically every SEGA fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidermanc2k
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  There used to be a time in which the names Mario and Sonic were synonomous with the phrase platform 
 gaming. In the good old 16-bit era of gaming, these two icons could be considered equals on a highly 
 competitive playing field. However, as time went on, while the Mario core series and numerous spinoff 
 games have continued to see success, Sonic and his friends have been slowly dying for the past 
 few years. It was hoped that this next gen Sonic game would be the one game that could finally 
 put this fan favorite character and series back into stardom. Sadly, those looking for the rebirth 
 of the Sonic the Hedgehog franchise will not find what they are looking for here.
  
  If you've played any of the Sonic Adventure games for past systems dating all the way back to the 
 Dreamcast, then you already know what to expect here. You'll be able to play the game as different 
 characters besides the one the game should really focus on, and you'll have to do so in order to 
 get the complete story for the game. Although this is an entirely new game, you're still playing 
 the same game that you've been playing for the past 5+ years. And because its basically the same, 
 you basically get the same problems as well.
  
  I can appreciate Sega's attempts to add more variety to the Sonic games by using different play 
 styles and characters to flesh them out. However, this method hasn't stuck on players before and 
 it won't stick now. The Sonic franchise has been (or should have been) about speed and clever level 
 design. Although this game shows hints of that at time, when you start throwing in characters and 
 segments that slow down the pace, you really start hurting your product instead of relaunching 
 it. Controls are still wonky, and the camera still sucks. This game feels rushed in every way. 
 And despite how georgous the FMV cinematics look, the in game stuff looks far less than next gen, 
 and might be mistaken for PS2 or Xbox grade graphics. And if all this weren't enough, this game 
 has some of the worst loading issues I've seen, even trumping those of the PS1. When you have to 
 sit through a load screen to see a short in game speech (with no voice) just to sit through another 
 load screen 3 seconds later, then something is seriously wrong. The constant load screens really 
 ruin what little flow this game has, including in the middle of levels. This was not a problem 
 last gen for Sonic games, so why is it now? When there are games of higher quality that push the 
 system harder than this garbage does, there is just no excuse for this. None at all.
  
  As a fan of Sonic the Hedgehog, this game really pains me. It is without a doubt the worst of the 
 recent titles. Even the most rabid Sonic fan should be wary of this title, and buy at your own 
 risk. Just remember, you have been warned.
  
  Buy if: You really want a Sonic game, no matter how crappy it is.
  
  Rent if: You know its 
 crappy, but want to play anyway and just want some more of those gamerscore points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sambo114
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  I rented this game because there wasn't any other good games, and i'm glad i did. I thought it 
 was pretty cool until i used silver, then it was awesome. Silver has a force type thing how he 
 can pick up numerous objects and throw them one by one at his enemies. Sonic has his usual attacks.
 
  
  I would recomend this game to anyone who likes action games. but i would also consider renting 
 it first, as it's not for everyone.
  
  (i love the way silver stops missiles then shoots them back!)
  
  The multiplayer is pretty 
 good, as you choose your character then play on stages coop or vs each other offline only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steano
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  The reason why i like this game is because it is very fun, has amazing characters added to it. 
 I chose this game to say that the media are totally wrong and i would say about 8.4 or more, it 
 has a challenging difficulty and has a massive change in game play to Sonic Adventure 1 and 2. 
 The graphics in my opinion would be about 8.9 out of 10. This game is quite big just like Sonic 
 Adventure 1 and 2 although there is only Sonic, Shadow and Silver it took me about 3-4 hours to 
 complete Sonics episode and i thought it was one of the most fun games i ever played the Price 
 is just about right i got it for 20 pounds. If you ever get this game you would probably disagree 
 with me and give it a better or worse review i am only giving you an idea of how good the game 
 actually is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RejuvinationTB
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  This was the best Sonic The Hedgehog game. I had a great amount of fun playing this game the gameplay 
 is fun and diverse you are able to play as three different hedgehogs Sonic, Shadow, and Silver 
 you also are able to play as amigo characters. There are new and old characters in this game. http://media. xbox360. ign. com/media/749/749072/img_3945796. html. 
 The story is great and the best story so far for a sonic game. The songs were terific and if you 
 don't like them you can easily put custom soundtracks because it is X-Box 360 game. Graphics were 
 also well done and stunning. The two problems for this game was loading screens and some levels 
 could get difficult. If you are a sonic fan or just want a new interesting game pick up Sonic The 
 Hedghehog for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halosonicman
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  sonic has to be the best hedgehog ever. this game is a little hard to get use to but once you get 
 the hang of it it can be really enjoyable. there are 3 main characters Sonic (the best) Shadow 
 and Silver. they all have their own individual story that leads up to a last story. the game is 
 fun to play and has a pretty good length of play time since there r 3 storys to play. Sonic is 
 still the best no matter what people say. get the game if you are a Sonic fan! this needs to be 
 100 words so get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prince_gohan11
Rating: 2.7
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  This game flat out sucked. I thought it'd be good, but no.
  
  The graphics are the only good part of the game. GC scene were't required though.
  
  The gameplay 
 is sucky. There isn't much challenge, and when there is, it's only of frusteration, and I bet you'll 
 thow the controller when you reach those parts.
  
  There are many glitches- Sonic and Silver kept getting stuck between buildings in the city, and 
 Shadow's car levles/parts were horribly controled.
  
  There were parts when it was loud, and then quiet during their speech, and sound effects were mixed.
 
  
  I'm sorry, but I thought this was gonna be good. A fan of the Sonic franchise, and hopes of it 
 even recovering have fallen.
  
  Yeah, thats my two cents\. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saquib_h
Rating: 1.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  this game is awful .... i think even the sonic on sega was 10 times better... not all games can 
 be redesigned to completely different structure... this is an example. graphics is nothing like 
 nexgen, gameplay is horrible! it has lost all the original fun of the SONIC game... there's nothing 
 about this game that is positive.. i dont know how gamespot even gave 4+ to this.. it should be 
 less than 2.... may be ppl are being nice to SEGA. if u asked me, i wud have sai... keep the game 
 in 2d as it ws... add some awesome amout of graphics everwhere... add some nexgen visuals to everything, 
 make game faster... and loads of levels.... put up everything in HD... thats all the original sonic 
 ever needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rock231992
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  This might be the best sonic game ever yet to be. What I like about it was that you could free roam 
 a city or forest. It is a big area to travel but with sonic its notso big because you run very 
 fast with him and he gets to places quickly and I mean very quickly. There are three hedgehog's 
 Sonic, Silver and Shadow. There is egg man as the bad guy but there's more bad guys in the game. 
 The graphics on the game is good but not great but good. Game play is still good like the others. I 
 think that this is the hardest sonic game I have ever played in my life. The best hedgehog on this 
 is game is Silver I think because he has powers to move anything and control anything in the game. It 
 has easy and hard levels but mostly are easy which is good. I give this 7.7 that's what I think. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PantsOfFury
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Sonic The Hedgehog for the XBOX 360 is not a great game. It is 
 not a good game. It is a very very average game in terms of what other companies throw out into 
 the market. I believe it is viewed way too harshly by people who simply expect more out of Sonic 
 Team, and people who are living in the past of great 2D Sonic games.
  
  The story is simply lame. There is no reason you need to pay attention to the story, nor do you 
 need to know what's happening. It's a Sonic game. Get through the level, got it?
  
  Gameplay : Controlling Sonic is just about the way it has been in the past 3D Sonic games, and 
 there are times when I think his speed is sufficient. His controls are far from perfect, but passable. 
 Controlling Knuckles and Tails during Sonic's Story however; will make you want to cry.
  
  Controlling Shadow is also about the same as it has been in the past. His sidekicks are also about 
 as annoying to control as Sonic's.
  
  Controlling Silver on the other hand, is what makes this game worth playing. Sure he isn't fast, 
 but his Story is probably the only one that's genuinely fun to play. Amy and Blaze also control 
 surprisingly well compared to the other characters in this game. If anything rent this game and 
 play it solely for Silver (I admit, I hated when they announced him, but he is NOT another Shadow 
 [which they should really have let die after SA2] ) .
  
  Graphics: The first game which I noticed for the XBOX 360 to have 1080P listed as a supported resolution 
 on the back of its case. The graphics are good for a Sonic game, yet not so much for an XBOX 360 
 title. Taking into account that it's a Sonic game and that some cutscenes within the game are truly 
 spectacular looking, the graphics get my aproval.
  
  Sound: It's a Sonic game. Expect craprock and some kind of technoish stuff. Ring sounds, robots 
 exploding, yadda yadda. Been there done that. Voice acting isn't nearly as bad as people claim 
 and is in fact much better than pre-4KIDS Sonic games.
  
  Value: Not for everyone. 3D Sonic fans will defend it to the death. 2D Sonic Purists will whine 
 that it's not like the originals. Where do you sit?
  
  Overall worth a rent for a runthrough of SIlver's story, explore the rest of the game if you don't 
 mind to lackluster controls and storyline. There's plenty of missions and ACTs to complete. Obtaining 
 S-Ranks on all of them will frustrate you due to camera issues which have plagued the series for 
 almost a decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  When you think sonic you think Fast face arcade action with no thought involved - this is not that 
 although it aims to be which makes it even worse. The levels are confusing &amp; poorly laid out. 
 The camera view is dire &amp; gives the worst possible view for the levels i. e. you'll be aiming 
 to land on something you cant even see because of the camera view. The controls are incredibly 
 awkward with a mixture of RPG and wrist wrenching combos that just doesnt mix. Its not the worse 
 game in the world but its close and I had no desire to return to it after an initial hour - jumbo 
 waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmastab
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog for X360 is a platformer that would get a beter rating only if it was completed. 
 Sega rushed this game for production but anyways the grapics aren't the best but it don't matter. 
 The Story is that Sonic rescues Princess Elise of Soleana and Silver tries to kill Sonic to stop 
 Iblis the flames of disaster. The Gamplay has many glitches. Some times you don't have to touch 
 the controler the game dose some of it by itself. The voice acting suxs Sega hired 4kids for the 
 voice acting again. It's not horrible but it's not Sonic's best game. I don't know why peopele 
 hate this game I still like it and others like it too I think the rating I gave the game is more 
 reasonable that's why I gave Sonic the Hedgehog for X360 a 6.5 - 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexadecimal
Rating: 4.8
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  First of all I've been a Sonic fan for as long as my age and I actually prefer the 3D ones from 
 the Dreamcast area (Sonic Adventure 1 and 2, those were the days :D) , nevertheless this is not 
 a blinded fanboy review giving a prefect score just because Sonic is in it. I really had high hopes 
 for this watching trailer upon trailer when the game was first announced, but after a string of 
 poor games and concepts (Sonic Heroes, Shadow) its clear that Sonic's adventures are getting worse 
 and I'm actually starting to think that SEGA should think about quitting on Sonic or at least work 
 on a new character.
  
  Storyline introduction - For me this had the makings to be a cool plot, but due to lame voice acting, 
 strange concepts and shear convolutedness of it made it very disappointing. It begins in the city 
 of water Soleanna (is Sonic a new world now or the real world, I'm not sure) in which a large celebration 
 is about to take place, but of course our old friend Eggman Robotic turns up to wreck havoc wanting 
 the chaos emeralds as he often does. Sonic then saves and forms a relationship (that's right a 
 romantic relationship, so very, very wrong) with the princess. He later meets Silver who is on 
 a mission from the future to kill him (the whole future thing did not appeal to me) for he believes 
 Sonic is responsible for a huge disaster. Shadow also has some role in the story, but to what end 
 I forget because he makes the story needlessly complex. Basically what Sonic Team have done is 
 taken the storyline from SA1, made it more complex by adding more characters and in general made 
 it not as good.
  
  Gameplay - Great, well it would be if not for doggy camera angles and the fact that every level 
 is placed about some sort of 10000ft drop. The sense of speed is quite amazing in the speed stages, 
 but of course these maybe mount up to about 2% of the actual game. Many people seemed to take well 
 to new Silver and his more interesting telekinesis levels, but for me I found it slow and clunky 
 and the fact that Silver is such a badly though out character, akin to Sonic but without the whole 
 'attitude' and cool surrounding him. What really lets the game down is the fact that there are 
 parts in most levels where you switch characters away from the major 3, and while I quite like 
 to play as Blaze the Cat, the rest are quite diabolical; Knuckles is sluggish, as is that huge 
 robot guy E123, but Tails is awful - weak attacks and slow running speed. Hang on your thinking, 
 this is a Sonic game, of which the aim is to run very fast and yet only 3 of the needless multitude 
 of characters (Shadow and Blaze aren't that fast though) are fast. Its a poor state. Having said 
 that there are a few levels that I have played through numerous times so when the game works and 
 does what its supposed to, it is quite enjoyable. However don't get me stated on the town stages, 
 they are abominations due to horrible amounts and lengths of loading screens, poor settings and 
 just the overall pointlessness of them all.
  
  Graphics - Not much to say really, quite good but no defining next gen visuals that are seen on 
 titles such as Gears of War. Some of the enemies though are quite special though, I love the design 
 on the robots and it seems they've actually put effort into thinking of the shapes of them and 
 Dr Eggman's (or Robotnic) new look is fantastic, however this is my opinion, I'm sure there are 
 plenty out there who would like to hark back to the day of a round man sat in a hovercraft though.
 
  
  Sound - Some of the music I like, however its not stellar (Crush 40 are on, but for one song, which 
 doesn't exactly compare to Open Your Hart) . What I dont like is the lack of sound, making cut scenes 
 unexciting. The voice acting I feel is pretty poor, Silver's voice I cannot stand and Sonic's voice 
 I also find a bit limp sometimes. Sonic Team changed the cast after SA2 I think it was and I feel 
 its just not as good.
  
  Value - I'm pretty sure you won't want to replay the story again, nor the town stages, which may 
 indeed have you vomiting, but there are the odd few stages as mentioned earlier that are worth 
 a second look, however once these are memorised and completed a few times then the game is pretty 
 much finished.
  
  Tilt - Being a Sonic fan, one who indeed likes the idea of giving our blue friend a story to work 
 around, I feel it is my duty to cry while writing this review, I really enjoyed SA1 and SA2 when 
 I was a preteen those 6 or so years back and played them to death (well not exactly I still sneak 
 a little go on an SA2 level every now and then :P) but this game I found to be a total letdown, 
 I had such high hopes for it as well, but alas this may be the last Sonic game I am to buy. I sincerely 
 hope that the next game there is (if there is one on this system) doesn't disappoint for SEGA's 
 and more so maybe the fan's sake.
  
  Bottom line is, if you are a diehard Sonic fan, consider buying this game (though don't say I didnt 
 warn you) , if you aren't then don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halomassacre
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible mainly because of the clunky control and camera scenarios. The opening and 
 ending sequences of each character has pretty good graphics. The characters themselves are pretty 
 cool especially Shadow. Silver's theme song is really retarded and so is Elise's theme. The fact 
 that you do missions for common town folk is pretty dumb to like Silver's Apple Festival. Some 
 of the abilities are cool like Shadow's Chaos Boost. The cool part of the game is the multiplayer 
 definitely. The 1 player mode is not cool and is frustrating if you are trying to get all the achievements 
 like the Gold Medalist and Silver Medalist challenge. The best thing about the game is probably 
 watching Shadow beat up Silver and Mephiles. The worst part of the game is the completely frustrating 
 camera which if you are in a loop or something and it changes it usually changes your characters 
 direction in which he travels thus bringing forth that characters untimely demise. The controls 
 are pretty terrible to because if you try to do a move and don't hit the buttons really hard the 
 game won't respond and you will probably either die or lose all your hard earned rings during a 
 level which can make you want to stop playing altogether if you are trying to get all S ranks. 
 This is pretty much one of the worst games out at the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic43090
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 16, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game for a good 5 months, I must say that the reviewers of Sonic the Hedgehog 
 for the Xbox 360 are being completely unfair to the game, saying it has absolutely no redeeming 
 qualities of any kind. Untrue. Granted, the game has an enormous amount of problems, the majority 
 of which could be fixed by a simple software update, but to say it's a full-out piece of garbage 
 is wrong.
  
  The game has three main characters: Sonic, Shadow, and Silver, with each with unique abilities. 
 Sonic has his speed. Shadow has the commandeering of vehicles and Chaos Control-related abilities. 
 Silver has telekinetic abilities. Each character also has supporting tag-along characters from 
 time to time within each level, including Tails, Knuckles, Rouge, E-123 Omega, and Blaze. This 
 where the game begins to falter. With the exception of Blaze, all the characters move rather slow 
 and can be awkward at times to control. Characters with projectile weapons have no means of targeting, 
 not even cross-hairs. Knuckles' punches rarely make contact and the first try, and the climbing 
 abilities of he and Rouge are incredibly frustrating at almost all times. Luckily, you wont have 
 to play as these characters for more than 2 minutes at a time, but even so you may wish you wouldn't 
 have to even play them for that long.
  
  On to the main trio. Silver's levels take advantage of the Havoc physics engine used within the 
 game. Silver can pick up a number of objects, such as crates and boulders, as well as enemies later 
 in the game. The levels are fun to play once to get the hang of it, because there's nothing more 
 satisfying then flinging bullets back from whence they came, or throwing a pick up truck at a fire 
 demon. But, like with some of the supporting characters, he has no means to aim with the items 
 he picks up, not even cross-hairs. And, even though this character is fun like Gordan Freedman's 
 Gravity Gun is fun, the game can get a bit repetitive and tedious after about 4 or 5 levels. Still, 
 if you liked fooling around in Half-Life 2, you'll probably find some fun in this character.
  
  Shadow controls similarly to Sonic. Though slightly slower, he can use lightning attacks to 
 stun enemies, and pull off a long homing attack chain that can practically kill any enemy. Back 
 from Shadow the Hedgehog (unfortunately) is his ability to take control of vehicles, including 
 a Jeep-esque vehicle with guns, a hovercraft (with guns) , and a handglider (also with guns) . Thankfully, 
 unlike Shadow the Hedgehog, Shadow can't use any form of handgun. A feature we would all like to 
 block out of our minds. The vehicle control is actually not that bad, with the exception of the 
 handglider, which should use inverted controls instead. But other than that, it's OK.
  
  Now, for the games main attraction: Sonic. He controls similarly to his Sonic Adventure outings, 
 but a tad slower, which is unfortunate. the normal levels have a decent length to them, about 4 
 or 5 minutes a piece on average. His homing attack and spindash are weapons of choice for the spiny 
 blue rodent, but he can get several upgrades that make even hastier of enemies, such as Bounce 
 Attack, Light Dash, and Slide Attack. Along with those, Sonic can upgrade his shoes for non-essential 
 little extras. Some useful, like Speed Up at will, Electric Shield at will, and slow down time. 
 Others are just there for fun, like changing the size of Sonic himself. However, some just suck, 
 like what I call The Breakdance Tornado and Throw the Glowy Thing and Fly Its General Direction 
 . Also, back on the levels, there are some parts where game becomes slow and repetitive. You just 
 Homing Attack, and Homing Attack, and Homing Attack, until a wave of 10 or so enemies are destroyed, 
 only to continue to yet another room with 10 or so enemies. Sonic levels should focus more on speed 
 then attacking. Killing enemies should take a brief moment then back to the speed. This proceeds 
 throughout the game, and is one of this character's main faults. Another big fault is that sometimes 
 the Homing Attack will hit some of the strangest things, like a loop or even the sun. Half the 
 time, the Light Dash rarely works in the normal levels, which can be frustrating when you need 
 to get over a gap with a string of rings over it. Others include the snow and street boarding sequences. 
 The controls are awful in these parts, and trying to get on a rail to grind is frustrating. The 
 controls also invert when the camera faces in front of Sonic at one point, which is not good when 
 you actually have to hold forward to actually move at all. Now there's one part of Sonic's game 
 that almost makes all the crap go away, and that's the Super Speed Stages. Sonic goes dashing as 
 fast as his skinny tube-like legs can carry him, picking up as many rings as possible and jumping 
 off of a rock formation or two now and again. The sense of speed is phenomenal, the Light Dash 
 actually works, and is what Sonic fans have been craving in a 3D Sonic game for many years. The 
 levels look at their best here, even as they blur past you at fantastic speeds, and they're worth 
 going through the other sections of the levels (sometimes up to three other parts) just to play 
 this part for about a minute and a half at the longest. But nothing is without faults. The controls 
 can be frustrating at times especially when the camera is facing the front of Sonic, just like 
 the snowboarding sequences. You can't control your jumping direction in the middle of a jump, which 
 can be frustrating when you go flying off the level over and over. Also, there are no means to 
 attack the enemies in your path, which would have been a nice feature. The fact that they are so 
 short is also a problem, since this is the enjoyable part of the game. The biggest problem is that 
 this part kinds plays like Operation in a way. If Sonic touches any but ground, he gets hurt, and 
 you'll end up dying a number of times. In my personal opinion it would have been nice to add a 
 few button sequences and watch Sonic do I few more spiffy things, like jumping off of different 
 objects really fast now and again through a button sequence, kind of like God of War. But still, 
 this is easily the best part of the game.
  
  The boss battles in this game are more enjoyable than any other 3D Sonic game before it. There 
 are some real David vs. Goliath moments with Eggmans robotic creations. They are a bit more challenging 
 than any in the past, but they are by no means insurmountable. Some dont stack up to the others 
 though, specifically the Character vs. Character battles. But overall, they are an improvement 
 from those in the past and are worth replaying now and again.
  
  The Town Stages return from Sonic Adventure, with a far grander scale than its counterpart. These 
 are free-roaming levels where you find the next Action Stages, along with upgrades to your characters, 
 and missions involving the locals, who give you rings as reward to buy your upgrades along with 
 the ones you get in the Action Stages. However, like the Sonic Adventure Town Stages, this is more 
 of an afterthought. The missions are can be fun, like jumping, running and flat-out flying through 
 giant rings. But most are dumb, like leading a dog back to its owner and guessing games. In the 
 end youll just come here to find rings to buy upgrades and not look back.
  
  Now, for the overall problems of the game. Professional reviewers: this is where I will agree with 
 you, but not stress as much as you. The game has glitches all over the place, like whacked-out 
 physics, even with the Havoc physics engine. Sonic can stand upside down on a loop and not fall. 
 Ever. Lag is apparent throughout every single piece of the game, even in cutscenes. The camera 
 problems since Sonic Adventure, though lessened, are still here, and still annoying. The load times 
 are absolutely ridiculous. 10 to 15 seconds load times are frequent. Every time even the most minuscule 
 task is completed, theres a load screen. There are a good 2 or 3 load times on average within 
 every level. Town Missions are the worst. The person asks if you want to do the task. Load screen. 
 Person tells you what to do. Load Screen. Person says thanks or says you failed. Load Screen. Results. 
 Load Screen. This is the worst use of load screens I have ever seen, and unfortunately cant be 
 fixed by a software update.
  
  In the end, the game is fun. Though riddled with numerous problems, there is still enjoyment to 
 be had in the game, but not worth 60 dollars for. Wait for it to decrease in price, or rent it. 
 Once you get past the problems, it can be an enjoyable experience. Hopefully Sega will release 
 a software update sometime in the future to fix the fixable problems, but until then, put up with 
 it or dont play it. Pretty simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumsterboy12345
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 14, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Well this is a good game because it has 3good stories. The cut scenes are a little weird , but 
 they are good. This game has a reat story. The Characters Story im really into is silver the hedgehog's 
 story. He has really cool powers and a great story background. In sonic games the camara has never 
 improved alot. this game has bad camara. Like we are used to sonic has a terrible camera in most 
 of the games. This Camera Problems seem to lower this games rating. Other than that this is a very 
 good game. In this game you dont really find the powers for your character , but instead you buy 
 them. In mostly every mission u get rings right. Those rings plus extra go to your ... wallet. 
 In this game their are many missions. Most of them are good , but some are not. For example the 
 town missions are very bad. They are just a waste of time. It takes for ever to load and then they 
 put a very short cut scene , and then the game has to load again. Well... I HIGHLY RECCOMENED THIS 
 GAME.
  
  It may have some bad stuff but it has moore good stuff than bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aikao
Rating: 4.4
Date: Mar 14, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog has all the ingredients of a classic Sonic game, agreeable speed, memorable 
 characters, and a simplistic story, but these basic elements that made Sonic games fun to play 
 in previous games are hard to swallow when trying to get past the game's technical flaws.
  
  As technology advances, game developers naturally make attempts to cater to a game in order 
 to utilize the new development of hardware capabilities. Graphic performance, technical and visual, 
 is normally the most noticeable upgrade in next generation games. Sonic the Hedgehog does the visual 
 graphics thing well enough to pass as next generation, but makes almost no attempt to utilize the 
 benefit of technical performance - namely data access from the DVDROM. Loading times are everywhere 
 in Sonic the Hedgehog. You will spend as much time waiting to get past loading screens as you do 
 actually playing the game. Loading takes up a large portion of the game's navigation from level 
 to level. Just starting some sections of the game will cost you 2-3 different loading screens that 
 each take upwards of 15 - 20 seconds, only to play a portion of the game that lasts less than a 
 minute. What makes Sonic the Hedgehog hard to play is the fact that it is difficult to keep Sonic 
 on his linear path as he often fails to make a jump or runs in odd directions as the game's self-centered 
 camera gives a less than playable point of view.
  
  What is a surprise is how well the voice acting is done when watching the cut scenes (this does 
 not translate to good gameplay) .
  
  What developers could have been done better;
  
  Give Sonic multiple paths to use when falling off the main path.
  
  Load times brought down 
 to minimum.
  
  Play Sonic and the Secret Rings (Wii) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koawinter
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:25 am PT
Review:  The only reason I gave this game a higher ranking then what GS gave is because I love sonic games. 
 But I do have to say that I did not enjoy this one in the least, I didn't like the system at all.
 
  
  The Wii version of this game (it is a different game, however they were going to make it the same 
 as the other consoles) is way better! Why couldn't I get that game instead of this game that has 
 extremely long load times, bad camera angles, a bad story, and not very good graphics for the systems 
 it was being sold on. Come on Sega! Where is the great Sonic games of the past. This one does not 
 live up to its predecessors at all. Sonic Adventure 2 was a great game, where is that in this game 
 at all. Try again Sega! Next Sonic game I see, I want it to be old-school with the Chao's and Sonic 
 as the Main guy with the occasional side character. Lower the character selection, I mean you saturated 
 the Sonic Title with so many characters that I got sick of not seeing Sonic as the main character.
 
  
  I gave this game a low score for its bad graphics, bad game play, and pretty much bad everything 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 7, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Pros- uhhh Sonic still runs fast, town missions can be enjoying (at times) . It looks really good. 
 The stages are long enough to keep you interested
  
  Cons- Crappy controls, the camera from hell is still here, glitches will kill which ever char. 
 you have (loopdie loops locking on to an enemy etc) . The other chars that aren't either Sonic, Shadow, 
 or Silver control worst than they do! There is a Loading screen every single time you do anything! 
 for example you go to go do a city mission you talk to the char then it loads.... then you talk 
 to the same char again just with music in the backround about info you already knew!.... then it 
 loads.. then the mission starts but everytime you complete one part of the missions it has to load!
 
  Multiplayer isnt even worth talking about its the same 2 old modes... Tag and Battle and since 
 you can only use Silver Shadow and sonic you can see how long that fun lasts *cough* 10 MINIUTES 
 *cough*. Voice acting is somewhat bad. The Final Boss is a total letdown compared to Sonic Adventure 
 1 &amp; 2.
  
  Value- Crap for being Crap
  
  Tilt- long enough for you to beat the Single player and get some achievement points
  
  In conclusion- 
 Rent it and thats for hardcore fans only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This was a game that i hoped would be great, sonic on the next gen system with a new hedgehog Silver 
 Blaze is back and a whole new adventure. i really hoped this game would be good even when i played 
 it I would say picture the old sonic games.... Sorry i need to get into reality this game blows. 
 The worse camera Ever and the 3D sonic games have bad Camera angles as it is. You can't see anything 
 literally. Lets just say that Shadow the Hedgehog and this game is a disgrace to the great franchise 
 and should be only used in a Bonn fire. Gameplay: If you like like falling off cliffs and dieing 
 100 times to get through a level then this game is for you.
  
  Graphics: Well this game did do something right make the best looking sonic game. the characters 
 are very well made with a lot of details. you can see that this was the only thing that they ever 
 spent time on.. But so many glitches make the graphics look worse.. And it takes about 25 years 
 to load each time.. Sound: Average...... just like any other 360 game
  
  Value: A pretty long game with 3 adventures and the final adventure... If you last long enough
 
  
  Overall: sonic is going downhill Secret Rings of Wii was good but we need a new revolutionary Sonic 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandasplatter05
Rating: 2.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I would rather pay 60 bucks for the burger king 360 games than spend 5 dollars on this. Working 
 at gamestop made me hear about this game pretty early and made me so excited. I'm a huge sonic 
 fan. But the graphics could'nt make up for the horrible controls and camera angles or the awful 
 story that went along with it. I tried to like it, I really did. I held on to it for a month trying 
 to play it hoping it would get better the levels where you were looking at sonic from in front 
 of him were just awful. The controls were sloppy and the camera caused me to run off the track 
 a hundred times. The only good thing about this game was the sonic figure i got by pre-ordering 
 the game. I do love that toy. Sonic Adventure and all before it were amazing. If you want a really 
 good new sonic game, try The Secret Rings. I played it for five minutes and i loved it. Avoid this 
 sonic at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidersDX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game was one game I was really looking forward to. Lots of work was put into it I thought. 
 Now I finally get to see what Sonic Team have for this game. It's just your old classic kind of 
 Sonic game that you'll just LOVE. This is an excellent addition to the Sonic franchise. Unfortunately, 
 critics like GameSpot hate this game but it is indeed a very good game. Insult all you want for 
 those haters. I love this game alot.
  
  In Soleanna, a festival is taking place in the wonderful city. Elise, the princess of the city 
 lights up something with her torch. All of a sudden, Doctor Eggman strikes Soleanna with his ship. 
 He has come for the secret of the flames of disaster. And then asks Elise to hand over her chaos 
 emerald. Then comes our blue hedgehog! He defeats all of the robots and carries Elise. Sonic escapes, 
 unknown that he is watched by a white hedgehog. His exact quotes are, I finally found him. The 
 Iblis Trigger. This game includes a new character named Silver. Who is a white hedgehog. This game 
 also makes use of the Havoc engine. Which is usually used in first person shooters. So, it interested 
 people on how it was gonna be used in the game. This is also the first time Sonic interacts with 
 the human world. (What? Did they forget about Sonic Adventure?) The main theme of this game was, 
 what if Sonic was actually real? Sonic Team tell you how it would be in this game with graphics 
 almost looking like the real world and gameplay that'll bring Sonic back to the top. There are 
 ten stages in this game. Which sounds like a small number. But each version of the stage is different 
 so it feels like there's more then one level. REVIEW TIME!
  
  The gameplay is as good as all of the Sonic games. it nice basic gameplay and is better then the 
 gameplay in the adventure series for sure. SONIC The Hedgehog shows the basic speedy gameplay we 
 all wished Sonic Team to give us. The controls are had when you begin but once you play a little 
 longer, you get used to the controls very easily. Each character is very fun to play. Sonic's gameplay 
 is probably the best gameplay out of the three. He has the most speed out of all three of the characters. 
 With lots of loops and speed moments. Also, his stages can get a little challenging which is a 
 good thing. Shadow's gameplay is alot like Sonic's only that you are found destroying enemies alot 
 more then going fast. That doesn't mean it isn't fun though. Shadow's gameplay is very fun. Just 
 as fun as Sonic's. Silver's gameplay is very different compared to Sonic's and Shadow's. He uses 
 his powers to carry objects and throw them at enemies. You can even throw enemies. He goes slow 
 though. So, he isn't as fun as Sonic's and Shadow's but is still very fun. Some complaints would 
 be for one, the loading times are pretty long but not a big deal. Also, some glitches are here 
 but you can avoid them easily. Overall, the gameplay is pretty fun in SONIC The Hedgehog and Sonic 
 Team is heading in the right direction. The graphics is the game's strongest part. They are absolutely 
 amazing. The CGI cutscenes are so amazing. They make it look alot like the real world. Elise looks 
 alot like a real human in those cutscenes. So does Doctor Eggman. Doctor Eggman doesn't look at 
 fat as he used to making him look more human fitting the game's theme which is trying to make us 
 think of what if Sonic is real. The in-game cutscenes are really nice. These cutscenes seem to 
 be Sonic Team's weakest skill in cutscenes but they still look pretty good. The graphics in the 
 game itself look fabulous. The environments are very detailed. Not much else to say really.
  
  Alot is expected from Sonic Team when it comes to sound. Their soundtrack for all the Sonic 
 games are just perfect. So, sound is a very strong part in this game too. The soundtrack is very 
 well done. Lots of nice tracks that fit the environment of the level very well. Some of the very 
 good tracks are Crisis City, Flame Core and Wave Ocean. The only bad thing to expect from the sound 
 when it comes to Sonic games is the voices. The voices in this game are okay. They've improved 
 from the past Sonic games voiced by 4Kids. TV. But they still don't beat the voices of the Sonic 
 games like Sonic Adventure 2 Battle and Sonic Heroes. Overall, the sound is very good but voices 
 can be improved.
  
  In conclusion, SONIC The Hedgehog is a very nice addition to the Sonic franchise. May not be perfect 
 but it is not a 4.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nynthninja
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Graphically for a sonic game its great controls are great voice acting is kinda b-movie style but 
 eh camera SUCKS. But then again you should have expected it if you played any of the sonic adventures..... Speaking 
 of i like how they kepth the original Sonic Adventure overworld fourmula, i like how they took 
 out those god awful hunter missions... i Enjoy the 3 sperate sagas (Sonic, Shadow and Silver) the 
 story is cheese of course but long time fans of Sonic should enjoy the game i think this game should 
 have at least gotten a 6.0... Dont Let Critics Ruin THE FUN FOR YOU.... But the replay value in this 
 game is amazingly high i would say its a game worth 29.99 (when it gets there) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khunterg
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game, but it has a lot of glitches. You'll find yourself dieing from glitches a lot, 
 which is frustrating, but really it's a good game. One glitch I found was driving Shadow's buggy 
 through the ground and dieing.
  This game gives you a lot of free movement, which isn't always good. Having a lot of free movement 
 is good when you're in a town, but it causes you to fall off of things a lot when you are in an 
 action stage. This game has great graphics and a great story, so if you are a Sonic fan I recommend 
 getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxkid91505
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog has a good game in it but glitches sloppy frame rate an bad camera get in the 
 way on top of that the graphics are not nearly up to the xbox360 standards also the games story 
 is not so great mainly because at the end time is changed so its like the hole thing never happened 
 and the load time are really bad when you accept a town mission you go through about 4 20 to 30 
 seconded loading screens. there are three characters who you play as sonic shadow and silver each 
 go through the same stages sonic is still the most fun mainly in the rush zones other wise he is 
 not so fast shadow is a hole lot of fun but is no longer as fast as the speed demon but is still 
 fun and silver is not fast at all and is the worst to play as. The game also has a two player mode 
 still two players and still no online just as before players race to the finish on top of that 
 there is two player co-op which is not fun. The game dose have support for down loadable content 
 there are four to date the first three are very hard modes for each of the characters each takes 
 10 to 20 minuets which is pretty good now the last is called team attack amigo which has 3 of the 
 other characters tails blaze and omega go through backwards stages it takes about 20 minuets and 
 is easy to get through the sound is probably the best part of the game. overall Sonic the hedgehog 
 is a good game but could have been better if you think you should get it you better rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivalaneta
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a die-hard Sonic/Sega fan. One of my favorite games of all-time is Sonic the Hedgehog 
 2. My favorite system, to this day, remains the Sega Genesis. The first game I've ever played was 
 the original Sonic the Hedgehog, and ever since then, Sonic has remained my favorite icon of video 
 gaming. But ever since Sonic's adventures on the Sega Dreamcast (actually titled just that) , Sonic 
 has struggled to get back on his feet... seriously. Recent Sonic games have been both mediocre, 
 bad, and everything in between, and this entry is no different. The moment you turn the game on, 
 you'll be disappointed and possibly pissed that in this Sonic, you're actually communicating with 
 human beings a whole lot, which is not only stupid, it makes no damn sense. What the hell happened 
 to Sonic just being Sonic in jungles and screwing up Eggman's plans? Long gone, I suppose. I guess 
 you can argue the series needed some change, but this one is NOT welcomed. From there on in, the 
 disappointments continue. The control is incredibly bad, the game's camera will constantly get 
 in your way and annoy the hell out of you, and you'll run across a glitch at least three or four 
 times a level. No joke. My first time playing the first level on Sonic 's act, I nearly lost ALL 
 of my lives because I kept glitching through a huge boulder I was supposed to land on, and then 
 press A to jump off of. After I only had two lives left, it finally worked, and the anger began. 
 The game will continue to piss you off as you get deeper into it. Whether it's another glitch, 
 a graphical flaw, or something that's just too damned difficult with the horrible camera angle 
 getting in your way, you'll find yourself getting frustrated an awful lot. The game's split into 
 three acts: one of which you're Sonic (of course) , one where you play as Shadow, and another where 
 you play as Silver, a new character. The different acts and characters are nice, but seriously, 
 who cares? Most Sonic fans buy Sonic games to play as Sonic, with the OCCASIONAL switch to someone 
 new. The bulk of the game is spent playing with OTHER characters, which is something I just couldn't 
 handle.
  
  The only thing positive you can say about the game really is its graphics. The areas are colorful 
 and look decent. Aside from that, there are loads of graphical glitches, but what's there looks 
 nice and the speed blur effects are decent as well. To put it simply, the Sonic Team has sadly 
 failed again. There's nothing I would have wanted more than for this game to just kick ass and 
 for Sonic be back on top of the platforming world once again... but sadly, we didn't get that. 
 Hell, we weren't even close. It saddens me to see Sonic, who's been my video game hero since I 
 first picked up a gaming controller in disasters like this. The Sonic Team better go back to the 
 drawing board for the next Sonic game: this formula FAILS... and that's coming from one of the 
 most loyal Sonic fans you can find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akatsuki0wn3d
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the hedgehog has a pretty long residency in the video game world, one of the longest continuing 
 franchises in history as of now. To some the series died when it went 3D, to others it died when 
 shadow came back to life, to others it sucked from the beginning. This sonic game, unoriginally 
 titled, SONIC THE HEDGEHOG is simply a love or hate game.
  
  
  Story summary
  
  The story is rather high quality for a sonic game. This princess Elise is doing an offering for 
 the god of soleanna when Dr. Eggman comes and launches a full blown attack on the city. Sonic than 
 comes into the scene to get rid of eggman, but before sonic and the princess escape, the princess 
 is captured by eggman.
  
  Silver comes from the future to kill the Iblis trigger. Iblis has destroyed the world, and has 
 engulfed everything in flames, the future is in a sense hell. Silver gets frustrated and is met 
 up with a creature who resembles shadow, names mephiles. Mephiles sends him to the past to kill 
 the Iblis Trigger, who is sonic the hedgehog.
  
  Eggmans character simply rocks in this game, sonic team nails his personality right on. Eggman 
 finally is a genius of pure evil, and comes off as a psycho genius. If sonic team did one thing 
 right, is make an excellent antagonist. Overall Gameplay
  
  Most of the gameplay mechanics in this game stay true to the adventure series of sonic games. Sonic 
 Team however cleaned up some of the messy controls from the older games, and tweaked it a little 
 (or a lot for some people) .
  
  The gameplay for sonic the hedgehog himself is simplistic. simply run around an Act to make it 
 to the end, while jumping with A and homing with pressing the A button again. Sonic goes fast as 
 usual, and just does his other things. By pressing the X button you do an attack by sweeping your 
 legs. During the game there is a shop that lets you buy more techniques for your hedgehog character. 
 Some for sonic include the famous light speed dash, which makes you chase a trail of rings. Some 
 of the cooler gameplay mechanics added for sonic in this game is the Gem system, during the beginning 
 of a game, this old man gives you boots that allow you to place a gem in the boot, each gem holds 
 different effects, such as throwing a ring and rushing where it lands, or shrink to the size of 
 a rock. The homing attack takes timing unlike the other sonic games, you are now forced to point 
 the control stick to the enemy, and click A at the correct time.
  
  the second half of sonic's act stages are super speed sections. you go in a view right behind sonic, 
 and move left or right with the control stick, or A to jump. You go so incredibly fast, that you 
 will become frustrated, and have a lot of fun at the same time. Some levels include sonic holding 
 on to elise, which makes you click the R button to walk over quick sand and water. Shadow the hedgehog 
 plays similar to sonic, but not exactly. Shadow goes incredibly slower than sonic, but goes at 
 a reasonable speed for what he is ment to do. Shadows gameplay requires you to kill enemys and 
 hit switches/destroy things. The real difference for shadow, is that the homing attack is way different. 
 Shadows homing attack hits the opponent, than you stay there for a short period to do a series 
 of kicks/punches simply by continuing the A button process. Shadow also drives vehicles. The vehicle 
 is controller by pressing a to accellerate, or Y to reverse, R to shoot missiles. The controls 
 for the vehicles flat out SUCK, it is a sloppy control with the control stick, and overall just 
 unstable. Shadow himself however has pretty solid controls. Silver's gameplay is hands down the 
 best in this game. Silver has perfect controls and has flatout fun levels. Silvers gameplay is 
 simplistic and weird at the same time. Silver uses his special Psytokenisis powers to lift up anything 
 in his path and to launch it back at his opponents. By clicking the R button, Silver is lighted 
 in a greenish glow (see pic above) and everything near him gravitates around silver. All those 
 items around him can be launched at your enemys, simply by pressing the X button. Silver does not 
 do a homing attack unlike his other hedgehog enemys, he does a psytokenisis hover, which lets you 
 continue and move around in the air for a short period of time.
  
  Sadly, you must play as some of the other characters in this game. It would be cool, if sonic team 
 took the time to make the other characters fun. You sometimes switch characters for incredibly 
 SMALL portions of a level, the characters are as follows: Blaze, Tails, Knuckles, Rouge, Omega. 
 Tails goes slower than ever, not even one miles prower, not only that his attacks are totally hit 
 or miss. Tails is attacks are throwing a ring capsul at X to hit your opponent, if that attack 
 hits your opponent is just luck of the draw.
  
  Rouge and knuckles play exactly the same, their controls would be good, if the climbing effects 
 were good. Sadly knuckles and rouge climb incredibly unrealistically, and even worse sometimes 
 they refuse to jump off the wall with the A button. Luckily you rarely play as them.
  
  Blaze however has perfect controls, mimicks sonic in a way except for the homing attack you click 
 X instead of A.
  
  Sonic team brought back the town like gameplay from sonic adventure 1 which simply made the game 
 worse. Sometimes you will run around the town not knowing where the hell to go, because they give 
 you literally no clues on where to go. Occasionally, you will be more stuck on where the next act 
 stage is, than trying to complete the act itself.
  
  Graphics
  
  Sonic is introduced to the next gen in a pretty, satisfying way. Sonic resembles its cartoony look, 
 and blends some realism in the scene. Sonic and his crew are simply cleaned up, brightened, and 
 retain their cartoony charm. All the characters have lost weight in this game, even eggman.
  
  The environments in this game are beautiful in some levels, and meh in others, or down right 
 terrible. Some levels are just purely amazing, especially crisis city. Crisis city is an incredibly 
 detailed level where the entire city is on fire, and is corrupted. Some are just plain meh, such 
 as wave ocean (cleaned up sonic adventure 1 level) . Wave ocean keeps a colorful charm, but simply 
 is a mediocre graphical experience.
  
  The town is very lazily made, they are very simple shapes with some windows and whatnot. Literally 
 no detail at all to the buildings, streets, signs, or humans.
  
  The lighting affects arent really existent in the game, except for flame core. Flame core is a 
 level with flame in a cave, where it is dark or light. The flames can give off light which gives 
 it a magnificiently cartoony lighting effect.
  
  Overall, the graphics are very par on what the 360 can do. Some levels are just epic, others are 
 meh, or the city is just last gen. Though, for a sonic game the graphics are exceptional, and do 
 the job. The cutscenes are also beautiful, especially the opening scenes.
  
  Sadly, the game does lags once and awhile mostly if silvers gameplay is going a little crazy. It 
 still runs smooth throughout most of the game, just a couple of slowdowns here and there but nothing 
 that will ruin the experience. Also the climbing affects for rouge/knuckles is purely fake, it 
 looks worse than it did in the sonic adventure games for dreamcast. They actually climb an inch 
 away from the wall, which is just bad. Some cons on the game
  
  Some cons on the game include the occasional glitch, or the annoying load times. The load times 
 on this game are bad, it loads a lot and about 15 seconds a time too. for the mission's it takes 
 a total of 4, YES 4 load segments for 1 mission. First, you accept the mission, LOAD TIME, you 
 are told what the mission is, LOAD TIME, you do the mission, LOAD TIME, you are told you completed 
 the mission, LOAD TIME. The act stages however have like 1 load time loading the level up, and 
 load up whenever the next large portion of the level comes. (4 load times total for crisis city, 
 but the level is just huge) The load times is one of the things that needs work on, but if you 
 can handle them than its no big deal.
  
  The occasional glitch is really blown way out of proportion, the glitches arent that bad and there 
 really isnt that many of them. Honestly, you have to be looking and searching out the glitches 
 to find them. The only horrible glitch is the knuckles/Rouge glitch, which makes it a pain in the 
 ass to jump off the walls.
  
  Sound
  
  the sound affects are nice, passable, and just simply there. The voice acting is well done, and 
 crappy at the same time. The voice acting itself isnt bad at all, the voices though arent that 
 good. Sonic has a good voice, but tails has gone through reverse puberty. Tails sounds like a little 
 girl, which is saddening for his character.
  
  Shadow sounds excellent, and retains some of his awesome charm for SA2. Rouge sounds like an old 
 prostitute, its ashame really it destroys her cool charm from the past. Elise sounds right for 
 what she is, a princess. Knuckles sounds the same as usual, and silvers voice doesnt fit his character. 
 Silvers voice is just weird, and funny at the same time. It is hard to describe, just imagine a 
 mixture of trunks from DBZ, and Conker from Conker's bad fur day.
  
  The gun affects are well done, nothing special but they do the job. The music is really good actually. 
 The main theme is remixed than what was displayed on the demo, played with different instruments 
 and now has lyrics. Value
  
  Sonic has its value really. The game features 3 episodes for each hedgehog, at about 10+ Acts apiece, 
 20 missions, and 5 bosses each. Than after you finish an act, you can go to act trial and try to 
 get a better ranking. This sonic game also offers a hard mode, so you can retry some acts on a 
 harder difficulty.
  
  The value really depends on how you play games, if you like challenging yourself than it has a 
 large replay value. The replay value also depends if you are a fan of sonic or not.
  
  Overall, the value is all right its nothing special, about an average game. It all depends on the 
 pace you tackle the game, and if you are willing to challenge yourself or not.
  
  Conclusion
  
  simply put, the game is love or hate. If you are not a sonic fan stay away from 
 the game, you simply will not enjoy it. If you are a sonic fan, rent it. I bought the game, and 
 Im happy I did because Im enjoying it quite a bit, and I am a sonic fan. The game itself is solid 
 if you enjoy sonic games, it flatout sucks if you hate sonic gameplay though. I enjoyed the game 
 quite a bit, and am a proud owner of it.
  
  Simply put, dont let the official reviews dissuade you from attempting the game, at least give 
 it a rental you might enjoy it a lot. Overall, I give this game a 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeroxix
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  A new sonic game? I jumped to my t. v. to play the demo, as I am a huge sonic fan, and loved every 
 second of Adventure Battle 2. I played the demo and it seemed different , with new mechanics to 
 the game play, and a faster, better looking sonic the hedgehog. What the demo showed was nothing 
 like the game though. The game can get so glitchy to the point of destruction. The cut scenes are 
 outstanding, but I would have rather had a finished game, than a game with occasional CGI Graphics. 
 New ideas for levels were a bonus, like snowboarding was fun, but it was a struggle. Any sonic 
 fan would enjoy this game, but it had a lot more potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Sonic has had a bumpy ride over the years, with games that have had poor ratings such as Shadow 
 the Hedgehog. Now, Sonic returns in an all new adventure and things could be better. This game 
 does have some very fun moments and it could have been the best 3D Sonic title but unfortunately, 
 the game seems incomplete.
  
  The graphics, although better than most previous Sonic games, could be better. The environment 
 is colorful but there are certain areas (not that many) that are un textured, such as the few buildings 
 that disappear if you look at a certain angle.
  
  The gameplay is the game's strongest quality. Most of the characters were fun to play as, especially 
 Shadow's. Silver is also really fun, he added a new way of playing with his telekenesis. Some of 
 them, however, take some getting used to like Tails. The gameplay, overall, is really fun though.
 
  
  My biggest complaint for this game is, of course, the load times. There are just too many and most 
 of them seem very unneccessary, especially the town missions. Most of the load times take about 
 20 seconds to load. Some of them are quick, but not many. It's especially annoying when you fail 
 a town mission because then you have to sit through another minute just for the game to load.
 
  
  I didn't think glitches were that big of a problem. The biggest glitch I found was the fact that 
 you can't jump off of walls very well in Knuckles and Rouge's levels. This can get a bit annoying 
 (unless you can just climb to the top or bottom of the wall) .
  
  In conclusion, Sonic the Hedgehog (next-gen) may not be a Genesis Sonic game, but it still is pretty 
 fun minus the load times. It isn't worth $60 though, it's worth more like $40 or $30. It is worth 
 at least a rental and it definately deserves more than a 4.4. If it were only finished, it could 
 have surpassed the Adventure games, it can be quite fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kameo67
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  The only thing different about this game than the other Sonic games is that you can go to a town 
 and fix people's problem's. I thought there was going to be numerous things different about this 
 game guess I was wrong. I't was a waste of time and money. In some scene's they would look funny 
 when they talked like when Sonic talked to Tails in the beginning. I't would've been cool if all 
 the character's had there own storyline, but it was only three hedgehogs. I really didn't like 
 those mushy scene's with sonic and Elise I bought this game for action. The only part of game play 
 I liked was when sonic got killed by Mephiles and everybody had to retreive all the emeralds so 
 he can be resurrected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stunt296
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Although there are various defaults to the game, it is also very interesting... It's an Action-Platformer 
 that brings back the first Sonic Adventure's vibe. With the town and all. Being able to run threw 
 the towns and forest makes the game much more fun. An addition to the town are the Town Missions, 
 wich are little missions you do that are given by the people in town to get rings. You can get 
 rings from Action Stages, Town Missions and Bosses depending on your rank. Ranks filter from D 
 to S (S being the best and D being the worst) . You can buy upgrades for the 3 main characters with 
 your rings. For new Sonic players, Action Stages are the levels that you play in. Where you go 
 thorough lots of enemies and ramps and such. There is also 2 new characters: Silver and Blaze (Silver's 
 helper) . They are from the future and have to save their timeline. Speaking of helpers, Each main 
 character, Sonic, Shadow and Silver, have a their own story and are accompnied by partners in various 
 Action Stages that will help you out at the time needed. Anyways, on with the review:
  
  Cons: There are verious defaults for this game. First, there is the long amount of time needed 
 to load a part of the game and also how many times the game loads itself... Especially, in Town 
 Missions. I'd say at least 30 seconds per load and 3 times to load per Town Mission. Second, there 
 is the glitches. There are not that many glitches... Not as much as GS says that is. Bu they are 
 still annoying and usually cause death. Most of them are caused by the camera. Third, the camera. 
 As usual for 3-D Sonic games. The camera is annoying. Sometimes, jusr randomly changes angles and 
 messes with your controls and blinding the screen causing death. For example, in the snow stage: 
 You are riding down with your board and then out of nowhere, the camera turns around making you 
 lose your speed. Anyways, that's the cons.
  
  Graphics: Like I said before, the graphics are amazing. The gamplay graphics are just as good as 
 the previous 3-D Sonic games' FMVs alone. The FMVs for this game are beautiful. Deserves a nice 
 9/10
  
  Sound: The music in the Action Stages is great. There is some nice techno music in there including 
 some nice classic Sonic music. The sound effects are pretty weerd. When you talk to someone, they 
 say Hey and then the text appears. Also, the battle sound effects are pretty repetitive and are 
 just damging sounds. Gets an 8/10
  
  Gameplay: The gamplay is fairly good. The controls are ok. Mostly the same as previous games though. 
 Homing attacks and the new Kick attack for Sonic and Shdow. Although, its pretty useless &gt;_&gt; 
 Silver uses Psychocenesis or somethin wich grabs objects and ennemies then you can throw them at 
 other ennemies. Shadow gets Chaos Boost wich makes him turn red and use the upgrades you bought 
 for him. Yes, you can buy upgrades with your rings, wich is pretty cool. Sonic gets some neat Custom 
 Actions that allow him to use various abilities such as becoming Mini and making a giant Tornado. 
 You also get to play with the Characters' partners at certain points. The game is pretty easy and 
 the controls are easy to get used to. The bosses are pretty easy. The action stages are pretty 
 easy. Also, after completing an Action Stage, you are rewarded with a Gold Medal. You can also 
 get more by completing other challenges in Trial mode. Again, there are the annoying camera and 
 glitches that bring the score down to 7/10
  
  Story: The story is nice. It takes place in Soleana. Eggman wants to capture the Princess Elise 
 since she has the Flames of Disaster in her. And Eggman wants to use them. Sonic attempts stop 
 him of course. Meanwhile, Shadow and Rouge are on a mission to infiltrate Eggman's base (Weerdly, 
 Shadow is allied with the president...) . After defeating his robots, Mephiles comes out from some 
 key that Shadow found and uses the same body as Shadow. But wtv, he goes to the future. Silver 
 and Blaze, in the future of course, meet with Mephiles and he tells them to kill Sonic and he says 
 he's the Iblis Trigger . Silver needs to stop Iblis because he's destroying thw world. Anywas, 
 Sonic goes after Eggman, Shadow goes after Mephiles and Silver, later on, goes after Iblis. Anyways, 
 play the game and you'll see the story is cool. 8.5/10
  
  Overall: Despite the annoying cons of the game, Sonic the Hedgehog is very fun and interesting. 
 Overall, I give an 8/10
  
  Yeah... So thanks for reading and I hope this review helped you all ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: collum1987
Rating: 4.9
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:40 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is the latest game in the series and why not release it on the next generation 
 consoles.
  
  November, XBOX 360 owners got the latest offering when it was released and despite it looking brilliant, 
 its a complete different story when you boot this game.
  
  You play as three characters in this game. Sonic is your first and only offering and you have to 
 unlock Shadow and Silver's stories by crossing paths in the game, brings back memories when I had 
 to do the same requirements in Sonic Adventure.
  
  Sonic offers pretty much the gameplay as he does in the previous 3D games, speeding past worlds, 
 blowing up enemies, etc. Yet when you play for the first time, this is where the highly anticipated 
 game begins to get its low score.
  
  In Sonic Adventure, you had Adventure Maps. They worked pretty well for the gamer as you looked 
 around for clues, new items, shops and links in the story. In this game, you get a loading time 
 consisting around 20 seconds, these loading times after a while get very irratating and will fustrate 
 when doing a mission and if you happen to screw up the mission, you have to grow through the whole 
 thing again PLUS the loading times.
  
  In Sonic Adventure, you didnt have no bother of any missions apart from using techniques to get 
 to places further in the story and finding keys within the maps to unlock new levels. In this game, 
 you have really silly missions which consume time and also are just stupid. Doesn't fit with the 
 game at all because Sonic's on this desperate chase for the Princess and get to the next level, 
 he has to play hide and seek in one of the missions JUST to get to the next level and get rings. 
 I feel that the whole missions are totally uneccessary and stupid and ruin the game.
  
  Now onto gameplay, what I liked about previous Sonic 3D titles was that you could play almost every 
 character in their own adventure or with them like in Heroes and the Adventure games. This game 
 you have three Hedgehogs but they have their differences, Silver's gameplay is the only new thing 
 that this game offers and even after a while, it gets repetitive and boring.
  
  Sonic's gameplay is okay, pretty much the same but with a few noticeable differences, you play 
 with Elise on several occassions and you get an ability for the levels which is a shield but it 
 aint that great. Sonic's gameplay is bad when you do the High Speed Levels for example Wave Ocean 
 and Radical Train, it is absolutely difficult to control and the fact the camera is screwed up 
 in this title to show the sensation of speed which you can't enjoy makes the possibilties of getting 
 a Rank S near impossible or very difficult.
  
  Shadow's is similar to the last game, Shadow the Hedgehog. Minus the guns thank god, Shadow runs 
 slightly slower than Sonic but has this combo during a homing attack, a nice addition but doesn't 
 feel that good when executing the attack. Shadow uses vehicles like in the last game but I really 
 hated Shadow the Hedgehog for that and wish they just made Shadow like they did in Sonic Adventure 
 2 and Heroes, I didnt have a problem with that and he sounds like an emo ****
  
  Silver's gameplay as I have said already is a new offering to the Sonic series. He has physic powers 
 and accompyed by Blaze the Cat who debuted in Sonic Rush. Silver's gameplay is good but the whole 
 new physic gameplay sensation wears off after a while and he is slow to move, unless he moved as 
 fast as Shadow and Sonic, I would have liked Silver more.
  
  Saying that, you get to play the other characters such as Tails, Knuckles, Rouge, Omega, Amy and 
 Blaze but don't expect anything special. Tails moves soooooo slow and most of the characters apart 
 from Blaze play terribly.
  
  The gameplay in general is bad. The camera is moved closer to the characters which causes a lot 
 of problems for the gamer. You can't see the surroundings well and it ruins the game bigtime. The 
 other problems to kick this game where the sun don't shine is the consistant bugs, you could be 
 on the highway to a Rank S, very difficult on some levels but then you could just die or screw 
 up in a big way that you will lose a Rank because of it. On top of that, the loading times are 
 still intact and by now, will have really annoyed the gamer.
  
  I can say a few things which are good about this game but won't earn it a good score. The Voice 
 Acting is still by 4Kids (WHY!?!) but in this game, Mike Pollock who voices Eggman does a brilliant 
 job of making Eggman who he is, a badguy!! I miss the other voice actors SEGA got rid off, Ryan 
 Drummond and co. would have done a better job in this game.
  
  The Soundtrack for this game is very good, brings back memories of the old 16-bit days. The Story 
 and Plot for the game is really good also but is ruined by the terrible gameplay this game has 
 to offer.
  
  The bad thing about the story is the end of it, Sonic dies lol but it uses the VERY OLD Super Sonic 
 thing at the end of the game, I don't know about you but that has got very old and I would like 
 to see better gameplay of Super Sonic.
  
  -Good-
  
  Brilliant Graphics for the next generation Sonic
  A good storyline which reminded me of Sonic 
 Adventure
  Voice acting is good, Mike Pollock is outstanding
  
  -Bad-
  
  Bugs are all over the gameplay
  Loading times are just unacceptable
  Unneccessary Missions 
 when in Soleanna
  Amigo's gameplay is just rubbish
  
  Overall
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog is a total letdown, commonly promoted as being a reinvention of the franchise. 
 It actually doesn't meet that reinvention and does a terrible job of offering good gameplay and 
 is one of the worst Sonic games released 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murisaki
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog marks Sonic's next-gen debut and takes place in the fictional city of Soleanna, 
 where Sonic must save and defend Soleanna's own Princess Elise, whilst also doing battle against 
 his old arch-nemesis: Dr. Eggman. The game also features two more playable characters with their 
 own unique storylines: The now-widely recognised Shadow, who is now a government agent to seek 
 the mystery behind a strange artifact, and newcomer Silver, a psychic hedgehog from the future 
 who goes back in time to stop the one known as The Iblis Trigger in order to save his own reality 
 from certain destruction.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  + All three characters play rather nicely, adding some decent variety to the typical 3D Sonic gameplay.
 
  - Havoc physics engine can sometimes cause unwanted mishaps, especially in Silver's levels.
  - Sonic Gem abilities are either gimmicky or just plain worthless, with only a couple you'll consider 
 using often enough.
  - Some awkward sensitivity issues and noticeable bugs, such as inaccurate targeting of homing attacks.
 
  - Sub-characters are boring as hell to play as.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  + Sonic and his friends all look and animate brilliantly.
  + FMV sequences are visually impressive.
 
  + Some beautiful looking locations.
  - Soleanna and it's people look like they've both came straight out of a Dreamcast game, with very 
 bland art direction, ugly textures and lack of anything remotely next-gen.
  - Nasty slowdown and pop-up.
  
  SOUND:
  + Decent soundtrack, if not that memorable.
  + 
 English voice acting has seen some improvement.
  + Old-school sounds are still nice to listen to.
  - Despite some improvements, the voice acting 
 is still below expectations.
  - Weird sound glitches in some areas.
  - No Japanese audio track for cut-scenes.
  
  VALUE:
  + Three episodes plus one final episode, 
 all of which are pretty lengthy.
  + Downloadable missions and straightforward, but challenging achivements.
  - Two Player mode 
 is dull, with no option for any online play.
  - Numerous glitches can turn from forgivable to frustrating within minutes.
  - Load times are 
 abysmal.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT:
  In the end, Sonic The Hedgehog CAN be a half-decent game. It starts off with a fairly decent first 
 impression, but over time, some of the games problems become too much. It's not impossible to ignore 
 them, or even grow used to them, but you would have to be far too forgiving to say they're not 
 there, because they simply are. In the end, only the most hardcore of Sonic fans will find appreciation 
 in this game, whilst others would do well to stay away from it. It's just a shame that Sonic Team's 
 first attempt into the next-gen market was released way before it was even completed. It's strictly 
 a case of love it or hate it , regardless if you're a Sonic fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDude253
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This was a sonic game i had waited for that felt like forever i wiated ages and when it came out 
 in USA and EUR i thought it was out in Austraila but AUS would get it on November 29th ( i found 
 out after i want to all the shops i could think of) and 2 days before it realease i saw Gamespots 
 score and then i though oh no i wondered did it suck as bad as Gamespot said it did? i bought it 
 two days later and i played it and it looked good when i started but as i got threw more at the 
 start i found out about the Terible loading screans but that didnet make it that bad for me. but 
 the first level kind of got me saying this is not much fun the game dose offer some cool high speed 
 moments but the gme play just isent that fun saidly but threw boardem i finshed the game in 2 weeks 
 and it was a fairly good game but they could've fixed the glithces and loading screans and the 
 crappy camara but its a desent game but it shouldent be $120 (AU) it should be $100 for a normal 
 price so overall the game play is not much fun but there some super cool moments you will enjoy 
 so if your a sonic fan buy yhis game and try to enjoy it as much as possible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iam_Joran_Betke
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Back in the day of the classic X-box I used to hate it but, I just recently bought an X-box 360 
 and Sonic the Hedgehog (2006) and it is nothing what the gamespot spot review says. I bought this 
 game when I bought this game with my 360 and might I say, it by far crushes every 360 game. It 
 has good graphics and story as well as good voice acting. I also like it becasue it was relesed 
 on my brithday (but it is besides the piont.) Its only down fault would be it lacked Espio, which 
 is not that big of a deal. I also frezees on you at certain times. But playing Lost Planet and 
 Gears of War (which I rented for it and never played cause Sonic was so amazing) also froze on 
 me. So it is more the system then the game. If you think the game is a bit too expensive now (which 
 it is not) wait until it moves to the cheap bin. But this is a game for every X-box 360 owner to 
 enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josenbaugh
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  The visuals are ok, sometimes It looks as if they just drew things a little better during the cut 
 scenes to prove it was on a next gen console because the graphics in game are not as good as the 
 cut scenes. The acting and story are horrible looking as if it where rushed together. With the 
 gameplay being frustrating and boring. Some games where just meant to be in 2D, and this is one 
 of them. I rented this game for my wife and was instantly thankful that I had not bought it! I 
 was a fan of the old one and cannot stand this. Even if you are a fan of the original I highly 
 suggest you rent it first. If money is tight, I would suggest you rent a different one first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hypershadow85
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  The latest Sonic game has it's fair share of problems. Frequent and long load times, terrible camera 
 controls, more than enough frustrating moments to make you scream, but if you can sludge through 
 it for a while, you'll find a very enjoyable game underneath all the bad.
  
  Playing as Sonic is the most annoying, mainly because he is so hard to control. Making small movements 
 to the left or right when moving so fast is troublesome. He does have plenty of fun levels, however.
 
  
  Shadow is back, minus the guns. Whether you think that's good or bad, he does play fairly well 
 in this game. He is more focused on combat than sonic, with many more attacks available and a small 
 variety of vehicles that mostly drive well. Shadow's part of the game seemed to be harder than 
 the others, but it a good way, presenting more of a challenge.
  
  Silver the hedgehog, a new character, is very fun as well. He is not focused on speed at all, which 
 thanks to the poor high speed controls, makes this a good thing. His psychic powers work very well 
 with the Havok engine, and is very fun.
  
  Playing as the sidekicks, such as Blaze the Cat and Knuckles, are mostly enjoyable if not totally 
 necessary; however, playing as Tails is most of the time a painful experience that slows down the 
 game in a most terrible way.
  
  The story in this game, except for the creepy underlying love store between Elise and Sonic, is 
 very enjoyable as well. I found myself smiling after watching the ending FMV.
  
  The music in this game is totally top notch and a joy to listen to.
  
  All in all, any fan 
 of the 3D Sonic games will definitely find this game worth a rental. For everyone else, approach 
 with caution, and you'll probably get some enjoyment out of this game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 11, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog although next-gen, it feels like a current-gen game on a next-gen console. bad 
 cameras, graphic pop-ups (like all the other sonic games before it) and annoying loading times. 
 There are some good things about this game too. FMVs were really good, Dr. Eggman looks different 
 and you see a new hedgehog named Silver. This game is basically about time and space when Dr. Eggman 
 is trying to get the Flames of Disaster and summon Solaris and destroy Soleanna. Voice acting is 
 still 4kids-ey and one thing I found really unique was that the Princess Elise was voiced by Lacey 
 Chabert. (voice of Eliza in The Wild Thornberries and that one tanned brunette chick in Mean Girls) 
 now, a movie actress voicing someone in a video game with cheesy voice acting? she must've felt 
 embarrsed to listen to the other actors... not so bad herself because she did a pretty decent job. 
 A pretty good sense of speed in Sonic's levels and some pretty nice abilities, but at the same 
 time, pointless and annoying with its loading times and english-dubbed voice acting. Controls were 
 also somewhat bad. Usually when playing with either Knuckles or Rouge. Mainly the climbing. This 
 is not a game to have if you like Sonic and the only reason I have it is because I bought the game 
 for my 11-year-old brother for christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  People expected this to be another great game in the Sonic series, the trailer was fine, very nice 
 CG graphics, gameplay seems good at first look. So then when it was released, Sonic fans went out 
 to get it, they then went home and loaded up their 360, played it for 30 minutes, with a confused 
 and disappointed look on their faces, then they turned the 360 off and vowed to never touch the 
 game again. This actually did not happen to me, I gave the game a second chance, cuz i thought 
 theres no way a Sonic game could fall so low, must be a system glitch. I restarted the 360 and 
 played it again, played through 2 of the 3 story modes, and got a couple of achievements, and I 
 said, ... Good enough... , then I vowed to never touch the game again.
  
  What made the game like this, first, lack of control: during the super speed areas, you could only 
 move about a meter per joystick toggle, and the fact that when you jumo, you cant change directions, 
 cuz apparently Sonic was, reaching levels of extreme speeds that he could not control himself . 
 Second, the loading times: so maybe the loading times were so long cuz typically 360 loading times 
 last about 3-4 seconds, but then this one takes a lot longer, at least 7 or 8 seconds when loading 
 a mission, and when you are doing town missions, you have to load TWICE, thats 14-16 seconds at 
 least. I mean Gears of War or DOAX2 or Rainbow Six Vegas didnt even take half as long to load up 
 EVERYTHING. Third, the cameras: the cameraman must be on crack, or else he wouldnt shake so much 
 and make me jump off a cliff when Im trying to do something else. Ive seen games with even more 
 flaws, but Sonic's flaws have by far been the greatest magnitude in my collection of 360 games. 
 You'll regret throwing away your cash, even if you have Sonic dolls or the I HEART SONIC t-shirt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyson11111
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  At first it's hard to get into but the more you get to grips with the way the characters behave 
 and the control design, it becomes a game you can't put down for long without wanting to play it 
 again! The story is good, levels too. I'd say the way they could improve it is to have a more envolved 
 super sonic level instead of the boring lets all transform into identical super hedgehogs and hover 
 and charge to save the world . Shadow and Silver should be more unique in their super form and 
 Super Sonic should have at least a FULL level were he can fly and unleash his full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 7, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  It's Sonic's 15th Anniversary and he's back to save the world. The trouble is Sega wants to give 
 him more trouble than he can handle. I know what your thinking, Eggman is Sonic's enemy right? 
 Well Sega the real enemy,
  it saddens me to give this game such a low score. I tried so hard to like this game, I really did. 
 I love Sonic and though the only good 3D Sonic game is Sonic Adventure , I'm sure Sega could of 
 done better than this.
  
  I'll start by saying what is good about the game. You can play as Sonic, Shadow and the new hedgehog 
 Silver (hard to believe none of the are related) . There is a good size of supporting characters, 
 Tails ,Knuckles ,Rouge ,Omega ,Amy and Blaze. The graphics are beautiful, atlest Sega did that 
 right. Now for what's not great about this game. The biggest thing is the load times. They are 
 so slow, The other Sonic games didn't have this trouble, so how did this happen? Has soon as you 
 hit start, loading..... then a  you can play. Really that 
 is no joke! Oh and it's worse if you lose all your lives on a stage, want to know why? Well it 
 could of just let you start at the beginning of level, but no, you'll have to watch the last story/FMV 
 again before you can start the stage again (pressing start just means you'll see the loading times 
 faster!) . How can the back of the box say This time Speed won't be enough ?? There is nothing really 
 fast about it. Well Sonic well run fast on some levels but even that is ruined by the camera. Some 
 levels you have to jump from platform to platform, and it is such a pain when the camera gets in 
 the way and you die. It should not happen like that. I have died more from the camera than any 
 robot or monster. The voice Acting is some what ok, not the best, but I wish they left the Japanese 
 voices on there.
  
  Come on Sega ,Sonic need a good Next Gen game. It's a shame when the classic 2D games out shine 
 the new. I suggest cut down the load times and fix the cameras on the next game. If Sega could 
 do those two things in the Next Sonic game, Sonic will have a classic on next gen. Sadly this is 
 not that game. I would say rent it, but there are so many better game you can spend your time on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARKphoenix2k
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 7, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  Like many people, I was excited about the fact that Sonic the Hedgehog was going to have a his 
 own new game on the 360... From all the pictures and running footage I had seen, it certanly looked 
 like a promising game, with fantastic looking, ultra smooth running graphics, but sadly, that's 
 all this game really has going for it.
  
  I've been a Sonic fan since the days of the Master System and Mega Drive, and have REALLY only 
 thought that Sonic works in 2D. The only 3D Sonic game I have really enjoyed was the first PROPER 
 3D Sonic game, Sonic Adventure 1 on the Dreamcast. (just incase someone mentions the aditional 
 feature in Sonic Jam on the Saturn which was 3D)
  Being a Sonic Fan, I have still bought all the newer Sonic games that have been released, and sadly, 
 I feel this is the worst one to date.
  
  Now I'm all for a good story line, but I think this one streches it a bit too far. There are parts 
 where you're just thinking Yeah, yeah... Let's just PLAY the damn game! as the plotline goes on 
 and on in the cut scenes.. And when you actually get to PLAY the game, the disapointment continues...
 
  
  There's somthing about the controls in this game that seem wrong, and I just can't put my finger 
 on it... They just seem to sensitive when running around and when you try to change direction... 
 Sonic has far to much chance of falling into nothingness. You'll be using the homing jump into 
 an enemy, and instead you'll be falling to certain death over a platform. Also, the camera angles 
 are poor. They never seem to be at the angle you want them to be, until you're running fast and 
 the camera angle lowers behind you. It needed to be slightly further behind Sonic rather than as 
 top down onto the character as it was, like when you are stood still.
  
  In all, I was disapointed by this game, but it didn't suprise me. As I say... There hasn't been 
 a decent 3D Sonic game, (in my opinion) other than the original Sonic Adventure on the Dreamcast. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trukero08
Rating: 6.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Yes Sonic is back, but no this is not the return as most of us were hoping for. As a fan of Sonic 
 for many years, I would have to say this is Sonic's worst show ever since he went 3-d. The game 
 basically alows you to choose three characters, who then have 2 other sub-characters. The main 
 hedgehogs are different in terms of abilities, Sonic can run fast, Silver has telekinesis, and 
 Shadow can drive vehicles and use chaos abilities. In temrs of the characters and their abilities, 
 they turned out to be how I expected, in terms of they were used was poor and lackluster. The sub 
 characters weren't really worth adding and I feel down trodden the game from it's main 3 characters.
 
  
  The level design was decent, but nothing spectactular, the game feels too slow at times, when the 
 point is to try to make it to the goal ring as fast you can, it feels as though Sonic Team designed 
 the game around the sub characters and not the main ones.
  
  The side missions were ok, but really could of used some challenge.
  
  As in terms of music, 
 not great. It gets boring and bland fast.
  
  Sonic Team needs to get their act in gear or their next game will be the death of Sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicX100
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  As a Sonic fan I was looking forward to this Sonic game. Thinking it going to be the BEST SONIC 
 GAME EVER! But What did I get a the most crappiest Sonic game EVER!
  Because the story was good at all, the Graphics is ok but not as good what the 360 can do, and the 
 camera is so bad you will fall off every 5 min!
  But you think it still good because you can play as Sonic, Shadow, and Siver!
  Well Sonic is FUN 
 but the camera kill the game, and Siver was ok but yes the camera ,and Shadow was just a bicth to 
 play!
  This game it just like Sonic Adventure but it just a crappy one!
  Overall:
  Gameplay: Was good but the camera just kill it
  Graphics: Was ok but for the 360 not so ok huh
 
  Story: Just Suck
  and Controls: not good at all!
  So a buy, rent, or just pass!
  A Pass because Sega have no idea what to do which the Sonic series what so ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince_DarkDrop
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  First off this game is full of gltiches from parts of things floating in the air after you break 
 them to your charcter going thur the wall out of the stage and dieing.
  Another big issue I had was the way it saves if you die (losing all your lives) in a level you can 
 be takin back pretty far.
  
  Graphics: While the main charcter modles look great and some of the levels
  look pretty good the 
 unimportant chacters look very plain and kinda blocky
  and some thing in piticular area's look bad. The city that you run around seems less detailed then 
 the one in Sonic adventure almost 8 years ago.
  
  Gameplay: while some thing's can be pretty fun to do the bad camera
  system will probably end 
 up ruining it for you. And sometimes
  it doesn't appear that your going as fast as you should. Some of the prelevel
  objectives can 
 get quite furstrating since the map sucks becuase it doesn't point you in the right direction you 
 just run aournd till you see a diffrent color dots the game however will tell you what you got 
 to most of the time.
  
  For instance meet so and so at the warehouse
  but a lot of the city looks the same there are few buldings with shop names
  so it's hard to 
 remember where things are or where to go.
  
  There is a Sonic Hereo's type element sort of
  you'll have 3 people in your group and at a piticular 
 point in the level they'll
  say something like leave it to me nad you'll have to complete that
  part of the level with them.
 
  
  Music: in some levels and situations is pretty good
  other times it sounds like a bad porno
  
  Sound: the sound effects are good there are a few 
 bothersome
  ones (IMO)
  
  Voices: The voice acting isn't great but it's not bad either.
  The people in the city don't talk 
 however they'll say hey and then
  text will appeaer for the rest of thier conversation kinda
  like Zelda does but only bad.
  
 
  Story: While the story isn't horrible it's not so great either
  and sometimes Sonic and Elise have some moments
  where you'll be like O_o. Tho the appearnce of 
 alot of well known Sonic
  charcters will show up to lend a hand in this game.
  
  Thier are some really good cut scenes almsot makes it worth getting
  through some of the bad 
 parts of the game to see.
  
  Extras :You'll meet other chacters during Sonic's episode
  that you can play as also there is Super Sonic which makes any game better.
  
  I say even if 
 your the biggest Sonic fan this one's diffently a rental only.
  Hopefully Sonic will give us a better show on the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darko_wolf
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  Sonic, Tails, Knuckles, Rose, then Shadow and now Silver, the Sonic universe has never been short 
 of gimmicky characters, some of which are waaaaaaaay cool, and others, eugh, not so cool, ie Rose. 
 (Unlike her **** equivalivent Rouge, *snicker*)
  
  Like its characters, the Sonic world and its inlying games have also evolved over the many years 
 since 1991. We have seen Sonic go solo, to being partnered up with whizz-fox Tails, to a race against 
 Knuckles for the Chaos Emeralds, to teaming up against Team Robotnik (aka Dr Eggman) containing 
 one of Sonics best new additions, in my mind - Shadow, the violent dark equivalent to Sonic.
  
  Now, with the 3rd gen consoles here and and dawning on a new day of gaming, Sega working with 
 Xbox have created a game which may in some folks eyes seem lacklustre, rushed and too far from 
 the norm to be considered any kind of good. I STRONGLY disagree.
  
  Now Sonic the Hedgehog (StH) can only be described as a hybrid game, mixing together three very 
 different characters, to give you a varied gaming experience. Added on top of that is the new concept 
 of introducing a RPGesque side to Sonic games, giving your main characters a chance to run around 
 a town talking to folk, completing small, sometimes tedious, but none the less fun missions, but 
 these are merely the tip of the iceberg.
  Most of the game centres around you playing Sonic, Shadow and Silver and utilizing all their powers 
 respectively - Sonic has his amazing speed, Shadow has his combo attacks and a plethora of vehicles 
 to ride around and cause chaos in, and lastly, we have our newest, and again in my eyes a cool 
 addition, Silver the telekinetic hedgehog.
  
  Each level has various goals, from racing against a foe, to beating your way through many enemies 
 to using your telekinesis to stop enemies weapon attacks in midair Neo style with Silver, and all 
 of it is fun, but, can be sometimes unforgiving, forcing you to play some levels over until you 
 nail it, as this game is also about timing as it is about reflexes and skill.
  This is most definetely THE fastest and best looking of the Sonic games, and does take some time 
 to adjust to, but all the core aspects which make Sonic, Sonic are there, you just have to play 
 to see them, which is rewarding, as you gain new skills along the way.
  
  Now, the musical score isnt exactly Peter Jackson LOTR material, but it suits the game and that 
 suits me. The graphics as I already said, are top notch, very clean and very smooth and the game 
 has no lag despite its incredible speed. The loading times are very short, which you would expect 
 from a game about the fastest being alive, well at least in the aming world, *grins*.
  
  The multiplayer is a hoot to play aswell, when I first bought the game, my friends and I spent 
 a good few hours playing the multiplayer racing missions, laughing and joking all the way, marvelling 
 at the difficulty and flair the game uses.
  
  On closing, I would like to say, although this game moves away from Old School Sonic, its about 
 time. Its fresh, new and entertaining above all with a soft, predictable story which will not have 
 you skipping the cut scenes, just watch the opening FMV for yourself. Hardcore original Sonic fans 
 can and will like this game if they give it a chance, I know this, because, Im one of those hardcore 
 fans, being a collector of all things Sonic.
  
  Look at the heroes, the way its laid out , play it, and then say its bad......... dont just fob 
 it off because its not what any of were expecting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charlie_1406
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is 
 the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic 
 that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not 
 bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game 
 of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is 
 good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest 
 game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This 
 is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the 
 beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that 
 I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad 
 game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of 
 Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good 
 not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest 
 game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This 
 is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the 
 beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that 
 I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad 
 game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of 
 Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good 
 not bad game is the beastest game of Sonic that I play. This is good not bad game is the beastest 
 game of Sonic that I play. v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ameglino
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  I have to say, Sonic has come a long way since the beginning of Sega Genesis. But once I heard 
 Sonic was coming onto the Xbox360. I was ready to get the game off the shelf. First off the graphic 
 being powered by the 360 has made the characters and the scenery very colorful. Also, the design 
 of each level has still keep the feeling that you were still in the old which I still enjoy very 
 much.
  
  The major problem with this game is many glitchy problems. Most of the time I ended up sticking 
 on the wall or going across invisible bridges. Also the camera was too being annoying to control 
 which make things very hard to see. Last thing that was a massive problem is that the game is very 
 frantic, in scenes when your chasing Dr. Egg man , where one move can send you off to the deep 
 end.
  
  As much i was dissapointed with the problems of the game, Which I would think Sega should have 
 spend more time to fix them, there were parts in the game that you can do amazing stunts which 
 leave you a Hell YA! feeling when you pull them off.
  
  So if you are true blue hedgehog fan, then I would recommend you to buy this game. But if not this 
 game is still good as a rentable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxx9
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  For me it's a good game because the graphics are colorful and great
  the gameplay is fair sometimes bad but it's playable
  the story is just good not to big and not 
 to small
  the sound is very cool if i play the game , i feel very happy because it's sonic ofcourse
  if 
 you are a great sonic fan then it is the perfect game for you
  if you say they say that the game is worthless you don't have to believe everything but somethings 
 are right what they say but it's your joyce
  
  what can i say more
  if you want a nice adventure game with coloful graphics then it's your game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoobaz
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  -==Sonic the Hedgehog==- Since in the genesis days Sonic was a game to love, fun loving and always 
 quick to get through the levels, Well Sega has decided to change that. Really ever since Heroes, 
 it went down hill from there. Sonic the great game you came to know and love has been basically 
 been ruined, from the horrible camera angle to the glitch with Knuckles and Rouge.... Climbing 
 walls and really just trying to do a easy jump off and cliffs. When you were playing the great 
 games that of 3d Sonic Adventures 1 &amp; 2 the controls were fantastic and seeing how it was only 
 a 700mb discs you had more saves and shorter levels and hey fun level with SHORT LOADING TIMES!
 
  Which now in the so Quoted announcements Sonic the Hedgehog will be it's 25 Annervercity and with 
 that we will make the best Sonic out of this game Now I know this isn't word for word but damn 
 it is pretty close. Camera angles, running walls that are vertical, and again Loading TIMES!!!! 
 Lets take 29 minutes to do a side mission.... Now I do understand that the game is well over 700mb 
 but dang it they should have kept it at Sonic Adventure size. Now all the screws and glitches in 
 this game are due to havok..... I was a lovable fan to Sonic, Golden Axe, Toe Jam and Earl. Those 
 games won my heart to be a Sega fan for life, Eh but this game really wants me to as I read in 
 EGM back in 95.... I through my Sonic Cartridge against my wall because Robonic burned my rear 
 end and after that I burned along following putting it in the toliet urinated it and flushing it, 
 Now for some reason the game will not work anymore. I demand a new one for Sega but no result so 
 I would like a copy from you, you have a obligation and get on it! I have spent over 78 hours getting. 
 TRYING to get through Sonic due to the wanting achievements, and Sonic 40% Shadow 17% Knuckles 
 12%
  This game is ridiculous sound Graphic Cut-scene greatest in those fields of the sonic collection 
 Now I know people saying save Sonic. But it ends up my personal opinion they have a horrible aspect 
 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alldin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog Is Back.
  
  My words about the game: Well It&acute; s the best Sonic The Hedgehog game ever.
  Incredible levels, 
 lovely graphic, levels that I could play over and over again.
  There are few camera problems in the game and sometimes
  it freezes if you are at the wrong spot 
 in the game.
  
  To be honest that does not bother me at all, the only little thing
  that bothers me is the loading, there are too many loadings.
  Other wise it&acute; s Sonic The 
 Hedgehog after all ^^ I haven&acute; t beaten the game yet. Im working on it, but the story is almost 
 like the other games that Dr. Eggman comes
  for the seven Chaos Emeralds and rule the world and also
  a new character added called Silver 
 The Hedgehog wich
  makes the game more interesting. There are these levels with Sonic were you run in a super speed.
 
  That makes the game even more fun to feel how Sonic
  really can run and not like the other earlier games.
  
  Read This.....
  TO ALL WHO PLAYED 
 SONIC THE HEDGEHOG FOR 360:
  
  Many of you hate when you fall off the level and die over and over again.
  Isn&acute; t that so? 
 You run and jump and then fall off stage and die.
  Well this is how it is....
  
  Sonic is about speed....
  You run fast, play fast, look fast, jump fast, think fast.
  All about 
 speed everyone... speed.
  
  -= Sonic The Hedgehog =- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonfire
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  Sonic returns on the 360, and its not a great return
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  You have to save the princess of soleanna from... have a guess... yes, eggman! You can also unlock 
 shadow and the new-boy, silver, as you go along and then play as them in their own storys. You 
 also play one of the main characters, side hands such as tails. Sonic dosnt run his full speed 
 all the time but sometimes you get to play a part of the level at that speed. This put motion-blur 
 into the game, it seems motion-blur is the in thing for games. There is also a bit of free-roaming 
 and side missions included.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The characters look good and the enviroments also. I dont know what to say about the graphics, 
 yeah there pretty good but look a bit messed up in places, i guess that oblivion does that a bit 
 so its easy to ignore the little faults.
  
  SOUND:
  Voices are good, explosions do not sound that good but there not bad. The people around the city 
 do not talk just make a sound or say 'hey' when you talk with them and then the text comes up at 
 the bottom of the screen. Tails gets annoying as his tails spin and make a repetative sound, but 
 thats life.
  
  OVERALL:
  Not a bad game, fans of the 2-D sonic will find that this is a big change. If you liked sonic heroes 
 and the games like that you will find this sonic abit slower. Sonic the hedgehog has multiplayer 
 races or co-op on it too. I think this game is good, if you want a game for the younger peoples 
 then this is one of the best youll find for the 360, it can be frustrating at times though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SM64Dude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog is back once again for a new adventure , The game takes place in the capital 
 of Soleanna!! Dr Eggman now has kind of a new look A new hedgehog named Silver makes his debut 
 as well as Blaze the Cat from Sonic Rush . The Story mode is awsome and well done if you loved 
 the adventure series you would love this game!! Their are 3 town stages which are similar, to the 
 Adventure Fields on SA!! But i call them sequels to the Adventure Fields Soleanna Castle City is 
 one of them it has a nice scenery and good view , Soleanna Jungle its smilar to Mystic Ruins its 
 okay and their is Soleanna New City my favorite one In all 3 of the town stages their are human 
 characters that walk around and some you can talk to . They would have a yellow ex point where 
 they'll say random stuff And the ones with blue ex point are the ones who give you Sidequests oops 
 . I mean Town Missions some are hard but once you get the hang of it which will become easy But 
 watch out for some of silvers &amp; shadows some of their town missions are hard /impossible to 
 complete and the ones with the red ex points give you hints!! The Town Stages are awsome ^_^
  
  Pros It plays like the adventure series (but some heroes like stuff are in it but not bad) 
 Good Graphics Awsome Music The first sonic 3D game to be challenging They brought back some of 
 going solo in a stage alone acts , Tails Solo , Blaze Solo , Rouge Solo ^_^ I'm not counting last 
 story mode though
  
  Purchasing Abilities, for sonic , silver , and shadow at the town stages shops Cons Bad Camera 
 Slow down framerate when enemies are shooting missiles, and rapid gunfire at you all at once
  
  Some of shadow's vehicles are hard to control . (I never had a problem with the vehicles are 
 Shadow's game though) Bad Glitches If you replay a difficulty stage to try to get an S Rank you 
 would be faustratedd from plunging to your doom unexpectly with a score of 34000 for example!! 
 Too Much Challenge on some of shadow &amp; silver's town mission &gt;&lt; Omega has a new VA i 
 miss the one off shadow's game = (
  
  I'm not going to go into more details about the S Ranks it would be up to you if you want to collect 
 them or not!! Also i don't mind the VA on here for the other characters I think they do a good 
 job but should've kept Omega's previous VA Overall its a good game and if you liked the adventure 
 series you would enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazychris90
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  You can say Im one of the most hardcore fanatics of the series as I have played possibly every 
 Sonic game in existence, throughout that I replay each several times to get the feel and say this 
 game is easy. This game is different. Sadly this game has tons of flaws that are at the most making 
 the game feel like its elder Sonic Adventure. Maybe worse. Keep reading on to find out what the 
 problems are that kill Sonic The Hedgehog down.
  
  The game itself is very fun at the start, so you wont find many Technical problems occur here. 
 Firstly after a lengthy FMV you will be put in a town surrounded by water, known as castle town. 
 You will get lost on your first play the radar doesnt help much at all, each time you are placed 
 in a town and it does tell you to find a certain place, it becomes very frustrating. Action stages 
 become very problematic especially the more complex levels where many glitches occur. Although 
 the game is fairly simple, Problems make the game incredibly frustrating. The action stages are 
 fairly lengthy, so try to avoid all the problematic areas near the end. Apart from that the action 
 stages are very heart pumping, loads of adrenaline in fast areas make it exciting and strangely 
 difficult to play. You only have the choice of 3 characters, but in fact there is large amount 
 of characters to play as from the usual Tails even Blaze the cat. Each Episode is a similar length 
 containing the same stages in a different order using different routes, nothing too special. The 
 Bosses are the same, first time you will meet up with these monsters they are a challenge but playing 
 them again with other characters makes it much simpler. The stories are like different difficulties, 
 ranging from Silver as easy, Sonic as Normal, Shadow as hard, you get something similar to this 
 in the incredibly horrible Sonic Heroes. The loading times appear too frequently its so bad how 
 you have to wait so many seconds In a town mission just to read a sentence then load again, horrible.
 
  
  If you are a hardcore fan like me you will probably be aiming towards the brilliant storylines 
 each Sonic game has, its not always the Gameplay that keeps you going you know. Sonic the Hedgehog 
 is the most touching storyline of them all, but Im not one of those people that tell the world 
 what happens but this game nearly brought tears to my eyes. No joke. Basically the story is several 
 different ones, the main one is to rescue princess Elise from Doctor Eggman, and others are like 
 seal Iblis or kill the Iblis trigger. There is a whole lot of magic in this game caused mainly 
 by the amazing story. The multiplayer features at the most horrendous, when teaming up with friends 
 in co-op its almost impossible to clear past the first zone because the game so Glitched. There 
 is only 2 modes and no online component, this really surprised me, they could of at least made 
 a chao garden, or even make it online chao garden, that would be fantastic.
  
  The visuals arent too impressive and I wont go into too much detail with graphics because there 
 is no need. Areas are very ugly and lets say old, they remind me of a slightly better sonic Adventure 
 layout. Most areas are shiny but really dated, what has happened to Sonic. Apart from that the 
 main character models are pretty impressive very shiny, very interactive which is cool, but the 
 more ignored character models look very Sonic Adventure 1. The FMVs are the nicest graphical aspect 
 pushing the characters looks to the next level, and the environments seem pretty shiny and neat 
 too, why couldnt they make the environment like that. Im not sure what happened to the day and 
 night feature, that was really disappointing It was always daylight in my eyes otherwise a level 
 which actually used night to add detail. Its a Shame Sonic Team.
  
  The sound effects are very average, due to the fact you hear many sounds over and over again. 
 And the horrible repeat of voices is a major put off especially whilst in missions. Im not the 
 best at talking about sound effects because they dont put me off too much. The music is a big 
 thumbs up, maybe the best ever Sonic music. I mean when do you see a pop star like Akon appear 
 in a game like sonic, its like saying Snoop Dogg in Mario. Overall this game is great in places 
 but the technical issues make the game so bad to play. With the help of the music and the storyline 
 this game does definitely not deserve a 4 nor a 9 or 10, like many people say. Remember Sonic, 
 he isnt dead yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmatt253
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Now this game is ok but it lags in some points and most off all out of all the problems it the 
 loading. when a stage loads its ok for the long loading but. before you do a mission you have to 
 do jobs some times and heres how it works 1 minutes loading a guy will mutter and captions will 
 appear at the bottom of the screen 1 minute loading you do what he asks 1 minute loading hell give 
 you what you need (mostly money) 1 minute loading and you really to play a next gen fast sonic 
 stage thats 4 minutes of doing nothing to get a stage. the stages are ok but theres some thing 
 we have all herd off about this game glitches there lots of them falling threw the ground running 
 threw walls and just dying for no reason put of the blue so if your a sonic fan buy this game but 
 be aware of the glitches and long loading screens and last of all **** camara 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevenSorrows
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 12, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  Before I start, I'm sorry this review is hard to read. It's kinda big and I can't get it into paragraphs. 
 Anyway... Being a Sonic fan since the earliest of Sonic games, I expected Sega to do something cool 
 with this next-gen Sonic. When I started playing Sonic the Hedgehog for the 360, I was amazed at 
 how terrible this game was. IT SUCKS. This is by far the worst Sonic game I've ever played, and 
 I wouldn't recommend it to anyone except for people who live, breathe, and would die for Sonic. There's 
 a lot of crap to go over in this review, so let's start off with the story. The game takes place 
 in the city of Soleanna, a city kinda like Venice, and it has a Sun Festival every year. While 
 Princess Elise is about to light the big torches and begin the festival, she is kidnapped by... 
 Eggman?!?! But guess who storms in, stops Eggman, and rescues the Princess... Why our favorite 
 blue hedgehog Sonic, of course! But just as Sonic is about to escape, Silver the Hedgehog uses 
 his psychic powers and defeats Sonic who he thinks is the Iblis Trigger. Confused yet? I am. I'm 
 confused at why Sega decided to mix Sonic characters in with this story. Sega could've made some 
 Fantasy RPG game with this story, but no. Throw in some Sonic characters that now make this story 
 lame, instead. To make matters worse, Sega practically made my eyes bleed watching some of the 
 cutscenes. I'm not saying they're bad graphically, it's just... they're stupid. Sonic and Elise 
 seem to me like Anakin and Padm&eacute; from Star Wars. And if you don't believe me, watch the 
 cutscenes from Sonic's story. Maybe then you'll believe me. Continuing on with the crap in this 
 game, let's now move onto gameplay. Let me start off by saying this is the absolute worst camera 
 I've ever seen in any video game. Ever. Worse than the early Resident Evil games where you couldn't 
 usually see what you were shooting at. The camera is so bad in this game, that it is almost imposable 
 to play as Knuckles or Rouge, because when you try to climb a wall, the camera goes ballistic and 
 you can't move at all. Also, the camera will pick the worst time to move on you, which results 
 in numerous deaths a lot of times. Anyway... the game is divided up into three stories, with an 
 unlockable final story. In the three main stories, you can play as Sonic, Shadow, or Silver. Sonic's 
 story is a pain to play through. Why, you ask? Well, Sega thought it would be cool to add Super 
 Speed stages, where basically, you don't stop running. This is one of the dumbest ideas implanted 
 into any Sonic game ever. Sure, the idea sounds cool, but when you can't stop at all, can't turn 
 in midair, and there aren't any checkpoints, it clearly shows that it was a dumb idea. Sonic also 
 has Princess Stages once in a while, where Sonic carries the Princess around and will occasionally 
 have to use the Princess's power to walk across unreachable areas. I wasn't particularly looking 
 forward to another one of these stages after I played the first one. After suffering through Sonic's 
 story, I'm glad to report there are no dumb Super Speed stages in either Shadow or Silver's stories. 
 Shadow's story is alright, but there's nothing innovative, or really fun, for that matter in it. 
 Sega doesn't seem to listen. NO MORE VEHICLES!!! If Shadow's not running, I'm not playing. Unfortunately, 
 there are vehicles in Shadow's story, all complete with sloppy controls and nothing cool about 
 them. The only time I ever used these vehicles is when I was forced to. I hate the vehicles... 
 otherwise, Shadow's story is average: Better than Sonic's but still lame. Silver's story is... 
 meh. It's a neat idea to have psychokinesis (as the game calls it) , but when you start using it, 
 it's not that fun. When Silver picks up an object with psychokinesis, it usually floats in some 
 odd direction, and just feels awkward. Also, Silver moves pretty slow. All the stories have few 
 things in common. They all have areas of Soleanna you can explore to go to action stages or complete 
 side quests. This is easily the most boring part of the game, as about 80% of the people inhabiting 
 Soleanna won't even talk to you, and a rough 10% have something random and stupid to say, and maybe 
 3% have info on what to do next, and a mere 2% give quests. These aren't the actual percentages, 
 but it gives you at least an idea of what to expect. And for those mere 2% of people who give you 
 side quests, don't even bother with them. The side quests are just plain lame, and starting one 
 up can take a LONG time. Let's say you decide to do a quest. You talk to a little boy who's lost 
 his dog. He'll explain it in a rather long series of text. You accept the quest. Now a load screen 
 pops up, and it's pretty long. Just as you are beginning to lose your patience, The game loads 
 up and the same kid pops up pointing you in the direction of his dog. You're thinking, This'll 
 be cake. But before you can save this boy's dog, you'll have to wait the same amount of time with 
 the same load screen for an uncalled for reason. At this point, you really don't care about the 
 stupid dog anymore. So aside with the side quests, the stories also feature secondary characters 
 you will come across and play as. Some of them are alright, but when you get to play as Tails, 
 you will want to turn the game off. At full speed, Tails moves about as fast when Sonic is walking. 
 The other characters are slow, but Tails deserves an award for crappiest playable character in 
 3-D Sonic history, Oh, I forgot to mention that you rarely find power-ups and there is no shield 
 power-up, even though the instruction manual claims it's there. So what's good about this game? 
 WeIl, the graphics are pretty and the sound is good, with passable music. Though I find it hard 
 for anyone to be able to squeeze any entertainment out of this game. I even find it hard for die-hard 
 Sonic fans to enjoy this game at all. I don't get how some people give this game 9's and say it's 
 the best in the series. This is by for the worst Sonic game ever, and is just not worth any of 
 your time or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braxtonidentity
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 9, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog has set the standard for all horrible games in my opinion. The game's cutscenes 
 make you wonder how the creators and editors could think that this game would be a big hit over 
 in America. The lip-sinking is awful, and the game is generally too corny for the modern 8 year 
 old to stand. A player will find himself turning his volume up to make sure that his speakers are 
 still on while he waits for a character to stop moving his/her lips. The storyline is a bit off-pace 
 for the normal sonic game, and sometimes I found myself shocked at the thought that something in 
 this game was good because a plot twist would come along. Overall gameplay is bad, and even worse 
 the camera angles become the player's worst nightmare when he must jump from a vine onto a jump 
 pad in mid-air. I'd like to see a next-gen side scroller for the next Sonic game, because I believe 
 it could save the series from this calamity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow016
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog, what more can you. The game is a nice visual upgrade from the Dreamcast version. 
 This game has excellent cut scenes and good actions stages but it does have it downsides. FIrst 
 thing that caught my attention was that the controls were a bit jerky. The camera can be quite 
 a pain during boss battles especially when u don't have a clue where the boss is. In the town i 
 wish they could have given the people voices. A lot of people hate to have to keep reading and 
 reading what the towns people say. The map was another complaint of mine. I wish they would have 
 marked off major landmarks in the game so that you could known where exactly to go. I spent 10min 
 running around only to quit out of frustration. Even will all these i would still play this game 
 more because its Sonic the Hedgehog and i love him so i will continue to play his games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChesdermanStip
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 2:45 am PT
Review:  Over the last 6 or so years, the Sonic Team has become infatuated with the idea that adding New 
 characters to the game is what made sonic keep its shine.
  
  In other words. Sonic Team is just a group of Douche bags.
  
  This game has so much potential, 
 which is obvious just by looking at it. The graphics are sharp and the moments when you start speeding 
 into the levels is amazingly realistic. BUT then you stop, fight some enemies, and slowly start 
 up again to the next guy. Or in Silvers and Shadows case, you completely throw the whole speed 
 thing out the window and pretty much crawl through each level with the sole intent to kill ****
 
  
  Obviously Sega isn't learning their lesson. The levels are filled to the brim with USELESS objects 
 and things there just in your way. Unlike the Sonic Adventure games (which can be the most comparible) 
 where the levels were appealing and not much was in your way to stop you from thrashing through 
 to the goal in minutes or less. This game could have been so much better if they started focusing 
 on the actual gameplay aspect, instead of concentrating on all the beautiful cinematics.
  
  Camera control needs improvement. Levels need to be spaced out, with less clutter. Shadow needs 
 to get back to his natural swing and get out of this whole I'm a dark being of destruction with 
 an identity crisis which causes me to use chaos energy and defeat my enemies! and go back to that 
 really fast rival of sonic. Silver needs to just fade out of existance, seeing how his gameplay 
 may be new and inventive, but it is boring to no end and it took me days to grind through his levels 
 before turning the game off and switching to my DS.
  
  Also, Sonic Team needs to start thinking about the needs of the gamer, and make a game that tries 
 new things, but sticks close to the formula that works.
  
  In closing...
  
  The New Sonic the Hedgehog leads us in to what could be an awesome game. But only if they stop 
 adding useless features and characters and start working on the thing we want. A shiny blue furred 
 speed demon who for some reason is able to defeat a genious doctor by running all the time.
  
  Some genious :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6-signObito
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I shall break my reveiw down into catagories.
  
  Graphics: The visuals in Sonic the Hedgehog are top notch and very greatly inprove on the graphics 
 of others games in the past. The human characters look almost realistic (which in Dr. Eggman's 
 case is a bit scary) while Sonic &amp; pals/ enimes retain their cartoonie look.
  
  Sound: The sound in the game remains as it was in previous incarnations which is being okay but 
 not one of the better features in the game.
  
  Gameplay: Sonic the Hedgehog not only maintains the signeture speed of the frachise, but improves 
 upon it by adding an assortment of Hyper speed stages where the game has Sonic running at supersonic 
 speeds. The gameplay with Shadow has thankfully stayed away from the gun and vehicle aspect (although 
 you have to pilot a vehicle from time to time) and stayed to the speed approach. The gameplay with 
 the newcomer Silver is often slower due to his inabillity to run fast, but is just as fun due to 
 the powers of telekenisis that he posseses. One of the new features in the game is the addition 
 of multiplayer levels that require each of the players to be a seperate hedgehog and help each 
 other out so they can both reach the end goal.
  
  Last word: In the end Sonic the Hedgehog is a great game and the addition of a multiplayer option 
 is great. Sonic the Hedgehog should be in every gamers library 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicfan287
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  In a year full of blockbuster game releases and popular franchises once again giving it a try, 
 I cant help but feel Sonic was lost under the Gears of War and Legend Of Zelda: Twilight Princess, 
 since they released at similar times. Simultaneous releases or not, Sonic is still a game worth 
 noticing. Sonic was a huge gaming icon back in the day, and with a game like this, he more or less 
 proves why. While his outings may not be the blockbuster, must-play games they once were, Sonic 
 the hedgehog for the Xbox360 will give Sonic fans new and old something that's more than worth 
 playing.
  
  I was actually surprised how much I got into this game. Before playing it at all, the thing that 
 interested me most was the story. I didn't know what to expect from the gameplay itself and from 
 what I had read in other reviews, the game was ranked as poor and by some, broken and unplayable, 
 but after spending an hour or 2 with the game, I didnt see that at all. Is it a technical marvel? 
 No. In fact the loading screens that accompany the town stages are rather frustrating but the meat 
 of the game, the storyline, the levels, the bosses, the characters, all play remarkably well. The 
 only complaint there is that the support characters , characters other than Sonic, Shadow and Silver 
 have unpolished controls, limited attacks and can slow down the action a lot. Still, it is refreshing 
 to take the controls of such Sonic classics as Tails or Knuckles from time to time.
  
  The storyline is very complex and features an ancient fire demon that has the capability to destroy 
 the world. This fire demon is kept in check somehow by the princess Elise, who is captured by Robotnik 
 one day in Soleanna. You spend most of Sonic's quest rescuing her only to get her stolen again. 
 You also go on a wild time traveling journey that reveals the bleakness of the future. As Silver 
 the hedgehog, the debut character in the game, you experience that future firsthand, a future in 
 which the world is covered with lava and ash, and the creature known as Iblis lords over it all. 
 A mysterious figure known as Mephiles instructs you to dispose of Sonic in the past, the Iblis 
 trigger, and stop all the mayhem from occuring. As Shadow, you're sent on a government assignment 
 to stop Robotnik before learning his full motives.
  
  All 3 characters play quite differently and add to the fun. Sonic is fast and awesome to use with 
 his homing attack. What makes this game a bit more fun than previous 3d sonic entries is watching 
 enemies get tossed around, into boxes, and into walls, when smashing them with your homing attack. 
 The homing attack is indeed more powerful than its ever been, but that doesn't mean the other 2 
 characters are without their own might. Silver the hedgehog attacks by holding level objects in 
 his telekinetic grasp and hurling them at barriers and enemies to advance. This can be a bit frustrating 
 at times because he has no other offensive manuevers and therefore has to rely on the presense 
 of objects to slaughter huge waves of enemies, which means not only having the objects but aiming 
 them under fire with accuracy. Silver is still fairly versatile because of his ability to manipulate 
 environments and deflect enemy projectiles as well as levitate over gaps. Shadow plays similar 
 to Sonic but a bit slower and a bit more powerful. He can unleash little bursts of chaos energy 
 with his attacks and can upgrade to even more powerful attacks. In addition, youll find yourself 
 piloting military trucks and vehicles to advance in his levels, plowing through robots and firing 
 ammo out of your vehicles which can be fun.
  
  What makes the game that much more deep is the fact that all 3 of these gaming styles converge 
 with 3 in-depth stories that take you through the quest of the character. It's almost like 3 different 
 games in one, in which you meet up with different characters and at one point or another take the 
 controls of any of 9 playable sonic characters from the sonic universe, some of them better to 
 control than others. Sometimes it feels like Sega slapped in the support character system to please 
 sonic fans who'd be otherwise outraged that you couldnt play as tails or knuckles or what have 
 you, because the game was originally advertised as Sonic, Shadow and Silver only but the support 
 characters were added in for variety. Not a bad idea at all, but Sega should've enhanced their 
 control scheme if they were going to go with this idea. Knuckles kinds of hangs off walls when 
 he climbs and it can be a pain to let go of walls or climb up on ledges. Same with rouge who has 
 a broken aiming system when trying to throw her rouge bombs 
  
  One of the most impressive things about this new sonic entry over past ones, is the rise to power 
 of Dr. Ivo Robotnik. Robotnik's finally back and won't dissapoint Sonic fans. His robots are finally 
 menacing again and as a throwback for old school fans, Sega features a few old school enemies, 
 buzzbombers and crabmeat, both of whom are very upgraded over their original counterparts. Its 
 great to fight robots with machine guns instead of toy swords and huge grins on their faces. When 
 going to robotnik's base in white acropolis, I finally feel like Im going somewhere pure evil instead 
 of a toy factory.
  
  Gameplay wise, the levels offer everything that was good about 3d levels in Sonic Adventure and 
 Sonic Adventure 2. Crisis city has a much better street-boarding level in which you must avoid 
 flames and demons on the road while gliding your way over death. You also go snow boarding in white 
 acropolis and theres another whale chase in Wave Ocean (which is a bit of a ripoff but still) one 
 of the more fun additions to this game is Sonic's mach-speed stages. There are 4 in the whole game 
 in which you basically run as fast as you can towards the goal. The screen blurs and you must make 
 well timed jumps and avoid enemy fire in your mad dash to the finish line. It can be really difficult 
 but is also what sonic is all about, mad speed.
  
  The graphics are as superb as any sonic game ever put out. All the character models are sharp and 
 without glitching. The action stages look amazing and well detailed. Everything, down to the smallest 
 blade of grass has been represented wonderfully.
  
  Now, the game isn't perfect, I wont say that. The camera on the bosses is a bit buggy. I think 
 it isnt as bad for me personally because Im used to it from older 3d sonic games, but still this 
 is a bit inexcusable for sega at this point to not have fixed the camera a little. On bosses, youre 
 pretty much battling the enemy AND the camera which tries to whirl you away from your focal point 
 at times. Luckily the left analog stick is handy to sort of take the reigns on the bosses, which 
 you spend most of the time running around an arena anyway. The camera isn't terrible but it could 
 be cited as an area of improvement in the game.
  
  Also, the town stages, while welcomed, can be a bit mundane. Short missions in which you obliterate 
 waves of Robotnik's robots can be fun, but other mission like the tests you have to face to get 
 into Kingdom Valley are made more frustrating by the loading screens. There's about 4 loading screens 
 for every mission, and that's if you PASS the mission. If you fail, you start over and watch all 
 4 lovely loading screens again. Again, this is an example where the game simply doesnt use the 
 power of the console it's on. The town stages do add a lot of depth to the game and are mostly 
 easy to navigate and guide you along pretty well so you're not aimlessly wandering too much. Some 
 of the town folk tell you things that are blatantly obvious what to do Hey, robotnik went that 
 way , but in general, I wont knock too much on this component of the game.
  
  Shadow the hedgehog got reviewed as a mediocre to sub-par game and Im willing to admit that it 
 was, but Sonic the hedgehog deserves more credit. In my opinion Sega couldnt have come up with 
 a much better game for his first next gen outing. Are there problems to fix, sure, but there's 
 no need to hate the finished product as a whole. There's a lot of game here, a lot of action stages 
 and a lot of different challenges to mix it up. There's something here to please sonic fans of 
 all flavors. Sonic the hedgehog is up in the top 3, IMO of 3d Sonic games and deserves a chance, 
 especially since the NEXT Sonic game on consoles very well might be a couple years off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SonicAdvDX
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I know, it's hard to come to terms with... Everybody tried to like Sonic Heroes, and Sonic fans 
 bared with the Shadow fans getting their own game, many grudgingly played through it. But, like 
 a majority of the last seven Sonic games that have been released, this game is also an over-hyped 
 let down. This game hardly lives up to what it should have been. If you're going to release a disappointment, 
 don't make it your main attraction at E3, Sega! Don't you know better?
  
  Let me say, this game was THE reason that I bought an XBox 360. The entire reason. Halo 3 was just 
 icing on the over-heating Microsoft cake. I thought, Wow! A next-gen Sonic game! Sega says they're 
 going back to his roots, bringing back the speed! After playing the game for about an hour, my 
 view changed drastically... Wow, running around Soleanna sure is tedious... Why isn't Sonic faster? 
 Jeeze, Knuckles is slower than my grandma... White Acropolis sucks! Where's the track!? Why are 
 there four loading screens in this very same level!? Why do you have to load for a minute just 
 to listen to the citizen give you his useless quest, only to load again for the quest itself!?!? 
 Trust me, for a game so radically based around a speed-oriented character, this game is highly 
 contradictory.
  
  First off, I can't find any of Sonic's 'roots' in this game. I've searched hard, but I don't get 
 the point that Sega made at E3. I got all pumped up by the trailer, and I was even excited during 
 the opening cinema. I had never seen Sonic portrayed and rendered so beautifully! His true speed 
 was wonderfully captured... In the cinema. You know that cool, blue tornado-esque thing that Sonic 
 makes when he saves the Princess? Yeah, don't expect that ever again, I don't know where Sega even 
 got that idea. You'll never see it again.
  
  Sega's main problem with this game was the speed, coming from a Sonic veteran. Sonic hardly moves 
 at the speed of sound anymore. (Guess that's his age showing.) Even when you hit the boosters, 
 Sonic hardly runs with any force at all, and the boosters where off within literal seconds. But, 
 it's just worse with other characters. Running with Knuckles is about as much fun as sawing my 
 leg off, though her glides amazingly quick. Tails's flying is a pain to control if you're not just 
 going straight, and his only means of attack is some lame 'Ring Bomb'.
  
  Sonic supposedly has some more improved attacks, but all I see are slowly, uselessly executed swipes 
 and slides. It's just to easy to say 'Screw that! and go back to the homing attack, which even 
 that takes a while to execute between targets. Also, the range on the homing attack is worthless, 
 a set range that can't be changed at all. I often find myself making attacks that I know I should 
 be able to make, and I can make in Sonic Adventure 2, but I always end up falling just a few inches 
 short of my target, and usually fly limply right into the robotic bastards. His attacks are very 
 limited for what could be desired. Plus, there's no way to break a box while in mid-air, which 
 is usually where the bomb boxes are located. Also, I have yet to see the Spin Dash used. Where'd 
 that go; wasn't that Sonic's main thing since Sonic 2?
  
  Another painful aspect of this game are the loading screens. If you hate loading screens, don't 
 even do missions for citizens of Soleanna. You will encounter two loading screens in quick succession 
 before you even get to start the mission. It's ridiculous!
  
  The graphics are the best I've seen in any Sonic game to date, but that is to be expected, coming 
 out for the two most powerful next-gen consoles. And, Sonic's hair got some cool physics. But, 
 some other things got physics that should never have it.
  
  Rings. Yes, Rings actually have their own physics engine in this game. When you break open a box, 
 Rings are randomly strewn about; laid on sides, and at improbable angles, and because the shards 
 of the box you just broke also have physics involved, they can get trapped under the pieces of 
 box. Apparently, wooden crates are light as feathers, because simply running into a shard, at walking 
 speed, will knock it miles away, along with any Rings in it's path. The point? I have no idea. 
 Also, a box falling on your head while sliding can be tragic... for the Box. I wish I had it on 
 tape, but during a mission where you are required to break boxes in order to further yourself, 
 I slid through a pillar of boxes, and one of the boxes landed on Sonic's head. It instantly flew 
 into the sky, and I never saw the thing again. Just a shadow on the ground of a tumbling box. So, 
 I sat idly in Soleanna for the remaining three minutes, watching the box's shadow taunt me. The 
 levels in this game are much too long for a Sonic game; usually 10+ minutes, with several loading 
 screens thrown in. Some levels are so vague about where you have to go, like White Acropolis, that 
 you end up getting lost, or going in circles. In other 3D Sonic games, you must have had downs 
 to do something like that. The levels are poorly plotted out, and it always seems that right when 
 I start to enjoy the level, Tails or someone else butts in, and I have to play as them! Plus, the 
 snowboarding... It was a novelty in SA/SA2 and happened rarely, making them fun, and enjoyable... 
 Now, too many levels have them, and it becomes just an incredibly annoying task, with a horrible 
 jump system, and grinds too aggravating to start.
  
  I don't even know if I've touched on everything in this game that Sega tore to shreds, but I'm 
 going to try and wrap up.
  
  The one thing Sega really got right was the soundtrack, but that's not hard for them, they always 
 seem to do a pretty good job with those. But, nothing can make up for the poor level design, and 
 slowed-down levels with obtrusive characters and loading screens.
  
  Another unfair let-down, courtesy of Sega.
  
  ~Adam SonicAdvDX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rishty
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Lack of camera and Disappointing parts taken from last sonic games only to be mad worse in this 
 sonic game what were sonic team thinking sure a year ago the game looked class and most people 
 gawped at the graphics and such but when ya play it u just wanna start a riot, crap touches from 
 sonic adventures adventure fields, which couldve been better although there are good parts like 
 the new ring system that acts like an energy bar some people will disagree but its quite cool and 
 the intro levels are sweet overall ok but not ok ok lets just hope the one coming u on the Nintendo 
 Wii is better here hopin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bj2790
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Well ive been a fan since the megadrive (genesis) days, sonic has come along way but his latest 
 releases are putting him down Graphics- they are not mager deal with me but i do have my standards 
 and this meets them this game has very good textures and graphics you can acctually see hairs on 
 sonic!
  
  Story- I love shadow's and silver's but sonic's is a mixed bag i wont ruin it for you BUT OMG WHAT 
 WERE THEY 
  
  Gameplay- I think this maybe the first game ive played were you have atomatic suicide! the amount 
 of times ive died because OF THE GAME but that could be of my skill but minus that and you have 
 very solid gameplay thats enjoyable each character has his own unique value
  
  Loading- I think this game would go down serious pionts for me if it wasn't for my Ipod, with the 
 almost constant loading times (only in Town stages and rarely in action stages) putting you mp3/ipod 
 in seems like the only way to survive them but that dosen't fuss me too much
  
  Music- i don't like the music to be honest seems Indie wanna-be
  but i haven't heard much as 
 ive always got my ipod in when playing it ;) Overall i'm kinda satisfied with the newest release 
 the next one better blow us away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermezo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game was too underrated. So if youre thinking of buying this game rent it first because it 
 is way too short and easy. It is pretty fun and highly addictive. It starts off with sonic going 
 to save princess Elice from Egg man who made up another stupid plan which like always back fires 
 on him in the end. Anyway back with the story silver thinks sonic is the iblis trigger so he goes 
 to the past to kill him i dont to spoil anymore though. There are many annoying glitches and this 
 game hast the worst camera angle ever. There are many extra like getting all the medals and s ranks 
 but that is pretty boring to do like im saying rent it and in that 1 week u will beat this game 
 like i did trust me u will save 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akiratasoeur
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I remember Sonic Adventure on Dreamcast. I beat it with 130 stars. The game was amazing. There 
 were a few camera issues but they were pretty rare. This version of sonic has even better graphics, 
 high resolution textures and polygon objects and the shadows are very impressive, everything casts 
 shadows and self shadows. The frame rate is very high too.
  I love the level design, very similar to the craziness of sonic adventure and the music is good 
 too. But unfortunately all the effort spent into making a very nice game that is technically very 
 solid and has nice levels goes to waste with the gameplay. I mean the amount of bad cameras and 
 having your character stuck every 2 seconds is just too frustrating to keep playing. You WILL lose 
 a lot of lives and not because you can't play but because the camera and play mechanics are EXTREMELY 
 glitchy. I cannot stress enough on that. it feels like playing a game in its alpha stages. It's 
 a pitty to see all the glitches on a game that looks so nice but the fact is that these glitches 
 are all over the place and not to forget why we play games, we need control over a character and 
 solid gameplay with challenging levels. None of the above are applied in the making and it gets 
 so frustrating that you soon find yourself turning the 360 off and playing something else. The 
 worst feeling you get is when you constantly die because of the game glitches and have them happen 
 EVERY TIME you restart the level. It's almost useless to try. It feels like you're constantly trying 
 to fix the glitches by finding workarounds and that' spretty bad.
  
  It pains me to say this but avoid this game if you're not a hardcore Sonic fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Topaz_Pheonix
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  I'm really serious guys I didn't See anything bad happen in this game, because really its common 
 sense to avoid camera problems. If the camera moves on its own dont mess with it'll make it worse 
 than what it is for you people. Now the Gameplay come on you people its not rocket
  science really. If you can't play it, don't play it common sense. Now everyone says that glitches 
 happen. It sure didn't happen to me, I really you guy's Xbox 360 is acting up because glitches, 
 camera angles, and bad gameplay never had happen to me in this Sonic game nor any other games. 
 I was about give it 6 but since you complained about absolutely nothing I will give it a higher 
 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackaroo2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  Sonic Sonic Sonic. Ever since 3D he hasnt been the same. Sonic is one of the most popular gaming 
 characters of all time. After his amazing 2D games and then the great sonic adventure series sonic 
 was well known. But then came the next gen consoles. Sonic heroes was a mix between the fans. Some 
 loved it and some hated it and the same goes for shadow the hedgehog. Sonic riders was also a mix 
 because of its difficult learning curve for some players. However between all this we still had 
 the handheld sonic advance series and sonic rush to keep all the fans happy.
  
  Sega's Sonic Team announced soon after that for the next gen of consoles sonic would be getting 
 a return to form adventure. They also said about the characters being demolished and putting sonic 
 back in a solo adventure. Straight away you can say this is false. Sonic is joined by all his friends 
 plus a new character silver. You will be joined by Tails , Knuckles , Shadow , Rouge , Omega , 
 Silver , Blaze &amp; Amy. Each of these characters are playable.
  
  The graphics in the game are amazing for a sonic game. There are beautiful environments which are 
 breathtaking and look amazing. Each character has great detail and now the characters have mouths 
 allowing them to show their emotions. However for the US and EU versions of the game you may notice 
 that after a character speaks their mouth continues to move. Why is this? Its because the lip synch 
 is designed for the japanese versions of the game and they havent bothered to fix it in the US 
 and EU versions of the game. However it can seem a pain at times but at other times it does fit 
 in.
  
  The sound in the game is great aswell. One thing sonic games are great for is their memorable music. 
 In my opinion this game has kept that and after playing a level a few times and going back to play 
 it again you may start humming along to the music. The sound effects are great and definatly fit 
 in well. The voice acting is one thing many people hate since the 4kids crew took over it. I myself 
 am not bothered by the voice acting and think it seems fine and suiting. Characters such as Sonic 
 , Amy , Shadow &amp; Eggman have the perfect voices in my opinion. Although shadows voice was better 
 in my opinion in sonic adventure 2 he still has a well suited voice for this game.
  
  Then after graphics and sound you have gameplay. One of the biggest things with sonic games is 
 the amount of glitches that occur. However with me i seem to find that the games glitches only 
 become visible if you are truly looking for them. Some glitches are visible no matter what. Sonics 
 stages in the game are fast at times but at other times it isnt really the speed you would expect. 
 Many people say that because of sonics speed you are to fall off edges alot and i say hmm funny 
 because i never fell off a ledge because of sonics speed at all . In my opinion sonic seems slower 
 in earlier levels meaning that flying of a ledge is near impossible. However sonic has some of 
 the most frustrating levels due to his actual speed levels. There are certain parts of some stages 
 where you are constantly running non stop. And since there are many obstacles you will often find 
 yourself dying alot on these stages. However many people dont give the game a chance because of 
 these stages. Since one appears on the very first stage people are often dying and giving up. My 
 friend also has the game and couldnt do that speed level and gave up. But when he watched me do 
 it he began playing and got better and now he is saying the game is great.
  
  Shadows levels are also fun. Although you drive in vehicles its easy to do some parts without it. 
 For example in shadows crisis city level you start in a vehicle but you can jump out of it and 
 run if you like. Shadows speed has decreased alot since the last game. He is much slower now and 
 easier to control. Overall i have nothing against his stages.
  
  Silver is also a great character to be. His powers are great to use and are made very useful. His 
 levels are well designed to suit his powers and since he is much slower than both sonic and shadow 
 his levels are much easier. The fact that you can bend metal to spring upwards or levitate a box 
 to move to higher places or even grab and enemies missiles and lob them back at the opponent is 
 great. Alot of thought has gone into his abilities and they are put to the very use. You may find 
 him to have the most enjoyable levels in the game.
  
  The other characters dont play a big part. They are mostly there to help the 3 main characters 
 get passed places they wouldnt be able to get past. These characters have also had the least attention. 
 Tails has an annoying ring bomb instead of a tail whip. Holding his fire button allows for a crappy 
 aim system that isnt much help and its easier to just quickly press the fire button. However sometimes 
 doing this can result in a quick change of view to the aim system which can be very annoying. His 
 flying however is spot on. Knuckles and rouge are the main pain of the game. Their attacks are 
 fine and so is their gliding but climbing is disastrous. When on a wall you can move around fine 
 but jumping off. MAN ITS A PAIN. If you try jumping off a wall chances are you wont be able to 
 unless your on a corner. I dont even want to go into this. Amy is slow and her jumping isnt great 
 but shes isnt really one of the painful characters like knuckles or rouge. Omega is fine. There 
 is nothing wrong with him but blaze is amazing. Blaze seems to be one of the more fun characters 
 in the game. Her attacks are great , speed is fine and she is alot of fun to be.
  
  The games camera also has its moments but thanks to been able to control it with the back triggers 
 its alot easier to use.
  
  Overall i think this game isnt getting what it deserves. It may not be the best platformer ever 
 but it isnt definatly a decent one. Once your past the speed levels in sonics story you will see 
 the games true goodness. And with silver and shadow in the game the levels are alot of fun. Apart 
 from knuckles and rouge the characters are all great to be and its definatly a fun game to play. 
 Dont be fooled by the amount of bad reviews until you have tried the game properly. Why dont you 
 even try renting it to see what it is like. Once past those speed levels you will find a truly 
 enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donutta
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  Let's get this over with. It hurts me more than you'll know to say this, but Sonic The Hedgehog 
 is a bad, bad game. Not the original Mega Drive version; that game is brilliant. No, I'm talking 
 about the new Sonic The Hedgehog, the one that was supposed to return to Sonic's roots and reinvigorate 
 the series.
  
  There are two reasons why Sonic The Hedgehog sucks &amp;#8211; and I do mean sucks. The first reason 
 is an issue of design. You see, if Sonic The Hedgehog was supposed to be a return to Sonic&amp;#8217; s 
 roots, then Sonic Team has obviously forgotten about the Mega Drive and feels that said roots lie 
 in the Dreamcast title Sonic Adventure.
  
  You see, Sonic The Hedgehog is Sonic Adventure trying even harder to be Mario 64. The Sonic Adventure 
 influence is obvious; the first action stage, Wave Ocean, even includes that famous killer-whale-smashes-the-pier 
 scene. However, as stated, Sonic Adventure was also trying to be Mario 64.
  
  The obvious influence was the overworld that acted as a hub between stages. It seemed jarring to 
 suddenly see Sonic running through a city with a bunch of humans who regarded nothing odd about 
 a small, blue, supersonic hedgehog, but it was even more jarring how un-Sonic this gameplay was.
 
  
  And while it was hard to not be impressed with Sonic&amp;#8217; s fully 3D return, once the novelty 
 value wore off, the game was exposed as a poor Mario 64 imitation. It was all filler and little 
 content &amp;#8211; too many random wanderings in the hub and not enough action stages. And I mean 
 really, did anyone honestly enjoy fishing as Big?
  
  Sonic Adventure just wasn&amp;#8217; t a good Sonic game. And unfortunately it has served as the 
 inspiration for Sonic The Hedgehog. The hub returns, but this time it&amp;#8217; s even more salient 
 and even more obnoxious.
  
  The first thing that happens is that you are dumped into the city of Soleanna and you&amp;#8217; re 
 told to investigate. I actually looked at the box to make sure this was a Sonic game. After finding 
 Tails and realising you can&amp;#8217; t cross the ocean, you are told that you need to buy the 
 light dash from the shop in town. Except you have no rings to purchase it and there are no rings 
 in the town.
  
  This is when you realise that you have to take part in one the first of many mini-games in order 
 to proceed. It&amp;#8217; s tedious. Later on, you&amp;#8217; ll actually have to engage in some 
 silly mini-game where you must question five guards to find out which one can let you past the 
 gate. I&amp;#8217; ll save you the agony now: it&amp;#8217; s the person who initiates the quest.
 
  
  The problem is that this just isn&amp;#8217; t very Sonic. In fact, apart from the obvious Mario 
 influences &amp;#8211; Soleanna is Isle Defino without the charm, there are mirrors holding the 
 portals to the different action stages, and there&amp;#8217; s even a freaking princess to rescue 
 who keeps getting whisked away to &amp;#8220; another castle&amp;#8221; &amp;#8211; there is just 
 too much crappy filler and not enough action stages, even with Shadow and Silver. In my first 40 
 minutes of playing, I had completed one 5-minute action stage and one boss battle.
  
  And that&amp;#8217; s a shame, because when the action stages occur, they can actually be pretty 
 fun. Sure, often you&amp;#8217; ll be forced to play as support characters like Tails or Blaze, 
 but for the most part the action stages of Sonic, Shadow, and newcomer Silver can be pretty fun. 
 Sonic stages, especially when he picks up the speed, really show you what could have been accomplished 
 if this game tried to be more &amp;#8220; Sonic&amp;#8221;. They really do give a great sense of 
 speed and they are really enjoyable.
  
  And, you know, if you can stomach finishing the game once, you can then enjoy the action stages 
 in trial mode. Unfortunately, it&amp;#8217; s here you realise that there is actually only about 
 40 minutes of real gameplay per character, which means Sonic The Hedgehog is largely cheap filler. 
 You also cannot replay story mode without deleting your previous save. It&amp;#8217; s beyond disappointing.
 
  
  The other problem is that Sonic The Hedgehog is a poorly made game. The graphics are pretty lacklustre, 
 yet there is heinous amounts of pop-up and draw-in, and the framerate can often chug for no logical 
 reason. While the character models are all nicely done, the environments are very, very poor.
 
  
  The game is also full of glitches, and Sonic and company can often become stuck in scenery or just 
 start spazzing out and losing total control. There&amp;#8217; s nothing more annoying than finding 
 your character totally ignoring your input.
  
  Not that you&amp;#8217; ll have much control in the first place. The controls are overly sensitive, 
 and the camera will often reverse itself, meaning that holding forward will now be as if you were 
 holding back, and this means characters will come to a grinding halt.
  
  The loading times are also atrocious. It takes longer to load a cutscene than it actually plays 
 for, and the loading times between stages breaks any sliver of fun into segments, and that really 
 spoils any fun that is found in the game. One tedious mini-game actually has about four minutes 
 of loading for one minute of gameplay.
  
  The music and voice acting are probably the only redeeming technical qualities. With the exception 
 of the Wave Ocean and Soleanna themes, the music is really good. The theme tune especially is wonderful. 
 The cast of Sonic X also supplies the voice acting, although this might actually turn off more 
 people than it impresses. Unfortunately, you&amp;#8217; ll be hearing the theme of Soleanna more 
 than the excellent action stage themes.
  
  The bottom line is that people used to buy Sonic because it was everything that Mario wasn&amp;#8217; t. 
 Now people will ignore Sonic because it&amp;#8217; s everything Mario isn&amp;#8217; t. If you want 
 a game like Sonic The Hedgehog tries to be, you&amp;#8217; re better off getting a cheap Gamecube 
 and Super Mario Sunshine.
  
  Still, as stated, the action stages can be fun if you have patience. And if you&amp;#8217; re a 
 diehard Sonic fan, you might find something to like here. However, everyone else will probably 
 hate it, and the fact that it&amp;#8217; s $130 is actually insulting. I would only feel confident 
 in saying that out of 100 people, only 37 people would find enjoyment of any kind in Sonic The 
 Hedgehog, hence the score. And I feel I&amp;#8217; m being generous. Unless you&amp;#8217; re a diehard 
 Sonic fan, avoid this one; don&amp;#8217; t even rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briansalo
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  There's a reason why you want to rent games before you buy them; and Sonic The Hedgehog for the 
 360 is definitely one of those. Already being a Sonic fan since his first foray onto the Sega Genesis, 
 I picked this title up in hopes that the move to next-gen hardware for the blue whirlwind would 
 be something worth putting down 50-$60 for; but it's really not. While not having played through 
 the whole game (I can't stand it enough to) It's safe to say the debug/testing crew was fast asleep 
 while this title was in production and just pushed out faster than a bowel movement after a bad 
 night at Taco Bell.
  
  One of the first things you will notice is, load times take up about half the time you'll spend 
 playing this game. Seeing as this is the new age of gaming with pre-caching game data on hard drives 
 and better compression technology, load times shouldn't be such a factor. However, it seems that 
 with every new event, the game has to reload the world map every time, twice. It's like Sonic Team 
 (or whoever is responsible) seems to think that gamers have the patience of the Dalai Lama here 
 and it's inexcusable for the price tag they've set. Once you get through all the load times to 
 an actual zone, you may want to save. Past 3D Sonic games suffered a few minor glitches, but they've 
 got nothing on this one. Be wary that you'll probably lose all your lives to bugs in this game; 
 so it's a good idea to save frequently.
  
  The bottom line is, the gameplay just isn't fun, because is so much here that takes you out of 
 the experience you should receive from this (or any) game that it seems Sonic Team is either past 
 their prime or hired developers that are at the same level as DeVry dropouts. There was a good 
 idea behind it; but the game came together all wrong. Save your money from this one and go get 
 Gears of War if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  This was meant to be the Sonic game that brought Sonic back to his 2D roots. This was meant to 
 be a Sonic game that emphasised on speed. This game isn't.
  
  There are three primary characters: Sonic, Shadow and the new Silver.
  Sonic's levels are typical 
 run to the end levels. These levels are okay but are full of glitches which will make you very 
 frustrated because it was not your fault that you died. A prime example of this is in a level based 
 in the future. A city is getting destroyed and you are on a snowboard kinda thing, trying to avoid 
 the debris coming towards you. On one occasion, I had been hit with some debris and my rings went 
 flying. Typical thing right? Somehow, Sonic died as well, even though I had rings when I had been 
 hit. And to add to the hilarity, Sonic even jumped up and carried on the level for a few seconds, 
 until the Game Over screen popped up. Silver has the ability to do psycic powers and pick up certain 
 things to throw at enemys. This feels very clumsy and can go wrong very easily. An enemy could 
 be standing right next to you and Silver would sometimes fire into an open space with nobody there. 
 Shadow has basically the same levels as Sonic except for the vehicles included which feel bad and 
 confusing to control. Another thing about this game is that the characters seem to have no weight. 
 One small flick of the joystick mid-air sends Sonic flying across the screen, far different from 
 previous 3-D Sonics. There are also Secondary characters who help out the primary characters in 
 certain stages. These feel like a late add on as these characters are even harder to control than 
 the primary characters. In the Sonic story there are also Save the Princess levels in which Sonic 
 spends the whole level with the princess in his arms, trying to make his way to the end of the 
 level. These levels focus on force fields in which you hold RT to but a force field around you 
 to protect you from dangers. In the sand level the danger is quick sand. Yes thats right. The whole 
 level is made of sand and you are somehow meant to know the difference between quick sand and normal 
 sand in terms of looks, and activate the force field in time. Very frustrating. There are also 
 town missions which you can take while walking around the town of Soleanna. Not only are these 
 missions boring and a complete waste of time, the loading screens are hilarious. Basically, you 
 talk to someone in need of help and when you accept the mission a loading screen comes up. So you 
 sit and wait for about half a minute. Then the person needing help pops up and explains the mission 
 again. Then you think Okay. Let's start the mission when yet another loading screen comes up and 
 you need to wait even longer. This is the situation throughout the whole of the game.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't even remotely better than last gen Sonic games. Sometimes, this 
 game does look very nice but sometimes you wouldn't be able to tell the difference between this 
 and Sonic Adventure for the Dreamcast, released 6 and a half years ago.
  
  The Sound is the best thing in this game. Sonic's new theme is very catchy and his best so far. 
 The classic jimgles are also back. Some levels have great themes and some have very bad themes. 
 But on whole, it's actually good.
  
  Once you complete all of the storys available, you won't be back for more. And if you are back 
 feor more, you must be very, very bored.
  
  I grew up on Sonic. I grew up on the Sega Mega Drive, hating Mario and loving Sonic. I was hardcore 
 Sega. I bought this game because it was a Sonic game and it makes me feel bad not to buy a Sonic 
 game thats out on a console that I own. This game felt like a chore and I really didn't want to 
 go any furthur but I felt I had to because it's a Sonic game. This game is full of glitches, loading 
 screens and is one box full of mediocre innings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  I am a big all time sonic fan, sonic started my gaming on and I would play every sonic game because 
 of its amazing gameplay back then. I hyped this game since it was announced and turns out to be 
 a big huge dissappointment and here is why.
  
  The one thing that I hoped that sega would fix were the camera angles, but it turned out to be 
 worst! The camera angles are awful, sometimes you can't see where your going or it leads you to 
 cheap deaths. The controls are even worse as well now all I can say about the controls is sometimes 
 sonic doesn't do what you want him to do lets just say. Also you will get a lot of cheap deaths, 
 like a lot because the camera don't cooperate and it leads to a bottomless pit. Also the loading 
 times are very long. Not sure why but the loading times are long. Now I got admit though, the graphics 
 are great, the colours in the background really fit this game. There is some good sounds thanks 
 to the soundtrack in sonic the hedgehog. Also the characters still have there same attitudes like 
 tails, shadow and the new character... silver he is a cool character but it is ashame that a cool 
 character like him has just been introduced and he is in a very bad game. Too bad. Did even sega 
 hire any game testers to see where all the glitches, errors and the bad camera angles in this game.... I 
 mean it seems they were to cheap to hire any testers to fix these problems or they really rushed 
 it. If they would just fix the controls, camera and the cheap deaths than sonic wouldn't be such 
 a disappointment then now wouldn't it. There is something good inside this game, it just needs 
 some adjustments. Sonic fans you might like this game or not. But I really didn't like this game. 
 Sorry Sonic The Hedgehog you looked amazing in the trailers but turns out that your a crappy game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiowns
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Once again this makes me think that Gamespot is baised toward most Sega games. There are some flaws 
 here and there, but I have beaten the game and haven't noticed many glitches.
  
  Fist I'll start with the bad. I will admit that the loading times for missions in the town stages 
 are annoying, and the camera doesn't allways cooperate with you. Some of the levels are diffucult 
 and hard to figure out, especialy Silver's level in dusty desert, which involves using his Psycokenesis 
 to hit this giant pool ball into a hole at the other side of the room, while avoiding the other 
 holes and having to keep it under a 10 hit maximum.
  
  Now for the idividual characters.
  
  Sonic's levels were very good, and Sega did a good thing by buffing up the robots. The graphics 
 are very good, as well as the detail. Most everything in those levels are fun and fast, exept for 
 when you have to switch to Tails or Knuckles, both of which are very hard to controll. The only 
 fun I could ever have with Tails is flying over one of the robot's head and completely barrage 
 it with ring bombs. Other than that he is no fun. The speed zones of Sonic's levels are very fun, 
 because you have to run left and right and jump over obstacals and gaps. The only downside is the 
 life factor, because it is very hard to get one ups.
  
  Shadow's were a bit slower paced but were more focused on fighting. His mid-air combo move was 
 very handy in case of one of the big robots. Honestly, I didn't have much fun using his vehicles, 
 exept when you use the bike in the train level. Using him in Chaos Boost was fun but a bit hard 
 to get the hang of, but I wouldn't say he was a bad character.
  
  Silver's levels were a lot slower, and were more about puzzle solving, or how to get to point A 
 to point B, instead of just blasting your way to point A or point B. It was really fun catching 
 the missles fired by robots, and then throwing it back at them. It would be hard to use items to 
 throw at enemies at times though, if they were behind other things, and sometimes you ran out of 
 things to throw, so you had to either wait for them to respawn, or if they were items that didn't 
 respawn, you had to go and kill yourself.
  
  The two player isn't very good, because it slows down the speed and the levels are much more dull. 
 That's really all I have to say about them.
  
  I'm not even going to say anything about the voice actors.
  
   
 SPOILERS 
  
  The plot of the story was very good, but confusing at some points, for instance, when Mephiles 
 fused with Iblis it created Soleanis. Other than that the plot was pretty good, with one or two 
 plot holes, another being why wasn't Amy angry when Elise kissed Sonic.
  
  Overall this game was pretty good, but not the best in the series, and very under rated. I would 
 recomend this to anyone who loves Sonic games or speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I just got Sonic the Hedgehod from my family for Christmas! Well, who knows who, sisters or 
 parents, but i don't know.
  
  When me and my sisters first cracked into the multiplayer part of the game, I thought it would 
 be as awsome as Sonic Adventure 2 Battle, and it really wasn't that great. I guess my sisters didn't 
 either, even though in the past they've enjoyed Sonic games. And the single player. The first movie 
 sequence in the Story Mode made me think. OH MY GOSH ITS TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE! SONIC IS BACK, and 
 REVIEWS ARE TOO HARSH! But once i actually started playing and took a look at it all i could think 
 of is WAT THE ****?!
  
  The single player game is all about the Chaos Emerald and what not. Wow like i haven't seen this 
 before. And not to mention rescuing a princess. But the story is stil the same with Dr. Eggman, 
 and nothing has changed, so prepare for major disappointment.
  
  The graphics in the game are the only thing that stand out. The movie sequence graphics are fantastic 
 and artistically amazing, but once the gameplay shows up all thats hot is the character models. 
 Environments are blocky and bland.
  
  The camera is pretty bad too. It gets in your way and makes you mad and frustrated enough to stop 
 playin right when it begins, and it does happen to hardcore folks, THE HARDCORE.
  
  The voice acting is pretty bad and unimmersive. Sonice and the gang sound like idiots! Eggman sounds 
 fine though and sound effects are O. K. but the voicework is bland.
  
  Really theres no value in this game. The multiplayer can be fun but its nothing special like Sonic 
 Adventure 2 Battle. The single player is nothing special at all and you will be left in the dust.
 
  
  Overall this game is in a state of confusion and will make you corrupted with abd memories.
  
 
  A 5.3 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentBliss
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok well as you all may know this was suppose to be a new sonic totally different to start the series 
 off in the next gen systems. My question is what the hell sega could you not SEE those DAMN GLITCHES! 
 I love the sonic franchise, and I own this game, but why. Anyway the graphics are good high polygon 
 count. There is good voice acting. The level designs could have been a little different. Playing 
 as three characters becomes boring after a while, especially since theres another new hedgehog. 
 I would have loved to play Knuckles, but of course not let hime become playable for 5 minutes. 
 Overall great storyline probably the best storyline, but it was destroyed by the gameplay. Hopefully 
 the glitches will be eliminated in the next sonic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RY-01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  So far I have played most of the three characters
  Lots of fun stuff to do and great story. Graphics rock as does the sound and levels. Don't listen 
 to people who hate as they are older fans where as the game is geared to new players of Sonic.
 
  
  The controls are a bit hard to get at first for younger gamers where as they are easy for older. 
 Once you get the hang of it you are ready to play this great game. The more you progress the more 
 ways the game gives you to destroy your enemies. With the small Town Missions plus Levels and Bosses 
 and a whole 3 character episodes to play you will be waiting for the next level to be open. Also 
 with the whole of the cast as playable characters there is lots to do.
  
  The story has been greatly written and makes you want to see and hear more. As you continue to 
 play and watch and listen to the story you will find you want more of the story told.
  
  So my advice is if you want to be careful rent it first but if you get the real game learn the 
 control and then watch and listen to the story.
  Don't listen to what others say and think for yourself.
  HAVE FUN!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megablueblastaa
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog 06 gives a lot of new features for to the sonic series. Just like SA, you have 
 to run around town, asking people to help you to your next destination. Although the area is small, 
 the have portals hidden through places where you can only get to from buying power ups that appear 
 in the shop as you progress through the game. You dont play with people online, like Sega said; 
 you just download levels from Xbox live. Since you play as 3 different characters, Im going to 
 split it up into 4 different sections.
  
  Sonic- When you play as sonic; the controls are simple and easy to learn in the beginning.. The 
 levels are cool and they gave sonic some serious speed. When you start to sun, he picks up about 
 5-20 miles per hour then stays at that speed until you step on a dash panel. The first level of 
 the game is a really good intro to the game. The level format shows good graphics and brings back 
 the killer whale just like the 1st stage in SA. Also, they added a somewhat unneeded feature 
 to the game. You hit a mech into a wall or bridge to knock it down. Another great new feature is 
 that they added a super speed stage. Witch I can see they used to replace the special stages 
 in the other sonic games. Sonic runs a couple of hundred miles per hour chasing something, or running 
 away from something. Witch is really awesome considering the great blend of blur effects and the 
 skill of dodging spikes and obstacles. And yes people, they brought back the sing bar. YAY! Everyone 
 loves the swing bar! They also brought back the bounce bracelet and the ring dash and many 
 other power ups witch I cant spoil for you.
  
  Tails- Although you only get to play as him 2-3 times in the whole game, hes an alright character. 
 The really did a poor job of making tails run. Shoot, I can run faster than tails could in the 
 game. But he makes up in flying. In this game, he doesnt tail whip. Instead, he throws dud rings 
 at enemies. You can hold it to do a snipe attack and you can throw them in mid air. Knuckles- 
 just like tails, you rarely get to play as him in the game. His punch combos still good and he 
 is as fast as tails. His glide is slower then SA2 and but I still like him.
  
  Shadow- As he mysteriously came back to earth, unharmed, with multiple plot holesShadow makes 
 his way into Sonic the hedgehog 06 as an agent for G. U. N. You first have to save rouge from a base 
 in the icy mountains (Eggmans base) you dont get to use hand-held guns in this game, but instead, 
 you use vehicles you get to use vehicles that shoot rockets. Although he isnt as fast as sonic, 
 he is more of a combat character. And they brought back air combos from Shadow the hedgehog. It 
 doesnt look as cartoonish as the combos looked before. His limbs stay in place and dont stretch 
 out. You can do this and he can do an acrobatic ending and go to the next enemy. You can also use 
 chaos blast by completing certain tasks. Rouge- shes the same as shadow, but she throws bombs.
 
  
  E-123 Omega- He is a decent character. He shoots stuff. Nothing special.
  
  Silver- As a new addition to the sonic team, silver uses his telekinesis to fight his way through 
 time. Although silver is the slow one of the three, there is still awesome and adventurous gameplay 
 in the game. His powers are pretty cool. You can use it to fly temporarily, pick up and throw almost 
 anything. And I do mean ANYTHING. You can pick up cars, rockets, rocks, street signs, anything 
 with matter. Hey, with glasses he could be in the matrix. Since you can pick up and throw stuff, 
 they put his stages more puzzle-like then the other characters. Amy- just like the other games, 
 she comes to Soliana to stalk sonic. Her only attack is her hammer. Her hit box is small so you 
 will have to go really close to the enemy for it to hit. She can double jump and somehow, with 
 her new power, turn invisible.
  
  The one thing that really pisses me off is that there is no online play. It was said it was supposed 
 to have it but it never did. It even said it in the manual for crying out loud. But I think they 
 will just add levels to Xbox live to download.
  
  There are also mini missions that you could do from helping other citizens. In some cases, you 
 can play as other characters in your party. The speed is great and is a little better than SA2. 
 Since sonic is the character of speed, he is the only one that shows the feature of speed. With 
 his super speed levels and his super sonic awesomeness, you blast through the stages without 
 breaking a sweat. Just as suspected from a 360 game, the graphics are stellar. The characters are 
 well detailed. The blur was well brushed and the physics of items exploding are well put. This 
 is just the push the next gen game needs.
  
  The music doesnt really fit together with the characters. They put some decent songs and in-play 
 music in there but they couldve done way better. For example, they put this as their ending: http://youtube. com/watch? v=895wU4jtEdY 
 Not to be wrong, I like it but it just isnt right for a sonic game. Kind of gives a final fantasy 
 feel to it. The music consists of rock, rmb/hiphop, and techno.
  
  As for the in-gameplay music, its alright. It gives a good adventurous feeling but it can get 
 weird at times. Personally, my favorite is The Inlet:
  http://youtube. com/watch? v=ahXzlX6OH_8
  
  now THAT is some good music for sonic.
  
  Though 
 this game has many new features, is still lacks in certain areas. This game did not live up to 
 its potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Sonic for the XBOX 360 isn't that great. For starters the game looks amazing. All of the locations 
 and the people look great. Even Sonic himself looks superb. But the the part of Sonic that is really 
 horrible is the gameplay. It is real sloppy. Especially when you are running arond. You really 
 don't go that fast. Doing attacks are executed really badly. The voice acting in the story is really 
 good. it fits in almost every time. The music is pretty good but it grets repetitive after a while. 
 The missions are kind of stupid. Simply put Sonic on the XBOX 360 is not a good game. it is decent. 
 The only thing that is keeping it from being really horrible is the graphics. If you are a die 
 hard Sonic the Hedgehog fan and you need every Sonic game you might be able to look past the badness 
 of this game and enjoy it. But for the casual gamer that has never played Sonic before you might 
 want to save yourself $60.00 and rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssbfalco
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying, I'm a Sonic uberfan, but unfortunately, that's not enough to stop me 
 from disliking the game. Yes, somehow I found some enjoyment from it, but that's a rare case.
 
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog was supposed to go back to the roots, but for some reason, Sonic Team figured 
 all of the random friends he's picked up over the years must become tangled into his roots. Not 
 only that, they figured that Sonic should play with time paradox... Not good, especially seeing 
 that Sonic Team was never good at writing a story for Sonic.
  
  The game is buggy at best, but not in a way that made Sonic Adventure great to play after you were 
 done with it. No, it was a mess, collision bugs, graphical glitches, homing attack throwing you 
 off of the stage. And the infamous Sonic Camera... Oh how I despise thee! The graphical presentation 
 was mixed at best. At times the game looked great, at others, it looked like they just decompressed 
 some Dreamcast Sonic Adventure textures, threw in some motion blur and HD resolution and called 
 it Next-Gen. However, the graphical presentation accomplished something Sonic has always been able 
 to do: Use every color in the visible light realm.
  
  The Controls weren't too bad this time around compared with the previously released Shadow game, 
 but they weren't as tight as we'd like. However, the sense of speed at times was great, at times 
 making you wish you could be stuck in that moment for a few more minutes, until the game broke 
 again...
  
  Load times were abysmal, for what? I can't tell you. The other characters however, were a mixed 
 bag. Shadow was actually enjoyable to play (surprise!) , and Silver had some cool tricks, but again, 
 there were times you'd wish they'd spend the time they did making these characters and focus on 
 making Sonic play properly. Not to mention the variety of random characters that you hoped would 
 be fun to play as, but weren't. Tails, we're looking at you...
  
  The split screen multiplayer wasn't worse, but it certainly wasn't better. One bit of good news, 
 the soundtrack was decent...
  
  I could go on about how much more broken the game was, but I'd bore you...
  
  Asides, while 
 I have a lot of hate for this game, I did like it to some extent, but I can't recommend much of 
 it to anyone, maybe a select stage to play, but other than that, I'd be torturing someone...
  
  I had high hopes for you Sonic, but unfortunately, you let us down... Let's hope the next appearance 
 will prove you are ready for next gen... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dolfdolf
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:11 pm PT
Review:  the game is a pretty good game but the loading is killing me after you talk to someone that has 
 a mission for you, you go into loading, than after you read all the stuff they moan out for you 
 , you go into loading again. The game play isn't bad but the silver battle is kinda hard but the 
 loading is the only thing that made this game really really bad to me. If you remember the dream 
 cast game it is like that but with alot better graphic's, i really dont remember what the loading 
 for that was like but this is horrble. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge Sonic fan and have defended all of his games against criticism over the past few years 
 but this game just annoys me. When in the city part of the game you can talk to people but they 
 make a groaning sound &amp; then stop talking &amp; you have to read the subtitles, the camera 
 angles are appaling as whenever you turn the camera goes the wrong way &amp; you try to fix it 
 &amp; it goes the wrong way. The Silver boss is ridiculous as it is practically impossible to defeat 
 him without a huge helping of luck. It is very similar to the Sonic games on the Dreamcast. On 
 the plus side SEGA said they would try &amp; capture the speed of the original games &amp; they 
 were successful in doing so but only with Sonic, once you change character you instantly feel slow 
 again. The graphics are impressive but when you go from the cutscene to the game you feel very 
 letdown that they couldn't maintain that graphical standard. All in all, not a bad game but very, 
 very annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wambam1206
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I really was wanting this game around about a year ago i was exited and i couldn't wait to try 
 it, then i played the e3 demo and said at least it looks good a little work but it will be fixed. 
 the come launch day i find out wow that looks good when i start up the game and watch the first 
 cut scene... then all down hill from there from when it started lagging like hell and long long 
 loading times... after playing gears of war and viva pinata which both look amazing and don't load 
 long at all and don't lag or no pop up, i realized that this game was crap but after the first 
 level or so i got used to it and found that for the most part the good portion of all the levels 
 are pretty good, don't get me wrong there are utter crap levels but this game if done right could 
 of been a master piece and for the most part sonic looks really goo and if it ran nice it all would 
 look good... well i am a huge sonic fan but it is still hard to recommend this one.. hopefully the 
 wii one will give sonic back justice like rush did for a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alsephV2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I'm a huge Sonic fan! Just look at my icon... the first game I ever played/owned 
 was Sonic the Hedgehog for Sega Genesis. Needless to say it is horrible for someone like me to 
 see how far Sonic has fallen. With the whole next generation potential on his side I thought Sonic 
 would be getting back up. He has but he is still a long way from where he used to be. Sonic The 
 Hedgehog for the 360 has a lot of potential but a few major factors hold it back.
  
  Game play:
  Game play is one of the most important components of a video game and the game has 
 horrible game play. Now I know Sonic has been around for a while and that he is getting old I mean 
 he has been around for over 15 years but I never thought he would actually slow down with age... I 
 was wrong. It seems like in this game Sonic has slowed down. He isn't the fast hedgehog he used 
 to be. Running and even jumping has become slower and less fluid. Even when running sometimes if 
 you bump into a wall Sonic falls down and it in turn slows the game down. It also feels like the 
 controls are a little delayed which i find rare with games now these days. It feels like it takes 
 time to react to jumping and even running motions. Now for newcomers to Sonic this might be good 
 to get used to but to more veteran players it gets annoying very quickly. Graphics:
  One thing the game has on its side are graphics. These are probably the best graphics I have ever 
 seen in a Sonic game especially during the cut scenes. I have to give them credit there.
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty good. It's basically what we have come to see with past Sonic games 
 with voice overs and all. Once and a while though it still suffers from the voice over not matching 
 up to lip movements. It can be seen in the first cut scene with Tails.
  
  Value: There is a decent amount of replay value to the game as Sonic not being the only playable 
 character. Once again there is Shadow the hedgehog and the new character of Silver (a hedgehog 
 with psychic powers) . It's the classic multiple story lines which have been helping to keep Sonic 
 floating.
  
  Now once again I'm not just bashing Sonic I'm actually a huge fan but since Sonic Adventure 2 the 
 character has taken huge falls with games like Shadow the Hedgehog and Sonic Riders. We can only 
 hope that upcoming next generation games with the Sonic name will do more justice and bring the 
 blue hedgehog back to glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icybl00d3d
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  i mean seriously.... this game is really fun.. how is it broken?? its a sonic game.. whatd u expect 
 ? a first person ring swinging , wall climbing, blood and gore and violonce action game?... its 
 sonic its a really fun game .. im one of the people who had problems with rainbow vegas and it 
 got a 9.1 ... this game keeps me up for long and i keep playing it and playing it cuz its so difficult 
 but yea sure no online still it sholdnt get a 4 ... i mean cmon 4 is like saying play it once and 
 never play it again.. well i finished this game and i went back and played it again... and no im 
 not a weirdo or anything i have COD3 , SAINTS ROW, GOW, DEADRISING, VIVA PINATA, RAINBOW VEGAS, 
 PGR3, but i still play this game alot so... idono its not that bad it should at least get a 7+ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildcat2000
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 8, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  First, even though Sega claimed this would be Sonic's ultimate return to his Genesis roots..... its 
 not. Alot of times it feels like what Sonic Adventure 3 would have been had the Dreamcast survived.
 
  
  We all already know about the characters and the story so I don't need to go through that.
  
 
  Now first, I want address the so called Problems every major reviewer as had about the game.
  
  The control seems to be thier biggest complaint, but IMO its NOT as bad as they say it is. Having 
 said that I will admit the control has a learning-curve and when you first start playing you will 
 die because of it.
  
  See, its NOT that its all messed up, its that its more demanding than it was in SA or SA2. For example: When 
 homing-in on enemies (especially when getting across a cliff) right after Sonic bounces of the enemy, you 
 have to manually move Sonic mid-air so that he faces the next enemy or bounce pad, or he will just 
 home-in in whatever direction he's facing.
  
  See, its NOT that its broken (cause its not) , its that it asks more of you than before, soooo.... once 
 you learn its liitle quirks and what-not and get used to it, its not a problem. They (major reviews) 
 should have spent more time with it.
  
  Cause once I got used to it I was blazing through Flame Core like pro.
  
  Another complaint 
 alot of reviewers have is the load times. Again I'll admit there times when thier uncalled for (especially 
 since its running on a 360) but seriously there NOT that long and they don't really get in the way.
 
  
  Glitches are another thing alot of people complain about, yeah there are a few, like slow-down when 
 walking around the town of Soleanna (between levels) and when playing as Knux or Rouge they get 
 stuck to walls when climbing and it takes a few tries before you can actually jump off. Seriously 
 though the few glitches that there are don't effect anything in a bad way, so thier forgivable.
 
  
  Now then, lets move on to gameplay. Lets see ever since Sonic Adventure we had to play, not only as 
 Sonic, but as the rest of the gang to, first they each had thier own storyline, then in SA2 you could 
 play as either Hero or Dark side, and then in Sonic Heroes you played as three differnt characters 
 at one time... hmmm.... dosn't seem there could be any other way to fit them all in....... well we 
 were wrong. Ya gotta hand it to Sega and Sonic Team for coming up with yet another way to play as 
 the supporting 
  
  Now they help you along the way in certain parts of the levels (sometimes they even get their own 
 levels) , so you'll switch to them for awhile for thier parts, but as bad as that sounds its not really 
 that bad and thier playtime is pretty short.
  
  Now you all already know  with weapons and Silver=Telekenisis.
 
  
  For the most part thier gameplay is fun...... well more so Sonic and Shadow's gameplay, Silver's 
 is ok its just a little to slow and repetive.
  
  Also when playing as Sonic, for some of his stages, your set on super-speed areas (I guess you could 
 call them) and your running and you can't stop, along the way dodging enemies and things in your 
 way, which IMO are really fun, but if you run into something without rings (and NOT just the enemies 
 either) it will be a one-hit-kill which makes some of these courses really hard, like in Crisis 
 City if you jump at the wrong time or are too close to the edge you will fall and die, which is 
 unforgivable cause they could have just put an invisable border since its already hard enough to 
 begin with. So just rememeber some of these will take alot of trial and error.
  
  Also, along the way you will have various bouts of frustration, whether something is just too hard (like 
 the above super-speed-areas) or when playing as someone else besides Sonic, you will be at a cross-roads 
 and not know what to do next.
  
  So to sum up gamplay, its pretty much split in half, half is great and half is not-so-great.
  
 
  Bottom Line, It really is a good game. I think the reason all the major reviewers have scored it 
 so low, is not because they really think its that bad, but because they are bitter that its not exactly 
 what they wanted it to be.
  
  If your a HUGE Sonic fan like me your probly gona buy it anyway, for everyone else, at least rent 
 it and give it a fair chance, not just playing a few levels either, I mean give it a real chance. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnytheglove
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game does not deserve a 4.4 rating. I agree that the game is not perfect but it still has 
 a lot to offer that makes the game very enjoyable. Now, dont consider this review to be one from 
 a 10 year old kid who doesnt know much about gaming. Ive been a huge gamer for the last 16 years. 
 This game is very similar to the sonic adventure games for the dreamcast. If you liked those games, 
 chances are you will also enjoy this one. I really enjoyed playing through this game.
  
  Before i got the game, i read a lot of the other reviews online about the game and became very 
 skeptical, but it was sonic, so i had to get it anyway. i feel as though the critics were too harsh 
 however. The flaws mentioned in the reviews deal with glitchy game play, broken levels, and poor 
 camera angles. These aspects are in the game, but to a minimal extent. For example: If you are 
 in the far off corner of a level that has no importance to the goal of the level, where the sidewalk 
 meets a fence, the screen may start to shake back and forth until the character moves. The extent 
 of broken levels refers to in a few early levels, you may find that on a patch of dash panels, 
 one may fling you off the board instead of keeping you on track, although the four dash panels 
 net to it work fine (meaning you may lose one life before you learn to move 2 feet to your left 
 next time) . The camera angle issues mentioned are very few and come at times when there are no 
 enemies and wont cause any harm. They may appear if you are in a tight alleyway when all you have 
 to do is walk 15 feet further and the camera angle goes back to perfect. Yes, there are flaws, 
 but they are just small annoyances that dont take anything away from the gameplay. Those flaws 
 affect about 0.5% of the game and can all be fixed by just moving your character accordingly. The 
 only unnecessary problem that i agree with is the amount of loading screens. Each loading screen 
 is only about six seconds, but when you are in the towns exploring, there are occasions that could 
 have easily been omitted by Sega. But again, these screens are only about 6 seconds long, so all 
 you need is a little bit of patience. The loading screens do not pop about in the middle of gameplay 
 though. They occur between movies and between levels. They do not halt the action on the boards, so 
 they are not that big of a problem.
  
  If you played the demo from xbox live, do not use that as judgment on the real game. Sonic is much 
 faster in the real game than in the demo and the gameplay is much smoother and fun. The demo has 
 him at a jogging pace, but the actual game really boosts up the speed, especially on the speed 
 courses. The graphics are what i would expect from a sonic game. They are animated, yet show some 
 realism when appropriate. This is Sonic the Hedgehog, not Gears of War. Obviously the graphics 
 are not going to be stupendous, but they get the job done. I'm playing sonic to run fast and destroy 
 lots of enemies in the process, not to be wowed that i can see moss on some rocks as run past (you're 
 sonic, the only way you will be able to see any spectacular graphics is when you pause the game 
 because you wont be able to see it when you're speeding past) . The levels are very colorful and 
 have the feel of a sonic game. The music is good and the levels are enjoyable. The first board 
 feels a little awkward, but the levels get very fun very quickly after that and the addition of 
 Silver and shadow gives the game new dimensions of enjoyment as each character has their own powers 
 and storyline. This gives the game good length and makes for fun mutliplayer. Also, each character 
 has upgradable moves that can be purchased as the game progresses giving each character a variety 
 of techniques to use, which is a cool feature. The storyline is what you would expect from a Sonic 
 game, but still manages to hold your attention. The game gets better as you progress through it. 
 The bored become more fun and offer more things for you to do with Sonic, Shadow, and Silver. The 
 reason I wrote this review is to give a more real description of the game and let people who havent 
 played the game better understand the not so good reviews. The reason for such low reviews stems 
 from the game not being perfect or being exactly what was expected, so people just started to bash 
 it, which is unfair. There are flaws in the game, but there are such a small part of it and do 
 not take away from the real fun and enjoyment that this game had to offer. I do agree that more 
 could have been done with this game and if Sega spent a little more time polishing up the game, 
 then it could of been what people expected, but the core idea behind the game is still there making 
 it enjoyable for people of any age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSX_Shadow
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2006 2:04 am PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog has recently had many mixed reactions over this game. In the end, it is a pleasing, 
 action-packed adventure with some classic Sonic gameplay.
  
  The good points: Graphics are stunning! Full of life and colour, little to no seen glitches in 
 animation. Backgrounds are vibrant and lush. Fun gameplay with multiple characters with different 
 abilities. Destructive environments and plenty of varied gameplay. Difficulty is just right. Tracks 
 for levels are great. Cool story
  
  The bad: Including new characters makes mixed reactions to and from gamers. Not a lot of dazzling 
 new moves. Town missions aren't very different from generic mission-based objectives (collecting 
 stuff, destroying things) even though it has multiplayer, the replay value falls flat. There are 
 a lot of loading times and the camera isn't as co-operative as you would expect. But what do you 
 want? It's a platformer. Since when do designers get everything right?
  
  I got this as a xmas present. It's shaping up to be a good game. Gamespot rating of 4.4 is completely 
 unjustifiable. It does not deserve such low ratings. This is a GOOD game. If your into platformers 
 and you own an Xbox 360 this is a step in the right direction 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obi-Wan678
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog was commonly promoted as being a reinvention of the franchise. Despite small 
 changes, the gameplay does not stand as significantly distinct from earlier 3D titles. Mainly it's 
 the same thing if you think about it carefully, but if you just love games for how much you'll 
 enjoy it, then this won't be much of a problem, but regardless this game has it's downsides.
  
  GamePlay - Although each character plays the same levels, each character's unique abilities 
 allow them to get to different areas of each stage, and deny them from accessing certain items. 
 Levels are far less linear than previous 3D Sonic titles, offering up many alternate pathways through 
 each stage. Certain areas in each of the levels, dubbed mach speed areas , allow Sonic to reach 
 speeds that would be unattainable elsewhere.
  
  Gameplay is broken up into two gameplay styles, similar to the original Sonic Adventure: Action 
 Stage and Town Stage. Action Stages are primarily where the bulk of the gameplay takes place, whereas 
 Town Stages are free-roaming locations where the player can talk to non-player characters and explore, 
 similar to Sonic Adventure's Adventure Fields.
  
  For each of the action stages in the respective stories, gold medals are obtainable by achieving 
 high ranks in these stages.
  
  There are a total of eleven stages, meaning there is still one unknown, unannounced stage. The 
 ranking system in the game for each of the levels (and even the town missions) is similar to Sonic 
 Rush, providing score ranks with the highest rank revealed to be S Rank. The lowest is D Rank, 
 unlike previous Sonic games where the worst rank was E Rank and A was the highest.
  
  The game takes place exclusively within the City of Soleanna and surrounding area. In town stages, 
 you can talk to NPCs, take Town Missions, buy upgrades using rings collected through Action Stages 
 or Town Missions, and further the game's plot by finding entrances to Action Stages.
  
  NPCs appearing in Town Stages with a blue exclamation point hovering over their head will provide 
 you with missions to complete for additional rings. Missions are usually completed as a single 
 character of your team (generally the main character of the story) , though missions do exist where 
 you play as more than one character. Sometimes, Town Missions will begin as a logical progression 
 of the plot, such as Eggman's robots attacking the citizens of Soleanna - leaving you with the 
 task of defeating all the robots. In order to get an S rank on missions, 30,000 points are needed, 
 as opposed to 50,000 in action stages.
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog features two styles of multiplayer game play that offer two player action.
 
  
  The first mode, Tag Mode, is a co-op type of play between Sonic, Silver and Shadow. Two players, 
 one controlling a character, must work together to clear levels and collect Chaos Emeralds. In 
 this mode, lives are shared, so if one player loses when only one life remains its game over.
 
  
  The second game style available is Battle Mode. Battle mode pits two players against each other 
 and asks them to complete randomly selected missions. Whichever player can collect the most gold 
 medals wins the match.
  
  There are three fully playable characters in this game, which are progressively unlocked by playing 
 each character's story in the game. The player begins with Sonic; other playable characters become 
 available when they are encountered, similar to Sonic Adventure, Sonic Advance 2 and Sonic Advance 
 3.
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog's GamePlay - The Protagonist (hero) of the story. When controlling Sonic, the 
 player will get to experience high-speed, Sonic Adventure-style gameplay. He appears to have retained 
 most of his abilities from Sonic Adventure 2. Sonic has special areas within levels called Super-Speed 
 stages which are straight paths of high speed running. Sonic has Custom Actions , that enables 
 him to purchase and customize his abilities for separate situations - some of which include Sonic 
 doing a swipe in a 360 degree formation and sliding to attack his foes. The abilities Sonic is 
 equipped with are Homing Attack, Light Dash, Bounce Attack, Grinding, a sliding kick, and a breakdance 
 kick similar to the one seen in Sonic Battle. The Spin Dash also returns in this game, and there 
 are new moves such as a Tornado Kick, and a Mach Speed Dash that can only be used via the 'Special 
 Move' trigger after being purchased with rings in the in-game store. Sonic also has a whole new 
 design for his afterimage. It looks like a blue flame now and when he attacks, and the afterimage 
 explodes into a rainbow. Sonic can buy gems to get special powers, including a lightning shield, 
 an enhanced homing attack, and the ability to shrink to let him jump infinitely. Equipping one 
 of these gems changes his shoe color. For example, Sonic's normal shoe colors are red and white, 
 but using the blue gem, in addition to giving Sonic a Mach Speed Dash, makes his shoes blue and 
 black.
  
  Shadow's GamePlay - A black hedgehog rival of Sonic's. Parts of Shadow's gameplay seems similar 
 to Shadow the Hedgehog (video game) . Shadow is able to drive vehicles. Confirmed ones include a 
 bike (armed motorcycle) , a glider (armed jet propelled machine similar to a hanglider) , a hover 
 vehicle (armed and capable of riding over potentially hazardous surfaces) , and a buggy (armed four-wheeled 
 vehicle) . While in an action stage, if Shadow comes under heavy fire, homing missiles will become 
 available for each of the vehicles. He is also seen attacking with what appears to be 'Chaos Blast' 
 and 'Chaos Spear.' Shadow does not use firearms in this game. Shadow also has Custom Actions and 
 works the same as Sonic's. Shadow can use his Chaos Spear attack and attack enemies with rapid 
 fire kicks. He can also use Homing Attack, grind and also do a sliding kick. He can use Chaos Spear 
 and Chaos Blast by defeating enough enemies, Shadow can also use Chaos Boost.
  
  Silver's GamePlay - Silver is a time-traveling hedgehog who has returned to the past in order to 
 stop Sonic from becoming the Iblis Trigger . Silver has psychokinetic powers, which are the main 
 feature of his gameplay. Using his psychokinetic powers, Silver is able to pick up objects around 
 the playing field and throw them at enemies, including cars and missiles. He also possesses the 
 ability to levitate in the air for differing amounts of time (using up his energy bar) , and he 
 too can purchase new abilities in the in-game store with rings. His energy bar depletes faster 
 the heavier the object he is lifting, and his energy bar replenishes with time.
  
  Amigos (Friends) are companions of the main three characters (Sonic, Shadow, and Silver) who can 
 help out from time to time in specific levels. When you meet them, you can switch to them and do 
 things with their unique abilities that the main character cannot.
  
  Graphics - The Best out of any Sonic Game. The Levels being somewhat Large, are very colorful and 
 quiet a view to look at, the enemies themselves seem well done. However compared to other 360 games 
 the graphics are pale, but regardless shouldn't stop you from enjoying, including in the Mach Speed 
 Areas, where everything is 'faded' to give a better sensation of speed, really Graphics are a redeeming 
 quality for the game.
  
  Sound - The main theme for the game, entitled ( His World ) by Zebrahead, has multiple variations.
 
  
  HipHop/R&amp; B Artist Akon has done a remix to Dreams Come True song Sweet Sweet Sweet , which 
 was originally the ending theme for Sonic the Hedgehog 2 for the Sega Mega Drive. It is Sonic's 
 ending theme for the game.
  
  Crush 40, who have done several songs for the Sonic series in the past, are performing a cover 
 of All Hail Shadow , one of the vocal songs from the Shadow the Hedgehog soundtrack, originally 
 sung by the band Magna-Fi. However, aside from this one track and 2 others, Jun Senoue did not 
 compose the music for this game.
  
  Lee Brotherton (Remix Factory) performs Silver's Theme, Dreams of an Absolution .
  
  Overall 
 sound is pretty good, so if you loved music from Sonic then you'll love these, with some exceptions.
 
  
  Value - Well the game has alot of Replay Value like many other 3-D Sonic Titles, you can replay 
 levels as either hedgehog's to improve on your score or just have fun, at the current price though.. 
 you just need to rent it first and try it out for yourself.
  
  Tilt - Overall I enjoyed the game, with only these problems:
  
  Bad Camera
  Sensitive Controls
 
  Glitches
  
  The Bad Camera is most annoying however with bosses, as sometimes you may need for it to look at 
 the enemy to see what he is doing, then again you need the camera to your character to see where 
 your going.
  
  Sensitive Controls are 'broken' at times as one may call it, playing as Sonic though is when this 
 becomes the most annoying, but you may rarely have trouble with this.
  
  Glitches are here and there at Random Times, say your playing as either Rouge or Knuckles, you 
 may have a very hard time getting off a wall, simple since the character won't want to jump off 
 so prepare yourself.
  
  Overall I say rent this game first, and if you like it buy it, but make sure you a have a chance 
 to play each Hedgehog's story before you make your purchase, other than that, either have fun with 
 it or avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog for the Xbox 360 is one of those games that's over hyped and dosent turn out 
 as great as it should. Depending on how much of a fan you are of the series is what depends on how 
 much you'll like the game. If you're a long time fan you'll find this game awesome and fun then 
 there's people like me who are into Gears Of War and Call Of Duty 3. I took a second to think while 
 playing this game about the other version of this title and when it'll be coming for the PS3, if 
 it turns out better for the PS3 (which I really, really doubt it will) then will Gamespot change its 
 opinion on the 360 version? We'll have to wait and see. The gameplay is glitchy. I got caught inside 
 of a police officer blocking the road and didn't get out till what 5 minutes later! Beside that 
 purchasing new moves, attacks is something that we havent seen before and its something I hope will 
 stay. If you lose one of the Action Stages you'll start from the beginning and have to purchase 
 that move again so you can get over there to mission stage which really gets frustarting be helps 
 you find out what you did wrong before to lose. Sound is great. Even though Tails sounds like a 3 
 year old girl walking down the road asking for you to buy cookies from her other's voices save 
 the game from Tails weird one. Value is low this time around because there's many other games better 
 out there. Overall this game dosent deserve a 4.4 (like you gave it Gamespot) nor does it deserve 
 a 10, but it does deserve 7.8 little girls... I mean boys with 2 tails out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertoast_GT
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the most messed up games I have ever played. Sonic The Hedgehog for the Xbox 
 360 is right down there next to Superman 64... When Sega showed the CG trailer for Sinoc the Hedgehog, 
 it bew owr minds and made us think that the end of the chain of bad sonic games would finnaly end, 
 and that we'd see the best sonic game ever made! I myself am a huge sonic fan, but after the release 
 of Sonic adventure and Sonice Adventure 2, things just went horribly downhil, and into a nuclier 
 power plant.... Sega, what happened!? First there was Sonic heroes, it would have been a great 
 game, but swapping charactors bogged down the action and added many unwanted elements to the game, 
 then there was sonic riders, and now this? I have never been so dissapointed in a game since the 
 man of steel made his debut on the N64...
  
  The good: well... The polygon counts on the charactor models are pretty high, and some levels are 
 nice looking... and it runs in HD.... (so do all of the other Xbox 360 games but I'm trying desperatly 
 to find good in the package....)
  
  The bad: The controlls are terrible and most moves have very poor respond time, for instance, the 
 dummy ring bomb has a good 1 second delay before the animation starts. there are quite a few bad 
 camera angles in the game, and the charactors handle more like a semi truck towing five trailers 
 than the fastest thing in life .... (points to sonic fans who know of that phraise.)
  
  
  Sonic the hedgehog is living proof that graphics don't make the game... This game is one of the 
 glitchyerst out there, you will constantly find yourself stuck half way into a wall, box, or an 
 enemy. because of theres and other glitches, getting through the simplest of levels quickly looses 
 any entertainment value... checkpoints are much farther between than in previous sonic games. and 
 the rumble feature that was present in the Marketplace demo has been removed. (thank you PS3...) 
 that's not a big issue, but it's something we are used to having by now. The graphics are so-so 
 ingame, but nice in the CG cutscenes. I am trying to come up with more god things about this tittle, 
 but they don't come easy. The havoc physics in the game did little for the expiriance.
  
  The bottum line:
  
  This game is too glitched up and broken to even be released.... if you 
 want a good 3D sonic game, pick up Sonic Adventure, and/or Sonic adventure 2 for the GameCube, 
 or the Dreamcast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Meter
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game wasn't the best as it could had been, especially for a great system like the 360. Even 
 though he looks good and everything there was some stuff left out (controls, gameplay, etc) and 
 the game could had been greatly improved if the gameplay was more in depth and more controls and 
 something new and exciting. Still it is worth playing. Though the graphics and everything are nice 
 it isn't worth buying fully so just rent it because you'll feel bad if you purchase it. Trust me, 
 my friend wants to return it lol. Though it looks nice that Sonic looks older, his hair, tallness, 
 and the other stuff. I like it though so you can't say it was bad and it doesn't deserve a 4.4 
 grade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: channjose
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  !!!!!!!!!!! Great music, Incredible gameplay, Awesome 
 
  is SONIC THE HEDGEHOG, the best sonic title ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! this is a Masterpiece. I hope 
 that the next games are as incredible as this is. The music is perfect the best of all Sonic the 
 hedgehog games. The levels are perfectly designed like all the sonic games especially the Sonic 
 Adventure 2, buy it now especially if you are a fan of this saga, you will never regret of it. 
 The Silver missions are great and the shadows too but the best of all of course are the sonic missions, 
 the graphics are great but i hope in the play station3 version becames better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -KinGz-
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  So, I bought the game, cuz I was surprised by the GS score..., I sit and start playing it, the 
 first thing I notice was the colorful graphics, tho' they aren't impressive they are quite enjoyable 
 for the eyes, the voice acting was kinda dull, hmmm like if we say GOOD but not GREAT, the missions 
 in towns are pathetic, yeah they are..., but the stages have an impressive feel of speed, and it's 
 quite fun, the graphical glitches are hmmm horrible... and they appear too often... some animations 
 are just plain wrong but overall is ok..., the story... well introduces this new guy Silver, who 
 has physic powers that you can control and it's pretty cool throwing stuff at enemies and flying 
 in rocks and boxes with your physic power, Eggman kidnaps a princess and bla bla, tho' it's not 
 the same story it tends to seem repetitive... Sonic saves the world and so... I really wish they 
 could get rid of Eggman 'cuz I really hate that character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  After seeing some of the reviews of this game i thought that maybe it was the wrong thing to do 
 to spend my hard-earned cash on this. But I bought being the dedicated sonic fan that i am. As 
 I loaded the game up started the sonic story i was amazed by the beautiful graphics and how stunning 
 sonic and the other characters looked. You have to begin the game walking around the town talking 
 to people looking for clues as to where to go next..... this gets very annoying and very boring 
 quickly.
  once you being and act you have to go through the VERY boring and slow process of the loading times. 
 once finally you are there it all becomes clear how fast the sonic levels are your jumping about 
 then you speed off again so i eblieve that the speed of original sonic games have been re-introduced 
 into this game. The shadown levels are very similiar to the sonic ones however sometimes you use 
 vehicles like bikes, geeps and hover crafts. The cobntrols on thses are ok but the bike controls 
 are awful and too sensitive and you find yourself falling off at any point. Another probelm with 
 the game is accidental deaths which is a recurring theme in this game especially in the sonic super-speed 
 area. Silvers levels are on the best as the physchic powers he uses are really good and a lot of 
 fun and the silver story seems to go ona lot longer than the other storys.
  
  Sometimes in levels the character will switch to a support chararcter like tails or knuckles to 
 be honest you want to get through these sections as fast as possible as they are awful to control 
 and too slow and knuckles voice is death to my ears.
  
  Conclusion:
  The game has a great story some awesome music and looks brilliant. the levels are really enjoyable 
 but it is let down from some bad control systems and annoying support characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicNinja976
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Here Goes The Sonic Ninja With The Sonic Ninja Review On Sonic The Hedgehog For The Xbox 360. Sonic 
 Is Now 15, And This Is How Sega Pays The Sonic Fans.
  A Very Rushed, Broken, And Unfinished Game To Tie The Nuce On Sonic's Neck Tighter Around His Throat.
 
  
  First, The Bad:
  The Graphic's Are Not Really That Spectacular. You'll Notice In The Cinematic Cut-Scenes, That 
 The Polygons On The Character Models Are Not Smooth At All.
  The Controles Are Not Really An Improvement Neither.
  It Just Feels Broken.
  It Seems Like 
 In Every New Sonic Game, The Controls Keep Getting Worse And Worse.
  Also, Knuckles Punch Attack Barely Have An Impact, Unlike Heroes .
  The Story Was Really Stupid, 
 Confusing, And Poorly Put Together.
  But The Biggest Disapointment Is The Constant Loading Times In Between Action Stages And Town Stages.
 
  
  Now That That's Out Of The Way. Lets Get To The Good Stuff.
  The Action Stages Are Pretty Fun To Play.
  Sonic Still Has The Speed You Would Come To Expect 
 In A 3D Sonic Game.
  Shadow Was Kind Of Dull. Because There Was No Guns.
  Silver Was Interesting With His Mind Powers.
  And Thats Pretty Much It.
  
  Overall, Sonic 
 Fans Will Love This Game. Haters Will Start Lighting There Torches. And Everybody Else That Lost 
 Touch With The Franchise Will Simply Not Care.
  I Personally Was Not Looking Forward To ThIs Version. Even Though It Was Enjoyable For Me, It Could 
 Have Been Better.
  Just Rent It, Because Some Of You Curious Gamers Might Find Something Special About This Game.
 
  
  But, Theres Still A Chance For Sonic To Rise Again.
  Fingers Crossed For The PS3 Version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I have wanted to mourn Sonic's recent titles. Ever since the Dreamcast, Sonic has had a pretty 
 rough couple of titles. Sonic Heroes was pretty bad. Sonic Riders was a little better, but man, 
 it was not good. Shadow made me wish to slit my wrists to dull the pain. The brutal, brutal pain.
 
  
  This is the best Sonic game since Sonic Adventure 2. That the game easily holds this distinction 
 in spite of the incredibly bad bugs with it is a sad testament.
  
  Sonic has his first legitimately fun bunch of levels in a long, long time. The feeling of speed 
 is very much there and the control is not bad. An early level where you are jumping across debris 
 floating in a tornado was actually quite a lot of fun. Sonic handles quite well and he avoids the 
 uncontrollable speed issue that has been a problem in the past. There isn't really any slowdown 
 that I noticed, which was a little surprising considering the speed at which you travel frequently.
 
  
  Shockingly, the other characters might well have better areas. Silver the Hedgehog, seriously, 
 is an absolute blast to play. I didn't expect to like it, but his telekinetic powers are surprisingly 
 amusing. Shadow, after a truly horrendous run in his standalone title, is fun enough with the vehicles.
 
  
  We have smart level design. We have fun to control characters. So, what's the problem?
  
  Well, first, the camera is truly horrible. It will kill you far more often than anything else 
 will. When you're shooting through a level as Sonic, running at breakneck speed, a camera that 
 sure as heck isn't focusing on what you need to see is not your best friend out there. There is 
 also a really useless city that serves as the hub for many of the levels and the city is just bad. 
 The citizens are pointless, the missions in the city are usually less than enjoyable, and with 
 the camera problems, not dying by falling into the water surrounding it becomes a bigger challenge 
 than it otherwise should be.
  
  It's a really fun game but the problems are impossible to miss. It'd be best as a used or bargain 
 title than as a full-priced title, but I can't really criticize the game as being anything but 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uspinmeround18
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I've been a gamer since I was knee high to a Chao, and my earliest memories of gaming come in the 
 shape of a certain blue hedgehog. Now, a decade later I look back and sob into my Horlicks at how 
 easily pleased I was as a child. Hold right and occasionally jump until you hit the Goal Ring. 
 Someone tell me what is so great about this?
  
  Luckily, I still get plenty of enjoyment out of the 3D Sonic titles. I have very fond memories 
 of Sonic Adventure and Sonic Adventure 2. Even in the face of less-than-flattering reviews I bought 
 Sonic Heroes and loved it, although I could feel Sonic becoming tired and fractured with every 
 passing stage.
  
  I stuck to my theory on this latest title. The reviews have absolutely slaughtered it from every 
 angle, but I grew up in this world and I enjoyed the demo so I bought it regardless, and I'm extremely 
 glad that I did. Having given it the benefit of the doubt I can 100% understand all the negative 
 opinions towards this game.
  
  The camera comes close to making the game unplayable, since it uses a 3D control system. You can 
 be moving through a stage when the camera will flick around and you'll end up going in a completely 
 different direction as the controls haven't compensated for this change. Plus the fact that it 
 recognises scenery and thus will jam if you try to turn it whist in a confined space. The camera's 
 always been slightly annoying but never to this degree. The mission structure itself could use 
 some work. The majority of the action stages are fun and genuinely impressive, particularly Crisis 
 City, Kingdom Valley and Radical Train. Unfortunately the stages that suck.. REALLY suck. Flame 
 Core and Tropical Jungle, I'm looking at you. Then there's the town sections. They weren't a good 
 idea in Sonic Adventure and they're definitely not now. Although we do like the shopping.
  
  Character-wise you've got just about every Sonic character you could ever possibly want, and 
 a few more for good measure. Big The Cat is away farting about with his frog elsewhere. This is 
 good. Meanwhile, Team Sonic and Team Dark return, along with Amy Rose, Dr. Eggman and a first 3D 
 appearance for the fantastic Blaze The Cat from Sonic Rush. But most exciting is the new hedgehog 
 character, Silver. Awful name (he's silver, so they called him Silver, do you get it?) but brilliant 
 gameplay. Silver is a time-travelling hog from the future trying to edit the past to change his 
 present, using his futuristic psychokinetic powers to move objects and other random coolness.
 
  
  Plus there's plenty to do, and unlike some feats required in previous games, it's all doable. This 
 is good. Basically speaking, if you're not a fan of Sonic you will probably think this is the worst 
 game you've ever played. Alternatively, if you are a conniseur of the series you will probably 
 fall in love with it's similarites to Sonic Adventure, reliving happy memories, particularly in 
 the Wave Ocean stage, an obvious nod to Emerald Coast. Unfortunately, graphically it's diabolical 
 for an Xbox 360 game, but it's clear it's been rushed out half-finished. When reading about this 
 game I for one did not expect it to come out so soon. Hopefully, some more tweaking can be done 
 to save the PS3 version, and this will somehow translate into a big juicy update for us 360 owners 
 to fix this mess.
  
  Sonic Team need to get their Wii-exclusive title right, and it needs to be spectacular.. or we 
 could soon be bidding farewell to one of the world's most famous gaming mascots.
  
  Andy Fenn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna keep this review short, but I feel many people are ragging on poor ol'sonic for no good 
 reason. It mightn't be his best game ever, but it's a decent enough effort I feel.
  
  My only complaints come in the form of..
  
  Camera. It's resulted in many, many deaths...
 
  
  The areas where sonic 'has to go faster'.
  The controls here are.. Clunky, I think.
  Jumping feels somewhat delayed.
  This resulted in many more deaths.
  
  Silver The Hedgehog.
 
  I don't like him.
  His voice vaguely reminds me of Conan O'Brien doing his 'Nerd' impression.
  Isn't enough variety 
 in his moves, either.
  
  While running around and stuff does produce some feeling of incredible speed, it often doesn't 
 feel like you have much control over it.
  It's like you hit a ramp or some other speed booster and watch sonic fly all over the place for 
 a minute or so before taking the reigns again.
  Might as well be a cut scene.
  
  Otherwise, it's alright.
  It's not a great gamer by any means, but passable.
  If you're not 
 a big Sonic fan best just rent it.
  
  (Note: The only reason I'm writing sonic off as hard is because of frustrating camera and the speed 
 bits, otherwise it's generally pretty damn easy. Take that into account) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the Sonic Adventure games (much to the chagrin of most of my friends) , so I 
 was pretty excited when I heard Sonic Team was going to try to bring their blue bomber back to 
 his original 3D form. Unfortunately, the end result is something buggy, broken, and just plain 
 un-fun.
  
  The graphics, while not terrible, are certainly subpar. The draw-distance on the shadows of various 
 objects is about an inch in front of your character's nose, and the shading on character models 
 is pixelated and simply ugly. As in past voice-acted Sonic games, the voice acting here is pretty 
 awful. Unfortunately, if you're an audiophile like I am, you may notice the low quality of the 
 sound effects recycled from past Sonic games. The sound of picking up rings sounds exactly like 
 it did in the Genesis games, and that's not necessarily a good thing anymore.
  
  Although you can play through the game additional times with other characters, it most definitely 
 isn't worth it. The sheer ridiculousness of the controls is more than enough to keep all but the 
 most masochistic gamers at bay for a second helping. I also encounter a huge number of game-breaking 
 bugs that resulted in undue lost lives, making the cheap deaths to earned deaths ratio at an all-time 
 high. One boss I had to attempt ten times because of a bug that kept throwing me into the stadium 
 seats whenever I tried to climb on his back. Good old fashioned cheap deaths are back, though, 
 and they're here en force. The desert stage is a perfect, spoilers-free instance of this; you literally 
 have to know exactly when to activate Sonic's shield power to cross the sand or you'll die. Every 
 time.
  
  This game had SO MUCH POTENTIAL, but unfortunately it winds up feeling crappy and thrown-together. 
 I'd recommend steering clear of this title at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezapoc
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 20, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I looked at this game in 2 different lights after it popped through my letter box, at first I thought 
 it was quite good but not brilliant and obviously needed about half a years work done to it to 
 fix all the stupid bugs and the excessive loading times.
  
  Then when I dug Sonic Adventure out I realised how bad the game really is.
  You see Sonic Adventure 
 was the first game to get Sonic completely right in 3D, there are quite a few reasons for this.
 
  
  1st they got the level design absolutely right with the levels being just the right size so that 
 if you lose all your lives you wouldnt have to wade through another 5-10 minutes of frustrating 
 unfair deaths to get back to where you last died due to some stupid glitch.
  
  You could be just Sonic on his own and still have quite a sizable adventure to play and not be 
 forced to be tails or any other character.
  
  The camera was manageable even though it wasnt without its faults and for its time the graphic 
 were astounding to look at and it still looks good today in a similar way to Mario 64.
  
  These are the things that Sonic The Hedgehog fall down on, in fact playing as Sonic was so bad 
 that I switched to Shadow after 5 minutes.
  
  After extensive play (due to those damn addictive achievements) the games faults do become more 
 bearable, but they create a damn hard game playing experience, similar to veteran in Call of duty 
 2, what Sonic Team should have done is dispence with the lives in normal mode.
  this would have made the game alot easier to complete for first timers and would have stopped alot 
 of reviewers from tearing the game to shreds. But the worst bit of the game by far are the Super 
 Speed sections of the game when you're playing as Sonic.
  In these you control Sonic by moving him left and right andjumping to avoid obsticles while he's 
 running extremely fast.
  Unfortunately the glitches in this cause you to fall to your death when you touch anything, if 
 they have removed them I would have enjoyed this game a heck of alot more.
  
  One very good point though, the music and sound are very good (i've never even bothered with custom 
 soundtracks on the game) , in fact the music sometimes echos panzer dragoon in style, this adds 
 more to the game than in previous 3D sonic titles and makes the music closer to that of the 16bit 
 games of old with music themed more to the level its backing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -MajinBuu-
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game was a serious let down, I became an Gamespot member just so I could write a review to 
 save you serious gamers from wasting your time and money with this baby. The fact that this game 
 has NEXT GEN in the advertising is a travesty. Here's the low down: horrible loading times, awful 
 voice overs on the characters, mediocre graphics-definitely not next-gen, no meaningful online, 
 repetitive gameplay, no story... did I mention horrible loading times? With all the great games 
 out right now (Gears of War, COD3, FEAR, Rainbow 6) dont even waste your time with this one, SEGA-shame 
 on you, this type of product is why your going bankrupt. Way to give the hedgehog a dirty sanchez. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaBeat
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 31, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  If you have played Sonic Adventure, then the gameplay format of Sonic the Hedgehog 06 will be very 
 familiar to you. Unfortunately, it's not as good as Sonic Adventure.
  
  There are 3 episodes this time around, which are led by three hedgehogs, Sonic, Shadow, and the 
 newcomer, Silver. They all have their purposes and they will meet one another often. Sonic's is 
 completely based off of Speed gameplay. This type was originated in Sonic Adventure. You'll run 
 through loops and dash through several obstacles. All of this sounds amusing at least, but it doesn't 
 play very well. Shadow's levels combine speed elements with VEHICLES! 2005's Shadow the Hedgehog 
 introduced vehicles to the Sonic series, and they are back! COOL! (note the sarcasm) And finally, 
 we got Silver, who has acquired psychic powers. He can control crates and objects surrounding him. 
 He can also control missiles that are launched at him and he can backfire them. At least Silver's 
 gameplay sounds interesting. Finally, when those characters aren't in special stages, he can run 
 in town stages and talk to people for clues and such, similar to the Adventure fields from Sonic 
 Adventure.
  
  But now, I'm going to tell you Sonic fans the truth. This game sucks. What could've been at the 
 very least, a decent game, turns out to be a lackluster, broken, half-baked 3D game from the minds 
 of Sonic Team. Sonic's gameplay is such a disappointment. Sonic is supposed to be fast, but his 
 speed here is only at a jogging pace, which ruins the speed momentum. There are occasional times 
 when Sonic is forced to run really fast to chase something. This part IS pretty fast, but it's 
 not fun. So what are the main problems with Sonic's gameplay? CONTROLS!!! They are very stiff and 
 sloppy that no one can just pick this game up and play. You have to take hours to get used to the 
 poorly made controls. When Sonic uses his homing attack, he will do it in a slow manner, and sometimes 
 you'll aim incorrectly which will make you fall to your doom. Many of the deaths in this game are 
 so cheap this way. Sonic's gameplay is average at best, yet mediocre at its worst.
  
  Then we have Shadow's gameplay. Brilliant idea to bring vehicles here Sega! I'm sure you characterize 
 Shadow as a lazy, cocky, overconfident idiot now. By the way, the vehicles were a lame idea in 
 Shadow the Hedgehog, released in 2005, so there was no point at all for bringing them back. Otherwise, 
 Shadow's gameplay revolves around fighting and speed. Apparently, Shadow can use a lot of fighting 
 moves on tough enemies, unlike Sonic. It's a nice touch at least since it reduces the frustration 
 of defeating various enemies. Other then that, Shadow's speed gameplay is the same as Sonic's.
 
  
  Now we got Silver, who uses psychic powers rather then speed. This is a very interesting idea... at 
 least on paper. Silver can pick up various crates or objects to attack enemies. He can also paralyze 
 enemies so he can throw them around. Also, Silver can float in the air for a short period of time. 
 But the bad controls, and the constant shooting from your enemies make Silver's gameplay very frustrating. 
 You can never evade some of the attacks launch at Silver. And flying at another place requires 
 you to jump high enough or far enough then using your floating technique. It's always a trial-error 
 feel. Silver's gameplay could've been a decent platformer segment, but it ends up being a very 
 frustrating part of this game.
  
  We also got town stages. It's nice to walk around and talk to random people for clues and exploring 
 the town itself, but it's not interesting. Every single thing about the town stages is bland and 
 boring. All the other problems in the game involve the camera. The camera may not be as bad as 
 the controls, but it's hard to use it sometimes and it can get very out of place in some situations. 
 Another major letdown Sonic the Hedgehog offers is the load times. Never before have I played any 
 video game where I get annoying and frustrated with the load times. The load times are literally 
 10-15 seconds long and they are frequent! When your doing a mission in the town stages, a load 
 screen comes up and lasts 10 seconds, then you'll get a guy to tell you what to do in 2 lines, 
 then ANOTHER load time comes up, lasting about 15 seconds or so. It takes so long just to load 
 up a small sequence or a small cutscene. There are also load times between sections of the action 
 stages of the characters. But WHY?!
  
  Sonic Adventure, which this game seems to use its formula somewhat, never had any of these issues, 
 such as load times, camera, controls, and layout of stages, and that's a Dreamcast game. Sonic 
 the Hedgehog is for the Xbox 360 and PS3, and these issues are very notable and ruin the game experience. 
 Sonic the Hedgehog could've been a good game, but with these extremely disappointing flaws, it's 
 very poor.
  
  Graphics:
  
  While the graphics are an improvement over the previous Sonic games, that doesn't mean it all looks 
 great here. The character models look real nice, and the environments look colorful. The best thing 
 about the graphics are the FMV cutscenes, which look great. However, the actual details, such as 
 the buildings, various objects, and such, are very last-gen. As a matter of fact, Sonic the Hedgehog 
 looks more like an Xbox game, only given an extra coat of paint so it can look somewhat like a 
 next-gen game. The frame rate is a disappointment here. It's sometimes solid, but in some cases, 
 it slows down too much to the point where it effects the gameplay, it becomes a real nuisance. 
 So the visuals here look alright, but there are some notable flaws that prevent it from looking 
 like a complete next-gen game.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music is alright, with a couple songs that standout, but are otherwise forgettable. The orchestrated 
 music in the cutscenes is well fitting, but the level music is mostly generic. Then we have an 
 awkward voice acting performance here. Even though famed Lacey Chabert does a good job with her 
 role as Princess Elise, the other voice actors have issues. Most of the other voice actors are 
 from 4kids Entertainment, and that usually is a bad sign. Some of the voices are very unfitting 
 or do a bad job staying in character. The original voice acting cast from Sonic Adventure through 
 Sonic Heroes was much more talented. While the overall voice acting here isn't terrible, it's not 
 good enough to live up to the experience in the cutscenes. The sound effects get the job done, 
 but don't expect much.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  How the hell could Sega just release a game that has broken gameplay and sloppy presentation? Sonic 
 the Hedgehog is so bad that I even consider Shadow the Hedgehog, which was also a poor game, better 
 then this. Sega has not released a great 3D Sonic game since Sonic Adventure 2 for the Dreamcast. 
 Sonic Heroes was alright, but it had some issues. Then we got Shadow, which I mentioned already, 
 that gave us bad controls and camera. Sonic the Hedgehog of 2006 is the newest game that frustrates 
 Sonic fans and critics. Sonic Team could've improved from their mistakes for this game, but they 
 keep making flaws and making them worse and worse. With bad controls, poor camera, abysmal loading 
 times, and overall lame gameplay, Sonic the Hedgehog is not worth the purchase at all. Those still 
 wanting to try it out, then rent it first, not buy it. This is a waste of $60, or pretty much any 
 other cost.
  
  Because of this disappointment of a Sonic game, I refuse to buy anymore future Sonic games until 
 Sega finally cleans up their nasty act by releasing great Sonic games and actually listening to 
 their fans.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Nice cutscenes
  -Gameplay concept resembles Sonic Adventure
  -Nice direction the game went in terms of maturity
 
  -The music sticks out rather well at times.
  
  Cons:
  
  -Bad controls and bad camera lead to a messed up gameplay
  -Frequent and long load times
  -Some 
 last-gen (Xbox) textures and detail.
  -Town stages are rather bland
  -The action stages are frustrating and unenjoyable
  -Some mediocre voice acting
  -Some songs 
 are forgettable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitsu570
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  Where to start on this game. This is a definite must not buy for anyone. The camera angles are 
 lackluster , the gameplay is not fun. The best part of it all is the beggining movie. The burger 
 king games are better than this is. I was hoping this would be like the Dreamcast game but it is 
 no where near that. Good Luck on this game and try to have fun if you bought this game.
  
  My overall score is a 2.0, Sonic is a dead series trying to make a comeback . For the pricetag 
 on this game there is no come back for Sonic, Go MARIO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- Sonic runs faster than ever; the new hog silver works very well; cool co-op gameplay
  
  BAD- Framerate drops every single time, making it unplayable; other charactures sucks and does'nt 
 move fast; Level disigns are ruined due to characture switches and pauses; GAMEPLAY-
  What we all fought was going to be a revolation for our speed demon on the new consols turned out 
 to be a downgrade from the Gamecube versions the the old school versions. this is a game that could 
 turn any sonic fan away, the only good characture is sonic cos you get that adrennalin rush with 
 his exstreame speed, but when the frame rate drops, so does the mood becouse everything slows down 
 and ruins the mood, In some stages at the end you'll go into a Speedy Zone were you go evem faster 
 than ever, the probblem is that sonic is uncontrolable and you'll be jumpping off the end of a 
 cliff ever time, sonics friend tails, is the worse of all charactures, hes painfully slow, PAINFULLY 
 slow, and has rubbish attacks, he throws rings....... and you cant collect them after, so he sucks, 
 Shadow is pretty good, works as well as sonic but not as fast, but he can drive cars with guns!, 
 he conpanions Rouge is like tails but better, shes faster and can fly, but still has rubbish attacks 
 like Tails. but there bombs
  Silver is a new characture and works well with his powers, you'd think tellekenisis will work rubbish 
 and get in the way, but they work fine and brilliant, though not as fast as sonic, he can use his 
 powers to collect rockets from robots and use them against them, his friend Blaze is from Sonic 
 Rush from the Nintendo DS, she works good as well, works the same as as the DS version.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Sonic The Hedgehog has had a makeover, but the backgrounds dont, the backgrounds look 
 like they've been taken from the dreamcast version and stuck a smated up version of sonic init, 
 though insome acations the graphics look great during gameplay, in some cutscences like at the 
 beginning the graphics look awesome, but one major thing that ruins the graphics is its terrible 
 Glitches and bugs and its major Frame rate drop, that drops every single time and makes the game 
 unplayable.
  
  SOUND:
  Again, like all sonic games the music rules, i realy like the music specily the main music, the 
 voice acting is decent and i realy like sonics voice, he sounds cool, angry but gentle at the same, 
 i love his voice, though not has good music as the others there still pretty awesome.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall sonic is'nt the game we was promissed, but no sonic fan should'nt give it a 
 miss, im crying that im giving this a low rating.
  Sonic Team needs to give us what they promissed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Wiggles
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  4.4? Umm no this gmae deserves no score less than 7.0. This is the best game in the sonic series 
 yes it has its glitches but so does every sonic game and the kick ass gameplay and graphics make 
 up for more than enough of that. The reason you people give these 3D sonic games bad ratings is 
 because your comparing them to the old games. Can't you give this game a rating over the funness 
 of it over how it sucks compared to old games can't you just love the game thats been given to 
 you?
  
  O. k. as for the game. This game is faster than any sonic game before it and is much better. It 
 has quite a few glitches but if you know where they are you can jiust think of them as an obsticle 
 instead of a problem. The only bad thing besides the glitches that kinda hurts the game is the 
 story line. The princess kisses Sonic that like Lassie saving Timmy from the well and them making 
 out. But the new characters rock though the slowness of silver gets anoying but Mephiles kicks 
 ass. This game also finna; y has a good super fight where you can use silver, sonic , and shadow 
 simitaniously and they did thid without making a crappy boss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSonicx2005
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I heard this was to be on Xbox Live when I first got to the menu of the game I went to Mutiti player 
 and it did not show Xbox Live then I found out that you have to download something from Xbox Live 
 Martket Places so I still want to know why this game got a 4.4 I rate this game 10.0 I can't wait 
 to play it on Xbox Live all the guys in the game look so real everybody in looks so real so if 
 you are a Sonic fan then get this game the grapths are so Awesome so get ready for a Big Adventure 
 in Sonic The Hedgehog 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is awful, just awful. Enough trash can't be talked about this abomination. Who would 
 have thought Sonic would turn into this. I just can't bear to play this game anymore. Let's start 
 with the controls. Garbage. Camera? Garbage.
  Voice acting? Garbage
  Fun Factor? Garbage
  Graphics? Suprisingly good!
  
  Summary: if you're such a casual that graphics are all that 
 matters, buy this game!
  
  Seriously though, this game is meant to work the same way as that gem, Sonic Adventure, for Dreamcast, 
 but somehow they totally f'ed that up. Sonic will randomly changed directions while you're trying 
 to control him, won't target in the direction you're holding, and lots of other characteristics 
 of a game made by a 2 year old. And the camera will drive you absolutely bat****. Not only did 
 they reverse BOTH axes of control, but the camera seems to be programmed to point in the wrong 
 direction and not move where you want it to just to piss you off.
  
  While the graphics are pretty good, even exceptional in the cutscenes, most dialogue is text, and 
 the audio dialogue is weak, at best. Seems like all the good actors had the foresight not to lend 
 their vocal likenesses to this steaming pile. All of this combined just makes for a really unenjoyable 
 gaming experience. Even the die-hard Sonic fans (like me) , will be turned off of the series by 
 this waste. Avoid at all costs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mexjet
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  the game is grate for the speed sesation but the charge time is descasting. This game is just like 
 any other amazing sonic game but the grapichs are now totaly awesome and the story is very cool 
 as well. Sonic Adventure, Sonic Adventure 2 were my old favorites in the series and this game enter 
 in this list. If you like Sonic the hedgehog games then you will love this. Its a littler harder 
 this time around, but not as hard as Sonic Heroes. During the gameplay the camera tends to get 
 frustrating at times and might mess you up. The load time are kinda frequent and lengthy. And there 
 does tend to be glitches but what game doesnt have glitches. The levels are very exciting and gameplay 
 is pretty lengthy as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rizer
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  I honestly am astounded at the trend of flaws that Sega seems to ignore completely when they try 
 an churn out the good ol' Sonic the Hedgehog addtions in 3D. It really is strange, I buy a good 
 ol soinc sidescroller and I am reasonalbely satified, but for the most part every 3D game I have 
 bought seems to be filled with techincal flaws. I mean how many times does Soinc or Knuckles have 
 to fall through seemingly solid doors of walls to there deaths for Sega to get they're act together? 
 STORYLINE:
  
  The story starts on the path choosen from Soinc the Hedgehog's perspective. There are three total, 
 but the other two must be unlocked. The scene open with a CG feature a overelaberate ceremony involving 
 a princess lighting a big torch. At first it doesn't really look so much like a Sonic game than 
 it does some FF copying RPG intro, but then the cermony is crashed by a barrage of missilesand 
 everyones favorite villian: Dr. Eggman. Dr. Eggman demands the princess come with him when a blue 
 streak takes out Eggmans robot drones and Sonic appears ( looking as out of place as a baseball 
 mascot at the mall) . Anyway he says some corny one liners, strikes some heroic poses, grabs the 
 princess and carrys her to safety with missiles causeing ton of collateral damage behind him. The 
 scene ends and the princess is captured anyway for some reason. Before she goes she tosses Sonic 
 a blue chaos emerald leaving Sonic asking questions: What is the emerald for this time? Why did 
 Eggman take the princess?
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog should not have been released yet. I know Sega has to pay the bills but when 
 a game, ANY game, has this many holes after it's release... Well, it says alot. Not only about the 
 companies' ability to create games, but what they think of the consumers. I would think that lots 
 of Sonic fans would be sick of how man times they've been overlooked, stepped on and downwright 
 ignored. In a well known title that has been in production for years with all of the capabilities 
 of today's technology... this simply should not happen.
  
  Expecially nowadays with the technology of the Xbox 360... I should not have to endure loading times 
 every minute or so. This is made worse with the fact that each loding time wastes about a total 
 50% of the time it actually takes you to finish your buisness in the level it's loading. It's made 
 even more ridiculous with the fact that, if you lose all your lives and die for some unforseen 
 (and most part seriously flawed) reason the game returns to the loading screen and you must reload 
 the game from your save point and go through all the loading screens all over again just to take 
 another wack at it anyway. I haven't seen that particular annoyance since the days of the old SNES 
 and Genisis.
  
  On top of the loading times, there are a score of other little flaws that, added together, put 
 so much strain of your patience that the player in question will feel so exahusted after final 
 wasting so much effort getting through a level they will probably not feel like going through it 
 again and just save and quit unitl the resolve to face the numorous glitches returns. Yep. Falling 
 through floors and walls that should be solid, the ignoring controller commands, invisible enemys, 
 bad physics, crazy camera angles, and delayed responses are all back. On top of that, bad gameplay 
 was also added for good measure. It might be old age, but sonic and his freinds are no longer very 
 as fast as they used to be. The sense of speed emphisised in every Soinc game has been downplayed 
 a lot in the one and It takes some time to get to max speed. And on the rare occations you do get 
 to that max speed bliss every object that sonic makes contact with ( usually because you can't 
 see it as the camera love to take angle that face the ground) ether hurts him and/or causes him 
 to fly WAY off course often resulting in instant death when he flys off a cliff or into another 
 solid object.
  
  So, okay, you say to yourself Alright, I won't play as Sonic, but surely I can get my fix with 
 on of the many other sonic characters (Tails, Knuckles, Shadow, Espio, Storm, Bigs, Cream, Amy, 
 etc.) . Well... yes and... no.
  You see, you cand only pick three story paths: one being the initial Sonic path, Shadow's path, 
 and the path of (*sigh* another) new hedgehog character creatively named Silver. In each path the 
 story throughs in so of the other characters occationaly as background or as helpers , but on the 
 rare occations that you do use them, most of them although not all... stink. That's putting it mildly 
 too. I say this because like Sonic, Sliver and Shadow the're combat moves are limited and again 
 most cases (but not all) somewhat uninteresting as every enemy can be dispatched in one or two hits. 
 In other words, most combat is still very dull most of the time.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Of course, the graphics look good. They have to. It a third gen game after all and they have to 
 look the part. In fact if you look at the intro, you might mistack the cutscene sytle for a final 
 fanstay's until Sonic shows up (looking a little out of place. It was a little like watching a 
 Mickey Mouse trying to blend in with the crowd of real people at Walt Disney World.) When the game 
 is in CG the level graphic and character movements are well done too. Unfortunately, just because 
 the graphics look nice doesn't mean much when Sonic or Shadow still fall through the floor.
  
  SOUND:
  
  It's pleasent enoungh. They threw in some really nice new tunes, but when you 
 get to the town and some of the levels occationaly you'll get the feeling that some sounds have 
 been reused. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: birdiefn
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Im a big sonic fan and this new version has some super upgrades. but who ever developed that game 
 (i talkin progamer team wise) they need 2 find a new job. I have never seen such rediculosly long 
 long annoyin load times, for silly things, probly on a PS1 i will 4give dat crap but not on a next 
 gen machine from microsoft. Another eye sore was the inverted camera o commn guys jus shoot me 
 in the head. Sega Team needs a new workers.
  
  Besides that love d gameplay love the speed n even the story its ok. Jus get it right the next 
 time guys, r u will loose ur loyal fans man.
  
  P. S. - 4.4 was really harsh but i cant blame gamspot (lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathaXx98
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has gotton manny bad reviews. If you arn't a big fan of the Sonic the hedgehog series, 
 than i can see why some hate this game. However if you love the entire Sonic series this game won't 
 dissapointed you. If you didn't like past sonic games than i recomend you not to get this game, 
 you will play it and then quickly complain about it. If you do love the series as I do then i recomend 
 this game and i promise you won't regret it.
  
  This game's difficulty is between Sonic Adventure 1 and Sonic Heroes. Its hard at some points but 
 doesn't have the unfair deaths famous in Sonic Heroes. The gameplay and story are very cool for 
 sonic fans. Three hedgehogs to play as offers some not repitive game play, if you get bored of 
 one you can play another and then go back to it at a later time. The sound is more of a Shadow 
 the Hedgehog kind of sound and not as upbeat as say Sonic Adventure 2's.
  
  The graphics in this game are far beyond wwhat we have seen in the previous sonic games. Fans and 
 haters of this game can agree that Sonic has never looked better.
  
  Q&amp; A
  I never played sonic before should i get this? No
  I love Sonic games but should i get this one 
 even though it is disliked by some? Yes . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  sonic couldnt get any worse i have to say its good at times but gets boring i cant believe people 
 actually rate this game 10 or even 8 shouldnt be. I spend more time dying in this then ever with 
 the dodgy camera work that just sucks and the boost pads lead you to fall off. Its XBOX 360 the 
 game should be great but its just boring no matter who you play as it still isnt fun. The game 
 gets even worse what i hate is long loading screens what here it is, you go to a person to speak 
 to the for a mission loading screen, the person tells you what you have to do another loading screen, 
 you finish the mission another loading screen, you talk to the person and yet again another loading 
 screen. There's 3 hedgehogs which do different things but still with the loading screens messing 
 this game right up and the camera work just sucks. Sega made a terrible game and i cant believe 
 they made sonic go like this. lets hope sega i improve this this isnt worth your money i hope it 
 going to be better on PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  If you expect sonic to be near as much fun as it was in 2d then your expecting too much.
  Expect it to be anything like sonic adventure or sonic heros and your almost right. Making a game 
 that played so fast into 3d will always see you having problems. Mainly the control, as this game 
 is much on rails and this is where the game works best giving you minimal control which means not 
 much room for error, however its when your given the freedom of the characters where things begin 
 to behave badly. The camera sometimes has a hard task in keeping with the gameplay mainly because 
 of the speed at this game runs. The controls are fidderly if responsive making you look silly during 
 play even if you are very good at it. Theres no doubt about it, theres a good game in here but 
 its heavily broken but its also the broken bits themselves that bog down the game as a whole, i'm 
 not just talking about minor glitches here and there, but a lot of the level design and structure 
 that seems so out of place and would have bettered without them. I'll be more specific, you know 
 the game seemed rushed either to try and get it out for sonics 15th anniversary or wotever the 
 stupid reason, thats no way to make a game. The loading times for example seem bolted on as an 
 after thought to load up a little bit of extra text after the original line of text. Annoying to 
 say the least. So yeah without the town elements this would have been more sonic then it is and 
 that part of it just doest suit sonics nature, not in the way we know it. Yeah i know we cant help 
 but compare it with original sonic back in the day of 2d but then i think thats where we're going 
 wrong. Or is it just me ?, because you can compare it to sonic adventure or sonic heroes because 
 thats basically what this game is.
  
  Tails is an annoying little prick and just follows sonic around, a lot on the city maps and he 
 has stupid AI and still a kids voice that sounds like lisa simpson. So i still think the voices 
 are bad but sonics is better than previous games and shadows is best. ok, thats most of the bad 
 stuff out of the way, now let me focus more on the good points of this game. Like i said before, 
 theres a good game in here and when its good its great but that moment is very short lived, sadly. 
 Its a hit and miss affair really and that aint good enough by my standards. I love the backing 
 music and i would have liked it if it was used more throughout the game and not just mainly at 
 an end of a level. br /&gt;
  The graphics are rather nice actually and do the job very well, sharp, crisp and colourful just 
 what we would expect from sonic. But the game does have frame rate issues and when things get busy 
 it shows and thats without it getting too busy at times. But then the levels are large in scale 
 and have a good draw distance at times even though its largely unexplorable which is how its meant 
 to be i think so why the stupid town sections ?. maybe there in here to break up the action because 
 when i'm doing these parts i cant wait to get back onto a level, now thats a good feeling but in 
 the wrong way. The controls are not that bad actually, not as bad as i was expecting, once you 
 learn how to control sonic, but its mainly the camera that ruins things and a few bugs. Sonic isn't 
 as twitchy as i thought. The speed is odd at times, it seems there are levels that are purely based 
 on speed but sonic goes faster than usual like the bit where your running away from a tornado with 
 um a car in it. That bit looked fantastic but then not so much when you hit a pipe and come to 
 a halt. Thats the thing about this game it has loads of style and at times when things are playing 
 great makes you look great and i think these are those moments where the game is great, am i right 
 or am i right. But like i said these moments are short lived and just makes the player look stupid 
 again and its a while before you get back to bits like that because you then have to do stupid 
 tasks for people. I did the snowboarding level and i wasn't very happy, i died 6 times ! and lost 
 all my lives, then i did it first go when i tried again, go figure ?. Thats when it hit me how 
 awful the level design was, on that particular level anyway. The bit where your in the town and 
 you have to guess who is the right guard, i worked that out first go, it was the guy you were speaking 
 to all along wasn't it.
  The level after the tornado was fantastic after the bit where your running down a building on fire. 
 The sense of speed and direction, i loved it but then those dam bugs got in the way.
  The 3 musketeers challenge was a bit annoying at first as they didn't really explain what you had 
 to do. Knuckles level in particular, turns out i had to completely destroy the rocks for it to 
 count. Aslo sonic speed level was a bit weird. I was just running round in circles before i found 
 the ring, did that bit first time though. So closing comments, I actually enjoyed the game a lot, 
 staying up late, getting up early the next day just to play it again. Weird that, i would rather 
 play this game then a lot of other 360 games that scored high marks. And i'm not just saying that. 
 This game is on a par with sonic adventure but this one comes out on top for me purely because 
 its next gen, so to speak. This game is rather repetitive and i spose all the boring bits are here 
 to break up those other bits Literally (Broken) . But i still think with better direction this game 
 could have bin some. Without the bugs, a well behaved camera, some broken sections fixed and the 
 removal of all the town sections and this game would have easily scraped a 7/10 and possibly an 
 8 !. Its true what they say, less is more. (if u no wot i mean.)
  If i were a multi millionaire i would have bought sonic off sega and fixed it myself. P. s Eggman 
 has lost a few pounds, must be all that running to the auditions to play the same old part over 
 and over again. He looks quite good though if a little different to the Dr. we know (Short and 
 fat.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EpiHeroOfTime
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  What started out to be a promising title has ended in utter despair. I had high hopes that this 
 new Sonic game would bring the blue blur black from the slums of mediocrity but that was not to 
 be. What turned up instead was a game that barely even resembled a Sonic game.
  To start the controls were not very good at all. It is very difficult to control Sonic and trying 
 to turn just slightly often causes you to overturn. Sonics homing attack is also not as responsive 
 and actually takes awhile to perform between hitting opponents. Its also disappointing that you 
 have to use the homing attack to actually hit an enemy when Sonic is airborne, you can not simply 
 jump on them. Controlling Tails in flight is even worse as you are forced to move forward when 
 flying.
  My major gripe with the game was the loading times. Before you begin a mission or start a stage 
 the game abruptly cuts to a loading screen, then it loads a 5 to 10 second conversation which often 
 just consists of text. It then cuts to another loading screen to load the actual level. Then before 
 you finish there is another abrupt cut and another load screen just to load the stage results. 
 The entire thing was the messiest part of the game and has made me wonder if Sonic Team has actually 
 forgotten how to make a Sonic game. Especially since the Dreamcast did all of that with considerably 
 less loading.
  Another factor is the camera. Sonic Team has had plenty of time to refine the camera but it only 
 appears to have gotten worse. It has difficulty panning smoothly and doesnt like it when Sonic 
 stands on the very tops of the roofs.
  The gameplay was actually ok, but not what I would have wanted for a next-gen Sonic experience. 
 It is essentially Sonic Adventure 2 only not as good. The story seemed to be interesting though 
 a little cheesy at times. The soundtrack is really something different but good none the less.
 
  In my opinion, the intro cinematic was the best part of the game. I admit I did not play the whole 
 thing, only because the mechanics were so bad I had to stop. I love the Sonic series and had hoped 
 that this was the game to give it new life but for some reason, Sonic Team put together a sloppy 
 mess and decided to call it a next-gen experience. I recommend everyone to stay away from this 
 title and sadly that includes Sonic fans. Stick to the much better 3d Sonic games like the original 
 Sonic Adventure or Sonic Adventure 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bballjb2004
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is a great game that deserves better than a 4.4, but there a some small things 
 that made it fell like it could have been better. The graphics are amazing, including the characters, 
 environment and everything. The levels are very exciting and gameplay is pretty lengthy as well.
 
  
  Now for the bad. During the gameplay the camera tends to get frustrating at times and might mess 
 you up. The load time are kinda frequent and lengthy. And there does tend to be glitches but what 
 game doesnt have glitches.
  
  The bottom line, Sonic the Hedgehog is a solid and exciting game with some technical difficulties 
 that kinda take the fun out of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glass-jaw
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  ok where do i start' first off the controlls you move the stick abit and he shoots flying you move 
 the stick left and he ends up going right move right
  he ends up going left i find myself not even bothering to pick up any coins
  because it drives 
 me mad just trying to pick them up yet alone at high speed. and the level layout has got lazy written 
 all over it. and dont even get me started on the loading times a guy speaks then load then he speaks 
 again then loads and so on and then there is the graphics' im sorry to
  say this but sonic on the dreamcast had better graphics then this im a very big fan of sonic but 
 no matter how hard i try to get into the game
  i just cant it just feel's like a half made game with a full price tag.
  rent first!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makimachimisao
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This Sonic game promied to be true to it's roots but its really like Sonic Adventure not that that's 
 a bad thing but it's just that it looks like a reamke more than a new game the gameplay is fast 
 enough to make you hurl up and the graphics are colorful and cute in their own distinguished mannner.
 
  However the Sound does'nt really wow you it just makes you sit there and wonder why Steve Urkel 
 is voicing Sonic in a Game the game isnt all that long but its fun and addictive and it's multiplayer 
 is also pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackGuilmon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I have a little advice for you.
  
  DO NOT let the bashers and reviews get you down. If your felling unsure you will like this game, 
 just give it a rent. Stay strong and always go with your gut. Don't let anyone else try to tell 
 you othewise. This game truthfuly is a love it or hate it game my friends.
  
  I will now explain to you some of the games good, bad, and debatable points of the game: (NOTE: The 
 bad things are mostly from complaints of other people and not myself. Also, these only of things 
 people complain the most about)
  
  BAD The camera: This has always been one of the main issues of 3D games, but it appears even worse 
 in this game. Not that I have any problems with it though, but that's just me. The camera at is 
 worst is possibly during most boss fights. The camera also seems to have issues during the action 
 stages. It is also very unresponsive at times, so be prepared to get a little ticked off. To put 
 it out there, the camera seems to be one of the main issues with the game. If you had issues with 
 camera in past 3D titles, no dobut you will with this game.
  
  The loading times: These can really get on your nerves. They are like around 10-15 per load. Though, 
 if you have played other games with long loading times and have gotten used to them, you will have 
 no problems here.
  
  The glitches: The glitches are also very abundant in this game. Though once again I never really 
 had an issue with these, many people complain about going through floors, walls and what not. The 
 most glitchy areas people mention are the mach speed zones, which means possibly going through 
 obsticles, pillars, or even just falling to you death.
  
  The speed: This is where many Sonic fans really start complaining. The speed in this game, even 
 with Sonic, dose not go very fast. There is always the mach speed areas and there is a certain 
 upgrade to boost your speed. The levels main focus is on the platforming.
  
  The pits: I really don't see this as an issue. To me, it adds more of a challenge to the game, 
 though many people tend to complain abou it. Yes, there are many pits in this game and yes, that 
 also means you will probably die many times before reaching your goal.
  
  The town stages: This may be the only thing I agree with most people about. They are very large, 
 so you can spend maybe up to an hour just trying to find your way out. Also, they can seem very 
 dull and unlively. You most likely will only go to town stages to spend money and do missions and 
 nothing else.
  
  The VA's: All I can say is that if you hated the VAs (4kids) in Shadow and Riders, you will probably 
 still hate them. Admittibly though, they have gotten alot better.
  
  GOOD The Graphics: Though not all that great by 360 standards, the graphics are just BEAUTIFUL. 
 The action stages have very nice background scenery and the cutscens are very vibrant. Though they 
 of course do not affect overall gameplay, they are just plain nice to look at.
  
  The music: The music for this game is also very vibrant. Though, I dobut you will like most of 
 the theme songs, esspecially Shadow's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sl1x
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Such a promising game, and one I'd been waiting for for some time. After two hours playing time, 
 hoping for it to get better, I'm giving up. A complete let-down. Dreadful controls, awful camera 
 reactions, and damn fiddly, this is going straight on ebay. The first level throws you straight 
 in at the deep-end with precious little training on the use of the awful controls. Your first outing 
 as Tails is boring and pointless, and you can expect to watch the lives drop away as quickly as 
 your interest and plenty of progress lost. I have played some bad 360 games, but this is just plain 
 annoying, and ended up with me swearing at the plasma, something which very rarely happens because... 
 lets face it, it's only a game... and a pitiful excuse for one at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogueJedi0x
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is probably one of the most recognized video game characters out there rivaling 
 Nintendo's Mario. This means that any game with the Sonic tag will bring big expectations from 
 fans. Sega promised blistering next-gen speeds and a more involved story. In this game we get presented 
 with both and while these in theory could've been revolutionary the final impression this game 
 leaves you is that Sega did not finish the job on this one. First some background on myself, I 
 wouldn't be considered a Sonic fanatic but I have had some exposure. My first Sonic game was Sonic 
 the Hedgehog on the Sega Gamegear (think a Gameboy Advanced except twice as big for those unfamiliar 
 with this) and the only 3D version of Sonic I've played was Sonic Adventure 2 Battle for Gamecube. 
 I enjoyed Sonic Adventure 2 thoroughly, at least as far as Sonic and Shadow stages went. They were 
 fun, fast paced and had insane stunts that you would expect from a Sonic game which made the experience 
 satisfying. While it had it flaws Sonic Adventure 2 was satisfying to me and when they announced 
 this new Sonic I figured I'd get a similar experience. I was right... too an extent...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  As I said the game does feel similar to Sonic Adventure 2 (from now on abbreviated 
 as SA2) . There are multiple story lines, you have action stages where you run around as Sonic doing 
 insane stunts and you play as different comrades of Sonic. Unlike in SA2 where the supporting characters 
 had their own stages this new Sonic simply switches out at a certain point in the stage. You'll 
 find this in the first level, you're cruising along as Sonic and after a certain trigger event 
 you're playing as Tails to help out. I've heard many people complain about Tails and Knuckles being 
 difficult to handle. While the first time I played as Tails I had difficulty I found that after 
 I got used to the controls the portions of the game with Tails were actually rather easy, far easier 
 than Sonics. Knuckles portion was fairly simple as well and I didn't run into the problems people 
 complained of. Admittedly Tails flight ability could've been improved if you had a better way to 
 control flight speed and a way to land quickly. But overall the side characters play fairly well 
 once you get the hang of it. Interesting then how Sonic, name on the case, whose stages are simply 
 amazing at times can be bogged down in jerky controls. The game encourages you to move at blistering 
 next-gen speeds yet punishes you for doing so. Sonic is very difficult to steer at full speed and 
 it is worsened as you go over the many speed pads that flip you through loops and other tight turns. 
 This was probably the most enjoyable moment of SA2 for me, watching in awe as Sonic flew through 
 loops and corkscrews. The feeling is still here in this game but at the same time it is mixed with 
 a fear that I'm about to fall to my death at any moment. If you thought that controlling Sonic 
 was difficult in this situation its even more so when you get to the high speed scenario of the 
 stage. Sega delivers on its goal of faster speed, these sections of the game have Sonic barreling 
 through the map giving you a new sense of what speed is. Instead of being in awe of these sections, 
 however, you will often find yourself in a desperate battle to steer Sonic away from obstacles 
 and performing properly timed jumps. If you fail at either you'll find yourself barreling off a 
 ledge to your doom. It is because of this difficulty to control Sonic that you will find that you 
 probably will never complete a stage on your first try. Often times you will have to play through 
 at least twice as you get used to just the right way to act in order to pass the many obstacles. 
 While I still find myself admiring the stunts and excellent design of the stages, the fact that 
 the controls make them near impossible to navigate without dying diminishes what could've been 
 a truly amazing experience.
  
  Other than the action stages you'll spend a good amount of time in town stages gathering info and 
 completing side quests. This is another addition to the game that could've been appealing and fun 
 but the way its implemented make them an annoyance at times. This is due mostly to the obscene 
 loading times that occur whenever you take on a side quest. First it will load about 30 seconds 
 so that the person can give you a one line description of what's about to happen. Then it will 
 load another 30 seconds before giving you the quest. Then another 30 seconds to give a one line 
 You passed! or You failed! dialog. And if you did fail it just makes the whole process longer than 
 it has to be. Thankfully most of the quests are relatively easy and you won't be going through 
 multiple times but still there is no excuse for loading issues like these on a 360 game now. The 
 frame rate holds up pretty well in most action stages, I've only experienced slow down in a forest 
 level at this part where you were running across water. There are also slight clipping issues while 
 running around town but for the most part the frame rate is solid. Graphics:
  
  The graphics in the game are good, the character models look great and some of the environments 
 look amazing. At the same times some of the environments don't look so great but since you'll be 
 flying by them most of the time you probably won't notice much. The graphics overall have a polished 
 and good look but compared to other next-gen games falls short of being breath taking. Sound:
 
  
  At least Sega has proven they know how to do Sound in a Sonic game. The music tracks are great, 
 the sound effects are solid and while the dialog is corny at times the voice acting is pretty good. 
 Closing Remarks:
  
  While Sonic the Hedgehog ambitious goals could've made it an excellent game these gameplay flaws 
 made it fall short of returning to glory. At the same time I still found myself enjoying the game 
 despite the increased challenge of controlling Sonic. As I said the stages are great and you'll 
 only be cursing Sonic for not being able to run in a straight line when he has too. Therefore I 
 can only recommend you try out this game, as the reviews show it is either a love or hate it experience. 
 I don't feel it deserves scores as low as its being rated, but as I said Sonic brings big expectations 
 and I'm sure that this disappointment had an effect on the scores. Give it a chance but know that 
 this rendition of the Hedgehog requires patience and persistence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scazmaniac
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 30, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is under appreciated and deserves more than 4.4. If you like 3D sonic games this one 
 is definitely for you, however if you prefer 2D sonic to 3D its best to stay away.
  
  the overall game play is easy to get into after a few minutes and gets better onwards. MInor problems 
 such as camera angles mentioned in the official gamespot review are not a problem and any sonic 
 3D fan can into the shape of things pretty easily
  
  you play as three characters sonic, shadow and silver. you start off as sonic and gradually you 
 unlock silver and shadow. half way through the levels you get to play as tails, knuckles and others!
 
  
  graphics are really nice and colourful and overall a great looking game.
  
  sound is brilliant with some great tunes at the main menu to the in game action.
  
  its worth 
 purchasing however if your one of those people who are unsure rent it first. but somehow i reckon 
 you'll rent it then buy it straight away because its just an overall fun game to play.
  
  im not a hardcore sonic fan, but have always enjoyed the odd 3D sonic game in time. its worth playing 
 believe me and deserves much better than 4.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam-o-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game hoping for something like the sonic adventure games on the DC, it is presented 
 in the same way but doesn't really manage to capture that effect. However it is an excellent start 
 for sonic on the Xbox 360 which i am thoroughly pleased with. It leaves you wanting more with the 
 excellent sonic missions which either involve blasting at full speed through beautiful action pack 
 stages and occasionally swapping sonic with tails or knuckles! it gives a good feeling overall 
 about the game.
  
  Ther have been lots of complaints about the game that i have heard, mostly they have been about 
 the camera and the graphics, i don't understand. The graphics are just what you would expect from 
 a 360 game and sure the camera can be a bit confusing at the start, but i was used to it 5 mins 
 in.
  
  Most of your time will be spent in the stages which are amazing. Blending speed and jump attacks 
 perfectly with no end to the action all of the way through. Whilst your not in the missions you 
 will be in Solleana the area the game is set in, this is set out as a town with lots of little 
 side-quests to explore, or of course you could just get on with the story which personally i would 
 reccomend as the side tasks aren't to entertaining compared to the story stages.
  
  Onto the problems, the loading screens are bad but only in the side-quests, the loading times aren't 
 much longer than a minute at the most but the amount of them can get frustrating but once you get 
 to the real action you will forget all about that .
  
  Overall i would highly reccomend this game even thought of the three story lines (Sonic, Silver 
 and shadow) only Sonic's is the really entertaing one that will keep you coming back. So ignore 
 most complaints about the game esspecially the difficulty which is just right as i am not a big 
 player of sonic games and i only encountered a few tough parts which just require a bit of patience 
 and determination. So this christmas i would place Sonic the hedgehog up near the top of your list 
 right next to Rainbowsix Vegas and Gears of war!
  
  Thanks for reading,
  Sam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightvamp5
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  This game gives everything a classic sonic player would want: speed, the need to pull off crazy 
 jumps and moves while blazing through the level, tough jumps and squeezing into those tight spots 
 in a split second, and did I mention more speed?!?
  
  I don't understand the poor reviews of this game. Anyone who rated it badly is looking for something 
 more complex than the game was meant to be. Yes, there are glitches and the camera can be frustrating 
 at first, but once you learn how the camera works, it is easy enough to manage.
  
  This game is about one thing and one thing alone: insano speed. If you are looking for a complex 
 plot, in depth gameplay or anything like that, stay away.
  
  If you want some good old fashion crazyness put into a 3d world and are a live arcade guru (yep, 
 I still play frogger, pac man...) , get it. I've picked up a lot of 360 games since its launch, 
 and so far, this is one of the better ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socialninjitsu
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Summary: I loved this game when I first began to play it. It has a lot that is fun to experience. 
 It has nice graphics, great story and is fun to play. However when I reached a level called crisis 
 city I found that soon it's impossible to GET to any of that fun, because you get stuck in a level 
 that is way too hard because of broken, badly placed obstacles and self-defeating physics. The 
 level is way too long, split into 3 giant sections, the last of which is nearly impossible to pass 
 because of bad level design obscuring your vision, tossing you over the edge, or forcing you to 
 do 2 moves in a row that conflict with each other.
  
  CURRENT COUNT: 7 out of 13 people agreed with this review.
  
  *** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philcorey
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is a very good looking game, but it doesn't deliver on the gameplay side. To 
 Sonic's credit, this game has adventure fields as the first Sonic Adventure had on Dreamcast. Im 
 really glad they brought this back, because it adds character to the game and not just a level 
 select as did the second one. This is by no means a worthy successor to the Sonic collection. I 
 think that if Sega spent some more time working out the bugs in this game it would have been a 
 completely different experience. You will find yourself running off cliffs, and the controls aren't 
 as responsive as you probably would like. The story is pretty good for a Sonic game. The graphics 
 are definitely pretty, and the levels look like they would be fun without all the bugs. I grew 
 up with Sonic since day 1, but this game does not reflect what I liked about it. This game could 
 have been the next Sonic Adventure but really screwed up with all the crappy bugs. I recommend 
 that you only buy this game if it is on discount, don't pay 59.99 because its not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexatkin
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:33 am PT
Review:  So, the latest Sonic game is out on next-gen hardware and Sonic Team promised us something special. 
 Theres a mixture of reviews on the web and this game sure seems to be a love/hate relationship.
 
  
  After playing some way through Sonic and a through a few Silver levels there are are few MAJOR 
 flaws in this game.
  
  THE CONTROLS:
  The first impressions of the controls are that they are AWEFUL. Tails being the most obvious where 
 instead of being able to adjust your hovering height by tapping the A button, now he seems to just 
 shoot straight upwards at an alarming rate on the second press of A making it hard to see where 
 you are going. Likewise, Silver can also hover for a limited period (he has a gague to show you 
 how much power he has left) but some of the city missions are HUGELY unforgiving so that if you 
 do not time your jump EXACTLY right he will run out of steam JUST as you are about to reach your 
 target. The major problems with the controls however often stem from the camera, as your controls 
 are always in relation to where the camera is pointing. The problem here is that in some stages 
 the camera switches from behind Sonic to in front of him and so the direction you were pressing 
 a millisecond before is suddenly reversed resulting in you veering off to the side and falling 
 off the edge. However those particular fast-paced stages you are just as likely to do that without 
 the camera changing because it seems almost impossible to get Sonic to go straight once you have 
 pushed left or right. The controls are FAR too sensitive (which I had hoped was fixed from the 
 demo) which can result in having to redo certain stages frequently purely because you lost control 
 of the character.
  
  As if that isnt bad enough the controls are also inconsistent. For example when you are on a snowboard 
 you have to keep pushing forwards to gain speed. However on some levels when you are running through 
 a level at speed you do NOT need to push forwards, and in fact pushing forwards merely results 
 in you mis-steering Sonic so that he missing a platform or rail he was supposed to land on. As 
 Sonic there are often parts of levels where you literally just have to sit back and let the game 
 do its thing because it was designed so that he would land on the right platforms, springs, boosters 
 and if you so much as make even a tiny adjustment to his course he will miss a platform and die. 
 Whats frustrating about this is not only that you might as well be watching a cut-scene, but that 
 it also will then suddenly switch back to a section where you HAVE to take control or he will fall 
 off the edge and die. You arent given any warning so the ONLY way to complete these courses is 
 to die each time and remember where each of these points are in the level. Contrary to what Sonic 
 Team seem to think, dying through no fault of our own is NOT cool.
  
  Another puzzling change to the controls is that there is no option to switch rails with a button 
 press when grinding like in Sonic Heroes. This seems an odd decision when one of the big complaints 
 of Sonic Adventure 2 was the difficulty of landing on rails correctly when grinding and just as 
 in Sonic Adventure 2 were ARE rings and other pickups on the other rails making it obvious you 
 are supposed to jump between them. I have to correct my previous statement about this, if you do 
 the lock-on attack (A to jump then A again) and push in the right direction for the rail you DO 
 lock onto that rail and I have had fairly good success at doing that. However it seems to be one 
 of those things you REALLY have to get used to the game before it slips into place.
  
  THE CAMERA:
  The camera has always been a sore point for some people in 3D Sonic games, in fact 
 all 3D platformers suffer camera problems due to the nature of how it has to cope with the players 
 movement. However the camera in this game is the worst I have yet to encounter. It doesnt stay 
 focused on where you want to go, it often is looking down on your character so you cannot see what 
 is ahead properly especially annoying when you are trying to attack enemies and fighting with the 
 camera to try and make it so you can actually see them. Sonic Team havent helped matters with some 
 of the levels on this game either. On a recent level I was running away from large snowballs and 
 the camera kept flipping from behind sonic, to in front, to behind. This is obviously meant to 
 keep the pace and make it harder but theres one fatal flaw - each time the camera moves so does 
 the direction your pad is related to. You just about got away with this on Sonic Adventure 2 but 
 due to the super sensitivity of the controls on this game it often results in Sonic suddenly trying 
 to run uphill instead of down or veering off the edge to his death. Speaking of, it seems EVERY 
 level on this game has somewhere you can fall off and die, just to make things that little bit 
 more frustrating. So several times it was facing towards then suddenly flipped to facing Sonic 
 and the sudden change in direction caused Sonic to run off the edge of the platform before I had 
 time to compensate. Or he would just stop dead because instead of pushing down hill im suddenly 
 pushing up hill, which results in being killed by the snow.
  
  One of the most frequent glitches though is the camera just not knowing what to do with itself. 
 On a regular basis, especially when you have other characters tagging along with you, the camera 
 would judder. What I mean by that is your character is stood in a certain position that the game 
 cannot decide exactly what pixel you are on so the camera moves back and forth many times per second. 
 The camera getting confused is nothing new for 3D Sonic games but this is by far the worst effect 
 I have ever seen especially as the only fix is to move your character, something you dont necessarily 
 want to do in a hurry if you are carefully walking across a rooftop and sometimes it takes several 
 attempts for it to settle down.
  
  NOW LOADING:
  You'd better get used to seeing that message because it shows up A LOT. Its flabbergasting especially 
 on the optional city missions. You start a mission, it loads for about 15 seconds, you are told 
 what to do on that mission, it loads again for about 10 seconds. As is often the case though you 
 mess up and fail the mission quite quickly. What do you get for your troubles? It loads again, 
 tells you that you failed, loads again, THEN you have to go through it all again to retry the mission 
 because it doesnt ask you if you want to retry. Thanks to how unforgiving some of the city missions 
 are you can literally spend as much if not more time looking at the loading screen than actually 
 playing the mission itself and sadly im NOT exaggerating.
  
  The actual acts (the main story missions) arent as bad to get started thankfully as you have your 
 normal quota of lives so you dont have to do the whole reload thing each time but do not let that 
 fool you into thinking they do not have issues too. The worst so far is CRISIS CITY in Sonics story. 
 As I already covered above the main problem here is the controls are so sensitive and the camera 
 changing I was constantly falling off the platforms into the fire below. What makes this worse 
 however is that you are speeding along thinking ah well, at least THIS is what Sonic is all about, 
 SPEED and then suddenly without warning NOW LOADING . It feels like when you are happily watching 
 a trailer online and suddenly as it gets to the exciting bit it all stops and buffering . However 
 it gets worse, not content with doing that once during this level it has to load THREE TIMES spoiling 
 the whole sense of speed that this level is all about. There were also several times where I died 
 on this level due to having to jump over a gap where the controls just werent responding correctly 
 possibly as during those moments there was some fairly nastly slowdown. It seems this particular 
 level they went a bit overboard with effects resulting in boughts of slowdown that was dissapointing 
 as the rest of the time the framerate is amazingly smooth.
  
  SO WHAT'S GOOD ABOUT THIS GAME?
  Right, now if you are still reading (and if you are an avid 
 Sonic fan you probably are because like me, you do not blindly take other peoples opinions as fact) 
 let me take this opportunity to point out something you will not have understood from what I have 
 said so far. THIS GAME GOOD! Despite all the above flaws im enjoying this game every bit as much 
 as Sonic Adventure 1 &amp; 2 and much MUCH more than Sonic Heroes (Shadow the Hedgehog doesnt count 
 as it really wasnt a Sonic game and I hated it) .
  
  Apart from the music in the firt part of the city you have access to as Sonic sounding frighteningly 
 similar to the Mario Sunshine music, the game basically plays out similar to Sonic Adventure where 
 you have to navigate the city to find out where to go next. Yes I know a lot of people didnt like 
 that in SA but personally I did, it breaks up the tedium of doing level after level and makes the 
 game feel MUCH bigger. However this time around it IS much bigger and some of the fighting you 
 do of eggmans robots are in the city area not just seperate missions, a nice touch to make the 
 whole navigating the city seem more of the game rather than a 3D level select. Another reason for 
 the city is there are tasks you can perform for some of the inhabitants, kinda mini missions to 
 gain medals. What part the medals play in the game is unclear at this point and they may in fact 
 just be for the achievements which has one for collecting all silver medals and one for all gold. 
 Silver are scattered around the city and mission (acts) levels, gold are earned for completing 
 the main story acts with any rating and another for getting an S (Superb?) rating when completing 
 an act.
  
  The main acts themselves are similar to Sonic Adventure 2 in that you choose a story to follow 
 and what acts you then play then tell the story from that characters perspective. The story modes 
 are Sonic, Silver and Shadow with the latter two opening up as you encounter them in Sonics story. 
 There is a little repetition in the bosses you fight and the levels you actually play on but its 
 FAR more varied than Sonic Heroes. No longer are you forced to just play a longer/shorter version 
 of a level you have already done. There is naturally a certain amount of repitition in levels but 
 you never play them the same way twice. For example in White Acropolis when you play as Sonic you 
 are snowboarding through the level at speed whereas as Shadow its a normal level where you are 
 destroying robots and generally working your way through the level much slower. This works really 
 well to the point where at first I didnt recognise it as the same level because there were far 
 more things going on with Shadow than when speeding past as Sonic. Even though you end up fighting 
 the same boss sometimes that you already faced as Sonic an effort has been made to make it a unique 
 experience instead of just redoing the same levels again. I noticed an increase in the difficulty 
 fighting EGG-CERBERUS as Shadow compared to beating it with Sonic. The actual environment I faught 
 in was totally different too being a snowy outdoor environment whereas it was an indoor desert 
 tomb-like environment as Sonic.
  
  Depending on which story you selected you will be introducted to the city in a different way. Sonic 
 for example starts in the Castle City at the beach whereas Silver starts in the woods.
  
  Nomatter which characters story you follow though its mostly Sonic gameplay just like Sonic Heroes. 
 So far the only searching for keys that has been done was in Shadows story where Rouge had to find 
 keys to open a door for Shadow. This was a pure treasure hunt sequence with NO radar, but due to 
 the sheer number of robots and plenty of distructable scenery it was easy to see where you had 
 already been so finding the keys wasnt too much of a chore. If you like the treasure hunt gameplay 
 theres some of that in the optional city missions too although it doesnt work very well there because 
 you CANT tell where you have already been. While we are speaking of the optional missions im sad 
 to say that similar flaws apply to other city missions too. One mission as Silver he has to run 
 though rings (large hoops, kinda NiGHTS style) however some of them you have to use his powers 
 to hover through. The problem is that the timing on these seems to be a bit too exact leading to 
 running out of power just too early to do it and also no way to continue from that point, it basically 
 meant I failed the mission. This would be fine of course except THEN you have the loading, you 
 failed, loading, select mission again, loading, this is what you have to do, loading procedure 
 again which just takes all the fun out of it. I found myself skipping the mission not because I 
 didnt want to do it but simply because I couldnt stand that it was spending more time loading than 
 I was actually playing the level.
  
  SUMMARY:
  This IS the best Sonic game since Sonic Adventure 1 &amp; 2. None of the missions so far have been 
 quite as much fun as the first level of Sonic Adventure 2 or perhaps even the first level of Sonic 
 Heroes, but overall its a much more engrossing game and im still only scratching the surface at 
 less than 50% way through Sonic of which it reached 20% really quick and is going up much slower 
 now, so theres no telling how much more there really is. The side-missions in the city, of which 
 there are 53 total, are a welcome addition making it a longer game than previous ones. Its a shame 
 they are let down by the aweful double-loading every time you start one of those missions and no 
 way to quickly retry when you fail. However no doubt if you have finished the game the city missions 
 give you something else to do.
  
  Overall its a really good game let down by flaws that should never have gotten past the alpha never 
 mind the beta testing. If you like Sonic, you might just be able to see past the problems and have 
 some fun out of it. Im certainly addicted dispite the amount of swearing it induces. You better 
 have good anger management though as sometimes it really has you wanting the throw the pad at the 
 TV and breaking that HDTV aint a good idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  The good thing: Awesome characters, new silver is here, a little focused and accurate levels keep 
 in shape.
  
  The bad thing: The cameras are a little puke (Not to offend the fans) the glitches are mayhem, 
 the physics aren't detailed well, the load time is ok but it can at least be a good thing to be 
 painent.
  
  Gameplay: It is detailed as a fiction story but i think the gameplay is kinda fair for a reason 
 so really, there is no need for staffs to argue, but i believe the rest of the sonic fans in GS 
 will probably fall in love with this game.
  
  Graphics: The graphiccs are cool, but eggmans is like a toy so his graphic arts are the problem. 
 less physics are getting better but in this one it does have problems, but i never knew why.
  
  sound: I didn't like the sounds so i never liked music in my life so i just always play games 
 without music on because i won't able to concetrate and hear what people say in the game.
  
  Value: Less ablilities but it does show the same moves with sonic in the old sonic heros game 
 but what if there was some secret stages delivered.
  
  Tilt: I loved it, i seen the trailer but i ain't fully finished the game yet, so my friend will 
 come to my house to play it with his console when he brings it in.
  
  SC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Untainted
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  Apparantly my last review was 'offensive'.
  
  Hmm... let me see... I commented on the lazy level design, substandard graphics, bad camera angle, 
 shoddy controls and the horrible continuity errors. Oh and the fact that sega refuse to let us 
 play as sonic for the majority of the games and simply keep thowing sidekicks at us.
  
  All points for debate- but hardly offensive.
  
  Oh and to the rather passionate sonic fans 
 out there who claim that I am a 'graphics whore' (a term which I actually do find offensive) a 
 great deal of my review centered around the game engine and the physics of the characters - not 
 the graphics.
  
  Moderators please don't jsut arbitrarily delete a review without reading it please. Offense should 
 be if I was constatnly swearing or making remarks of an inappropriate nature- which should not 
 include 'this game is was lazily designed and implemented with only lip service paid to the fact 
 that the franchise was being transferred to next gen consoles.'
  
  I await deletion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack40
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Well this is Sonic's 15th anniversary game... so I guess I'll give a quick walkthrough of my support 
 with the series before getting down to main drill. It all started in 1999 with the Sega Dreamcast... 
 I remember getting one on Christmas Day. Soul Cailbur and a Sonic Adventure demo. I didn't play 
 Sonic Adventure and only played Soul Cailbur. However, my cousin came over with a copy of Sonic 
 Adventure and played it. I didn't play but I heard the Emerald Coast music and liked it. Then in 
 2000, I played it... and that started my interest in Sonic. I then got Sonic's 10th anniversary 
 game: Sonic Adventure 2 (it broke but then got the gamecube version) . I started off bad with Sonic 
 but of time flew by I started to improve and started rocking at Sonic. I bought a lot of other 
 Sonic games afterwards and I loved Sonic for a long, long time. I heard about a Next Gen title 
 and awaited it. I played it... I loved it... but however... it was disappointing at the same time. 
 Storyline- In the city of water, Soleanna, lives a beautiful (meh, don't think she is but whatever) 
 princess named Elise the Third who is only 17 years old. She lost her father several years ago 
 at the tender of age 7. However, one day at the Sun Festival, Dr. Robotnik aka EGGMAN attacks the 
 city, seeking the Flames of Disaster. Suddenly, Sonic the Hedgehog aka the Blue Blur (or Blue Wind) 
 zips in and saves the day. However, he loses Elise again. Along his quest to save the world, he 
 starts a disturbing relationship between and encounters familiar faces like his buddies Knuckles, 
 Tails, Amy, Rouge, Omega, Shadow, and more. Not only this, he encounters a mysterious white hedgehog 
 known as Silver who hails from the future and has came to the past to eliminate Sonic from existence 
 as he believes Sonic is the Iblis Trigger due to Mephiles. As Sonic continues his quest, he must 
 save Elise and stop Robotnik, avoid Silver's ambushes, and get his butt saved by Shadow who is 
 on a mission to find Mephiles. 3 hedgehogs... one game. hack40/LightSpeedBlast's input- I thought 
 Shadow and SIlver's storylines were great. Sonic's however was just poor. I don't like the whole 
 princess thing. It starts getting freakier and freakier as you play the game. Even if it wasn't 
 a human, it still would have been lame as I'm not a fan of romance. I hate romance to be honest. 
 In my opinion, Sonic's storyline should have been him stopping Dr. Robotnik from unleashing the 
 Flames of Disaster. NO PRINCESS TO SAVE. The Solaris Project's backstory should have been an accident 
 but it was sealed in some device and Robotnik wants to steal it and awaken Iblis. Mephiles wants 
 to kill Sonic because in order to merge with Iblis and become Solaris, he must sacrifice someone. 
 The Sun Festival should have just been random people lighting the damn thing with no princess. 
 That's just my opinion, agree or disagree. Aside from the plotline, the presentation is good I 
 guess. Despite no intro, I thought it was good. The menu options work fine (I wish there was an 
 option to switch to the Japanese option but aside from that... WOOT! I^_^) . I liked the opening 
 cutscene. Despite Elise's presence, the graphics and music in it rocked. The voice acting was great 
 in that cutscene (later on in the game, the people start sucking more but a few stay good) . Guess 
 that's it for the presentation... Before I go to the gameplay, reply value, or sound... I'm going 
 to go talk about the graphics. Now, the character models look very, very nice. Very Nice Gen and 
 greatly nice. The environments... well they look good indeed but at times... they look so un-next 
 gen. I've seen other 360 titles and they looked way better in terms of environements. The environments 
 do look great most of time though. However, prior to the game's release... I saw that people were 
 way too amazed with the graphics. Graphics aren't everything, so deal with it. Anyway, in conclusion 
 the game looked cooler back then (before the game was released) . Okay, now the gameplay: For 15 
 years... Sonic's has been amazingly fast in most of his games. Sonic carries his speed to this 
 game. However, he could at least be faster. His running speed without dash panels isn't as fast 
 as expected. Sonic Adventure/DX's speed was incredible even without dash panels. When dash panels 
 are touched, Sonic blasts off in a burst of speed. This doesn't always happen. Sometimes when taking 
 dash panels, you don't always go fast. There isn't even the Speed Up/Super Shoes effect you can 
 find (it only appears in multiplayer) . The Spin Dash is quite fast but isn't compared to how it 
 worked in Sonic's previous titles. Luckily, there are gems where you can perform special actions. 
 The Blue Gem offers a nice amount of speed which rocks. However, there are glitches that effect 
 your speed. Like in Wave Ocean, after you go through the first loop you'll be sliding in water 
 and there will be a loop with a dash panel. However, when you touch it, you usually go through 
 it and fall off to your doom! A freaking glitch (However, sometimes it works but you do not go 
 fast. Now THAT was also a glitch. I have gotten the loop to work at times and Sonic would go much 
 faster) . Speaking of glitches, this game is full of them. Especially in Sonic Stages. However I 
 find them easy to avoid when you know about the glitches you've activated and how they can activated. 
 Sonic's signature attack in this game is the infamous Homing Attack . With this, you can bop enemies 
 in the air by pressing A twice. You can also destroy multiple enemies with this without even landing 
 as usual in fully 3D Sonic games. Adding to the homing attack, Sonic can bop enemies with Sonic's 
 kick, a slide kick, Sonic's well known Spin Dash (however, though it is fun to use... it was way 
 better in the 2D games and Sonic Adventure 1 and 2. Those are the games where it was perfectly 
 executed) , and when unlocked: The Homing Smash Attack with power of the White Gem (and though I 
 fail to see the difference in power, I like it because Sonic's makes a new, cool pose when you 
 hit with it a second time!) . They all work nice. It's innovative to bop enemies with it. However, 
 due to camera faults... it may be hard to aim. You can even homing attack to your doom. And sometimes, 
 when homing attacking something, it doesn't work. GLITCH!!!! One of favorite parts when playing 
 as Sonic is his Mach Speed/Super Speed section. In certain levels, you can enter this. The speed 
 is just awesome. When I first looked at this game in 2005, Gamespot said this would have exciting 
 speed changes. Now THIS is a great speed change. However, it sucks that you can't control where 
 you land after jumping. You jump to your death and it sucks. Wave Ocean's Mach Speed is pretty 
 easy if you ask me. Crisis City's... well not hard... it can be hard though to dodge all those 
 damn flying cars. That made it kinda hard to S-Rank (I've already S-Ranked it though) . Radical 
 Train's is easy too. Kingdom Valley's is pretty easy if you know where to go. THEY ARE ALL AWESOME. 
 Adding to this, you can switch to Amigos at times (Ex. Tails, Knuckles) . Most of the Amigos have 
 a unique style of gameplay. However, not all of them are fun. I find only 3 to be fun: Tails, Blaze, 
 and Omega. I thought Tails was fun because though he is slow... I had fun flying and throwing dummy 
 ring bombs at enemies. He was even funner to use in Team Attack Amigo. I thought Blaze was fun 
 because she had the speed and awesomeness of playing as Sonic and Shadow. I thought Omega was fun 
 because I had fun destroying enemies with his lasers and weapons. The others are mediocre or even 
 bad. Knuckles' punches aren't even useful. He can't run fast and there is even a climbing glitch 
 where, when you climb to walls, you can't get out unless you mash the A button. This glitch is 
 also present when playing as Rouge who plays like a combination of Tails and Knuckles in this. 
 That isn't bad but... her bombs aren't so fun to use while Tails' are actually fun. She also carries 
 the problems of Knuckles. Amy is the worst out of all of them. She is the slowest and her Piko 
 Piko Hammer is useless. It's hard to attack with her slow speed and it doesn't even have rapid 
 fire. Not only this, but it takes Amy time to recover from executing this attack. Amy sucks in 
 this game, seriously. Now, the other solo playable characters are Shadow and Silver. Shadow plays 
 a lot like Sonic except he is slower (which sucks as Sonic and Shadow are supposed to be equal 
 in terms of speed) , is more combat-based, and can jump unto vehicles like in Shadow the Hedgehog. 
 Attacking enemies is very fun and the combat system is very nice. He can do a Chaos Spear attack 
 that paralyzes enemies and a enhanced kick attack where you can do a tornado by kicking 3 times. 
 Also, he has 3 levels of Chaos Boost. The first level is an even more enhanced Homing Attack. It's 
 called Chaos Snap where you can teleport to enemies and beat them up. I think it can be executed 
 by holding A after hitting a Homing Attack. Level 2 is an enhanced Chaos Spear that not only paralyzes 
 the enemy, it actually damages it. Level 3 is Chaos Blast. However, Chaos Blast sadly sucks in 
 this game. Why? The range is freakin' short. Shadow the Hedgehog had bigger range. In my opinion, 
 Chaos Blast is freaking useless. Shadow is fun to use but they could at least speed him up. Silver 
 the Hedgehog is the new kid in the streets and he has psychic powers. It can be executed with the 
 RT (Right Trigger) . I thought those were pretty cool and he can also do a melee attack to paralyze 
 enemies. I thought that was okay. Silver may be slow but this was intended. So I explained the 
 characters. Anyway, the gameplay is great and is even better in Very Hard Mode and the rest of 
 the Xbox Live Downloads. Now the Sound- The effects are good but it is pretty easy. The voice acting 
 is bad as it is 4kids. Some are good such as Blaze, Dr. Robotnik, Shadow the Hedgehog (he sounds 
 way too EMO, depressed, and monotone. Too mellow) , Silver, Amy, and Mephiles (awesome laugh) . Tails 
 sounds feminine. Knuckles sounds decent. Sonic's voice sucks (he sounded good in his opening cutscene 
 though) . Rouge is still a hooker. Omega sounds horrible. Elise is voiced by Lacey Chabert (who 
 is hot) and I thought she sounded decent in this one. I liked the music despite some crappy tracks. 
 His World was good, All Hail Shadow remix sucked, Dreams of an Absolution was good, Elise's theme 
 song sucked (it could have been good if it weren't about a romantic disturbing relationship between 
 a hedgehog and a human) , and the Sweet Dreams Akon Mix was good. That's it for the sound. I thought 
 the reply value was good and even better with Very Hard Mode and the rest of the downloads. CLOSING 
 COMMENTS- This game may have been good... but the problem is... it was rushed. I thought this game 
 would give me the feeling I had with Sonic Adventure... it didn't. Sega, don't rush games. If it 
 wasn't complete in time... DELAY IT. A patch, a freaking director's cut! Looking at the hacks... 
 this game would have been way better. So it may be good... do not believe the hype. Great game... 
 but please SEGA, DON'T RUSH YOUR GAMES!! (make a patch or a freaking director's cut) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reilly86
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  At first I wondered why it wasnt called Sonic Adventure 3, but now I know why, if this is the 
 best that Sega can do for Sonic on his 15th Birthday, then maybe Sonic should be shipped of to 
 an old folks home early.
  
  For over a year now I for one have waited for any news or screenshots of this game and hoped it 
 would be as revolutionary as it first looked back in September 2005.
  As the newer screenshots seemed to show a fantastic looking game with a Demo that played quite 
 well, it was easy to be mislead. This sadly is almost as bad as Sonic Heroes, and with a &pound;50 
 price tag, it makes it worse then Shadow the Hedgehog.
  
  Gameplay- The game starts in the middle of a town, but most of the surrounding areas are blocked 
 off till later on in the game. The camera is the worst part of this game, for some reason left 
 is right and right is left. Most of the time the camera gets stuck, and changes at the worst possible 
 time. There is not even a zoom in and out feature.
  While in the town the controls and camera dont really prove to be much of a problem, it when playing 
 the action stages that it becomes a problem. The camera seems to get stuck behind trees or even 
 rocks with no way to move it, meaning that guesswork comes which usually means loss of rings or 
 even death.
  Loops and corkscrews seem to be a problem in this game as well, a good example is when running 
 along the beach to keep up with a flying ship, at one point Sonic runs round a corkscrew and must 
 hit the springs at the end, but because controls a limited on this it is easy to completely miss 
 it and fall to a horrible death. Originality is this game is sadly not present most of the time, 
 the first level for sonic see him running along a board walk with a whale chasing him, this would 
 have been fantastic if it hadnt already been done in Sonic Adventure 6 years ago. There is also 
 snow boardingagain.
  Loading times are just too long and pointless, in one point it took about 45 seconds to load a 
 5 second video, and then has to load again for the level.
  RPG would be a nice side quest for this game if they dont interfere with the main quest, but sadly 
 they do, like trying to find the real captain to carry on to the next level, this is both pointless, 
 boring and results in more tedious loading times. There are also times when there are bottomless 
 pits that carnt be seen which really does p**s you off when on your last life.
  
  Graphics- the screenshots looked brilliant and Sonic looked like it was coming into the next gen, 
 but for some unknown reason, the game looks like a Dreamcast game. The is no real blur not much 
 detail on the level and the shadow effects would be very poor for the Gamecube. Sound  Not too 
 bad, but once again this proves that Sonic is similar to David Beckham, they should never speak, 
 the acting has no emotion or if it does its over done.
  The music is rubbish for a sonic game, there is no classic tunes like Green Hill, instead there 
 is some noisy rock music playing.
  
  Overall the only hope for this game is if SEGA release a lot of updates to improve game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaction3
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Sonic fan for years as many may know, I have loved near all the 2D games and I really 
 enjoyed Sonic R (the first game in real 3D) and then the next generation of Sonic came with Sonic 
 Adventure and was wonderful and also introduced more life to the characters in the game giving 
 them voices and and personallity actions and many of them (except Tails, sorry but I didn't like 
 Corey Bringas' acting though I did like his voice) and the gameplay was well designed and such 
 and stayed so for a few years. Then in Shadow the Hedgehog the gameplay became pretty mediocre 
 as did a lot more in Sonic, however due to the cliffhanger in Sonic Heroes with Shadow, the game 
 did serve a perpose plotwise. Sonic Rush was the 2005 exception, good gameplay and music and decent 
 plot yet bad voices (except for Blaze and Eggman) so Sonic Rush was a very good game. Sonic Riders 
 I found degrading to Sonic himself speed wise as it showed Sonic as a slow and no board and gave 
 him the worst diologue ever in a Sonic game done by the worst voice actor (glares at Jason Griffith 
 for his performance of Sonic and Jet) and no good plot but I guess it was a good racing game. This 
 game however takes the cake as the worst Sonic game ever made. This is not a reinvention of the 
 franchise, it still has everything people hate, it still has every problem previous games had, 
 and it has stuff that is just plan idiotic. This is NOT what if Sonic was real, Sonic Adventure 
 already answered that well enough.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  A Serious downfall in the game, I was hoping this would be an upside in the game, but it was a 
 downside. Many glitches and bad controls con in the gameplay, Sonic's mach speed areas are frustrating 
 and poorly made, in the beach stage, when you try to get a 1-up in the air, it causes you to fall 
 and crash into a bridge and lose a life making the 1-up completely useless as you would lose it 
 right away, and sometimes when you get hit JUST once it makes it impossible for you to jump and 
 you can hit another object right away while you are ringless and you lose a life. And also some 
 slower movments and bad reactions to controls make this a terrible game. Tails when you make him 
 fly he immediatly propels forward instead of in your controls like he did in Sonic Adventure therefore 
 ruining him as well. Knuckles and Rouge have a glitch on wall climbing that can often refuse to 
 let them jump off the walls. Shadow I feel was a slight improvement making him off of the vechicles 
 more of how fans wanted him but in these stages he is still way to realied on to the guns and vechicles 
 too much. This is pretty bad.
  
  GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT:
  The graphics are great, but I don't care for graphics. The layout is good in some areas like the 
 overworld of Soleanna but bad in many of the levels. I'm pretty neutral on this image wise however.
 
  
  SOUND:
  Music wise this has some pretty good music, some of the best I have heard in a while of any Sonic 
 game, so that made this an upside. The voices however and I think those who know me know I am famous 
 for starting a protest over this, and after I rented this game to check it out to see if it was 
 as bad as I was expecting it to be, I feel no guilt in the fact that I started it. Shadow sounds 
 so mellow, Rouge is still a hooker, Tails is still a girl (his voice is one of my most loathed 
 since it first appeared on the 4Kids dub of Sonic X) , Knuckles is still TOO angry, and Sonic.... well 
 the first two lines in the game were good, but everywhere else sucked, bland, emotionless, I hate 
 the sound of the voice, and how he shouted 'WHAT and YAHOO was bad. And Omega's replacement voice 
 since Andrew Rannells quit voice acting did not do the character justace. Very terrible, 4Kids 
 just degrades every character in every franchise, I still hate what they did to One Piece. There 
 were three good voices however, Eggman was one, I expected him to sound bad and cheesy, but surprisingly 
 he was awesome in this game, Bravo Mike Pollock. Bella Hudson as Blaze the Cat was also a good 
 voice, I loved the performance. And the last once was Silver. Silver's personallity also took my 
 by surprise, I thought he was going to be kinda dark like Shadow especially as Wikipedia labeled 
 him as a neutral/anti-hero at the time but later he was moved to hero and I am glad, he has a wonderful 
 personallity, and his voice was great, I have not heard a voice that sounded like a real teenager 
 since Ryan Drummond as Sonic, Pete Capella was very good for that, a great voice and wonderful 
 acting, FINALLY 4Kids provided a GOOD voice actor for a character. I feel that voice should have 
 been Sonic's, but I still am glad Silver has it. He is the best new character in a while. While 
 Elise is a Kairi ripoff and a freaking game incarnation of Chris Thorndyke, Sorry to anyone who 
 may be a fan of her but I don't like her, please respect that and I will respect those who do like 
 her. Welcome to the franchise Silver the Hedgehog, glad to have you here. But seriously, this 4Kids 
 voice thing HAS to stop, it's destroying the most important thing about Sonic, the characters.
 
  
  OVERALL:
  I would completely avoid this game if you really care about Sonic, this is the worst Sonic game 
 ever made and out of character in more ways then one. Whatever you do, DO NOT BUY THIS GAME. Don't 
 even rent it, it's not worth it. While some my like it for what it is, of Sonic Obsessers, the 
 sad thing is they will like this for the sole reason it is Sonic, if you are not one of those types 
 however, good for you.
  
  Way to celibrate Sonic's 15th Annivercary Sega, you ruined everything now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trothenay404
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I don't think Sonic fans of today enjoy Sonic games for the same reasons Sonic fans of yesterday 
 loved the series. Its the only way to explain all the positive fan reviews. Sonic fans of yesterday 
 loved running at break neck speeds through beautiful environments. Sonic fans of today love it 
 for its cheesy dialogue, shallow story, and broken gameplay mechanics.
  
  I will never understand why sega insists on switching up the superior Sonic stages with the frustratingly 
 slow paced segments where you play as other characters such as Tails and Silver. Im not playing 
 a sonic game to do things countless other platformers do better. Im playing this game because I 
 want to go fast and kick some ass. I guess thats too much to ask.
  
  Why do I get the feeling that sega is trying to fix its series by throwing more lame characters 
 at the problem? I guess white Sonic was the only logical progression from black Sonic...
  
  Im not going to delve into the brokeness of this game as it has been discussed to death by now. 
 But seriously, its freaking broke as they come.
  
  I dont think I will ever let sega burn me like this again. This broken game is'nt even worth the 
 7.99 I paid for the rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero6969
Rating: 2.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  I will first of all start by saying that I was looking forward to this game but I was shocked by 
 how poor it was. I will start off by mentioning the only good point of this game which are the graphics. 
 They are very colurful, which is to be expected of a game from this genre. Although when compared 
 to other games for the 360 these graphics are nothing special and therefore deserve no more than 
 a 6. There are the positives over with. Now to look at where this game went wrong. Sonic's early 
 games were very fun to play, and the main reason for that is you played as Sonic, characters like 
 Tails, Knuckles and silver and not even been thought of, let alone created, and in this game that 
 is very frustrating I rarely found myself playing as Sonic and instead playing as one of the 'Nobodies' 
 as I like to call them. The puzzles and the missions are very boring as well, there is no sense 
 of excitement when you are doing them and they feel pretty much the same. Also the missions are 
 far too easy and this means that I completed this game in almost record time and there is no point 
 in playing it again because even the first time round felt very repetitive. Also why oh why does 
 it take so long for this game to load, there is nothing much to load up. I could understand it 
 if it was a big game with huge depth, but it isn't and sometimes I got so frustrated by how long 
 it was taking to load that I just switched the console off beacuse I was so frustrated at the lack 
 of action. This game has to be one of the worst I have ever played on and I would certainly advise 
 you to steer clear of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alis_Landale
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I was almost turned off the game after the first level; the first level is horribly done and the 
 part where you play as Tails in the level is even worse than the rest.
  
  However, I continued on and the next few stages were really fun; I don't just mean sort of fun, 
 they were really fun. After a few levels I was hit with another tedious one, the game seems to 
 be set up like that.
  
  The town is done decently; I just wish they gave you a full map, finding things can be rather difficult.
 
  
  Unfortunately, Shadow still seems to want to drive around in missile launching jeeps, but I did 
 think his first stage was well designed besides the jeep part. You're also never forced to play 
 as Shadow, which can be good for those who have nightmares about Shadow's game.
  
  The controls feel clunkier than the Sonic Adventures 1&amp;2 controls did, but maybe that's just 
 because it's because I'm used to playing those on the Dreamcast when this game was designed for 
 Xbox 360 and PS3.
  
  I'd recommend renting it first for most people, the fun is there, but you have to dig it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolution2k6
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  When i first got sonic I was very exited, i thought it would kick ass on the Xbox360... I was wrong. 
 inbetween the long, and often loadtimes, glitches and poor sidequests, it justs feels likes the 
 game is going out of its way to piss me off. there is some fun to be had in this game, but it is 
 scarce, and doesn't last long with the awful loading, and unbareable camera. boss battles feel 
 bland and washed out, unlike it would in a Zelda game where the bosses are epic battles. if i had 
 it myway, i would make sega revert back to the old sidescrolling fun from the old days.
  
  PROS: interesting inviornments
  sonics speed levels are fun.
  
  CONS: lame story, controls, camera, voice 
 acting,
  
  you dont get that sense of speed that u get playing an old 2D sonic game.
  
  poor sidequests 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TITROTU
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  GameSpot wouldn't know a good game if it bite them in the butt. Sonic the Hedgehog is really a 
 good game. Following in the footsteps of Sonic Adventure, this new game takes the series to a new 
 level. Here's a rundown:
  
  Good: Excellent graphics, character models look amazing, action stages are more fun to play, each 
 character has it's own unique abilities, several different paths to take in each level, great music 
 and cutscenes, most intense storyline in any Sonic game.
  
  Bad: Load times are frequent and long. Some action stages won't open til you complete certain town 
 missions. Some town missions are rather boring, and to be frank, Eggman just isn't himself anymore.
 
  
  If you've played the past 3D Sonic games and loved them, get this game. It's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Y2H3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be the greatest sonic game since the mega drive. I agree with gamespot that 
 the loading and camera can be a little annoying... but 4.4 is a completely unfair score!!!!
  
  This game brings back sonic's speed! You will notice this half way through the first level 
 (just don't bump into anything) . The story may not be fresh but, it is definately interesting to 
 any sonic fan. The cut-scenes are mouth wateringly AMAZING!!!!
  
  9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9...... i gave it a 9...9................9 :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzmovefaq
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Sonic-Next Gen delves deep into revolving the Blue Blur's Speed and did a really awesome job The 
 Adventure Field Puzzle Solving (Doing Something Weird like in Sonic Adventure ) is back which made 
 me really happy one thing im discontent with is playing with Shadow sure it's cool to blow up thing's 
 but lets face it all that Rambo act doesn't look cool with a black hedgehog who moans Maria every 
 two seconds leave the macho s-- t to Mr. T or something. Silver's Gameplay offers a more slow paced 
 level unlike Sonic and yes Shadow Silver goes slow and uses Telekinesis (The Force) to blow stuff 
 away and Finally Sonic's levels are the main attraction with mindbending speed you pass thru levels 
 so fast it looks like Dunkin Donuts is gonna close soon And you get to play with Amy, Tails, Knuckles, 
 Rouge, Omega and our Purple Pychic Feline Blaze The Cat which plays a big role in this title. Something 
 cool is the Mode to customize Sonic , Shadow and Silver's Moves In the End Sonic Next-Gen showed 
 the world that the Blue Blur is still kicking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brauncarb
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  I think this is the best sonic ever for many reasons: It has all the characters ( and new ones) 
 differents town stages and town missions.
  
  I've always been a Sonic fan, so that's the main reason of why a like so much tis game. I really 
 like the graphics and the sound. The gameplay for me is cool and from my point of view the game 
 is long because you have a lot of misions in the town.
  What I most like of this game is the different gameplay with the differents characters. Not only 
 the main characters but also the amigo's characters.
  One last thing to tell: Sonic, Shadow and Silver rock.
  
  I apologize about my bad writtin 
 but is because I'm from Argentina and I'm learning English. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_ZZZ
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  This game is a game where you either hate it or love it, if you can't stand a few minor glitches 
 here and there and long loading times then this game isnt for you. You can play as either Sonic, 
 Shadow or the brand new silver, in levels you also switch between side characters which follow 
 the main character, as sonic you get tails and Knuckles following you, as Shadow you have Rouge 
 following you and as Silver you have Ember who follows you (Ember is also a new character to the 
 sonic series) .
  
  The graphics are pretty good, and the FMV's are brilliant. The let down of the graphics though 
 are sometimes your camera can get stuck behind the graphics for a few seconds sometimes can cause 
 death which can be annoying but never had it happen to myself so far.
  
  The levels are quite long and have different parts to them, in which they all have something thats 
 ment to stop you, like for example *spoiler* on the first level at the end theres a mach speed 
 part where you can't stop sonic and you have to dodge all the objects, go up ramps and avoid the 
 robots from hitting you *spoiler end*
  
  Also the demo on xbox live is nothing to go by for the real game, that level is 1000x worse than 
 all the other levels in the game.
  
  As i said before the game isnt brilliant but its great to pass time on and also really good if 
 your a hardcore sonic fan. The worst thing about this game imo is the load times but put that aside 
 and its a really good game.
  
  Lastly don't let all the negative points steer you from the game, you need to decide for yourself 
 whether you like it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanSVS
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is sometimes frustating, but after playing the game for a while it gets 
 fun. It has the same feel as the demo, but the demo is a lot easier and a bit slower. The game 
 has 3 story modes, Sonic, Silver, and Shadow. In Sonic's story you can also play as Tails, and 
 Knuckles sometimes. When your playing as him, the gameplay is pretty fast. There are these parts 
 that are in a lot of levels that he speeds up fast and you only control him left and right. Sometimes 
 it is fun and sometimes it is frustrating. In Shadow's story you can also play as Rouge and Omega 
 sometimes. His gameplay is vehicles, and sometimes him without them. The vehicles in this game 
 are much better than they were in Shadow the Hedgehog. They are pretty fun actually. The reason 
 they added them in is probably because they didnt want his gameplay too similar to Sonic's. When 
 you're not in a vehicle you can do some cool attacks that sonic can't. You can use many chaos attacks 
 but you need to buy them at the shop. You can also do something called boost which makes you a 
 lot more powerful. Sometimes it's too powerful and you fall off the level because your jumping 
 too fast. Overall his gameplay is not as bad as Shadow the Hedgehog's. In Silver's story you can 
 also play as Amy and Blaze sometimes. The controls for SIlver are actually very simple surprisingly. 
 All you have to do is hold the R-Trigger down to pick up the objects and throw them with the x 
 button. It is actually fun to throw missles and other objects back at the enemys. When you play 
 as any of the characters it doesnt feel like your free. The controls may be similar to the Sonic 
 Adventure series but it doesnt have the same feeling. In the beginning, you wont like this feeling 
 but you'll get used to it. There are lots of extra things to do after beating the game such as 
 beating all the missions, getting all S ranks, beating the levels in hard mode, and getting all 
 the silver medals. There is around 10-15 hours of gameplay in the story modes, and if you do all 
 the extras, thats a lot more hours of gameplay. This game is one of the hardest Sonic 3D games. 
 Once again you need too play the game a lot to enjoy it. If you only play one level right after 
 you buy it your not going to like it as much, but dont stop playing because it will get fun after 
 a while. Graphics: The graphics are the best out of any Sonic game. Compared to other games for 
 xbox 360 though the graphics arent that amazing but they are still good. Sound: The sound isn't 
 bad, and some of the music is good.
  
  Value: If you are a Sonic fan I definitely recommend buying the game because of the story and extras. 
 If you're not a Sonic fan wait a while until it goes down on ebay and then buy it there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS5Vegeta529
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog I believe is the best game in the series because of the graphics and the gameplay 
 overall.
  In the game at times you will come across a part of a level where you have to run extremely fast 
 and avoid everything in sight which is pretty cool.
  Also, when you complete certain requirements, you can play as Tails, Knuckles, Rouge, Omega, Amy, 
 and Blaze in Free Mode.
  Rumor has it that if you get S ranks on everything in the game then purchase an item called Super 
 or Super Emerald with Sonic, Shadow, and Silver, you get their Super forms which become fully-playable 
 but no one has successfully done it yet.
  Overall, the stories in the game are pretty interesting and gameplay and graphics are very nice!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RogerC44
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  This game isn't how I really would expect to happen but this game is really worth playing it's 
 not a game that anyone would say I Really Really Really want this game! Like all Sonic games this 
 game is worth playing although this game might get annoying after all the times I fell into a bottomless 
 pit. It still makes a game that you can play. I really wouldn't reccommend this game to anyone 
 unless you like Sonic. This game isn't bad as Sonic Shuffle was so if you love Sonic games buy 
 this one me on the other hand will not buy this game I just rented it it's better worth renting 
 then buying. All right I can't give this game a thumbs up or down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHEATH013
Rating: 6.1
Date: Feb 10, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Okay, I went up to the local retro-store and played Sonic the
  Hedgehog on 360. They have a brand new Samsung 45inch something or
  other HDTV, so it was a pretty 
 good demo of the full HD experience.
  It's only one level, as Sonic, but it's also only like 300MB so it
  didn't take that long to 
 download. I suggest that anybody with a Live trial account and *any* interest in Sonic whatsover 
 give the demo a try.
  
  Gamespot's biased reviewer does the game absolutely no justice. The gameplay is pretty much Sonic 
 Adventure. The reason some players
  are flying off the levels and doing 360s over and over is the control
  sensitivity. To make Sonic 
 run, you hold up. To make adjustments in
  order to hit spring boards or rings, you put *pressure* to the left or
  right. Jerking the stick 
 PS2 Dual Shock style to the left and right
  *will* result in falling to your doom and other iratic nastiness. Being unable to modify one's 
 own thumb movements is an indication that you have been playing too many easy Playstation games, 
 this game requires your attention! The first time I played the demo, I fell off the track several
 
  times and my game was over before I got past the middle of the level.
  Most of these deaths were due to a section following a spring board or
  bouncing rope where you 
 have to seek attack a floating robot drone and
  then a bridge falls right next to you. I attempted three times to
  continue to kill the robot 
 drones before the bridge fell but got caught
  by the bridge each time and forced off the level. Upon restarting the
  level, I got right back 
 to this point with no problem, killed only the
  first drone, and then let the bridge fall below me in order to land on
  it. After that, everything 
 was sliding on air-waves, spring boards and
  wall running. The camera, contrary to Gerstman, actually pans out and up when the player decides 
 to cause Sonic to turn around or throw a fit. Rather than countless other game's cameras which 
 force you to fool with a second analog stick or triggers, Sonic's camera  
 Gerstman does this game's camera AI no justice, players should have no problems playing this game 
 without encountering any camera wackiness. Sonic looks like the CGI cutscenes from SA1, which is 
 definitely a
  good thing. He also has a glossy look to him that makes him look sort
  of cell-shaded, but he's got more detail than that. The levels are
  standard high def fair, more 
 shrubs, sharp textures, rounded edges, no
  pop-up and Jell-o water effects. They might as well have used Tomb
  Raider Legend's graphics 
 engine, it might have saved them some money.
  The framerate was a steady 30FPS, not the 60FPS of the Gamecube games
  and SA2 on Dreamcast. 
 That's okay though, since everybody including
  game magazines stopped worrying about framerate shortly after the
  Dreamcast delivered 60FPS 
 gaming back in 1999-2000. Anybody deciding to fall for Gamespot's biased lies should realize from 
 the following post that small children have no problem with Sonic on 360, therefore it isn't broken.
 
  http://groups. google. com/group/rec. games. video. sega/msg/195b15d1eab9093e? dmode=source
  
  [Edit]
  After playing the game for about two weeks and purposefully attempting the city missions 
 Gerstmann complains about I have to make a concession. The missions definitely have an unnecessary 
 double load time, each being over 20 seconds, and the missions are tedious at best. Factoring the 
 city missions into the overall game definitely makes the game feel unfinished. Adding in the fact 
 that the action stages also stop the action two to three times a level for an unnecessarily long 
 load time (8-10 seconds) also contributes to the feeling that this product needed a little bit 
 more time to bake. Gerstmann was also telling the truth when he pointed out the camera glitches 
 when characters are standing on objects with two sides (i. e. rooftops) and the control issues when 
 the camera swings around. I had to make major adjustments in order to complete levels where the 
 camera shows something chasing you. I *was* able to compensate, however, and so the game's learning 
 curve is much more steep than I initially thought. Overall, Sonic The Hedgehog is a decent game, 
 with stunning graphics and better animation and storyline than previous 3D outings, but it also 
 contains some very unpolished, though novel, gameplay elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  Like gamespot said, Sonic the Hedgehog is definitely colorful. I must give Sega some credit for 
 that. But, the gameplay is tedious. Sonic is the main character whom you have fun with, but then 
 comes his other hedgehog
  or reindeer or bulldog or red hedgehog friends (whatever we call them) . They are absolutely no fun. 
 Truth be told, I didn't enjoy the Sonic series and the genre. But this game was disappointing, 
 let alone the fact that it was for next-gen consoles. The environments were the same as ever. Other 
 characters are weak, slow, anything negative. Missions are the same. After you play them, you tend 
 to say, what's the frickin' point? Who cares if I have to get accross a town and destroy something?! 
 So to all of you Sonic fans, and of course Sonic himself, I am so sorry for Sega's mistake. But 
 this would make a decent gamecube game for 30 bucks maybe, BUT NOT 60 BUCKS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IrkenInvader777
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog has, like the review deck proclaims, it's highs and lows.
  
  Sonic's game play can annoy you with a few glitches now and again, but when you start to notice 
 what causes them, they can be easily avoided. I enjoyed the action stages at the jumping and hitting 
 bumper sequences and if the running part of the stage was a bit more refined (like being able to 
 move while jumping) it would have been great.
  
  Shadow's game play is slightly different than what I expected it to be. For one I expected him 
 to be faster and have guns like in Shadow the Hedgehog (I was on of the few who liked that game) . 
 Instead we get a jump kick combo and the often unused Chaos Drive abilities. His vehicles played 
 much better than in Shadow the Hedgehog, however there were some parts in Dusty Desert that made 
 you flip over and kill you; causing massive frustration.
  
  Silver's game play was the most intuitive to me. He plays amazingly well and his puzzles and stages 
 are well thought out. The kicker is that he doesn't move that fast which in turn lets you plan 
 your jumps, look at your surroundings and take in the beauty of the stages. I just started playing 
 his story and I'm loving it every stage. Kudos Sonic Team, you did a goodin'.
  
  Now the town stages are very under developed. The map sucks and the slow down is quite annoying. 
 Also, the people in the town are a little stupid when you try to talk to one and you talk to the 
 other person right beside them. They could have been much better, the best part is the store in 
 parts of the town where you can buy new abilities and techniques which is always nice in a game.
 
  
  My overall dislikes of the game are as follows. Playing and Tails and Amy, The horrible twitchy 
 camera (standard in all 3D Sonic games it seems) , The constant and seemingly unnecessary loading 
 screens and the absence of the option of a Japanese language track.
  
  In summation, fans shouldn't be disappointed. The way I see it, Sonic games are more of an experience 
 than just a straight forward game. The music, stages, cinemas and game play blend into a mixture 
 that pours out Sonic the Hedgehog. If your a like me and bought that game the day it came out and 
 you didn't like it, I'd suggest renting games before you buy them. As for me, it started slow, 
 but when I spent more time with it, it was Sonic Adventure all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezeboy
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to try and be really, really, brief with this review. It's all honesty though after playing 
 through Sonic's story 100%, and playing halfway through Silver and Shadow's story. This game is 
 broken to the point where casual gamers just can't play this game. Several camera flaws forces 
 players to memorize the level designs to avoid deaths. (which may take 10-15 attempts) Besides 
 memorizing the levels, players will have to master the timing of Sonic's and Shadow's homing attacks 
 because the controls are extremely sensitive. Sonic's controls are the most sensitive because of 
 his overall level of quickness. Expect quite a few deaths while playing in his speed levels. His 
 momentum disables players from controlling him in mid-air. Realistic? Yes. Fun? Not really.
  
  Shadow fans will curse Sega for his reduced speed. This is just unacceptable, really. I mean 
 if you're going to place Shadow in some of the exact same zones as Sonic, why make him slower? 
 That doesn't make any sense. The vehicles need to go also. The controls are just too broken to 
 make use of them. No point as into driving them because it's faster on foot and more efficient. 
 To put the final nail in the coffin, the vehicles look something like toy cars.
  
  Besides the bad camera and overly sensitive controls, expect glitches. Graphically, expect clipping, 
 camera errors, and extreme slowdown in areas that just aren't busy enough for graphical slowdown. 
 (Jungle especially)
  
  *Game killer*
  
  LOADING TIMES OMG.....
  
  Damn....... WHAT THE HELL SONIC TEAM!?
  
  OMG Review ends here. I don't even want to comment 
 on how annoying the loading is in this game. Eff this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mugen76
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Recently, I've seen GameSpot as like the suck-up yes-man you always see in the cubicles. They suck 
 up mightily to all the big releases, and spit on the lower-end ones. They had the nerve to say 
 that Twilight Princess' Wiimote elements felt tacked on? I'm not gonna go off on that, but I think 
 that GameSpot was reviewing on hype alone for this game.
  
  This game wasn't hyped that much. Sonic has been on the downside since the failure of the Dreamcast, 
 and seemingly, since then, people have been kicking Sonic when he's down. Well, I feel that Sonic 
 is peeling himself off the canvas and starting to speed up again. However, this game is not for 
 Sonic freshmen. This is for senior Sonic players who appreciate the game enough to look past the 
 flaws this game has, unlike GameSpot.
  
  One of the first things you'll notice about the game are the graphics. These graphics are some 
 of the most beautiful you have ever seen, and probably will see on the 360 if you haven't gotten 
 out from under your rock and played Gears of War. These graphics are hard to see when you're zooming 
 by at super sonic speeds, but Sonic Team added a nice blurring effect to give you a sense of speed.
 
  
  The storyline is great, when you compare it to the often cookie-cutter and repetitive Sonic storyline 
 seen in most of the old games. Dr. Eggman has kidnapped the Princess of Soleanna, Elise, and Eggman 
 is looking to take over the world, again. This time, he's looking to unleash the secret of the 
 Flames of Disaster so he can crush any and all resistance. As per usual, Sonic takes exception 
 to this, and gets in Eggman's hair (or lack thereof) , and makes an attempt to foil his plans. Sonic 
 is helped out by Shadow (oh god help us) , and a new hedgehog named Silver, who comes from the future, 
 and uses telekinesis instead of speed or brute force. All three hedgehogs play differently. Sonic 
 is speed-oriented, Shadow is more heavy combat (this time lacking guns, thank god) , and Silver 
 is about puzzle-solving, using his telekinetic powers.
  
  The entire presentation of the game is well-done, easily the strength of the game. Music has been 
 redone entirely, with the new rock style seen in a lot of Sonic games, and the overall feel of 
 the music is great, especially when progressing through the game. Voice-over is an entirely different 
 story. Sonic Team used the same idiots who do voice-over for the horrid localization of the anime 
 series Sonic X, and that was a major mistake. As any self-respecting anime fan knows, the people 
 who edit anime at 4Kids do everything possible to screw up the experience, and the pathetic acting 
 ruins most of the great CG sequences.
  
  Now for gameplay, the entire focus of the Sonic series since he made the transition to 3D. The 
 camera issue is still Public Enemy #1, and it hasn't been fixed entirely. A quick press of the 
 Left Trigger will center the camera behind Sonic, and you can pan the camera around your character 
 by using the bumper buttons or the right thumbstick. Here's where using the bumper buttons and 
 thumbstick gets to be a problem: the controls are inexplicably reversed, and there's no way to 
 change them. The camera also takes half an hour to pan around if you're not using the look-centering. 
 One more problem is that, for thematic effect, the game will occasionally pan around to get an 
 action shot of Sonic clearing a massive gap or something, and while you are pressing up, thinking 
 the game will compensate, it doesn't. This almost breaks the game, but it doesn't happen enough, 
 and it mostly happens in the Mach Speed stages. You would think that the camera would have been 
 fixed by now, with about 5 or 6 years of 3D Sonic games being made consistently.
  
  However, this isn't the big, bad wolf that GameSpot makes it out to be. The action stages aren't 
 meant to be back-tracked on, and so the camera should not be a problem.
  
  Something that is a problem is the frequent and long loading times. This has frustrated even a 
 patient gamer like myself. But what did people expect? Perfect Dark Zero had load times like this, 
 and not many complained about that. There should be no complaints about loading times, since the 
 360's load times are pretty moderate, and there are so much worse out there. Now the frequency 
 of the load times is something that will give any gamer fits. The frequency of the loading times 
 is akin to Smart Bomb on the PSP. Let me explain: you run into a boss, load time. The boss introduces 
 himself for about 2 seconds, then another load time. This is something that needs to be fixed, 
 because it's majorly annoying, and it breaks the game experience for a gamer (or group of gamers, 
 like GameSpot) that isn't patient.
  
  Too bad GameSpot is so obsessed with seeing whether games live up to the hype or not. They can't 
 see how deep this game experience is in comparison to other Sonic games in the franchise, but this 
 game is far from perfect. However, it's not so far from perfect that it deserves a 1, like what 
 GameSpot gave it. This Sonic game is not for everybody, and patience is a must for this game, and 
 you kinda have to like Sonic.
  
  We give Sonic the Hedgehog for the Xbox 360, 3 badly done GameSpot reviews out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazeHedgehog
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Before we begin, I must tell you a story to give you a little bit of perspective as to where I'm 
 coming from on this issue. In 1991, something happened to me. This is going to sound absolutely 
 insane, and I know it, but Sonic the Hedgehog changed my life. The night I first tried my brother's 
 new Sega Genesis and Sonic the Hedgehog, I began trying to draw Sonic. Eventually I got really 
 good at drawing Sonic. Now, I am a freelance artist who has had his artwork printed in magazines 
 like Hardcore Gamer Magazine. Sometime just before I went into high school, I decided I wanted 
 to make videogames like Sonic the Hedgehog. Last year I released a homebrew game of my own that 
 has garnered more than 300,000 downloads in a year, won awards and was even featured on G4TV's 
 Attack of The Show. Sonic even inspired me to be a journalist, and I've had an article of mine 
 published in The Gamers Quarter, a Quarterly Editorial Magazine  
 The article was a 10-page dissertation of the game play featured in the Sonic series, and the differences 
 between the game play in the classic Genesis Sonic games and the game play in the newer, 3D Sonic 
 games. Almost every aspect of who I am today as a person was somehow influenced by Sonic the Hedgehog. 
 He had far more of an impact on my life than I think anything else in the entire world. I owe almost 
 my entire life to him.
  
  In all of Sonic's 15 years, there has not been a Sonic game I have not given a fair chance to. 
 I own Sonic Shuffle. Sonic 3D Blast. Against warnings from my friends I bought Sonic Heroes and 
 I actually gained a degree of enjoyment from playing it. Earlier this week I bought an Xbox 360 
 and pre-ordered Sonic the Hedgehog. Despite there being other games on the 360 I want, you could 
 say I bought mine for Sonic. I didn't know what to expect; I knew that I had enjoyed some of Sonic 
 Heroes, and I knew that, because it was Sonic's 15th Anniversary, Sonicteam had to put some effort 
 into it, right? They couldn't just let his anniversary slip by on a mediocre product. Could they? 
 I was pretty horrified when I actually began playing the game. It was worse than even my worst 
 fears. While I found the storyline and music interesting and enjoyable - almost every other aspect 
 of the game was an unpolished, unfinished mess. The City of Soleanna was a ghost town - for a place 
 so large, very few people seemed to be out and about in the streets. The only time you saw cars 
 were during certain missions. And any time there WERE more than a few people on screen, I was hit 
 with massive and unacceptable amounts of slowdown (something that repeatedly happened within the 
 stages themselves) . Should I decide to take a mission, I would eventually have to sit through four 
 separate loading screens (sometimes more!) . Missions themselves were a pain to complete because 
 of the frustrating controls - it wasn't so bad while playing as Sonic, Shadow, or Silver, but moreso 
 any time you had to take control of their Amigos - for example, it would be nice if I could speed 
 up, slow down, or stop when I am flying as Tails. Even simple tasks like flying through rings are 
 extremely difficult as Tails because successfully steering him while flying is an unnecessarily 
 frustrating chore. And Knuckles? Actually attacking with Knuckles is almost impossible. I can't 
 even get lucky and use his mainstay gliding maneuver to harm enemies like I used to. The only attack 
 of his I can repeatedly use is his Heat Knuckle. Anything else is impossible to aim or even control. 
 The less said about Amy Rose the better. Controlling Sonic was a lot more difficult than it needed 
 to be - not only because Sonic's movement was stiff and mechanical, but because hitting objects 
 like dash pads would cause me to lose control of Sonic momentarily, sending him straight forward 
 instead of where I wanted him to go. The Mach Speed/High speed sections of the game were also difficult 
 to control; any time Sonic jumped, I could not control where I wanted him to land; making those 
 sections some of the most difficult out of the entire game. Even simple things like Sonic's slide 
 attack or Homing attack are a mish-mash of hold this button for this amount of time or tap this 
 button quickly - making simple tasks a bit more complex than they needed to be. Control is the 
 single most important issue in a videogame, because if you cannot control what you want your character 
 to do, it does not matter how well the levels are designed; and this is perhaps the single worst 
 issue in the entire game.
  
  I witnessed many bugs; bugs that were easy to replicate - bugs that should have been fixed early 
 in the game's development cycle - re-appear again and again. Many times while walking through Soleanna 
 would one of my Amigos jump straight into the water and die - but that wasn't the problem. Eventually 
 they would re-appear next to me, and die again, where their dead body would remain forever until 
 I walked far enough away to make them respawn; this happened more times than I can even remember. 
 Sonic's physics were embarrassing - when the game asks me to get Sonic's sliding move, you don't 
 actually need it; you can squeeze Sonic under the space beneath the wall just fine if you just 
 walk into it. Often times when I would try and use the light dash on some rings, Sonic would get 
 stuck in mid-air; unable to move anywhere at all until his light dash eventually gave up. This 
 happened while using the Homing Attack, too. While using first-person mode in Tails and Rouge, 
 if you aim far enough behind you, eventually you can see Tails/Rouge's head and body clipping through 
 the camera very noticeably. Even just walking around town is marred because of how the game (and 
 camera) handles Sonic's movement. Any time Sonic transfers between a small ledge - like walking 
 from the street up on to the sidewalk in New City - both Sonic and the camera jerk very noticeably. 
 Many times when the game asked me to run up the side of a wall vertically (from flat ground) , Sonic 
 would suddenly dismount from the wall and fall off. This almost made Flame Core impossible to finish. 
 There are even numerous typos and translation errors; near the end of Sonic's story, a Soleanna 
 Guard warns me against doing a certain action, and don't is spelled don' t twice in the same sentence. 
 I could spend an entire novel's length listing every single problem in the game, but I'll spare 
 you, the reader.
  
  Then there's the matter of game play. Forcing me to play as these Amigo characters frustrates me 
 like you would not believe. Not only does every single Amigo control worse than the main characters, 
 but I had honestly hoped you guys were past trying to cram in too many playable characters. I don't 
 want to play as Tails halfway through Sonic's level. I want to play as Sonic. He is the character 
 I chose at the story selection screen. Not Tails, not Knuckles, Sonic. It's very deceiving. And 
 even when I do get to play as Sonic, sometimes I have to carry the Princess around, which limits 
 what Sonic can do, somewhat. Having to hold a button just to cross what should be normally solid 
 sand makes me immeasurably angry, too, especially after seeing how Shadow plays through Dusty Desert 
 in earlier videos. I had hoped Sonic could play through a level that large and wide-open, but I 
 was unfortunately mistaken. The promise of a level called Aquatic Base had me hoping for a classic 
 Sonic level set underwater, like Labyrinth Zone in the original Sonic the Hedgehog. Having to find 
 three keys as Rouge without a radar or even hints is annoying, as well, and it took me over 10 
 minutes to find all three keys. Directly after that, Shadow was crushed by a falling piece of Castle 
 debris in Kingdom Valley that I could not see until it had already killed me - it happened so many 
 times in a row that I ended up getting a game over, because I had no idea where from or when it 
 was coming. Rolling the balls in Silver's Dusty Desert was a chore, too, and I honestly did not 
 expect I would ever finish that level. And then there's the problem that Sonic just won't shut 
 his mouth - the fun of learning a game is gone because Sonic (or Tails, or Knuckles, or Elise) 
 explains everything to me before I even have a chance to see what it is they're explaining to me. 
 Most annoying of all is the fact that the only way I can damage enemies is through the homing attack 
 or similar attacks - simply spin jumping straight into an enemy will not hurt them. If I could 
 jump into enemies, like the old games, it would make the game just a little bit easier to control. 
 It annoys me that Soleanna Forest is not only the biggest, but the most empty of all the Town Stages 
 in the entire game. There's nothing out there. Any time you have to go to the forest, it just wastes 
 your time because it's a big, empty, uninteresting field leading to an equally uninteresting forest. 
 It's like it's there just so it can waste my time. The Adventure Fields in Sonic Adventure were 
 large, but I did not find them boring. There was always interesting scenery to look at. Soleanna 
 Forest is the exact opposite of that. Maybe Sonicteam thought they were being realistic. I've got 
 a massive field just behind my house and it's not interesting at all, for example. But this is 
 a game. Games aren't supposed to be uninteresting. A gigantic empty field followed by a gigantic 
 empty forest, with the same two or three trees copied-and-pasted 40 times is not interesting. And, 
 considering how floppy Sonic's trademark spikes are, maybe they thought there's no way he could 
 damage a robot anymore just by spinning in to it - but what, honestly, is at all realistic about 
 a super fast blue hedgehog in the first place? Let him spin jump through robots - you've already 
 suspended the audience's disbelief enough with the fact he's a Blue Hedgehog, having him spin through 
 enemies like he used to won't make it any less realistic. Or maybe it was just the pressure of 
 a deadline that ruined this game; every now and then I'll see a glimmer of hope shine through - 
 but almost always, any time I find myself having fun, the fun immediately stops. Radical Train 
 was awesome - until I had to do the Mach Speed section. White Acropolis was pretty cool - until 
 I had to play as Tails. Aquatic Base was fun - until it gave control to the Amigo characters. Almost 
 every stage in the game is ruined because you're either carrying the Princess, will have to take 
 control of an Amigo character, drive one of Shadow's stupid vehicles, complete a Mach Speed section, 
 or solve an inane physics puzzle with Silver. Everything cool in this game is buried under a mountain 
 of frustrating crap. This is a game that honestly would benefit from being released for Christmas 
 2007, as almost every aspect of the game I currently have in my hands is broken to some degree. 
 After 15 years of dedication to the franchise, it was almost like a slap in the face. Sonicteam 
 promised so much and delivered on very little. What I was presented with was a game that somehow 
 manages to be even less polished than the original Sonic Adventure. Sonic Adventure was forgivable 
 because it was one of Sonicteam's first forays into translating Sonic's gameplay into the third 
 dimension, and it was a launch title for a new platform. Sonic the Hedgehog, on the other hand, 
 is not only a game released six years after Sonic Adventure, but also a second generation Xbox 
 360 title - giving it no excuse for being this broken. I was promised Sonic the Hedgehog would 
 be reborn for the next generation; What they gave me was a prettier Sonic Adventure 3, with all 
 the problems inherited from that series and far more. This is not only the most dissapointing Sonic 
 game I've played, it ranks up there as one of the most dissapointing games I've ever played. And 
 this is coming from a dedicated fan who's stuck with the franchise, through thick and thin, for 
 15 years.
  
  For the first time in 15 years I am actually questioning why I've put up with all of this when 
 it's quite obvious Sonic is nothing more than a brand-name they can use to exploit me for every 
 penny I'm worth. Well, not this time - Sonicteam owes me $65.09. Steer clear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeynerd
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  When I first began playing this game, I thought it was decent. The first levels of Sonic and Silver 
 respectively are fun. However, it gets more boring as the stories go on. The adventure fields are 
 boring as hell and the missions on them are a huge waste of time and feel like a working shift. 
 Though the storyline may be good, it just isn't worth playing through hours of constant boredom. 
 Sonic's stages are filled with countless camera problems (I'm talking about more than Sonic Adventure 
 1 and 2 combined) , and whenever you start to have fun, you end up switching to Knuckles or Tails. 
 Both of them have horrible controls and are too slow to have fun with. Silver has the best episode 
 out all three hedgehogs, but it still gets boring after awhile. Picking up objects and throwing 
 them at enemies with nothing else to do gets boring fast. Not to mention, it's a pain going around 
 with Silver in the Adventure Field. It takes several minutes to just move to the other side of 
 the city. I'm not even gonna go into Shadow's story. By himself, he has the same controls as Sonic 
 with slower speed and attacks. You also drive slow buggies and shoot at random things to get to 
 the next part of the level. You also have some side-missions with Rouge, where you have to find 
 certain points to advance. Rouge is just as slow as the other support characters and has to throw 
 bombs to attack this time around. Anyway, don't be like me and waste $60 on a piece of crap like 
 this. It'd be a better idea to just hook up an old Genesis and play some classics for around $20 
 than deck out three times that amount for one of the biggest disappointments of the year. This 
 game is an embarrassment to this classic series and is nothing more but a cash-in on a series that 
 used to have pride in just being plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overstreet
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  4.4! Give me a break. This game is awesome. Way better graphics. Vast levels and all the action 
 anyone could ask for. Some people just must not know how to play a game. Sonic is faster than ever 
 in this game. I just can't believe some of you guys gave htis game such a low rating. I've been 
 a fan of sonic games for as long as I can remember and I know what a good sonic game is. This game 
 is one of sonic's best games ever. And I can't believe gamespot would put a 4.4! I always thought 
 gamespot was cool but now I'm not so sure. No matter what anyone says, this is a game worth buying. 
 I saved my allowance up just to get an xbox360 for three games. Sonic The Hedgehog, Halo 3, and 
 Perfect Dark Zero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aalladorn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  Now, this seems to be what all of you think about. Liek OMG teh camra suxxorz!!!11! It's not the 
 whole game. I'll admit the camera is a bit frustrating, and the glitches tend to be cool, and what 
 people actually look for at times. Now, just because there are glitches now and then doesn't mean 
 the game is terrible. The gameplay is absolutely amazing. They definately took advantage of nex-gen 
 speed. I'm a true Sonic fan (my room is painted blue because of Sonic) and this game, I feel, is 
 enjoyable by just about anyone. Everyone here is just so fussy because its graphics aren't as good 
 as Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salman78623
Rating: 5.9
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes, Sonic the Hedgehog. I still remember the feeling i had when i received Sonic the Hedgehog 
 3 for Christmas. I remember the countless hours I've spent on getting all the chaos emeralds in 
 Sonic and Knuckles. I still remember buying a Dreamcast and waiting what seemed like years for 
 Sonic Adventures, Sonic's first time into the 3-D world. And I also remember the sadness that was 
 brought to me upon playing that game. I would always keep saying to myself, WTF, Sonic talks!! 
 and he's SLOW!! The Sonic Team has gone towards a downward spiral ever since Sonic's transition 
 from the 2-D to the 3-D world. Sonic heroes. to some it was considered as a real sonic game. to 
 me: crap. I, and I'm pretty sure countless others, are sick and tired of Sega trying to shove meaningless 
 characters down our throats. 3 extra characters, i guess that's ok, but 12!?! C'mon. Sonic's recent 
 releases has been sort of quantity over quality kind of games. but then came Sonic Rush for the 
 DS. I was extremely surprised and happy with Sega's choice to return to it's roots and stick with 
 speed as it's foundation for this game. Plus, it only had 2 characters, Sonic, and some other person 
 that didn't really matter, not Sonic, and 20 other people that didn't really matter. I was positive 
 that Sonic was going to finally climb out of the hole that he was in and start pleasing his fans. 
 I was so hyped up for Sonic's soon-to-be-released, Sonic the Hedgehog game for the XBOX 360. Even 
 the name, in my mind, had to be an indication from God that sonic was finally going back to his 
 roots and become a long-time gamer's dream. And man, was I right. Bad graphics, tons of fun and 
 annoying glitches, a horrendous story, horrible sidequests and dialogue, AND, to top it all off, 
 MORE @#$@#$@ CHARACTERS!! And plus, sonic's finally started to slow down. I mean, c'mon, I'm sure 
 that all you people were probably sick and tired of playing a fast hedgehog, and wanted something 
 more slower, right? ... right?... W-R-O-N-G. Sonic has gone even more down the, easy to get out of, 
 black, dark hole that he is in. Ok, enough about my unappreciated feelings and more to the point. 
 Sonic the Hedgehog is a slow, glitchy game with many problems and many things that could have been 
 solved with just a little more time and effort given to it's production. It seems like as if no 
 one even bothered to pretest and play this game before it's release. The camera angles seem to 
 be the biggest obstacle for completing each level than the bad guys and levels themselves. Every 
 time you start getting used to a certain part of a level and are moving smoothly, the camera angles 
 have to go and screw things up, changing from one angle to another completely different angle, 
 pretty much ruining life and killing your character, because, you know, if sonic falls in water, 
 he apparently starts to burn into ashes like the witch in the Wizard of Oz. Another thing is, well, 
 you're slow. I was really hoping that the speed system the Sonic Team had created in Sonic Rush 
 would be put into this game. and boy was I wrong. And I'm usually never wrong. ever. never ever 
 ever. and also... oh, sweet, a Mass Effect ad just showed up. Go and buy this game when it comes 
 out... oh, sorry, my bad, got distracted for a sec.... anyways... there are a few levels that seem 
 to be very well constructed and pretty much problem free, like Silver's first level. it's a very 
 futuristic and well created, not to mention at the end there's a pretty cool boss that you have 
 to fight. yes, I was sure that every level after this would be as cool as this one. but no, it 
 wasn't. at all. ever. never ever ever. the very next level is some really boring, random level 
 that has very horrible graphics and horribly placed bad guys. just like pretty much every other 
 level in the game In the end, Sonic the Hedgehog just seems to be a huge disappointment and is 
 probably only to be liked by hardcore, life dedicated to sonic kind of people and, oh yeah, my 
 5 year old cousin. Well, like Jesus always used to say: rent, MoFo!!. ... or was that Mr. T? i don't 
 know, they're both the same to me. Until next time, cya. time for me to go poon some noobs on Gears 
 of War. ~Salman~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is pretty smooth almost no frame problems, new Havok physics enhance the 
 gameplay to new levels of awsome. The new charecter Silver uses Phykokenenesis or somtthing like 
 that or in other words he can absorb rockets throw em' back and pick things up using his mind. 
 Shadow is also a blast to play as, he is not the same as Sonic he uses different moves and vehicles 
 whitch control very well. The levels most of them are cool some are not very good like White Acropolys 
 to name one. After you beat Sonic, Silver, and Shadows storys you unlock The End of The World levels 
 where you get to play as Super Sonic, Hyper Shadow, and Super Silver in the final battal against 
 Solaris.
  
  Graphics: Amazing and alot of detail in every object. Some cool lighting effects too. Not much 
 else to say.
  
  Sound: As alsways the theme music is really good ( except Silver's lol ) and the level music is 
 really good too like always.
  
  Value: The game is fairly long but if your not a rabid sonic fan like me I suggest a rent.
  
 
  Tilt: Its a new sonic game! And I love it despite what stupid critics say!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klonoa53
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok so here's the deal, Sonic's back leaner, faster, better, and Crazyer. He has another problem 
 on his hands, and its up to him to stop Eggman from whatever he's doin. Now I've only played this 
 game at my friend's house and Im awaiting it on the PS3, but so far the games pretty solid so far. 
 The only problem is that Sonic's reflexes are too fast. What I mean by that is that Sonic's turns 
 are too sharp, other wise everything else is cool. What I really like is the new speed engine, 
 this makes Sonic truly live up to his name, SONIC! This game is fast, I mean really fast (at some 
 levels) this is what truly makes a Sonic Game, A SONIC GAME!!!! The story is good and guess who's 
 back in this world, BLAZE!!!!!!!!!! My favorite character since Shadow. So when it comes out for 
 the PS3 be ready for a full review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimullen
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:36 am PT
Review:  My last review gave this game a 9.9
  I was too quick to rate it.
  This game is not that great.
  Voice actors are unbearable compared to the awasome ones in the 
 adventure series. The gameplay isnt solid. Its way Glitchy and annoying most of the time.
  Silvers gameplay is decently fun...
  Sonics is not as fluid as it should be. In the adventure 
 games the movement range was allot better, this feels too controlled. Do not buy this game.
  I thought it was good the first while... reviewed too quickly. Change the voice actors and i would 
 give it a 7... a character just isnt a character without proper voice... I should say a different 
 character. 2 Player is Decent, but still annoying. This just isnt all Sonic can be, i think the 
 game developers realeased it too soon.
  once again CHANGE THE FREEKIN VOICE ACTORS BACK! THE NEW ONES SUCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dchispirtle
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog used to be great once... but now he's fallen from grace in the world of 3D platforming 
 games. 2006 is the 15th anniversary of the original Sonic the Hedgehog, unfortunately the name 
 is all the debut and this latest game share in common.
  
  There are some elements that this game gets right. Huge, beautifully detailed maps and a blinding 
 sense of speed when navigating them as Sonic are truly remarkable. However, these good elements 
 are overshadowed by glaring faults that are impossible to overlook. You have the opportunity to 
 play in 3 different campaigns to flesh out the full story as both Shadow the Hedgehog and newcomer 
 Silver. Shadow's campaign ditches the gunplay of his solo outing but trades it for the equally 
 bad vehicle segments. Silver is a hedgehog from sometime in the future who has psychokinetic abilities. 
 While they are cool for a while, the abilities quickly grow stale. As with the other 3D Sonic games, 
 the two alternate campaigns take you to the same levels as the Sonic one, which grows tired quickly.
 
  
  Throughout the three campaigns, you will get to play as tertiary characters like Rouge the Bat, 
 Tails, and Knuckles. These characters abilities' are decidedly worse than the secondary characters. 
 The chief complaint I have about the game is the camera system, which seems to be stuck in a time 
 warp of early 3D platforming days. As you navigate through the levels at blistering speeds, you'll 
 find that because of the uncooperative camera that you will end up falling to your death more times 
 than you should if you had a camera that was more flexible. Alas, you go to make a jump to a platform 
 where precision landing is a must, but find yourself missing the mark too many times. And it seems 
 that these troublesome spots occur mostly at the very beginning of or the very end of a stage. 
 This leaves a sour taste in your mouth that you never quite get over and creates needless frustration 
 as you near successfully completing a level.
  
  Let's not forget about the out-of-place RPG-like elements that exist as you explore the town of 
 Soleanna, which serves as the main hub for the action levels. These segments involve you going 
 around town to gather information about what you need to do next. You'll also complete side-quests 
 for some of the townspeople in order to unlock the way to one of the major levels. Unfortunately, 
 this serves no other purpose than to stretch the game's story out to about 4 hours per campaign. 
 It really slows down the fast pacing that you've come to expect from a game starring Sonic the 
 Hedgehog.
  
  The levels and visuals have a very slick polish to them and are stunning and gorgeous. I think 
 that with the processing power of both the 360 and the PS3 could have been tested closer to their 
 limits, but I was still impressed. As you navigate through the levels as Sonic, great blurring 
 effects really portray the speed at which you are going. The visuals are only marred by the character 
 models for the NPCs in the town sequences. They are very basically modeled and decidedly don't 
 feel anywhere near next-gen.
  
  The wooden voice acting will make you want to skip over the cutscenes in the game at the expense 
 of missing out of the story elements, which are pretty basic anyway. It's the same as any other 
 Sonic game - Foil Dr. Robotnik's (Eggman) plans and save the day.
  
  On the plus side, the Xbox 360 version does have a nice range of achievements to be earned. You'll 
 get about 200 points just for completing the three campaigns, if you can stand to play that long. 
 The remaining 800 points or so require you to obtain every gold and silver medal in the game, complete 
 campaigns with the highest ranking possible in each level, and complete the game's numerous side 
 quests. While none of these are particularly difficult, they serve to extend the life of the game. 
 So unless you are a die-hard Sonic the Hedgehog fan or enjoy a nerve-wracking platforming experience, 
 you're probably best to steer clear of this one. Perhaps Sega should consider retiring the Blue 
 Blur in a dignified way before his once good name is tarnished beyond repair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cycon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  May reviews lately have been saying Sonic is dead, this game is horrible, and just b1tching about 
 everything. Truth is, if you liked Sonic Adventure, you will like this game. The camera is fine 
 as long as you have an IQ of 5 or so, the graphics are amazing, the sense of speed is still there, 
 Silver is way cool, and it is a bit challenging at points, but what is a game without a challenge. 
 If you like all the Sonic games and what have you, this is just another to add to the collection. 
 I was skeptical at first seeing all the bad reviews, so I rented it and didn't see any of the things 
 people mentioned that lead to it being crappy. If you are still wondering, just rent it, I am sure 
 you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zionmaster
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I am a HUGE sonic fan so i expect alot from sonic games and this was a total letdown. Worst in 
 series by FAR. The controls are HORRIBLE they force you to use inverted controls which makes this 
 game alot harder than it should be because left is right and right is left its just retarded. The 
 graphics are only so-so compared to other next gen games out atm. It's still buggy as hell i constantly 
 get stuck in walls and cant get unstuck. I mean cmon these are blatent problems that needed to 
 be fixed in BETA these kinds of bugs should not be in the final release of the game. Not to mention 
 not having ANY control configuration options in this day and age is just extremely poor planning 
 and totally uncalled for. I hate SEGA for release such a POS as this and ruining the name of SONIC 
 for shame! Unless you are a hardcore sonic fan DO NOT BUY THIS GAME YOU WILL BE DISSAPOINTED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGreen15LA
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog for the Xbox 360 is, at best, a mediocre game on any gaming platform. It is 
 basically a cross between an RPG and the classic platformer of classic Sonic for the Genesis. While 
 that theoretically sounds excellent, and it does show quite a bit of potential, it doesn't quite 
 work too well for this title.
  
  Another black eye to the game is the sheer amount of loading this game requires. While it isn't 
 a serious problem, the fact that there is a load to a cut scene, followed by another load can become 
 annoying if you're the impatient type.
  
  Getting past the faults, Sonic does show glimpses of being excellent. Sonic's speed and homing 
 attacks require the proper timing, keeping you on your toes.
  
  Basically, I'd recommend this for die-hard fans of the blue Sega mascot, otherwise it would be 
 best to rent or wait 'til it hits the bargain bin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngelOfIron
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Allow me to introduce myself - I am AngelOfIron and I am a diehard Sonic the Hedgehog fan. I own 
 almost every Sonic game created, the exceptions being Sonic Spinball, Dr. Robotnik's Mean Bean 
 Machine, Sonic Rush, and several of the titles made exclusively for the old Game Gear. When I first 
 saw the original trailer for this new Sonic you can imagine how excited I must've been. Well, let 
 me put it this way, I'm a 21 year male and I actually called my Mother in to watch Super Sonic 
 put the hurt on a horde of Eggman's baddies as I shamefully acted like a giddy teenage blonde schoolgirl 
 the likes of usually are seen in commercials for Old Navy.
  
  Alas, I think it was around the time I realized the game had undergone intense U. S. censorship 
 (i. e. the Princess bandaging a bleeding gunshot wound that apparently didn't actually exist) that 
 my expectations had originally been a bit too high, and I learned all too well that Sega had done 
 nothing more then help my old blue friend sink further into the category of games that people openly 
 criticize at every possible moment....
  
  ... THE BAD...
  Sega's first mistake was using the voice actors who did the work for the absolutely horrible English 
 dubbing for Sonic X, with Eggman being the only one with redeeming quality next to Princess Elise; 
 though the fact that Knuckles comes off sounding just like Adam Carolla nearly had me turning off 
 the console the second I heard his voice.
  
  The second mistake was calling the game Sonic the Hedgehog. For a game that was supposedly going 
 back to its roots, it had no trouble continuing the storylines that've developed since Sonic Heroes 
 and Shadow the Hedgehog, the last two Sonic games to be released alongside the non-canon Sonic 
 Riders. In all aspects this game is really Sonic Adventure 3, just with an obscure character switching 
 system. You begin the game as our blue hero first and foremost, as it was the case with previous 
 Adventure titles, and then unlock the game's other two primary characters (Silver &amp; Shadow 
 (in that order) ) after certain plot points have been met. The story also randomly thrusts you into 
 the roles of the other supporting characters; Tails, Knuckles, Amy Rose, Rogue the Bat, Blaze the 
 Cat from Sonic Rush and a revamped E-123 Omega from Sonic Heroes. In some cases the stories of 
 the main characters will overlap and you will find yourself playing as Sonic, Silver or Shadow 
 where you'd least expect them to show up. Silver's psionic capabilities are interesting and pleasing 
 to the eyes, yes, but I feel they disrupt the flow when it comes time to actually take control 
 of him. The same could (very easily) be said about Shadow, who still suffers from wanting to drive 
 vehicle instead of run fast! dementia after starring in his own game.
  
  Characters aside I'd like to direct the reader's attention to the levels. In the original two Sonic 
 Adventures the levels were, obviously, the highlight of the game next to the plot. While that is 
 supposed to be the case in Sonic the Hedgehog they have become ridiculously fragmented. Now I'm 
 not saying they don't look pretty; but those who have played the game may agree that some of the 
 ways the levels are supposed to be passed are nothing short of INSANITY!
  
  As it stands I have yet to beat this game due to levels like Kingdom Valley's Mach Speed Zone. 
 The player has to not only dodge pillars and leap over crevices, but do so sideways at several 
 points. The inability to control Sonic's direction while jumping during Mach Speed Zones has left 
 me unable to complete this stage, and thus the game.
  
  ( (Things of importance not detailed but which deserve honorable mention: Sonic has been slowed 
 up since his days on the Dreamcast, and it shows. Homing Attack is no longer semi-auto as it was 
 in previous Sonic titles. Lack of lock-on capability during a majority of boss battles makes for 
 some frustrating gameplay. Absolutely flawless timing is required at numerous points in the game 
 which could result in players with slower reflexes to experience many trips back to the title screen 
 before they manage to pull it off. Lack of auto-save feature is almost assured to anger a percentile.) )
 
  
  ... THE GOOD...
  Don't even get me started on the plot... Because it's awesome. It fact its one of the game's redeeming 
 qualities. Sega really went quite far in trying to write a cinematic story that would draw players 
 almost from the get-go. Unfortunately for those reading this review I'm not going to provide any 
 spoilers. You'll just have to visit the forums or play the game yourselves.
  
  Next to the plot comes the graphics. Both CGI and in-game are truly astonishing when compared to 
 Sonic Adventure or Sonic Heroes. The opening cinematic was like watching a creation compiled by 
 the best minds at Sega and SquareEnix, and believe me folks that is a very, very good thing. You 
 just have to look at the screenshots here on Gamespot to see for yourself that Sonic the Hedgehog 
 is, for the lack of a better word, pretty. The locations and character designs obviously had a 
 lot of attention paid to 'em on this run and it can be seen most in, believe it or not, Eggman 
 and his mechanical army. Veterans of Sonic Adventure 2 may also see a striking resemblance between 
 Eggman's robots and those originally used by G. U. N.
  
  ... In Conclusion...
  Most likely this game is going to be assimilated into my vast collection as soon as it can, however 
 I highly advise that Sonic fans rent before they buy. It's better safe than sorry in this case.
 
  
  Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  I was initially surprised at some of the feedback I have seen, not only from players, but from 
 gaming sites. This game is good, but far from classic status. In fact, its just an average sonic 
 game. The visuals are great, the sound is good. The storyline is really corny. The controls are 
 kinda sparatic and hard to grasp at first but after you get the hang of it, it isn't a problem. 
 You sometimes tend to fall off cliffs too much and its hard to teter certain ledges and lines. 
 I question the total replay value. After about the 3rd level it becomes repetitive as hell and 
 loses it's appeal fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaChamillitary
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Ok The town stages are nice. Only problem i have with it is that no1 really gives you a clear path 
 and they shouldve had those people talking since this is nx gen. Another complaint is some of the 
 missions in the town stages. Some are alright but the other 1s are just plain bad and not fun. 
 Like the find the captain or w/e mission. That was horrible with all the loading. The good things 
 about the town stages is the upgrades and missions with action. It also gets rid of plotholes in 
 the story. The action stages are GREAT! Theres alot of variety in the action stages. They made 
 them alot longer and thats a good thing. Another good thing about them is that its actually alil 
 challenging. The Crisis CIty Mach SPeed area is a handful but it was still alot of fun. Sonics 
 upgrades are another nice addition. LoL I just figured out how to use the custom shoes yesterday. 
 I had got the blue gem and was just fooling around. I hit the R2 trigger and Sonic just TOOK OFF!!! 
 That destroyed any complaints i had on speed.
  
  I dont have any problems with the camera. The reset camera thing fixes all camera problems with 
 me.
  
  Shadow.... lol well he seems pretty good in this game. My only problem with Shadow is that some 
 of his missions arent straight forward. The objective isnt clear sometimes but those are rare. 
 The vehicles are actually fun. Only thing that bothers me is how random they just pop up but w/e 
 lol. Silver OWNS! His gameplay is unique and a nice addition to the game. People say hes hard to 
 play as but its pretty easy to me.
  
  I also loved the music. The Crisis City music is my favorite. I cant stop listening to Crisis City 
 tornado . Best Song i heard so far.
  
  I really like the new boss battles. Its not just homing attack after homing attack and im dead. 
 Well id give this game a 8.9. I loved how the kingdom valley demo went from 1:10 to 10.20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Similar to sonic adventure , but everything is scripted with bad camera angles. When 
 you fall in the water - there is no splash or anything your character just goes in it. Everything 
 you do in this game is just tedious and horribly operated. Tons of glitches also.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are crisp and well done , nothing impressive - but fun to look at and cartoonish. 
 Sound - Music , sound effects , no voice acting though.
  
  Value - There is 2 player modes , but you can't play it on xbox live
  
  Bad Tilt - This game 
 is widescreen only 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimonM7
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since Sonic and friends had a game coming out that felt like a part of its main 
 series. As with Mario, Sonic has had his share of Sunshine and Mansions in the way of Sonic Heroes 
 and Shadow the Hedgehog, and now we're back to the game that is most akin to Sonic Adventure since 
 2001 when the sequel came out.
  
  What sets this game apart from the SA games besides the obvious name change and gameplay additions 
 is the setting and story. Gone are the lush california styled adventure fields ripe with secret 
 places and things to play with like the Chao Garden and the casino. In fact, Chaos are effectively 
 removed with this game. Instead Sonic and pals reside in Soleanna - a monarchy complete with castles 
 and sort of spanish looking architecture.
  
  ... Which is why the story is a bit odd for a Sonic game. Princess of Soleanna is one Elise, a young 
 girl that Robotnik seems intent on capturing - Bowser style. Why that is or what he wants with 
 her is unclear, but Sonic doesn't need much more incentive than that to rescue her.
  
  --- Over the hedge and into the game ---
  
  And so he sets out to do so and you're immediately 
 dropped into the adventure field of Soleanna. You'll notice right away how awkwardly big and empty 
 everything looks, sort of like the environments in Serious Sam. There are some people standing 
 around, but nowhere near enough to make it feel like a proper city, let alone give it any sense 
 of homelyness and intimacy that was so prevailent in similar areas in Sonic Adventure. The reason 
 for this becomes clear when you accept one of many optional missions from cityfolk. Often these 
 include taking out massive amounts of enemies in the same area, and suddenly the extra space makes 
 sense. It still doesn't make for a particularly enjoyable experience when you're just running around, 
 though, and with no map, framerate issues and samey looking surroundings it's easy to get lost 
 and downright frustrated.
  
  Anyway, to proceed you need to purchase the light speed dash from a shop, so you undertake a mission 
 and finishing it you're rewarded 100 rings which you then use as currency. The light speed dash 
 for those unfamiliar with the Adventure games is Sonic's ability to travel across a line of rings, 
 and this is required to reach the first action stage. If the game gives you a sour first impression, 
 dumping you in Samey City, this is where it puts your concerns to rest. Modelled and sounding like 
 a tribute to the first level in Sonic Adventure 1, this Emerald Coast lookalike plays really well 
 at a blistering 60fps. At one point in the level, Sonic grabs on to the fin of a whale going for 
 an open gate (presumably to swim out to sea!) and Tails is tasked to operate a switch in order 
 to close the gate. During this brief period you get to control Tails, and again it's a relief to 
 find he controls really well, and is back to his mech-less Sonic Adventure ways. about 30 seconds 
 later you arrive at the switch, close the gate, and controls return to Sonic. This is the way all 
 secondary characters in the game are handled, and it means that while none take a completely passive 
 role, you aren't forced to play with them too much either. Not that doing so is a chore though, 
 especially with the likes of Blaze, who's a lot of fun to play. Sonic stages also sometime have 
 bits where Sonic just takes off like a nut. These high speed areas are usually extremely linear 
 and just require you to jump in the right places. They're essentially equivalents of the running 
 down the building in SA1 but instead you're running on the ground. They're very brief and kinda 
 cool, but nothing to get overly enthusiastic about.
  
  Finishing the action stage you return to the awful city bits again, and in order to proceed you 
 usually need to talk to a lot of people with red markers over their heads - meaning they have info 
 related to the next action stage. I gotta say, in theory I like it when the game breaks up the 
 action stages like this, and I really liked it in Sonic Adventure, but it's just not fun here at 
 all.
  
  --- Guybrush Three-hogs !?!? ---
  
  Playing Sonic, the story focuses mostly on the relationship between him and Elise, and not so much 
 on the overall plot. This is essentially in line with the character of Sonic, not caring a whole 
 lot about the overall picture, but rather what's just doing the right thing without thinking a 
 whole lot. In order to fully grasp what's going on we need to turn attention to Silver - the new 
 character. In regards to how Sonic plays I have a video up that goes through the demo and the final 
 game is essentially identical.
  
  Silver shows up looking for the Iblis Trigger , essentially the one who brings forth the end of 
 the world. This someone, he's told, is Sonic the hedhehog. Playing as Silver gives the story a 
 completely different tone, and the cutscenes get really, really good. So how does he play then?
 
  
  Well, unlike Sonic, Silver isn't particularly fast. Instead he has the ability of telekinesis. 
 this enables him to hover for a bit, use context sensitive bits of the surroundings to his advantage.. 
 oh and hurl cars at people. He can also catch projectiles fired by enemies and shoot them back 
 at them. There was some concern that Silver would be a complete bore to play, but that's not the 
 case at all. Even though he's technically a slow moving character, the amounts of enemies he's 
 tasked with battling keeps the action frantic. Silver can later also perform a kind of hammering 
 move that stuns opponents around him. So, for instance, he's able to jump into the middle of a 
 bunch of enemies, stun all of them, sweep them up with his powers and hurl them at another group 
 of enemies. Unfortunately due to the frantic nature of Silver's levels, he's also the one character 
 worst struck by slowdown. It seems confined to a certain few levels though, so it's not something 
 you'll have to endure throughout. Overall, Silver is a well acted, mysterious character that's 
 a great addition to the universe, and the nature of his origins gives Sonic a new tone and depth 
 too.
  
  Fan favourite Shadow makes a return here aswell, with holstered weapons yet still a keen eye for 
 vehicles. Luckily they aren't as laughably useless here as they were in his own game, even though 
 they do occasionally feel superfluous.
  
  What's proper different about playing Shadow is how ninjaesque the game suddenly feels. Shadow 
 can use a kind of daggers to stun enemies one by one, in mid air and then attack them with a homing 
 attack. After each attack Shadow actually stays afloat for a short time, which gives you time to 
 seek out another enemy by spinning the camera, hurling a dagger at that one and setting after him 
 without ever landing. This makes the game feel a lot like the PS2 Shinobi/Nightshade. You can also 
 keep hitting the button after a dash attack to perform a combo that usually take out the big guys 
 - that Sonic needs to hop around on multiple times - in a single flurry. All in all, Shadow feels 
 like a more action focused character than Sonic, and while very similar, still refreshing to play. 
 He also has his very own perspective on the story - getting to learn things that none of the other 
 two even hint at. In fact, all three characters give you a huge incentive to play their respective 
 episodes because of it.
  
  I don't want to give away too much about the story, so I refrain from saying which characters are 
 paired up with who, but rest assured they all meet characters that make sense in the context of 
 their story. Oh and if you're a fan of Rush you positively need to see Silver's story through to 
 the end.
  
  --- Sometimes you're Blue-tiful! ---
  
  From time to time this really reminds you what platform it's on. Character models for the most 
 part animate and look really good. Some cutscenes are pre-rendered, but most of them are rendered 
 absolutely beautifully in the in game engine. Action stages for the most part look good, too, but 
 then there are also some incredible drops in quality. The forest stage is nothing short of absolutely 
 rediculous and looks much, much worse than the similar Sonic Adventure 2 stage. Where the game 
 hits mind boggling lows is in the adventure fields apart from the city area, again with the forest 
 bits looking unbelievably poor. I'm gonna say Turok for N64 and not even take it back. Konquest 
 mode in Mortal Kombat Deception is probably the most accurate. Simply inexcusable.
  
  Framerate also takes a hit mostly in the adventure fields, and never holding up properly at all 
 in the city. It's like everything but the action stages was added as an afterthought, and I'm gonna 
 go out on a limb and say they probably were.
  
  Even though the action stages for the most part look good, with excellent lighting being its main 
 strength visually, they suffer from some rather bland design and art direction. Nothing really 
 jumps out at you the way Sonic Adventure 1 stages did, and while you prolly have a better ratio 
 here of your usual lava/snow/lush/tech themes than in SA2, it's just a bit charmless and devoid 
 of personality. Menus and such are reasonably exciting, and offer a sufficient front end to the 
 action.
  
  The soundtrack is absolutely awesome, even though it's a departure from the riffs of Sonic Adventure. 
 Some of this sounds Phantasy Star-y, other bits sound Panzer Dragoony, some of it is classic Sonic 
 synth stuff, and all of it is brilliant. Sounds are the usual Sonic fare with blips and blops and 
 plongs and ka-chings. Voices are surprisingly endurable, probably thanks in large part to a script 
 worth acting.
  
  --- Waiting for some waiting for some more waiting ---
  
  A technical issue that really starts to grate after a while is the game's insistence on slapping 
 loading screens in your face. In the middle of stages you're sometimes catapulted away into another 
 area, only to be treated a load screen killing all of the adrenaline you've built up. Funnily, 
 some bits seem extremely short, yet a loading screen shows up before you know it, while others 
 can go on far longer, making you forget about the issue alltogether.
  
  Also, accepting missions is a total chore. First you approach someone on the street and talk to 
 them, you accept the mission and a loading screen appears only to load the same guy telling you 
 the details of the mission and sending you another loading screen before the mission starts! What 
 the hell!? The same is true for bosses. Oh no a boss! cutscene says -- loading -- *boss gnarls* 
 -- loading -- you get to fight it. Luckily they're not very long, but more importantly - they shouldn't 
 be there! This could theoretically be helped by putting the game on the PS3 harddrive I suppose, 
 but it's unknown whether the game will support that or not.
  
  All in all, Sonic The Hedehog is a pretty big game, with Sonic's story seemingly a little longer 
 than the other two 'hogs. After you've cleared all of their stages there's plenty to do to earn 
 achievements, beating your best times etc, and in one sense this is a far less frustrating way 
 to approach the game what with no huge city bits of awfulness forced on you.
  
  I wrote this with in a deliberate order, because this is a lot like how I experienced the game 
 when I played through it. It has to be the single most inconsistent game I have ever played in 
 terms of production values and design focus. At the end of the day what you have here is an increasingly 
 appealing story coupled with spots of really impressive visuals, and what's easily the best playing 
 3D Sonic to date, marred by the sloppiest brand of design flaws and lack of a soul. Ironically, 
 the things even Sonic Heroes did right - wrapping everything in a likeable presentation, with colourful 
 and memorable levels - this game stumbles on, ultimately rendering the thought and care that went 
 into the core action and combat practically useless.
  
  Sonic The Hedgehog harbors a pretty good game in there somewhere, so what you really gotta ask 
 yourself is if you like Sonic enough to find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmouthkid
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog is a killer game. The speed is so fast that it's not even funny and the Sonic 
 Adventure gameplay is back which is cool in my opinion. So Sonic fans should definately get this 
 game. Now to move on.
  
  Gameplay: If you have ever played any of the Sonic Adventure series then you are gonna get very 
 familiar with this game. Plus the speed is more faster so if you love Sonic because of the speed 
 in the gameplay then you won't be disappointed
  
  Graphics: The graphics are incredibly nice. The character visuals are awesome and so is the enviornments 
 in the game. Plus the action graphics are beautiful.
  
  Sound: Now I was expecting better sound effects from the game but they are still pretty good.
 
  
  Vaule: Don't know what that is.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Sorry I don't know what that is either.: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hall_of_Fame
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  One of the Sonic games that hasn't disappointed me is Sonic the Hedgehog for the 360. I haven't 
 had a Sonic game that didn't disappoint me since Sonic Heroes. Adventure Field is finally back 
 since Sonic Adventure for the Dreamcast (it's not actually adventure field, but I consider it to 
 be) . The best part about this game is collecting silver medals. The more silver medals you collect, 
 the more gold metals you get. You can also control Shadow the Hedgehog and the newest character, 
 Silver the Hedgehog. Overall: It is a fun game and the best game in the series. This game should 
 be recommended to any sonic fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJDarkViper
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Does anybody remember back in the Sonic Adventure days for the Dreamcast? I don't because i never 
 owned a Dreamcast, however I've been getting myself prepared for this latest addition to the sonic 
 series by drowning myself in his past adventures.
  
  I don't regret it slightly. However what did annoy me was the low production values especially 
 in terms of voice quality and animation. Dialog writers apparently didn't exist back then, and 
 voice actors never cared. And thus, if i have to listen to one more of Tails lines from Sonic Heroes 
 to Sonic Adventure 1, one more time, I'm going to snap. Its so horribly written, and the animation 
 was cheap and well, sucky.
  
  There were only 3 things i asked for in this game, 1. Decent dialog
  2. decent storyline
  and 
 3. good graphics
  
  Besides the third one, the sonic series has serious lacked the other two. This one didn't fail 
 in delivering all three to me. The high production animation includes detailed motion capture (most 
 apparent during the scene where Sonic Tails and Knux get trapped in Eggmans time machine)
  All cut scenes whether prerendered or in engine, progress the story well, and well enough to keep 
 it interesting while asking yourself what might actually happen next. As far as dialog goes, yes 
 its true, finally what they say makes sense, and no longer do i have that weird chill go down my 
 spine at insanely cheesy dialog. I tell you, its great. Mike Pollock pulls off an excellent Eggman 
 performance, very convincing to me.
  
  Graphics, its no secret, Sonic games for the Dreamcast were made to show off power, so they were 
 obviously highly detailed for their time, in fact, Chaos was a boss designed specifically to be 
 an in game boss that could never before be rendered in real time. So with top tier graphics and 
 animation, this game delivers a believable performance.
  
  What does annoy the hell out of me is the low resolution shadows during some cut scenes, why, oh 
 god, WHY do the low resolution shadows exist?! Theres absolutely NO reason for it, and the in game 
 play stages have sharp stencil shadows which is fine and believable, those **** shadows really 
 killed me inside.
  
  Ok Ok, so ill bet its like Ok enough with the aesthetics stuff, what about game play? and here 
 is where this game begins to start lacking.
  
  Not to say this game sucks at game play but there are a few things that could seriously use some 
 work.
  
  For starters the city of Soleana is explorable. Which is fine, however i DO wish that Sonic Team 
 had made that radar more useful, such as during a lull moment when trying to find your next destination. 
 I would have gone all 'lets copy saints row' or something and set up an arrow constantly pointing 
 in the direction you need to go, either waving throughout the city, or even a way point dot on 
 the map would be good, instead your left to wander around aimlessly, and with absolutely ZERO help 
 from the pedestrians., in hopes of actually seeing the game freeze for a few milliseconds as it 
 loads the loading screen.
  
  Which brings me to another annoyance, the loading screens. There is NO NEED for that many loading 
 screens.
  
  Adventure 2, when your boarding down the city on that piece of plane, the moment your off that 
 board your going still. In this one, it LOADS a new section the moment you jump off of it. Really 
 kills the momentum flow.
  Speaking of load times, during the town stages, when you talk to a blue icon and accept a mission, 
 it RELOADS the ENTIRE city just to show the SAME character just so he can iterate a couple more 
 lines, then it LOADS the challenge after that. At first your just WTF after that it becomes a bit 
 more tolerable, but after that it starts striking a nerve you know exists within your violent mood 
 swing center of your mind. =-=-
  
  Ok So all I've really done is rant about the game play thus far, SURELY there must be good amongst 
 this crappy patience trying stuff right? Well be relieved that, yes, the game play despite these 
 flaws is otherwise really good. The only other problem i have is with the Super Speed Sequences, 
 which ill get to here in a second.
  
  In a Town Stage your basically wandering around the town, can be fun to a slight degree.
  In 
 an Action Stage, the game play is what you'll come to expect from a sonic game, get from point 
 a to point b as fast as possible taking out any mechs you see along the way. Of course this type 
 of play varies amongst the two other main characters which all play really good as well in the 
 same situation. SEGA tried really hard to make this game fun to play when you in this kind of stage. 
 (not so much the town challenge stages, which are tedious and sometimes really boring and/or pointless) . 
 This one town stage was this kid saying his posse was the Soleana Kids or some crap like that, 
 and i was asked to 'prove myself' to these kids that i can save Eliese. and I'm like **** I'm Sonic 
 the hedgehog! I don't need to prove myself to a bunch of egotistical brats!! but alas i find myself 
 playing a mini game of timed tag. Right on. Speaking of minigames, how lazy was SEGA on the minigame 
 made for this 'revolutionary 15th aniv game that'll reinvent STH as we know it'.... ITS A GODDAMN 
 BREAKOUT CLONE!!
  
  *ahem*
  
  While I'm ranting again lets go right back to the super speed stages, these stages, are needlessly 
 hard. And i know this is also sonics teams first try with the Havok engine and they wanted to do 
 some cool stuff with it, such as when your in Silvers time with Sonic and your trying to outrun 
 the fire tornado, that constantly spits cars and rocks at you. Thats fine, but when they are so 
 much randomly thrown, that they literally fall ON ME as I'm light dashing through a trail of rings 
 to maintain direction, just to lose all my rings, THATS a pain in my ass. In fact it makes this 
 level damn near impossible, if your same of the lucky ones out there that haven't almost ripped 
 your hair out at this stage, in envy you. Theres no way to stop him, when he gets hit he flies 
 through it becomes temporarily invincible and continues going, while you could become 'vincible' 
 again as your walking through a concrete pillar or something and DIE because you got no rings from 
 the previous hit. Also theres no attacking in this mode so feel free to let loose, however, if 
 you feel the need to actually TURN or MOVE for any reason whatsoever, for the love of god do NOT 
 jump until you know that your facing forward. Due to the idea that you no longer need to attack 
 you cannot home attack thin air just to re correct yourself mid flight just like in the normal 
 stages, instead you end up flying in the direction you jumped at mach speeds and theres NO WAY 
 to turn mid flight. So watch yourself as you fly right off the track. Be cool, everyones committing 
 suicide these days. Lets just hope children wont be following this example. I'm probably making 
 this game look like a bad one, but the simple truth is, that its not. If you can look past these 
 annoyances and become pro at the game and get used to the mechanics, its a well made masterpiece, 
 especially in comparison to past iterations such as Shadow or Heroes. It wont give the same sensation 
 Adventures did but thats ok, this isnt supposed to 'resemble' it, its taking the ideas that worked 
 and elaborating it in this reinvention. Playing as Silver, if you've ever played and enjoyed Psi-Ops 
 Mindgate Conspiracy, you'll really have a ball with Silvers game type. Alot of people like to complain 
 about his slow run speed, i call those people **** i also know they are the same people who gave 
 Manhunt a bad review because they couldn't handle the subject matter and keep their lunch in their 
 stomaches. His run speed is just fine and the Telekinesis abilities more than make up for it.
 
  
  With that being said, if you enjoy sonic games, go into this one without expecting anything at 
 all, and you'll be pleasantly surprised from all angles. The game is fast, fun, and furious. But 
 don't think for a second its easy, this game is HARD at key points and the health of your wireless 
 controller may be at risk. If you don't like sonic games, suck it up and at least rent it, you 
 may find something to enjoy here.
  
  And no matter how bad people say it is, think of it this way: It could be a hell of alot worse. 
 It could feature Bigs fishing missions, it could feature Emerald shard scavenger hunts, and it 
 could involve broken gunplay mechanics, or a triple team idea.
  
  i like it, and ill master it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartanx23
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I have fond memories of when Sonic Adventure (SA) launched with the Dreamcast. It was the first 
 real entry for Sonic into 3D, and they did it with a bang! Don't believe all the bad reviews this 
 game may recieve, it's only because they have been jaded by the Gears of Wars and next gen explosion.
 
  
  The graphics are actually pretty awesome on both a standard TV and an HD set. Very nice reflections 
 and an ample amount of physics aid the gameplay, which is the best in the series. This is Sonic 
 Adventure's true sequal. Consider everything after Sonic Adventure, as knockoffs. You will be able 
 to play as Sonic, Shadow, and Silver throughout the campaign. Whoever you choose will then allow 
 you to play as Tails, Nuckles, and others for brief periods of time, which helps break up the action. 
 However, you will mostly play as the blue hedgehog yourself, which is important.
  
  Sonic has some new moves baby, and you'll have fun useing them. You'll also enjoy Silver and Shadow's 
 unique game sequences throughout the campaign, which actually has a story!
  
  Speaking of the campaign, it's great! You will especially like it if played SA, because it is mostly 
 set up the exact same way. You will have small little towns to run around and do simple tasks, 
 but only if you choose. It can be a little difficult, however, to tell exactly where to go next. 
 When tails says we have to find Nuckles at the warehouse you'll be thinking; what warehouse, and 
 where is it? Otherwise it's Japanese techno-rock and cool beats throughout, as you tackle some 
 of the fastest gameplay ever! This game really moves and the framerate does a good job of keeping 
 up. It will studder from time to time, but you won't care. The boss fights are a lot of fun as 
 well.
  
  You'll be happy to know that you can go back and play every mission seperately. You'll want to, 
 because there both; very fun and some include branching paths, which offer you the insentive to 
 track down those silver medals. The missions themselves are varied from on foot search and explore, 
 to fast and furious action! With all this good, you have to take the bad, but it's mostly with 
 the load times. They are so very bad. They kinda stop your excitement from one stage to the next. 
 It goes like this; load, play mission, load, see cut scene, load, real time cut scene, load, show 
 boss, load, fight boss, and load! Wow, I'm out of breath, but that's how it works. I could have 
 finished the game in half the time, if it weren't for the loading. Then we have the camera almost 
 as if it was plucked strait out of SA, which is good and bad. It can get confusing from time to 
 time, because sometimes you go from having full control of it, to having no control of it. What 
 can I say, it's a Sonic game in 3D. Sometimes it makes sense, because Sonic Team wants to show 
 off some crazy looking affects. Trust me, you'll appreciate it when they do.
  
  This is a very cool game and the fastest Sonic game ever! If not the fastest game ever. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nejoku
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Sega brought Sonic back from the hell hole of bad games even though this game will never match 
 up to the older sonic games, the storyline is great, gameplay is awesome.
  
  But, there is some flaws, as simple as not fixing all of the gltiches in the game and the lost 
 frame rate which isnt occuring too often so its alright. But this game is alot like the sonic adventure 
 games which I love and plus its not Shadow the Hedgehog or Sonic Heroes which both were just plain 
 stupid games. If you liked the sonic adventure games, this is surely a must-buy. It does have replay 
 value so, It was a real decent release by Sega. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tullistyler
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  To say everyone's favorite speedy hedgehog's latest outing is flawed would be the understatement 
 of the year. Something went horribly wrong here.
  
  Let me say first and foremost that I love Sonic the Hedgehog. I've loved his games and the evolution 
 of the character since 1991 and have been faithful ever since through the good and bad. So when 
 Sega and Sonic Team promised me a brand new kick start to the series that had been in unfortunately 
 steady decline since the height of the series at Sonic Adventure 2, I was ecstatic. This game looked 
 to be the incredible facelift to the series that Sonic Adventure 1 was back in the day, despite 
 the glaring flaws that we didn't care about at the time. But though I was expecting a return to 
 form from the Genesis days fused with a refined version of the good things from the Sonic Adventures 
 formula, what I got was a flawed and sluggish SA1 all over again. 
  
  This game tries to do at least a few things decently but ends up failing on every front. First 
 off, the graphics. They are far superior to anything else I've ever seen in a Sonic title, but 
 suffered from a complete lack of creative design. The levels and environments were bland and boring. 
 The music also served its purpose even though it lost its heel tapping vibrancy from the Sonic 
 Adventure games. Get Jun Seanu back, Sega. The story attempted to reach the level of drama and 
 plot of Sonic Adventure 2, but ended up convoluted and making no sense at all. (Tails, why do they 
 keep making you sound like a girl?) And of course the same good ol' general gameplay from all of 
 Sonic's 3-D games has returned. Okay. Why fix what isn't broke, right?
  
  Wrong. At least for the most part. I was expecting the same general formula of fast paced action 
 like I have grown accustomed to in Sonic's adventure games, but the new graphics can't hide what 
 you know is true: compared to what this game should have been the gameplay has actually regressed. 
 You must have noticed-Sonic just isn't as fast as he was in the adventure games. Sure these new 
 "super speed" levels are fast but those get to be just plain annoying. Why couldn't Sonic Team 
 build that kind of speed into the regular level? I feel like I'm just playing mini games in one 
 big level now. Sonic has lost his momentum to get moving and keep moving in this game-fatal to 
 the formula. The old homing attacks in SA1 and 2 gave you a blast in the right direction at a fairly 
 decent speed while the new one just sends you forward and drops you back on your feet at a standstill 
 after. No momentum gained. Old Sonic levels are fun because they are massive maps you just blast 
 through as fast as you can. When you break them up with slow sub-character interactions and RIDCULOUSLY 
 long load times you're robbing Sonic of what makes his games fun. That was why Sonic Heroes and 
 Shadow the Hedgehog were sub-par and at times crippled games-they were slowed down too much with 
 boring, tedious tasks. Just give me a start point, an awesome level with speedy tricks I can do 
 throughout, robots (not mutants) I can quickly dispose of in cool ways, and a goal at the end that 
 I feel like I should be trying to get to as fast as my red, white striped, golden buckled sneakers 
 can move. But this is just ridiculous. Between all the boring running around doing these pointless 
 side-quests for townspeople, the repugnant loading times you have to sit through, the boring and 
 Mario-esq level design, and the frequently broken controls that enable you to easily make the same 
 fatal mistake over and over, it's slowing down the speedy hog too much for his own good.
  
  The bottom line is that is seems like Sonic Team didn't even try on this one. My expectations were 
 that Sega deliver on the promise they made to us-that this would be a reinvention of the entire 
 Sonic line and a return to form on what made his games great in the old days. Instead it was just 
 the worst parts of Sonic Adventure 1 with a cosmetic facelift that somehow managed to retain all 
 the flaws that made it difficult to play. The single greatest weakness of this game is the insanely 
 long loading times that bookend anything you're trying to do. If they were gone or way shorter 
 so would be my list of complaints for this game but they really do detract from the overall experience. 
 
  
  It pains me to say it because I am SUCH a huge Sonic fan but this game isn't what it should have 
 been. I'll be generous and say all us diehard Sonic fans might think it's okay-but not even good. 
 The gameplay is broken and the replay value just isn't there like it's always been before. So if 
 you're a lifelong fan you will still want to pick this up or at least check it out to see the latest 
 horrific assault on your favorite videogame mascot. You need to experience for yourself why Sonic 
 has become a laughing stock and virtually hated by the larger gaming community.
  
  My patience is wearing thin, Sega. If the next major game doesn't redeem our man in blue once and 
 for all, it might very well be the end of Sonic the Hedgehog in my book.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  I remember playing the old sonic games and they were fun and addicting. The Dreamcast games were 
 pretty good too. Now playing Sonic for the 360 reminds me of previous generations. The graphics 
 are for the previous generation consoles such as the Gamecube, not for 360. The gameplay is rather 
 old. Lose your lives and start over from the beginning. Albeit it's true to Sonic form, but greatly 
 annoying in the fact that you already had to go through too many loading screens before going into 
 the first act of the game as Sonic. That increases the difficulty of the game a little, but is 
 very unappreciated. And the cutscene graphics are pretty bad considering Sonic looks all cartoonish 
 and everything else looks nicely animated. And the camera angles are very frustrating as there 
 is no targeting system it seems. The game is fun until you lose all of your lives and get frustrated 
 because you have to start off from the town act because you can't save during the action acts. 
 Then you don't even want to bother because you have to start right from the beginning.
  This is a rental at best. There probably won't be much replay value, so beat the game if you want. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chameleon22
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  I have played many many many many MANY Games AND Sonic games and this BY FAAAAAAAR was the best 
 one (Other than Sonic CD) I rate this game as second best of the Sonic the Hedgehog series (Including) 
 Shadow the Hedgehog. The mach speed system. Oh. My. God. I can not express how much work and effort 
 they had to put into mach speed zones because thats my most favorite part of the whole game. Sure 
 its a little hard when you start but if you kept playing, you get use to it. The second best part 
 (I THINK) was the graphics and the havoc system how when you hit those bricks in Kingdom Valley 
 they crumble like the REAL thing. Plus I also loved the voice acting and the cut scenes, the game 
 play was really well made accept for tails, hes kind of slow even though when you make him fly 
 he goes pretty fast its just his on foot running. But all the others, They are very good. Storywize, 
 well put together from Sonic, Shadow, and Silvers point of View you get whats happened through 
 everyone and what they did in that story. Well I havent cleared all the S ranks and such so im 
 gonna go back and clear those. Get this game you will be so attached trust me. Remember this is 
 the best sonic game out there (other than sonic cd *I had to put that because sonic cd's awesome* 
 xD) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardasonic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  Game is OK; I am glad I purchased it because it will be a good for my 2-year old Son to play. This 
 game doesn't even begin to bring Sonic into NextGen; too bad it's a shame. Graphics are OK; but 
 nowhere near the NextGen capabilities................ Why do we have to make the review a 100 words? 
 That is way too many for me; I'll just write as much as possible and hope it gets posted. Otherwise.... blah....... blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
 blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unnamed475
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 16, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  (Before I start, READ THE WHOLE THING, its not ALL bad, or just skip to the bottem) So here I am, 
 a LONG time fan of the Sonic the Hedgehog games, and I was hoping that the Next Gen Sonic would 
 finaly get the rating that Sonic Adventure 2 had when it first came out on the Dreamcast. But truth 
 is, it is lack luster at best. (SONIC's Game) There are three different type of game play that 
 adds to it. The first is Sonic's game. The game opens with a great CG, looks sharp, feels sharp, 
 the voice acting seemed OK for once. Then Eggman comes down, still ok so far, feels great and is 
 also seems like Eggman picked up some voice acting talents. Then a blue wind appears, and shows 
 Sonic in all his glory. He takes out ALL of eggmans robots and then the games biggest down fall. 
 Sonic talks.... and sounds like a seccond rate kids show on fox. Diologue is terrable for Sonic, 
 and as he talks, it almost seems like all the other decent voice acting starts to drop to. This 
 over shadows the game for those of you who actually like the story. Next, controlls. Sonic feels 
 like that car in a racing game were when you hit left, he runs off the road compleatly. Terrable 
 glitches to pull you into the ground. Some times the game will take controll of Sonic and when 
 this happens, every now and then it might deside to run you off the right path and kill you when 
 you arn't even controlling. The game now uses a Super Speed event to, where Sonic move straight 
 on his own as a amazing speed! A great idea, but overshadowed by many flaws. The game's controls 
 in the Super Speed events and how the level is set up is just down right more of a chore then a 
 game, some times if you're not lucky, you'll hit a different obsticle even if you just dodge another 
 one. Another problem is, you might die the whole way on the super speed event because of how it 
 is set up, and when you do die, you have to start the WHOLE level over. If you're lucky on you're 
 seccond time through, you can beat the first part and save all you're lives for that part. (Silver's 
 Game!) If you can fight through Sonic's game, you unlock Silver, the strange new Hedgehog from 
 the future, again, his voice work sucks, but atleast his game is enjoyible! It is more of a platforming 
 type of level, where you launch items at the bad guys to beat them, he moves good and feels good. 
 Everything about his game felt like there was more effort then Sonic's game. It takes a few moments 
 to get used to the controlls, but once you do, you are launching cars and crates at bad guys with 
 ease. His level feels like a Mario game sort of, with timed jumps, free movements, and a decent 
 controll feel. Due to the lack of level range to, it stays normal, and feels normal. The whole 
 game feels and looks the same and that actually makes for a enjoyible exsperience. Not much more 
 I can say about his game sense that is really it so far. (Shadow's game) Now it mght just be I 
 am a Shadow the Hedgehog (not game) fan. But Shadow's game almost to me feels like what Shadow 
 the Hedgehog (the game) should have been in the first place. Action is the name here. Using Shadow's 
 Warp attacks, his combo attack, Chaos Spear all in combat make the game feel the way is should. 
 Shadow is the Action part of this game. He is still fast, but more times you'll fight you're self 
 blowing up stuff in cars, bike ect then running fast! Unlike in Shadow the hedgehog were it seemed 
 pointless to drive vehicles, this game actually feels right. And with decent voice acting, Shadow 
 actually has been a enjoyible exsperence so far. Final thoughts Graphics look great. The sound 
 is perfect, the game play, not so much (with Sonic any way) . Sonic fans, if you have to have this 
 game, I don't say no, but I would say be ready to suffer through a long game of dieing, and restarting. 
 I hate to say this, but this could be Sonic's last stride, he is starting to fade with out a question. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DERHYUS
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  faster and faster... it's incredible! i like it very much... it is as i turn on my genesys and 
 play again... it's very funny, amazing and revolutionary ... i like sonic and silver states but 
 shadow... shadow i don't like very much... i like shadow of Sonic Adventure 2 but this shadow on 
 a car... that's it no good...
  
  But the game is very interesting and i don't stop to play it. i wish that never end it but i know 
 that it's no posible although i wish that SEGA anounce another sonic soon because it's the BEST 
 GAME in the EARTH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rollinfromhell
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Wow , I must say this game is truly next gen, not cause of the graphics, but the new gameplay. 
 This game isn't super high-end graphics, but the framerate is really smooth, and haven't had a problem 
 yet. The story is absolutely brilliant for a Sonic game, and haven't finished it yet, but its very 
 beautiful in some levels. Dusty desert is my favorite, and I think this is a must buy. For the 
 other characters, haven't tried them out yet. But this game is really much better than the demo 
 since it was a 40 percent build of the actual game. For those of you who are not getting it cause 
 of what they saw, that wasnt even 5% of what the actual gameplay really is. You get these rings 
 around town, and you buy new abilities with them, and you need more abilities to progress to each 
 level. I'd say theres about almost 5-6 hours with Sonic, and I'm guessing the same amount with 
 Silver and Shadow. 15 hours of gameplay ain't bad. And theres alot of side-missions also, so that 
 adds a few more hours to it. Definately a must buy if you loved Sonic Adventure's 1 and 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAgreatest255
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:14 am PT
Review:  This game is the best ever in the series, and It just gets you addicted to it and a wonderful graphical 
 game that will blow you away... all my other sonic games I dont play that much anymore, because 
 It just grows on to you. So many tactics and missions you can do, so If you are a fan... you should 
 get this game either for the xbox 360 or the playstation 3 if you have one. The first level in the 
 game is the first half of the demo... enjoyable, and the second level... Im not going to spoil it... If 
 you want to see it go to www. yourtube. com, and they have alot of levels to see in gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_kid15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  never seen a better sonic game the this the two player ok story mode its on the right track but 
 slivers moves he uses is not that well a bit confuseing but still ok shadow well the gun thing 
 its still bad well a bit better then before in shadow the hedgehog sonic its the same old thing 
 the same jump move the same spin dash the places there great they made it look like a real place 
 the game is very good the cut seens there good never seen a better sonic game then this in my hole 
 life a good sonic game if people are big fans of sonic then you got to get this. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
