-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soulcalibur IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/soulcaliburiv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Online play is smooth and hassle-free.
 Plenty of different characters, plus you can make your own.
 Gameplay is accessible for newcomers and has plenty of depth for veterans.
 Tower of Lost Souls mode offers plenty of single-player challenge.
 Looks great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There's no team battle mode.
 Story mode is short and disappointing.
 You can't pit Yoda against Darth Vader, yet.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 64 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 3,663 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Developer: Project Soul
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Jul 29, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Soulcalibur returns with the same deep fighting system and a new online mode that makes it an easy 
 game to recommend. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Soulcalibur 
 IV Review for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 Yoda and Vader invade this video review for Soulcalibur 4.       Watch It   Watch HD 520p       
           The Good            Online play is smooth and hassle-free  &nbsp;      Plenty of different 
 characters, plus you can make your own  &nbsp;      Gameplay is accessible for newcomers and has 
 plenty of depth for veterans  &nbsp;      Tower of Lost Souls mode offers plenty of single-player 
 challenge  &nbsp;      Looks great.                The Bad            There's no team battle mode 
  &nbsp;      Story mode is short and disappointing  &nbsp;      You can't pit Yoda against Darth 
 Vader, yet.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?        
        Update:  Extra Character    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 12:41 pm PT      Though it wasnt possible 
 when SoulCalibur IV arrived in stores, Darth Vader and Yoda  can now be pitted against each other 
  regardless of which platform youre playing on. Adding an extra Star Wars character to your 
 roster isnt free, though, and at around five dollars its not great value either. &nbsp; 
               

  When Soul Calibur was released for the Dreamcast in 1999, it set a new standard for fighting games 
 on home consoles. Subsequent entries in the series have changed very little as far as the weapon-based 
 fighting mechanics are concerned, and have introduced new features and gameplay modes with varying 
 success. Soulcalibur IV is no different in that respect; the series-first online play is a great 
 addition, but though the visuals have improved and the gameplay has undoubtedly evolved, it still 
 feels very familiar. And that's no bad thing.  

           There are plenty of familiar faces on the roster.      

  The majority of the characters 
 on Soulcalibur IV's roster will also be familiar if you're a fan of the series, though only around 
 half of the 30-plus combatants are available at the outset, including Yoda on the Xbox 360 and 
 Darth Vader on the PlayStation 3. Others are unlocked by defeating them in the single-player Story 
 and Arcade modes, and by purchasing them with the gold that you're awarded for winning fights. 
 There's more than enough variety on the roster to ensure that you can enjoy playing as at least 
 a handful of different characters, and a robust customization system gives you the freedom both 
 to edit their appearances and to create your own fighters from scratch.  

  Regardless of who you play as, Soulcalibur IV is accessible enough that even first-time players 
 will have no trouble performing some powerful and great-looking moves. Rather than memorizing lengthy 
 combo attacks and knowing  how  to attack your opponent, the challenge here comes from knowing 
  when  to attack, when to block, and when to sidestep around the arena. That's not to say that 
 the combatants in Soulcalibur IV don't have impressively large repertoires of moves, because they 
 do, it's just that very few of them are tough to pull off.  

  Your goal in Soulcalibur IV, of course, is to defeat your opponent by depleting his or her health 
 bar. Alternately, you can win by knocking your opponent out of the "ring," which is possible in 
 almost all of the game's beautifully realized arenas. New to the series -- though reminiscent of 
 a feature in 1997's Soul Blade -- is the soul-gauge system, which appears alongside the health bar 
 and changes color if you spend too much of your time blocking attacks and not retaliating with 
 your own. When the gauge turns red and your health bar starts flashing, you're just an attack or 
 two away from entering a defenseless "soul crush" state, at which point your opponent can perform 
 a one-hit-kill critical-finish move. It takes a long time for that to happen, so the soul gauge 
 isn't always an effective deterrent as far as overly defensive players are concerned, but it at 
 least discourages online players from trying to score cheap victories simply by landing a couple 
 of blows and then blocking until the time runs out.  

           Finally, you can put your skills with your favorite character to the test online.     

  Online play is where Soulcalibur IV really shines, though there aren't many different modes of 
 play available. The action is fast-paced and free of lag for the most part, though if you have 
 a slow Internet connection, you might find that your character takes a split-second longer to respond 
 to your inputs than you're used to, which can prove fatal against a skilled opponent. You can choose 
 to play ranked battles online against random opponents or join up to three other players in an 
 unranked lobby, in which the winner of each round gets to stay in the fight as spectators get their 
 turn in the ring. Both Arcade and Special modes of play are available online, the difference being 
 that in Special mode all of the characters' move lists are augmented by special skills bestowed 
 on them in part by weapon and clothing choices. Disappointingly absent from Soulcalibur IV, both 
 online and offline, is an option to pit teams of fighters against one another. Team battles have 
 appeared in the series previously, and given that the tagging mechanic is present in the single-player 
 Tower of Lost Souls mode, its omission is baffling.  

  Considering that Arcade mode does nothing new and Story mode is really short and text-heavy, the 
 new Tower of Lost Souls mode is where you'll find the majority of Soulcalibur IV's compelling single-player 
 content. Taking control of one to three fighters, you must ascend (and later descend) the tower 
 one floor at a time by defeating multiple groups of enemies without ever having your health replenished. 
 Variety comes courtesy of opponents with carefully tailored skill sets, as well as battle-specific 
 challenges that can be completed to unlock treasure chests containing new armor and weapons. For 
 example, you might have to defeat three fighters who all have the ability to leech health from 
 you, or who are impossible to force out of the ring. Optional challenges during these fights can 
 be completed by meeting very specific conditions, such as landing the final blow as the timer ticks 
 down to zero, performing four or more counter hits, or for defeating all opponents by knocking 
 them out of the ring. As you ascend the tower, the difficulty level can ramp up pretty quickly, 
 and you might find that you have to revisit the character-customization mode to prepare your chosen 
 combatant for certain challenges.     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Soulcalibur IV Review for Xbox 360 - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   
 function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri 
 =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return 
 true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return 
 false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { var 
 parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem 
 = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src 
 = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   ZDNet :  Extreme PCs: Dead or alive?    //               GAMES:     GameSpot 
     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome     TV: 
     TV. com                    GameSpot. com                Search                               
 BioShock 2 Exclusive First Look:  We head back to Rapture with...               Spore Galactic 
 Adventures Q&amp; A:  Lead Producer Kip...               Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty Battle Report: 
  Its Zerg...               Mafia II Impressions:  The sequel to the cult-classic 2002... 
                    home        PC      Xbox 360      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS    
     community      forums      videos      cheats      features      downloads      sports     
  tech      news            Reviews     Previews     Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top 
 Games     All 360 Games     Xbox Compatible     Live Arcade     Tech Center          Theme:   Light 
    Dark            Sign In    Create your account    Help    Forgot Password?                  
                      Add Game       Tag       Print       Email       Facebook       Digg      
                         Soulcalibur IV Review          

 Soulcalibur returns with the same deep fighting system and a new online mode that makes it an easy 
 game to recommend.               The Good            Online play is smooth and hassle-free  &nbsp; 
      Plenty of different characters, plus you can make your own  &nbsp;      Gameplay is accessible 
 for newcomers and has plenty of depth for veterans  &nbsp;      Tower of Lost Souls mode offers 
 plenty of single-player challenge  &nbsp;      Looks great.                The Bad            There's 
 no team battle mode  &nbsp;      Story mode is short and disappointing  &nbsp;      You can't pit 
 Yoda against Darth Vader, yet.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's 
 this?               Update:  Extra Character    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 12:41 pm PT      Though it 
 wasnt possible when SoulCalibur IV arrived in stores, Darth Vader and Yoda  can now be pitted 
 against each other  regardless of which platform youre playing on. Adding an extra Star Wars 
 character to your roster isnt free, though, and at around five dollars its not great 
 value either. &nbsp;               

   

  How you go about customizing or creating a character for Soulcalibur IV depends on the use that 
 you have in mind for the character. For Arcade mode, the only thing you need to concern yourself 
 with is how your character looks, and you'll find that the number of armor pieces and weapons available 
 for you to choose from increases quite dramatically as you spend time playing. For other modes, 
 you'll have to consider the pros and cons of everything that you equip, even if that means ending 
 up with a character who looks like he or she has just stepped out of a medieval thrift store. That's 
 because just about every item has an impact, not only on your basic attack, defense, and health 
 attributes, but also on the distribution of skill points, which fall into five distinct categories 
 labeled power, impact, boost, gauge, and special. For example, equipping an executioner's breastplate 
 will give you 30 power skill points to spend and will boost your attack and defense attributes, 
 but at the expense of health points. There are dozens of items to choose from, and they're balanced 
 so that it's possible for you to make more specialized fighters but not to gain an unfair advantage. 
 Even skills such as temporary invisibility, unblockable attacks, and health recovery -- which on 
 paper sound like they'd break the game -- are kept in check because to get any real benefit from 
 them you have to forgo spending skill points in other areas. It's worth mentioning that more powerful 
 (and costly) skills can be used only if you've played your character enough to reach a certain 
 "style level," but reaching the level-nine cap doesn't take very long.  

           There's no Vader for the Xbox 360 yet, but you can still pit lightsaber against lightsaber. 

  Style is something that Soulcalibur IV certainly has no shortage of. The nicely detailed character 
 models look even better when the flamboyant animation kicks in, and the sheer variety that's on 
 show in the arena locales can't fail to impress. The orchestral soundtrack ends up feeling a little 
 too epic for its own good in places, but that's largely because it's paired with cheesy character 
 dialog and an announcer who delivers his melodramatic lines without even a hint of irony. Fortunately, 
 this isn't a game that's ever in danger of taking itself too seriously, as evidenced by the presence 
 of  Star Wars  characters, animal costumes, novelty weapons, and plenty of amusing arena details. 

  Perhaps the most amusing, or at least laughable feature of Soulcalibur IV is that Yoda, Vader, 
 and The Apprentice from LucasArts' upcoming Force Unleashed game all have stories that attempt 
 to explain their sudden presence in the Soulcalibur universe. In terms of gameplay, none of the 
 aforementioned fighters from a galaxy far, far away are a great fit with the rest of the roster, 
 but they're certainly not so far removed that they ruin the game or anything like that. Some Force 
 powers aside, Vader actually isn't radically different from some of the other members of the cast. 
 The Apprentice uses the force a lot more liberally and, at least until you figure out how to fight 
 against him, he can feel like a really cheap opponent when he throws lightning bolts and even his 
 lightsaber across the screen at you. Given his diminutive stature, it's no surprise that Yoda feels 
 very different from any other character in the game. He's impossible to throw and, considering 
 that he spends most of his time jumping around very acrobatically, he can also be tough to hit. 
 He doesn't use the Force a lot, though, and he moves around the arena relatively slowly, so he's 
 not so much overpowered as just tricky.  

           Nightmare has never looked better.      

  The fact that Yoda and Vader are exclusive 
 to the 360 and the PS3 respectively is easily the most pronounced difference between the two versions, 
 but given that both games have an empty box on the Star Wars row of the character-select screen, 
 it seems reasonable to assume that it'll no longer be an issue once downloadable content starts 
 coming. The only other noteworthy difference between the two games is that the PS3 version offers 
 an optional install to make the load times between fights shorter. Depending on how seriously you 
 take your fighting games, the controllers that you use to play Soulcalibur IV might also be a consideration 
 The PS3 controller's D pad is superior to the Xbox 360's on this occasion, but the latter's analog 
 sticks fare a lot better. The question, then, isn't whether or not you should play Soulcalibur 
 IV, it's which version you should play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (254 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wehuntjoe
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Soul caliber 4 lacks a few things but at the same time it has many things that make it great. The 
 single player modes are really limited but then again so are all single player modes in everything 
 nowadays. The story mode is short but that can be an advantage when you need to build up on cash. 
 Now the new create a character is really fun and the combos to make a character are pretty much 
 limitless and just addicting, in my opinion the most addictive part of the game. Online is pretty 
 fun but also pretty limited but it is there first stab at it. Yoda for the 360 is pretty fun to 
 play as but just a little **** to fight and darth vader for the PS3 is pretty much like the other 
 characters and the best of the star wars characters since the apprentice is a little **** to. All 
 in all if you like fighting games then go out and get it regardless of what any review says cause 
 you might like it or you might hate it (so rent first) trust me if your a fan of the previous soul 
 caliber games you will love this one (or at least tolerate it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Papa_Wayne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:35 am PT
Review:  Would be better if weapons like the 3 sectional staff, chinese whip etc from previous versions 
 were in it.
  Story mode needs to be better, even if they offered it with less characters (the rest could be 
 DLC)
  
  Good points are the custumes, wow boarderline hentai action but i like it. Maybe there should be 
 a mud pit as an arena? If that's wrong, I don't wanna be right
  
  
  Now with 67 words done, I need to wuffle some more, please excuse the remainder wuffle wuffle wuffle 
 wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle 
 wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle 
 wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle 
 wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle 
 wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle 
 wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle 
 wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle wuffle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morbidmassacre
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 6:16 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the light sides:
  -The graphics are just pretty much stunning. everything is highly detailed and the wind effects 
 on the hair and the clothes, play the game and you'll agree.
  -The gameplay just simply works. not too simple, but off course not too hard to learn.
  -The 
 characters. There's lots of them, and they all have different styles, weapons, techniques... It's 
 unlikely you'll get bored.
  -The character editor. So many options... Find out yourself.
  -The amount of unlockable stuff and rewards. You can buy stuff like weapons and outfits, and get 
 some from different fights.
  -The story mode. Thank god it's not very long, because there's no saving between fights. You would 
 have to play the same stories over and over again, but since it's not very long, it can be beaten 
 without stress or frustration.
  -The differences. Each fighter has a unique weapon and moves, so it's not the same which one you 
 use. For example, Nightmare is a slow, big and powerful with a long weapon that can hit from a 
 distance, but Taki is a fast ninja with short weapons, so you gotta get closer.
  
  
  Then the dark sides:
  -The dialogue. The English speak is just embarassing in this game. The 
 worst ones are the short comments during some "super-moves". Like some of the characters (Amy, 
 Cassandra, Sophitia) say things like "get lost" "forgive me" or stuff like that, it's just stupid. 
 I understand that this game is "fantasy" but a little less over-acting, please? Japanese voices 
 are good though.
  -The combos. If i go down from a powerful attack, the AI won't let me get up so easily. they just 
 keep comboing and doing unfair moves to keep the player on the ground.
  -The blocking. The AI blocks too much. i understand they don't want to get hit, but sometimes it's 
 too much.
  -The online mode. LAG LAG LAG... And when you don't lag, you die. choose your destiny.
  
  
 
  This game absolutely deserves a 9 / 10.
  This is the best fighting game i have ever played. Soulblade was a great game back then, IV is 
 now. Revolutionary!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:35 am PT
Review:  Ive Always been a Big fan of the Soul series ever since soul Calibur 2. Why may you ask? quite 
 a few things that make me enjoy playing the games.
  
  Soul Calibur 4 firstly looks great and has to be one of the best looking fighters out there, Character 
 models look fantastic and Animate really good. The Stages also look great and have there own feel 
 to them.
  
  The Voice work is also very good and the game also Allows you to switch between the English and 
 Japanesse Voice's which is a nice little touch.
  
  The game has a very deep but easy to use character creation tool where the only limit is your Ability 
 to make Awesome characters. ive spent most of the time on this making loads of cool Characters 
 to be played online with.
  
  The Game Hardly has network issues and plays smooth for the most part. However the connection of 
 the game depends on the person also.
  
  Theres a Short but sweet story mode that ends too soon but its fun and each character has his/her 
 own story.
  
  Overall i love the game its been my most played 360 Title with 190 Hours Spent playing. the Combo's 
 are very easy to do also with a Huge selection of moves per characters. And the game is easy for 
 pros and Beginners alike.
  
  If your a fan of Fighting games or if you liek the Soul Calibur Series then do your Self a favour 
 and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaphod001
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I can not honestly see how every one thinks that this a great game. First off Yoda and the Apprentice.... where's 
 the force, no matter how many different button combos I tried I never really got any use of the 
 force, so what is the point of having them on this game and you would think that the light sabers 
 would slice right through the opponents weapon ( Qui Gon put his through a blast door ) but yet 
 Talim can kick your ass in no time and that is on the easy setting. 
  
  Second I like a good challenge in a game but the Tower of Souls is a joke, there is a difference 
 in a game that offers a good challenge and one where you keep repeating the same level over and 
 over and over. On the Tower of Souls it is absolutely asinine that you go up against at least 12 
 different opponents and not get health restoration (if you do it is very little) , then guess what... you 
 start all over again..... I have been stuck on floor 30 trying to ascend and getting no where it 
 just gets to be real tedious and no longer any fun..... it becomes a chore and a bore. 
  
  Third..... repetitive button mashing and smashing. I never did get the whole button G, K, ect.. ect... 
 why not just say button X is button X , button A is A, B is B ect..... instead of G or H or Q or 
 what ever the hell it is... you know what I mean.
  
  The only thing in my oppinion that this game has going for it is that the graphics are great and 
 Setska is really hot!!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: its_a_username
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Soul calibur 4 is highly addictive and easy to get used to. But it takes forever to master. The 
 game is amazing in every way. The gameplay, graphics, controls, characters, online, and the character 
 creator. But if you ever played the second soul calibur it had atlease twenty modes on it like 
 death match, normal, arcade, weapon master, ect. but in soul calibur four it only has atleast four 
 modes. tower of lost souls, arcade, multiplayer, and online. This game is greatly missing an amount 
 of modes to play. Now this is the only bad thing i have to say about the game the rest of it is 
 amazing. 
  A new addition to the game was finishing moves. Unlike street fighter you do not have to do some 
 crazy combo, it is quit simple. All you have to do is get the characters soul gage down to zero 
 and then you press left bumper.
  I would suggest this game to any one, even if you hate fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dann_west
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Being the first Soul Calibur game that I really played, I had no expectations going into it. And 
 as a fan of Mortal Kombat games, I didn't really have high hopes for a fighting game rated "T".
 
  
  If I were to summarize this games story mode I'd call it, short and full off button mashing. And 
 the catch phrases they use almost make me **** myself laughing.
  
  On the other hand, the versus experience in this game is very addictive and the survival mode is 
 fairly innovative. And the character creation is equally fun. Although most female characters come 
 out looking like whores. Not the mention that they're clothes get ripped off during battle anyways. 
 I guess some people are into that sort of thing though.
  
  Anyhow. I rate this game fairly good, just because fighting other people is so damn fun. Especially 
 when you work to gather all the items you create your character with. I have no regrets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaramishimoZ
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:27 am PT
Review:  When first released, Soul Calibur 4 was a have to have game, though much of the time I couldn't 
 get it at release. At the time I was so ready to play as the Secret Apprentice and the game teased 
 me. In the end I got the game a few weeks ago with a dropped price.
  
  The gameplay of this game is simple. Pit a bunch of fighters together, put questionable clothing 
 on some of them, then hand them weapons. Who doesn't love that, eh? The combat is great with lots 
 of combos to be pulled off and strung together. And controls are great, though at first I thought 
 they were stiff (mostly because I pick fast characters and got mad because I wanted to try a slower 
 one) . Now you can enjoy destroying the armor of the other combatant and if you're one of those 
 stupendous fighters, break their guard and perform a technique called the Critical Finish, which 
 is an interesting mini-cinematic that leaves your opponent a mangled mess.
  
  The game is stunning graphically. Each ring boasts some wonderful graphics and captivating backdrops. 
 To be honest, most of the time I couldn't decide which map to battle on since I loved them so much.
 
  
  But, the game isn't without its failings. Though they omitted a team battle mode and survival mode 
 even, they lumped a bunch of characters together for you to fight in story mode to fill those voids. 
 And as such the story-mode is short and not that sweet. It is nothing more than crawling text that 
 introduces you to the character, you fight those hordes of enemies, then you come to your final 
 battle, see the characters ending and its done.
  
  Another shortcoming was the create a fighter. Many games have been trying to include this to let 
 the gamers imaginations (or lack thereof) go wild, but few can execute it in a way that makes the 
 creator feel good. First of all, I enjoyed the creator in SC3 much more with different weapon choices 
 and the like. This time around we can only adopt the moves of one of the other fighters, with the 
 exception of Algol, and the Star Wars characters (bonus characters also take moves from the original 
 roster) . Sure you can create a new character such as a giant baby monster that wields a rapier 
 like raphael, but at the same time you can actually just edit raphaels clothes, sure he'll still 
 be raphael but you put your own touch on him, which to me kind of takes away from the purpose of 
 a creator. And it is a bit disappointing we couldn't create at least ONE Force-wielding S. O. B.
 
  
  The characters are great to control as stated earlier, with the exception being the fighters from 
 that galaxy far, far away. It's clear they don't belong in this galaxy, and the devs certainly 
 tried their hardest to make sure they remained out of balance. A run down is simple. Fighting Yoda, 
 you eliminate your chances at horizontal attacks, unless of course he jumps into them, which he 
 does do often, but you also have to remain too darn close to the green thing, and crouching sounds 
 like a good idea, but remember Yoda can, and will, jump away first chance he gets and you really 
 can't move that well while crouching. 
  
  The Apprentice was also an awkward addition in an effort to promote TFU more. First of all his 
 character personality was completely different, his story mode ending was lackluster (and if you 
 download Vader it just becomes stupid as at this time he wouldn't do such a thing) . And as a CPU 
 he is almost impossible to beat for some. His unorthodox way of fighting can be summed up by most 
 as cheating. He likes to use his powers, A LOT, and he doesn't like to end his combos either. He 
 seems highly capable of predicting your moves, while his awkward fighting stance makes it near 
 impossible to know what you have to block.
  
  I won't go into any Vader commentary, but in my opinion he's not worth his price, he should just 
 be a free add-on.
  
  All in all, the game delivers solid gameplay and graphics. But, ironically, what was shined most 
 light upon (Star wars and Fighter Creator) were the most lackluster additions. I suggest renting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChristianWalter
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 shows up being a sweet game, extremely immersive, fun and well-done.
  
  You can play it like in Arcades, Story Mode (with CGs showing your very own character) or in Versus 
 against a friend.
  
  At first it might look like a regular fighting game, but as you create your characters, test the 
 other classes, go finishing it to unlock new armoring and styles, you'll know why I call this a 
 masterpiece.
  
  Although after some hours you are amazed with the games, it shows its weak points: you cannot create 
 characters that use lightsabers nor create your own costumes, so the create character mode that 
 looked shiny may look limited.
  
  The game could be more focused on the story too, but what looks like a bad thing might show up 
 being good because you can pretend that your character have to defeat Nightmare, Algol or any other 
 villain and fight against your other characters or you can create a complex and solid story, like 
 I did.
  
  All your role-playing needs will be filled up with SoulCalibur 4, and the multiplayer will make 
 you addicted for at least some good months.
  
  SoulCalibur's graphics are O. K., they are not bad but they are not impressive as other new games 
 showed up being.
  
  The physics are not that realistic at all, but that's a minor glitch that will be certainly forgot 
 while you play it.
  
  Rent it, love it, buy it, finish it. SoulCalibur 4 is a must have for all fighting genre fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xchaosx97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur is one of my favorite fighting games. It plays on a 3D format, letting you sidestep 
 instead of just jumping over the screen to dodge a hadoken, and gives unique ways to react to situations 
 ingame. The gameplay is solid, having a different learning curve compared to most 2D games. Which 
 is a good change. Graphic are spectacular, with the character designs being extremely detailed, 
 making it almost seem like a movie. Online has it's flaws with lag, but when playing on a 4 bar 
 connection you can easily adjust to it. However, I will admit the single player was very disappointing. 
 It is very lacking in story, and way too short. Making it feel no different than a arcade run through. 
 Making this game definately a MP based game. This is not really a big deal though. It's a fighting 
 game for crying out loud. Just have some friends either offline or online to play with, and you 
 are good. It is a worthwhile purchase and I strongly suggest it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoBlueDragonEX
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the original Soulcalibur. I played it at a friend's house, and I got hooked on it. 
 There was a huge roster for a game of its generation, and the combat was excellent. Now, the series 
 has gained another sequel, and it's arguably just as good as the original.
  
  Soulcalibur IV basically has the same combat system as every other game in its series. Like any 
 other fighter, you battle an opponent using your own unique weapon. These weapons can range from 
 8 foot swords (Final Fantasy VII anyone?) , nunchucks, scythes, and huge ring blades. Unlike its 
 predecessors, Soulcalibur IV allows your fighter to perform a Critical Finish under special circumstances. 
 These Critical Finishes are reminiscent of Final Smashes from Brawl, except these are guaranteed 
 kills. Each fighter has their own special Critical Finish, but they all end the same way: Your 
 opponent's lifeless body lying at your feet.
  
  The roster is bigger than ever, and this time the guest characters are from Star Wars. There's 
 Yoda, Darth Vader, and Starkiller from The Force Unleashed. Yoda is immune to grab attacks, which 
 annoyed the hell out of me when I was fighting him, and Starkiller is, well, a teenage version 
 of Darth Vader. Every character from previous games has returned, and each has their own story 
 mode. Voldo and Ivy have really revealing outfits, which can distract you from the fight. Voldo's 
 a 50 year old man, while Ivy is a woman in her 30's, so it's a double edged sword there (I'm not 
 a pervert) .
  
  A feature returning from the previous game is character creation. It's probably the best part of 
 the game, since you can create anyone you please. So far, I've made Cloud from FFVII, Niko from 
 Gta IV, Afro Samurai, and myself. Of course, I'm the strongest out of these four (FTW suckers) . 
 You can choose your character's alignment (Good/Evil) and their weapon. There's virtually no flaws 
 in this mode, so let loose and make your own killing machine.
  
  The game has tons of new features, but some aren't as fun as you'd like them to be. The story mode 
 is extremely short, even though there are tons of them. Arcade mode and Tower of Lost Souls are 
 basically the same except with Tower of Lost Souls you get prizes. Other than fighting and creating 
 your own character, there's not much to do. You can unlock pictures from the museum mode, but that's 
 really just a waste of your gold. 
  
  Soulcalibur IV is what you would expect from a fighting game, but it seems to stand out in that 
 category. The visuals, the gameplay, and the overall presentation is fantastic. I'm much more than 
 satisfied with this game, but there's a faint part of me that wanted more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2009 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Soul Caliber IV is a great and exciting game. I first rented it and I was expecting a long or somewhat 
 decent campaign. I have never played a game with a 5 minute campaign until now. don't get me wrong 
 though because there are plenty of other things to do on this game. I tried out the character customization 
 feature and I absolutely loved it. Also there is a mode called the tower of lost souls. I went 
 on and it is basically just fighting and you move up floors as you beat them and it gets increasingly 
 harder. This you will have a lot of fun with. When you decide to hook up online then there is a 
 lot of fun seeing other peoples custom characters and you can do a little bit of healthy trash 
 talking and BASICALLY ANNIHILATE THE OTHER PEOPLE. The bottom line is that you will have a lot 
 of fun and you will not get tired of this game very fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriforceCybern
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2009 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Of course, another one of favorites. This game has a great single player, except after a while 
 it does get old. There is a different story for each character, each with their own boss and mini 
 boss. I you have and X-box 360, the exclusive character is Yoda, and the exclusive on the PS3 is 
 Darth Vader. Anyway, the single player also has arcade mode, which allows you to go against 8 CPU 
 opponents and you score points by launching some fighter's combos on your oppenent, and there is 
 also training where you can practice combos. Tower of Lost Souls is a special mode however, you 
 choose 1-4 characters as you fight CPUs to ascend or descend floors. Descending is harder than 
 ascending, hence the achievements you would get from the X-Box 360 version. Matchmaking suffers 
 from some lag as always, and can be very frusterating for inexperienced players. My favorite part 
 about this game is the character creation. You can create your own character and picking their 
 own specialty from most of the characters in the game. You can also customize your own version 
 of a certain character, giving them different weapons and armor from advancing through the game. 
 There's not much else to say about this game, but take my word for it. This game is amazing, so 
 get it!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setsuka13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for only a few hours and was already about done. Not beating it, but definitely 
 done playing it. I got bored, kind of frustrated and thought that the most impressive thing about 
 SC IV was the gorgeous graphics. Bandai-Namco threw in some new characters, modes, weapons and 
 online play. I'll break it all down.
  
  The new characters - Star Wars characters were cool for a little while, but I lost excitement quickly. 
 Just a few new characters thrown in here and there and they thought that they could call it good? 
 No. I was not impressed. New costumes don't count for much either. The characters look great, but 
 again, we've seen it before. Plus, the characters they added into SC III (Zasalamel, Tira, and 
 Setsuka) were much more memorable than the ones added in this game. You forget them quickly as 
 you scuffle to find your old favorite. (Unless of course your new to the series, then you probably 
 could care less. Haha.)
  
  Modes - Story mode is almost identical to arcade mode and hasn't changed since the first SC. Making 
 your own character is pretty neat in this one. I liked that the created characters get a lot of 
 graphical detail. Still, navigating the menus to make those characters was a slight hassle. I preferred 
 the create a character mode in SC III much more. Tower of the lost souls? Yawn. Get to the bottom 
 (or top) of the tower while collecting treasures along the way. The strategy mode in SC III was 
 way more fun than this. 
  
  Weapons - Good, but same old, same old. Nothing new here. Being able to edit all of the characters 
 was a pretty fun feature though. The Soul Calibur weapon based formula is great, but it's showing 
 some age. They need to mix it up to keep it fresh.
  
  Online Play - Slightly laggy, but serviceable. It gets the job done. Fun if you have no buddy's 
 to play with. Infact, having a real life friend to do local play with makes Soul Calibur a whole 
 lot more fun than going solo.
  
  Graphics - Gorgeous. The best part of this game, hands down. The stages look fantastic. The weapons 
 glimmer wonderfully. The girls in this game look sexier than ever. Haha. It's true!! But seriously, 
 this was my favorite part. It's just great in all places and aspects. They really took their time 
 here.
  
  Overall, I was expecting a bigger and better Soul Calibur here and in some parts, it was bigger 
 and better, but in others, it wasn't. The graphics, character model updates, weapons, online play 
 and create a character mode were all great updates. But, the story mode, tower of lost souls mode, 
 it's harshness to newcomers and it's inability to greatly improve itself upon SC III, left it short 
 of achieving greatness. Great for Soul Calibur fans, not great for the casual gamer. Go with SC 
 III if you're looking for a more fun and easy time, not here, where you will find a better looking 
 and harder time. 
  
  Last Note: As you can tell, I prefer SC III over this, but in ways I prefer this over SC III. It's 
 a very close call for both SC III and SC IV, but in the end, it's a lot more of a preference kind 
 of thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dekodeadman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  Ok, like I said in the preview, this is the best fightinf game I've ever played, it's almost perfect, 
 just has two or three thigs I don't like too much, like the history of characters, almost everyone 
 are dissapointing and bad, but well, history is not very important in fighting games xD; other 
 thing I don't like too much is that there are onlu 50 character slots :S, for some characters I 
 design until 5 or 6 costumes and I must reduce them to 3 or 4 : ( and also the cusomized characters, 
 I would like to make 20, but I can only make 10 :S.
  Ok I have talked about what I don't like, now I'll tell why I love this game :D
  First, the graphics 
 are awesome, it's one of the best games in graphics ever, the characters are very well designed 
 (even the customizable) , the scenarios are very well detailed and colorful, the visuals are nearly 
 perfect; second thing I loved about this game is the high number of characters and styles, wow, 
 34 characters in a single fighting game?? It's incredible, and with the option of creating custom 
 characters is even better, then, all the options for customizing a character: you can choose among 
 more than 50 item of each equipment part, cnanging colors and putting them the way you want with 
 thousands of combinatios, it's awesome, two custom characters will never look equal, although there 
 are only 8 faces, haircuts and voices per sex, the clothes will always look different between any 
 character, simply by the least detail; the character customization is totally awesome! The next 
 thing I loved about this game is the online multiplayer, it's excellent! you can just join into 
 a 2, 3 or 4 player match (in the last two cases you must wait them to finish) , or you can make 
 your own match, chosing the number of rounds, match players, match time, etc, this in the player 
 matches, because in the ranked matches you must compite to get level upper, win two consecutive 
 matches to level up and getting better, that's cool; also in multiplayer matches, like in story 
 or tower modes, you can play special matches to use the effects of your equipments, weapons and 
 skills, it's very good! Well, this is all I have to say about this awesome, magnific, outstanding 
 game and in resume:
  Graphic: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Sound: 9
  Multiplayer: 10
  Story: 8
  Difficult/Gametime: 9
  Value: 9
  Overall: 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DhavokBoss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV is a fun game just plain and simple. Although it lacks in story it make up for 
 control mechanics and fun gameplay. The Character Creation is very fun and it's interesting to 
 see what you can create out of what you are given. The graphics are absolutely lush and pretty 
 and when in character creation it is almost impossible to create a TRULY ugly character becasue 
 of all the colors. The story mode is short yes but when playing against someone is where it truly 
 shines. Yes it maybe just a beefed up SC3 but it deserves and 8.5 from me because of how much fun 
 I had with it. Whether it is fun for you I don't know but if you are ever bored you should definately 
 at least rent this for the weekend. 
  
  Good: Graphics, character design, environment, online mutliplayer/at home multiplayer, playability, 
 fun to play. Worth fifty dollars or at least a rental
  
  
  
  Bad: shallow story, No online tower of souls, shallow character background
  
  
  My Score: 
 8.5 (you decide how you like it before you buy it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fryboy715
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Soul Caliber four for the XBOX 360 was definitely a much anticipated game before it came out. I 
 was one of the people that was anticipating it. When I fist played the game, I was hooked. It had 
 a great two player game and it is very fun to play with good friends and family, or just anyone 
 that is around you! One good thing about the game is that there are a lot of characters and they 
 are all different and unique. Also, there are many weapons and places to fight in. The settings 
 are crisp clear and the weapons are very varied. The controls are great and easy to learn, also. 
 Also, the new addition of having star wars characters is a very good thing. If you are a big star 
 wars fan, you won't be disappointed by the three star wars characters in the game (s) . Yoda if you 
 buy the game for the XBOX 360, Darth Vader for the Play Station three, and the apprentice is either 
 in both of the games or only in the play station three version. Also, the create a character option 
 is made very well. They really did a great job with this, there is so much variety in it, and you 
 can make characters that look like just about anything, from famous movie and video game characters 
 to ones that look like a more buff version of yourself! The replay value of the game is high and 
 you will find yourself either playing the game for hours and hours if you really get into it. Overall, 
 Soul Caliber IV is a great game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: areorock77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Good: Graphics, sound, music, Nightmare, Algol and Hilde, character creation (usually) frantic and 
 fluid pace, has its own style
  Bad: piss poor anime characters, Yoda and Apprentice, frustrating difficutly, Lizardman, Takis 44DD 
 boobs, pretty shallow compared to older SC's. 
  Right off the bat, Namco needs to work on their guest characters. Star wars+SC=broken characters. 
 I'm not going to much detail but the characters are shallow and just dont make sense in teh SC 
 universe.
  On the postive side, the game is absoultely amazing in action. Animations run at an incredibly 
 fluid pace and there are no slow downs that I can think of. The mulitple stages are inspired though 
 they are often too small and usually end in the awful "ring out!" The characters return all in 
 their glory, usually beefed up in a good way though also keeping to their elder moves as well. 
 Two new comers, Algol and Hilde make an incredible new experience. Most of yous (mafia accent lol) 
 probably have heard of them, but I must say that they are going to stay. The fact that they arnt 
 newbie like Kilik and Cerventes, damn them, and are actually more tuned towards veterans show that 
 they wont be spamming moves like crazy. Nightmare returns, I'm not fully committed to his new appearance, 
 but there's no denying his badassedness with his giagantic zweihander. Though should have kept 
 with his 3rd generation armour, he's losing his armoured look now.
  In terms of gameplay, its exactly like the older versions, but beefed up with next gen capabilities. 
 Its fast, frantic, any mostly enjoyable. The story mode though, shows its shallowness. Gone is 
 the clever branching path, thankfully the godawful difficutly as well! but now just the sterotypical 
 4-5 stages then you fight a boss and win. It's the Tower of... something, cant remember lol that 
 fans will be eating and devouring into. Here is where they will usually pick 2-3 characters, think 
 Tekken Tag! and they will pitted against at least 15 characters through the few floors that act 
 as single missions. Though i will say that it does get ridiculous after the 30th floor... and theres 
 60! Unfortunately it all comes down to random luck... and a crapload of patience.
  Inconclusion, its an amazing start to the iteration of SC for the next gen. It seems more like 
 an experimental demo than a full on new game. It brings back a lot of nostalgic moments and hopefully 
 its issues will be resolved in the next game and for gods sakes, make Taki and Ivys boobs less 
 big! And either make Nightmare into Night Terror or bring his awesome crimson dreads back like 
 from the 3rd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MPK
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Anyone who was lucky enough, back on 9/9/99, to play the original Soul Calibur for the very first 
 time on their brand-spanking-new Sega Dreamcasts can tell you what an amazing, mind-blowing, truly 
 visceral experience that was. Visuals that blew away not only every other fighting game on the 
 market, but blew every other game away PERIOD. Gameplay that was accessible to both newbies and 
 vets, that could as be simple or as deep as each individial player wished. And lots o' extras to 
 keep fighters coming back for more.
  
  Maybe such a perfect package of gameplay and beauty on a first try has simply become too much to 
 overcome. Maybe the initial formula was so near-perfect that Namco is simply terrified of messing 
 with it too much, or messing with it in other ways that make absolutely no sense at all. But, in 
 spite of the improvements and tweaks the series has seen since 1999, this latest incarnation feels 
 much less like Soul Calibur IV, and much more like Soul Calibur 1.4. 
  
  Or maybe that should be Soul Calibur: Attack of the Silicone. I like boobies as much as the next 
 guy, but the ones on display here (especially in Ivy's case) aren't so much offensive as they are 
 just ridiculously over-the-top. We get it Namco... you can animate boobies that bounce. We know. 
 You did that in SC1 too. Next.
  
  Unforunately, over-the-top is an accurate description of what you'll find here, especially with 
 the character designs. Although many of the characters here have returned from previous iterations 
 of Soul Calibur, and look better from a technical standpoint (though not by THAT much) , their outfits 
 all seem to be so damn BUSY and overaccessorized. Who could possibly FIGHT wearing all of this 
 stuff?! Creating characters doesn't make things all that much better... to create one that's truly 
 effective you'll often have a mismatched mess, as opposed to one that actually looks cool. 
  
  It doesn't get better in other ways as well. What does it tell you that the original Mission 
 Mode in SC1 is STILL the best long-lasting single player mode to be found in a Soul Calibur game? 
 SCIV's Tower of Souls is OK, though it can get tedious, and Story Mode should really be named Short 
 Story Mode, complete with awkwardly-translated walls of text in a weak attempt to convey a story. 
 And which version of Soul Calibur will FINALLY utilize voiceover actors that don't sound completely 
 amateur? The uncomfortable deliveries and poorly-written dialogue continues to be painful to both 
 read and hear, and has a way of taking you out of the element.
  
  Speaking of "out of the element", I'm going to make this REALLY simple: if I want to play a Star 
 Wars game, I'll play a Star Wars game. Yoda, Darth Vader and the Apprentice have NO PLACE AT ALL 
 in a Soul Calibur game. None. Zip. They're nothing but gimmicks. I'd much, much, MUCH rather have 
 two or three other new characters, complete with new arenas, that fit within the confines of the 
 SC universe than these complete misfits. At the very least, if Namco's going to insist on having 
 these guys in, can they at least include an option to turn them off? 
  
  As much as it may sound like I hate Soul Calibur IV, I don't. The fighting engine, rehashed though 
 it may be, is still very much a blast, deep-yet-simple and lots of fun, although I'm finding that 
 there's more matches where the CPU never gives you a chance to get up; this is especially true 
 of the Apprentice, who to this point might very well be the cheapest SC fighter to date. And the 
 visuals are once again easy on the eyes, though they don't really do more than take advantage of 
 the power of the hardward they're running on, as did SC2 and 3. Audio is what you'd expect as well: 
 sweeping epic numbers that all start to blend together after awhile.
  
  Overall, if you've been a Soul Calibur fan through the years, and don't mind that the series has 
 pretty much stagnated save for minor or questionable "improvements", the tried-and-true fighting 
 mechanics are still there, and the soul still burns. This series, however, is starting to flicker. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svig
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  I'll start this review by stating that I'm new to the Soulcalibur series and thusly have no idea 
 about how the other games were. 
  
  The core features of the game are like the background story pretty ordinary. You can play as one 
 out of 33 different characters all with their own unique fighting style. Some of these characters 
 have to be unlocked before you can play them and so on. You have four different single player modes 
 including a training mode and you have two different modes for playing with a friend at home. Although 
 each of this modes are highly entertaining and very addictive I'll not really go into this in more 
 detail since it is not what really made me fall for this game.
  
  The thing that really makes Soulcalibur 4 stand out as a long lasting and unique encounter is the 
 extensive character creation and customisation feature that combined with the online play has given 
 me the most entertaining fighting game experience that I've ever had. 
  
  You can choose to customise an existing character or create your own from scratch. If you choose 
 to create your own you'll have 7 different heads to choose from and six different voice sets. The 
 voice sets can be pitched up or down giving you even more possibilities to create a unique character. 
 You also have 26 different hairstyles including baldness. Furthermore you can set body size and 
 muscularity on a scale from minus 50 to plus 50 and you have a detailed colour palette allowing 
 you to adjust skin, eye and hair colour as you please.
  
  To be able to really customise your characters outfits however, you'll first have to earn some 
 gold and unlock some items by playing the various single player modes. Once you've done this the 
 possibilities are literally endless.
  
  There are two dimensions to the equipment customisation, depending on what type of online and single 
 play you prefer. 
  
  When you play online you can choose to play either with equipment effects on or with equipment 
 effects off. If you choose to play with equipment effects on, naturally most of your character 
 customisation will be centred on creating a set that yields the best stats and effects. This is 
 a science in itself and I spend many fun hours designing and testing the perfect set for this type 
 of play. 
  
  If you choose to play with equipment effects off, naturally your time will be spend creating the 
 coolest looking character. The more items you've unlocked the more items you'll have to choose 
 from (of cause) . You'll need gold to by some of the pieces as well. You can put together the various 
 pieces of close as you se fit and again you have you colour palette so you can dye the set pieces 
 as you like. 
  
  All in all I'd say that playing Soulcalibur gives you the feeling that a lot of love and dedication 
 has gone into the creation of this game. The graphics is wonderful and runs smoothly. Also the 
 characters are more naturalistically looking than those in DOA witch is something that, I as a 
 fan of naturalistic look and feel value a lot. The music is nice and adds a vibrant and fitting 
 background to the various stages.
  
  A big 10 from me and a warm thank you for all the wonderful hours I've spend and still spend with 
 this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  First off the game is easy to beat on story mode, but you can unlock many characters and their 
 is all sorts of cool videos and extras tacked on..... This game is like the others in the series, 
 but has alot of characters... Yoda is cool to play as... Although I think that dead or alive 4 
 was way better than this game, this game is still a really fun game and also the "Tower of Souls" 
 is a good option and you can create fighters and take them online.... The graphics are beutiful 
 and has a good amount of polish in the game.... Although the multiplayer is more a button mashing 
 fiasco, the game has a good leveling system and you can purchase weapons and power ups and all 
 that... Overall it was a good rental for me.... and if it gets really really cheaper it might be 
 worth to pick it up...... although it does'nt contain alot of substance, it is still a really good 
 game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmvanir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I was wanting a fighting game for the 360 and when I picked up SC IV I new I had found one I would 
 enjoy. I hopped right in and started enjoying myself in story and arcade mode. 
  
  I moved on to the Tower of Lost Souls and found this part to be a bit difficult. To date I have 
 not made it to the final level while ascending the tower... far from it actually. While frustratingly 
 difficult at times the challenge of ascending or descending the tower is fun.
  
  The addition of Yoda, Vader (from XBOX Live) , and the apprentice were a nice twist also. I really 
 enjoy playing Vader and making people pay with the force. Yoda is like you would expect him to 
 be, fast and he flips around a lot.
  
  The character creation feature is a great option in this game. I have had a lot of fun setting 
 up my characters with weapons and gear. 
  
  The online play is fairly seamless. Also, the feature of being able to watch a fight in a game 
 with more than two players is kind of nice.
  
  Overall this game was a great buy and I will enjoy many more hours of it.
  
  My only complaint 
 is that there is not a lot of jumping in this game. From being a huge fan of the Mortal Kombat 
 series this took some getting used to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 11:12 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV veterans and newcomers alike will be quite at home with the newest entry in the 
 series. The memorable cast has come back for some more sword-slashing mayhem.
  
  Soul Calibur IV is incredibly polished, sporting very impressive graphical detail. This can be 
 seen in both the characters and the environments you'll be fighting in. Animations are incredibly 
 smooth, and the game is generally very nice to look at.
  
  There's an incredible amount of depth here. When you access the command list, there are several 
 lists for different kinds of moves for each character. These range from horizontal attacks, to 
 vertical attacks, simultaneous button press moves, running moves, and signature moves. Each of 
 these lists sport a lengthy list of combinations, which can be overwhelming at first but allows 
 for an incredibly complex fighter. Interestingly, in training mode when you access your command 
 list and press A on any of the moves the game will actually show you how it's supposed to look 
 when properly executed. This is great for beginners and veterans alike when trying to build their 
 own repertoire of attacks.
  
  Like in past Soul Calibur games, fighting is less about stringing together huge combos than it 
 is finding the right moment and opening to strike. This lends a great deal of tactical consideration 
 compared to most other fighters as you try to dodge and read your opponent. Your attacks consist 
 of the vertical, horizontal and kick attacks from previous iterations. Vertical attacks are stronger, 
 but leave you horribly exposed when someone tries to side step you. Kick attacks are usually the 
 fastest moves at your disposal, and really come in handy when you're under a fierce barrage from 
 an aggressive player. Mixing up these different kinds of attacks is crucial to winning matches 
 against computers and especially other players. Additionally, concentrating your attacks on one 
 spot of your enemy will usually result in their armour shattering. This results in increased damage 
 after subsequent hits to that same area, adding another tactical level to the gameplay.
  
  The multiplayer component is definitely the meat of the experience here, but you should always 
 be careful to wait to see the other player's latency before starting a match. Playing this game 
 with any sort of lag makes it incredibly difficult to win, which is why it's great you can see 
 your opponent's connection level before starting. The matchmaking system could have been a bit 
 better; usually when you try to join a match the game will simply tell you a session is full instead 
 of continuing the search for a game to put you in. This is mitigated somewhat by the fact that 
 you can create your own session and essentially just wait for other players to join your game.
 
  
  New to the game is a fully fledged character creation mode. Here you can edit any of the existing 
 characters with your own choice of helmets, pauldrons, gauntlets, armor, greaves, and everything 
 under the sun. You can also change the colour of all the gear you choose to put on your character, 
 or even change the colour of their hair. You can also change each character's fighting style. For 
 example, if you wanted to play a Siegfried with Mitsurugi's attacks, you can do that. Online the 
 changes in your equipment are cosmetic, but when you play the Tower of Souls single player campaign 
 (a set of challenges with increasing difficulty) the different equipment you use drastically changes 
 your character's stats. These changes reflect your health, damage, and a variety of other statistics.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the Star Wars characters don't fit the bill at all. The Apprentice in particular 
 has several long range attacks at his disposal that are much stronger than they probably should 
 be. Yoda is definitely the most obnoxious, as he can't be grabbed and his low stature makes him 
 very hard to hit. Vader is the most balanced of the 3, as he has no special advantages characterized 
 by the other Star Wars characters. Still, the game would have been better off without the inclusion.
 
  
  Soul Calibur IV is an incredibly polished and solid game that every fighting fan should try. Though 
 it can be hard for newcomers, sticking with it will result in a great and addicting gameplay experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FJHrunner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I will say Soul Calibur 4 is the best in the series! No joke! I love this game so much! Though 
 the bad thing is, is that it does not deliver the same type of game play! The controls have changed 
 a great deal!! Though it is still a pretty good game though! I love it! It amazing and it is addicting 
 once you start playing it! I still cannot stop playing it! There are just so many games that you 
 know you don't like it but it's addicting, well that's this situation only except it's a game that 
 is good! Addicting, Non-Stop Total Action, Awesome graphics, Great challenge and, it's just good! 
 It's good!! Like milk! Milk is good! Forget the milk thing but it's an awesome game you will want 
 it! No matter if you have a 360 or PS3 or not, get the game with the X-Box 360 or PS3! From overall 
 rating, I'd rate Soul Calibur 4... ***/... 3.5 stars!! Thanks for reading this review!! Next review 
 will be on Guitar Hero 3 for the X-Box 360!! Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspirit138
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Let's start of with the statement-Soul Caliber is great. It has a solid roster of characters which 
 are not too hard to unlock, it is a reasonable difficulty, online play, and neat cut-scenes for 
 the endings of each character.
  
  Soul Caliber has around 25 characters, all of which have their ups and downs. This makes it so 
 that there is no 'best' character in the game. Maxi, for example, is extremely quick and can pull 
 of crazy combos by pretty much button mashing, but he has an extremely small range. Astaroth is 
 very VERY powerful, but his moves are slow and don't link on as well as some other characters. 
 You have to PRACTICE a lot to become a good player, because there are always more than one good 
 combo that help you out in particular situations.
  
  In case you wanted to know, Yoda, Darth Vader and the Apprentice-the characters with pretty much 
 the most hype of the year in terms of fighting games-are good enough. Yoda does get a little bit 
 annoying later, since you cannot link on your attacks, so the fight does get a bit stodgy and boring. 
 Darth Vader, on the other hand, is absolutely fantastic, with a good range of attacks pretty much 
 outlining what Darth Vader would fight like. The Apprentice is a good, well-rounded character, 
 with plenty of good attacks, and he definitely has the coolest attack in the game (his saber throw 
 in the air) .
  
  The difficulty is not too difficult, with the game having enough difficulty settings so that you 
 are always at your skill level.
  
  There are 3 main new things from this Soul Caliber to the Soul Caliber franchise: critical finish/soul 
 gauge, tower of lost souls, and equipment destruction. Easily the most unimpressive is Equipment 
 destruction, which leads to bits of armour coming off them when they are hit with a series of attacks. 
 You don't really realise until he is half-naked (to which you think 'tchah that gal/guy is sweet/buff! 
 (Gal being sweet and guy being buff) ) . However, sometimes you see bit of armour coming off them 
 that they aren't even wearing, which makes you say 'wtf?'.
  
  The tower of lost souls is a good addition, these towers put you in special conditions, where you 
 use a variety of characters to kill them, normally to get more equipment. It works well enough.
 
  
  Easily the best out of the 3 is the Critical Finish; this is just basically owning them in some 
 special way if they keep blocking. The little scenes are actually very, VERY cool, it is sometimes 
 very sudden and fluent, it adds another direction to the game, and it also stops the guy/gal from 
 blocking every time you hit em, therefore making throws occur less often.
  
  The main problem I have with this game is that it has taken away some great things from the other 
 Soul Caliber games, most notably Team Battle. Another problem with this game is its online, in 
 a number of ways. Firstly, there are loads of random problems with the match up thingy. This sometimes 
 really frustrates you. Something else is the fact that you can use created characters. The character 
 creation is really annoying, since it isn't how much you play with him, how many attacks you hit 
 with him or a choose-your-own point basis thing; its the clothes you wear. Some of the stuff that 
 looks crappy together will makes your stats like awesome, and some that look awesome look crappy. 
 It gets really annoying, playing people that are just using crappy stuff just so they have the 
 advantage.
  
  Overall Soul Caliber IV is a great game. It looks awesome, its fluent, there are great characters 
 and it feels good. Apart from the online and lack of some parts, this game is probably the best 
 fighting game out. Period.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is cool because yoda and darth vader have been add to the roster of fighters and the 
 secret apprentice rules Its probebly one of the best fighter Ive ever played and the character 
 creator and custimizer is suberb really well done you can make what ever character you want but 
 the thing thats bad about this is the story mode its not really that epic like I had hoped for 
 you play through like four matches and its over whats that about and all you gent for beating it 
 is like a 3 minute cut scene some of these are really cool and everything but still even if it 
 is a fighter there should have been more but I guess with all the characters you'll have fun beating 
 the story mode with all of them and that kind of makes up for it they all have there own ending 
 and have to say this is a imprssive goup of fighters there is ton and each one has its own fighting 
 style and combos this along with really good graphics and physics makes for a really good game 
 and the game has a huge lot of bonus content which is good for any fan of the series some people 
 said that soul calibur sold out by puting youd and darth vader in but I think those guys are wrong 
 Yoda rules and being able to use him in the story mode is awsome and I only wish you could custimize 
 there apperence like everyone esle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King0fBanditz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Two reasons why this game was kind of a disappointment are the ankle-deep single player modes, 
 and the lack of options in multi-player fighting. They definitely should have included a tag-team 
 multiplayer option (as in, 1v1 but each player has multiple characters to switch between on the 
 fly) . 
  
  This game is good, with smooth controls and great graphics, but it seems like there could have 
 been more.
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: warokku
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Having the ability to play as either Yoda, Darth Vader or the apprentice was the main reason for 
 buying this game, apart from knowing that it would have exceptional graphics as all of the S. B./ 
 S. C. games have had in there times.
  The game is only disappointing in speed. One of the things that had always inpressed me with the 
 series was the fast paced fighting but this particular release seems to be a little slower than 
 the others. Never the less is is still good fun with plenty of options, plus if you are a Star 
 wars fan, then you'll take great delight in playing as the oppossing icon characters from the Star 
 Wars series. You will also like this game if the other games are too fast and enjoy the up to date 
 "high def" graphics, otherwise I would just stick to the second and third releases. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Soulcalibur 4 is a great fighting game. Its a very fun game to play. The action/fighting is fast 
 paced and furious. Especially in the tower of souls mode.
  The game play is great and there are cool moves to pull off. The combos are awesome and look great. 
 The story mode is fun, but is way to short. Each character has his or hers story mode, but the 
 main problem with it is that it's way to short. The story mode only lasts five stages. Also the 
 arcade mode is way to short as well. It's only eight stages long. The most fun to be had with this 
 game is in the tower of souls. You have to ascend twenty floors first and when you complete those 
 twenty floors you open up/unlock the twenty floors that you need to descend. Tower of souls is 
 a lot of fun and it is a great challenge. I find it very hard, but like I said a lot of fun. Right 
 now I'm at the last floor/stage in tower of souls, but so far I can't beat it. This game has great 
 replay value. its fun to go back and play the story modes, arcade mode, and the tower of souls. 
 However I would have given this game a much higher score if story modes and arcade mode was a lot 
 longer. Verus mode is a lot of fun too. I haven't played online, but I have read that it is a blast 
 to play online. 
  I give 8 out of 10 for the gameplay. Great gamepaly. 8 out of 10 for the graphics. Awesome graphics. 
 8.5 out of 10 for the sound. The voice acting is great, the sound effects are very good, and the 
 music suits a fighting game. 8 out of 10 for the value and replay value. Its fun to play this game 
 over and over again. This game has great replay value. 9 out of 10 for the tilt. The controls in 
 this game are superb. 9 out of 10 for the combat. 6 out of 10 for the storys. The storys like the 
 arcade mode are way to short. Overall I give this great game an 8 out of 10. Its simply a great 
 game to play, rent and to own!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DarthMaul-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Making its debut on the current generation console Soulcalibur IV is a weapon based fighting game 
 that features the familiar story, training, arcade, museum and last but not least the characters 
 creation mode. Soulcalibur IV might have improve visuals and an improve game-play mechanics with 
 the addition of online plays, but it still feels like the previous Soul Calibur and that's definitely 
 a good thing. If you have been enjoying the previous three installment then you will no doubt find 
 more enjoyment throughout your playtime with Soulcalibur IV.
  
  To start off if you love fighting games and have the itch to use weapons then Soulcalibur IV is 
 definitely the game for you. Veterans of the series will be pleased with the rosters which contains 
 over 30 characters to choose from, so there is one for everyone preference. There is a great amount 
 of modes that will keep you occupy for a while along with online play for the first time in this 
 series, which is a much needed addition because of the standards that are set by others fighting 
 franchise. Along with these modes there are a wide array of unlockables that will keep you busy 
 for a while until the next one is out.
  
  Just like every Soul Calibur game there is a Arcade mode to be found and this one is no exception 
 either. Your goal here for this mode is to fight your way through eight series of matches with 
 nothing else such as no skill or any effects added to your character. Like most games the game 
 difficulty increases every series so the first match is a cake walk compare to the final match. 
 The first six matches is always against random characters, but the seventh and eighth one is always 
 against The Apprentice and Algol in that order. You also get different amount of points for completing 
 varies task during this mode so definitely be on the lookout.
  
  Beside the Arcade mode that is present in Soulcalibur IV, there is another one called Story Mode 
 which pretty much explained the characters of choice background and of course their ending. As 
 for the setup of story mode, you have to fight in five different battles which includes the final 
 boss. Here you are given the option to either play it on the hard difficulty or normal one if you 
 are having a hard time with the game artificial intelligence. Depending on your performance and 
 the difficulty you choose, you will receive a selected amount of gold at the end of story mode. 
 Playing through story mode for the first time will net you two new weapons to buy at the character 
 creation, which gives you an incentive to play through this mode with all your characters. It is 
 a shamed that this mode is relatively easy even on normal mode, which would of made it more fun 
 to actually go through it with each characters.
  
  Making its return is the character creation mode from Soulcalibur III called create-a-soul, it 
 is somewhat different in Soulcalibur IV this time but not by much. This time around you can adjust 
 the pitch of your character voice giving a wider range of voices to use. In addition any equipped 
 items now have an affect on your character's stat such as attack, defense, or health. Skill points 
 can sometime be granted from these equipments that lets you have special traits for your created 
 characters. By using a certain characters multiple times their style level increase which open 
 up more skill to use. Furthermore the standard characters in the game can also be alter by the 
 changes to some degree because you are only allow to used them in special vs. mode only.
  
  With the goods you also get the negative for the character creation mode. Instead of just choosing 
 one of the default or original weapon styles for your created character, Soulcalibur IV forces 
 you to choose one of the character style in the game to use for your created characters with the 
 exception of the bonus and guest character of course. With this most of the original style are 
 gone from the game making the option to customized your character smaller in a sense, but on the 
 other hand there are also new options that have been included in Soulcalibur IV. One last thing 
 to note is that you can only load one profile at a time for versus mode during offline game-play, 
 meaning you and your friends can't battle it out with their respective created characters because 
 the option just isn't there at the moment.
  
  Soulcalibur IV is a great game that should not be missed by any fans of the series or let alone 
 the fighting genre. There are many new features and improvement on their predecessor that makes 
 this version the overall better version or vice-versa if you don't like the added features. New 
 to the series is multiple fighting battles, which is referred to active matching battle that can 
 only be use in the Tower of Lost Souls and the Story mode. What you have here is when you defeat 
 your opponent, a new opponents simply appear in battle creating consecutive matches without exiting 
 the screen thus giving you a sense of a survival mode.
  
  There are also unique force abilities that are only exclusive to the guest characters and in this 
 case the Star Wars characters. The force meter will be drain for every force attack that is executed, 
 but the meter does recharges over time like other Star Wars game when you aren't using any force 
 power. Each Star Wars character have their own unique power such as Yoda using the force to launch 
 himself midair to perform his aerial attack, the Apprentice performing force lighting, and Vader 
 performing his signature force chokes and force push. Once you run out of your force meter, your 
 characters will simply become fatigue like Vader famous mechanical malfunction. These small details 
 just simply makes the game feel a lot more authentic. 
  
  Another new addition to Soulcalibur IV is the new Soul Gauge that appears or located next to your 
 character health meter. What it does is every time you get attack or block an attack you soul gauge 
 changes color indicating that you are close to defeat by the critical finish move. Your soul gauge 
 start with the blue color, but after taking damaged it will change to green then red then eventually 
 it will be flashing once you take enough damaged. This give your opponent the chance to perform 
 an devastating attack called the critical finish which requires the combination of all four face 
 button being pressed at once. There are way you can gain your soul gauge back, just simply by attacking 
 your opponents. This implemented feature will certainly speed up the game because it decrease the 
 constant blocking or gamers strategy of playing on the defense too much.
  
  New to the series is Tower of Lost Souls which is a replica of the previous mission modes. What 
 you do here is pretty much fighting opponents under different circumstances just to unlock the 
 various extra that is present here by either going up or down the tower. For each floor you go 
 up you will encounter treasure chests that can be opened if you fulfill the certain tasks such 
 as being victor without losing a single health or something as simple as a ring out. Mention earlier 
 was the multiple fighting battles, which allows you to choose three characters that you are comfortable 
 with to fight through some of the various floors. The game doesn't tell you what the conditions 
 are, but they do give you hints on what to do, but only if you have been to that floor once.
  
  Aside from ascending the tower you can also descend, but only if you have already ascended 
 to the first twenty floor. Descending is quite actually different from ascending in the sense that 
 you aren't given any breaks in between matches, which is really an survival mode for you. The only 
 way to end this is when you are defeated so if you are a very skill player then expect to be battling 
 enemies for a while. Treasure chest are also present in here but you can only attain it by reaching 
 a certain floors and winning it to unlocked the chest, unlike ascending where you get it for doing 
 various tasks. Like the previous mission mode in the previous games you will be earning a lot of 
 gold for your trouble here in the Tower of Lost Souls.
  
  The most important mode that is added to Soulcalibur IV is the online mode which is a first for 
 this series. Like most online game you can choose to play ranked or unranked matches against someone 
 you don't know. The cool aspect of online is you can take your created characters online, but sometimes 
 you wish this couldn't happen because of repetitive character creation that appears online so often. 
 There were a few hiccups during online play, but for the most part the game ran really well with 
 fast-pace actions. You are also given the option to play normal matches or simply have a special 
 matches with the special skills attained with the equipment. You can expect to lose some matches 
 to the newcomer because of how assessable the game-play is to them.
  
  Out of the three Star Wars guest characters Yoda seem to be the worst addition to the series because 
 of how cheap and frustrating it was to deal with his incredible height. He might be fun to play 
 with, but playing against him is a totally different story. Most attack usually missed him and 
 throwing him is literally impossible not too mention his agile characteristic only adds to the 
 headache. Darth Vader on the other hand feel more like a welcome addition than Yoda. He is powerful 
 but his speed alone balance things out that works just like the other big strong but slow characters 
 on the roster. The Apprentice just felt overpowered and intimidating because of his force lightening 
 power.
  
  The graphics for Soulcalibur IV is just totally awesome in many ways. The character model for each 
 characters is just spectacular and have some of the best detail in any fighting games that I have 
 seen. You can literally see the characters clothing floats along with the breeze, hairs move when 
 the character move in motion, and lighting is just spectacular. If you are playing this on a HDTV 
 then you will be amazed on how well the game looks in motion. Like the previous installment the 
 arena looks as good as ever with highly detail and interactive environment, but on rare occasion 
 there are some frame-rate problem that I have encounter. Along with this problem there are also 
 some minor clipping issues but most of the time it mostly occurs with the created characters. The 
 graphic isn't revolutionary in anyway but it looks outstanding from a certain standpoint.
  
  Sound is okay in this game and there isn't really anything spectacular about it. From sounds 
 of metals on metals and the classic lightsaber sound, there is a variety of noise that makes the 
 game feel more epic. Like I mention earlier you have the option to change the pitch of the voices 
 for your created character which is a plus because it gives your character a more unique characteristic 
 feel to it that was lacking in the previous installment. The English voice-acting is okay to say 
 the least, but it is a good thing Namco added the Japanese voice to give a more authentic feels 
 to the standard characters. The music track is pretty epic in a sense that it has that Soul Calibur 
 feels to it and it does a pretty nice job fitting in with the arena. Whats even better is the game 
 support Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound, making the sounds and music even better if you have the 
 setup for this. 
  
  Like it predecessor Soulcalibur IV controls are very responsive and it will take a while to master 
 a specific characters due to the sheer amount of moves that are present. Button masher will occasionally 
 get a round or two but most time it doesn't get them anywhere if they are pit up against a veteran 
 of the series. If you aren't up against a veteran then button mashing will be more than enough 
 to net you some victory. If you are one of those who constantly play on the defense, then expect 
 to lose some armor pieces because of the new armor destruction feature that was added to the game. 
 Along with this the critical finisher is also new to the game which was explained earlier in this 
 review that deals out great amount of damage to opponents that constantly blocked or guard. This 
 feature isn't here to punish the one who blocks often but mainly tries to help you balanced out 
 your strategy by going on the offense more often.
  
  The fighting engine are pretty much intact from the previous installment, so if you are a veteran 
 of the previous game then you will be very familiar with this game control. What you have are four 
 buttons that does different function with X assigned to horizontal attack, Y to vertical attack, 
 B to kick, and A to guard from your opponent attacks. The eight directional movement or eight way-run 
 also makes it return in Soulcalibur IV. In order to move your character all you have to do is use 
 the analogue stick. Like most fighting games there are three area for you to attack which are low, 
 mid, and high attacks and the object of the game is to take your opponents health down to zero.
 
  
  Replay ability really comes down to how many friends you have that owned the same games on the 
 same platform as you, because simply playing the single player will sooner or later get repetitive 
 and loses it touch sooner or later. Even though there are tons of unlockable there still should 
 be a little more than what is currently present. If you have friends then the replay will be enormous 
 for you while on the other hand there isn't much to do aside for the unlockable items that is attain 
 mostly from the Tower of Lost Souls. Chances are you will be spending a lot of time with this game 
 because usually fighting games offer more replay value than the other genre, beside there are more 
 than enough modes that will keep you busy for a long time until Namco decides to dish out their 
 next installment.
  
  Soulcalibur IV is a timeless classic that stays true to it roots and added some really nice additions 
 that really keeps this series going. With online play added you will be sure to spent countless 
 hours battling it out with a friend. With a revamped create a character mode there is more freedom 
 and option this time around for you to messed around with. There are some great guest characters 
 that you have the option to play with in Soulcalibur IV such as the Star Wars universe characters 
 along with the manga characters that will definitely add new personality to this game.
  
  The inclusion of Star Wars character might be an odd choice but it really shouldn't be an drawback 
 if you aren't a fan of the series. With more than enough characters you can just simply avoid using 
 them if you don't like it. Seeing the light saber clashing against the other weapons still feels 
 weird, but that may very well be due to the fact that I know how destructive this weapons are in 
 the movie. A neat thing Namco did was have the ability to keep track of all your statistics, achievement 
 records, and the ability to purchased your chraracter creation items and any art extras with the 
 points that you gain through the single player mode. 
  
  If you feel intimating by the looks of it because it is a fighting, then you really shouldn't worry 
 because Soulcalibur IV is a very accessible game meaning anyone can play it. If you are an hardcore 
 gamer of the series then don't be afraid because there is a large amount of depth in this game 
 due to the sheer amount of move lists to learn and study, and there is sure to be some skilled 
 opponents to satisfied your appetite when you head online. Button mashing can get you a long way 
 in this game because of how easily you can pulled of some of the move, but it definitely won't 
 get you to the top.
  
  Overall Soulcalibur IV is a great addition to anyone collection, and with the added features this 
 one is hands down the best in the series yet. If you are an fan of the series or simply looking 
 for a fighting game to tried out, then look no further because Soulcalibur IV is the game for you. 
 With more than 30 characters to choose from, along with a bunch of games mode, and an online option 
 for anyone looking for a challenge; Soulcalibur IV is certainly a recommendation for everyone. 
 With responsive controls, awesome graphic that are highly detail, and an soundtrack that feels 
 right at home; you won't feel disappointed with this latest installment from Namco.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadDonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  This is going to have to be a short review because I'm tired as hell and I should be getting to 
 bed.
  
  This is the first Soul Caliber game that I have played to date, which unfortunately means that 
 although I understood the story, I wasn't 100% gripped by it.
  
  I found this to be a very fun, but very typical fighting game. Had a lot the same feel a Mortal 
 Kombat and Street Fighter, which isn't a bad thing. The characters were quite well balanced and 
 you were able to progress fairly steadily whether you have no idea what your doing or are a pro.
 
  
  As fun as it was doing the actual fighting, I found my favorite part to be customizing the characters 
 to get the most out of them. I really liked the way that different armor added to different things, 
 so you couldn't exactly say that one thing is better than another because it would depend on your 
 circumstances. Unlocking new gear was always exciting because it could help you beat that guy that 
 you just couldn't quite get by with your old stuff. But unfortunately once you unlock only 30 achievements, 
 you have all the gear. It was just after this that I hit the wall. I found that once there's not 
 anything else to improve on, the game completely lost its thrill. Even though there were slight 
 tweaks to the stories, there was ultimately no difference. You do the same thing over and over 
 and over again.
  
  It just seemed like there wasn't enough to do. After less than a week, you pretty much have most 
 things unlocked and you find yourself tiring of the repetition. It was kind of like a sugar high. 
 Its great for a very short burst and then you hit the sugar crash and feel like crap. I would have 
 given this a 7.8, but because of the .5 rating systems I had to round to an 8. I would recommend 
 renting this game because its a blast to play, but I would not recommend buying it because I don't 
 feel that you would get your moneys worth.
  
  
  Best thing about the game: Character customization
  Worst thing about the game: Too short, not 
 enough unlockables
  Most interesting thing: Tower of Lost Souls
  Favorite Character: Yun-Seong
  Rating: 7.8 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueeyedtasha87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Ok so I may not have played the first 3 but I know what I like and Soul Calibur 4 is one game I 
 do like, there is always something to do. The characters are all unique and their costumes vary. 
 2 characters do not look a like. I am not sure whether they are different to the other Soul Calibur's 
 but I know I do like the looks. The other strong point is the variety of voices and the option 
 to have it Japanese is amazing. 
  
  The Star Wars characters let it down a bit, with the Apprentice being a cheesy character, and Yoda 
 being a spam character, but saying that the light sabers give it a unique aspect that is very rarely 
 seen in games. 
  
  The platforms you get to fight on are really varied and the Star Wars drop is unusual yet awkward. 
 But apart from that there is very few flaws in the game. In short its a great game for all.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miiplay16
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I beat It in what felt like 10 Minutes. It was seriously boring. Sure some the action is fun, and 
 being able to create a character oh that hasn't been done before. The online play is stupid If 
 you get paired up with an idiot your not going to be able to get an attack in edge wise because 
 all this stupid little **** is going to do is Low kick you in the shin over and over again so all 
 you can do is sit there and think of how much a Jack ass he is. Its not that great rent it once 
 or twice get as much achievments you can then never play it again. Don't sit in your house for 
 one week so you can unlock all the weapons they're not that different. Don't be one of those people 
 with no life who strive to be on the top of the leaderboard where no gives a ______. And if your 
 under the age of 14 your not cool because you've unlocked both Soul Edge and Soul Calibur (Final 
 Forms) Because no one cares. Your not cool if you play halo. Your not cool If you play this. And 
 you're certainly not cool when you say a curse word every other sentence. Just act like you would 
 if your parents are responsible and are in the room with you watching you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  When i played SoulCalibur 2 i rly tought that cannot go beyond that quality.... i was wrong!
  
  soulcalibur IV employ next-gen capabilities to make beatiful graphics, and the live multiplayer 
 makes this game just like one of the few last exact gamespot's comentaries: easy to recomend
  
  i like star wars and these characters add that "extra" to this game.
  
  i personally think 
 that no fighting game worth a 10 or "excelence" cuz its simple gameplay and history, when u play 
 a fighting game is to entertain and most important, play with friends!, this game has that.
  
  i only hate when u play with some1 else on live and he just leaves when u are winning, anyway, 
 not a common thing
  
  THE PROBLEM WITH THIS IS THAT I LIKE TO PLAY IT ALL THE TIME WHEN THERE ARE LOTS OF NEW GAMES TO 
 PLAY!... (o ya, if u learn to play with yoda u r virtually undefeatable, to many benefits, starting 
 its size) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Soulcalibur IV is a great game. It is a top notch franchise that gamers have to come to expect 
 nothing but the best. IV will meet some of your expections, exceed in a few, but leave you wanting 
 more at the end. 
  
  The major thing is the guest Star Wars characters. Yoda for the XB, Vadar for the PS3 and Starkiller 
 for both (although now Vadar and Yoda are available for both consoles and the triple threat show 
 downs will begin) . While they initially feel out of place (much like Spawn did out of the 3 exclusive 
 guests in Soulcalibur II) I still feel that they are a cool inclusion, and after a while it doesn't 
 even phase you. They do look better facing off against each other rather then Kilik for example. 
 Yoda, Vadar, and Starkiller play much like how you would expect them to play. Vadar plays like 
 a larger slightly faster version of Mitsarugi, Yoda is so small that most horizontal attacks and 
 all throws won't reach him. He's a bit slow though, but once he gets arial he's pretty quick. Vadar 
 uses pushed and chokes, Yoda uses a lot of defensive force items. Then there is Starkiller, he's 
 just way too powerful. He's very quick, uses both Sith and Jedi powers, and in the hands of a vet 
 or the CPU he's increadably hard (if you've played The force unleashed this will make sense) and 
 this includes him versus the rest of the Soulcalibur line up as well. I'd like to see a Star Wars 
 fighting game made by Namco with all the great Jedi in it. Maybe that's in our future and this 
 was just a test, who knows. 
  
  All of the characters from Soulcalibur 1 through 3 are here. There are some new additions. I'm 
 pleased to say that none of the newbes remotely play like any of the Soulcaliber vets. Also I'm 
 pleased to say that many of the "act alikes" from the prior games have developed their own moves 
 and styles (like Kilik vs Sung me-na) There are some bonus characters that were included, unfortunately 
 they are just remakes of many of the characters that were already created (Much like Asteroth was 
 to Rock in Soulcalibur 1) . So not all of the content is great. 
  
  The game is fairly balanced as far as the fighters are concerned. Most of the larger ones are slower, 
 but stronger and most of the smaller ones are faster but weaker. There is always at least one move 
 that will counter someone elses. The much reviled soul finish can't really be used that often, 
 there are certain factors that need to be met. These are slim to none. 
  
  There is a ton of replay value to this game. Each fighter is very deep and it would take a life 
 time to master one, much less them all. There are many diffent modes both for a single player, 
 online, and for local matched. So you won't get bored here too soon. It is worth mentioning that 
 in story mode there is a ton of good animation, and all endings are animated. You can unlock a 
 lot of stuff through the story mode and the Tower of Souls mode. Tower of Souls is quite challenging, 
 and it forced players to adapt to the situation by granting different powers to their chosen fighters. 
 There is a pretty good create your own fighter mode, this pretty much lets you tailor re-make a 
 current fighter (accept for the Star Wars and bonus characters) . You can change the way they look, 
 gender, role, weapon, voice, and name. The created characters fit right into the roster nicely. 
 They even get their own premade ending. 
  
  The game is beautiful. It is probably the best looking game on the 360 to date. The characters 
 are large, detailed, well animated, and lighted perfectly. The arena are large, lush, beautifully 
 colored and yearns to be explored. 
  
  The sounds are vintage Soulcalibur. I would like to say that the english actors are a bit better 
 in this version, but the traditional cast sounds better in Japanese. The Star Wars characters sound 
 ridiculous in Japanese, so you may want to toggle back and forth. The music is also vintage Soulcalibur, 
 giving you the feel that something epic is coming. It can be a little over bearing at times but 
 it's not annoying like many of the Mario Kart franchise. 
  
  The controls are spot on for the most part. It might be better to get a fighter's stick for the 
 360, the cross pad is a little bit cumbersome to pull of some moves. The thumb stick is ok. The 
 buttons are very responsive and well set up. Though you do have the option to change the set up. 
 
  
  The game on the normal and easy levels is good. The harder the level the higher the challenge as 
 you might expect, but it grants the CPU cheap shots to take you out. This can make you want to 
 throw a controller or two across the room. 
  
  Soulcalibur IV is one of the few games that both causual and hardcore gamers can gather around. 
 It is a must for any 3-D fighting or Soulcalibur conosour and worth a pick up for someone that 
 is more casual to the genre or looking from something new. Most of the things presented by the 
 game aren't earth shattering, more what you would expect from this quality franchise. It won't 
 break the mold, but if it ain't broke, don't fix it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  An awesome next installment of the Soul Calibur series, this games beautiful graphics and a deep 
 customization amazes me. The voice acting of course still terrible and the blade clashing is average. The 
 new tower of souls is only for expert players of the series. Some other problems will include lack 
 of playable modes and unable to change the difficulty of most modes. Also a engaging story mode 
 like Chronicles of the sword in SC3 is missing. The goods things are that online is finally here 
 and no lag makes the game even better. Getting all the characters is more simple now and you can 
 download customization parts with Microsoft points. I personally do not like the Star War characters, 
 they should've put characters like Ryu Hayabusa or Dante, they are more deserving to be in Soul 
 Calibur than Yoda or Vader. Unless you have XBOX live, you won't enjoy this game for long unless 
 you are a true fan of the Soul series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hazzerz
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  What is with the character designs in this series? It's like they just throw random crap all over 
 the models and add em to the roster.
  
  I have never seen such god awful character design before, it's just unbelievably gaudy and reckless. 
 Ick.
  
  That said, SC4 is pretty enjoyable for what it is. It's a fighting game, it's nothing special. 
 But it is what it is and it does what it does reasonably well. 
  
  The character maker is a nice touch, it's nice to see something like that (wasn't expecting one) . 
 Tower of Lost souls or whatever will keep you challenged for a good amount of time (you'll want 
 to grab every last piece of armor you can get your hands on) . 
  
  Story and Arcade modes are unbelievably boring however. The story in this game is just laughable, 
 it's so bad it's not even funny. Like I said though, it's a fighting game so I really am not expecting 
 some grand Oscar worthy script here and it's easy to overlook it anyway.
  
  Online mode is just irritating though, but that's not the games fault. It's the people you play 
 with. Just go through the forum for this game for god sakes... what normal person would want to 
 play with any of those people? Playing a game while having someone yelling at you in your ear is 
 not my idea of entertainment. If you're like me at all you'll avoid it altogether.
  
  Sadly, that really cuts out any reason to play this game, as besides the TLSs the online mode is 
 really the only replay value it has. 
  
  Now the fighting part, it's okay... it isn't bad, and there some genuinely enjoyable moments to 
 be found here. The different weapons and fighting styles are all equally awesome but I couldn't 
 help but wish the game was more graphic then it is. I mean, you take a gigantic 15 foot long sword 
 to someones head... they ain't gettin' back up. That doesn't make any sense to me, it's a fighting 
 game, what's with all the cartoony elements? But whatever... just not my cup of tea I guess. I just 
 don't see what everyone else sees here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HammerOFdawn
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 is by far one of the best fighting games released. It has some new modes that are 
 really fun like tower of lost souls. The game play has improved by so many ways. They added realistic 
 features in the game play like armor destruction and critical finishes. The graphics are very impressive 
 as well. Character creation has improved by adding muscle and physique and changing the tone of 
 the selected voice, and giving your character some skills which are really helpful. They also added 
 a cool feature where you can edit main characters. The guest characters are cool also. Star Wars 
 was the right thing to choose. Yoda is a little weird because they should have made him faster. 
 The apprentice has an impressive set of moves and is really good. But overall i think the game 
 is really amazing and i think it a absolute must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonNinja
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  SoulCalibur IV manages to bring a few new things to the once genre-busting franchise. For one, 
 Soul and Calibur are now one word, and there's a roman numeral IV behind the word. Bring in some 
 online play and you can basically sum up everything there is about this lackluster entry in a series 
 that's deserved better for the past five years and counting.
  
  The 90's were the peak decade of the fighting genre and a little game by the name of Soul Blade 
 entered the fray. It was a good fighter, but was lost amidst Tekken, Street Fighter and Virtua 
 Fighter. However, at the end of the decade gamers were treated to the greatest 3D fighter ever 
 made, the sequel to Soul Blade, Soul Calibur. Four years after it's debut, the multiplatform hit 
 Soul Calibur II followed, earning its place as the best multiplatform fighter ever released and 
 a more than worthy sequel to the Dreamcast's hit game. It was all down hill from there, and SoulCalibur 
 IV doesn't help matters at all for the once great franchise.
  
  Once the feeling of newness from playing the game passes, you'll quickly realize that SoulCalibur 
 IV hasn't changed all that much. It still feels like exactly the same game we were playing five 
 years ago on PS2, Xbox and GameCube. So to sum it up in laymen's terms, yes, the game is still 
 a good, rollicking, fun time, but why spend $60 for something that hasn't changed at all for over 
 five years? The characters all of course bring in a few different moves and some mixed up combos, 
 but the one reason why SoulCalibur has always stood out is because of the weapons. Suddenly, you 
 have to take in a lot of different things into consideration, for instance, Kilik has a long staff 
 and can hit you across the level with it, while Sophitia has a short sword to get in close and 
 bash you. Their considerations like these that always made the series stand out, with excellent 
 characters that were all fleshed out and well-designed with unique weapons.
  
  However, that's starting to change. The characters are beginning to look ridiculous, particularly 
 in the boobage department for many. Yes, women have breasts, this is a fact everyone has been aware 
 of since puberty, and yet, in SoulCalibur they keep getting bigger, to the point where it isn't 
 attractive anymore. There's something particularly frightening about Ivy's jugs, they just don't 
 seem humanly possible. Of course, if you add in some ridiculous outfits, like how Talim is dressed 
 like a kitten (we get it, some people think it's hot in some weird, submissive way) , or how Voldo 
 is just Voldo. Toss in the completely out of place, unnecessary and somewhat unbalanced Star Wars 
 characters and you have one of the weirdest line-ups ever in a fighting game.
  
  Of course, character design and costumes wouldn't matter as much if the gameplay were to be superb, 
 but again, it hasn't changed at all in five years. The newest addition is the new Guard Break, 
 which is meant to punish players who consistently block without attacking. The guard break will 
 give you an instant KO against any opponent, but it's used so rarely that it's often forgotten 
 in most matches. The other new addition to the game is the online play. This is nothing to be particularly 
 excited about since Dead or Alive was doing it back in 2004 on the Xbox. In short, it's about time 
 SoulCalibur caught up. The online matches work fine for the most part and lag is rarely an issue, 
 but it's always more fun to be sitting in a room with another person or a group and playing on 
 the same TV. The best times with SoulCalibur IV will be those moments where everyone is screaming 
 at one another, not when you're online against complete strangers.
  
  The other game mode in SoulCalibur IV is the Tower of Lost Souls mode. You will begin by ascending 
 as many floors of the tower as possible and once you reach a certain point you can descend into 
 a series of fights, which progressively become more and more difficult. However, the mode basically 
 consists of choosing a floor from a menu, selecting your character (s) and fighting from there. 
 It doesn't have it's own story or anything, and for all intents and purposes, you might as well 
 just play Arcade mode, which is easily the best mode out of all of the single player options. It 
 takes you across eight fights in a very different locations, making for the most varied and fun 
 time in the single-player modes.
  
  The worst of the three single-player options on the other hand is the Story mode. Particularly 
 because it feels like a slap in the face of every SoulCalibur fan looking to experience more of 
 the plot with their characters. It's a known fact that most people aren't looking for plot in their 
 fighting games, but SoulCalibur has always had a more intriguing plot than most other fighters. 
 SoulCalibur IV clearly doesn't care about that. It takes every single character through basically 
 the same five stages, fighting custom-created characters all to lead up to the last fight which 
 gives you nothing more than a 30-second cutscene that either ends in you taking the sword or destroying 
 it. Story mode is not only an unnecessary mode, but it is a mode that doesn't deserve to be in 
 the game at all.
  
  Of course, returning to SoulCalibur IV is the third game's character creation mode. Basically, 
 you can alter existing characters' traits, looks, and such and use them in the game or create completely 
 new and unique characters to use, though they will all be based on existing characters' fighting 
 abilities. However, the system doesn't work that well. All of the items you can add to your character 
 have effects on him/her. This basically translates to the simple fact that if you want to make 
 a truly powerful character, it's going to look like it came out of some form of Rodeo Clown porno.
 
  
  The one thing about SoulCalibur IV that originally caught everyone's attention were the graphics. 
 They look marvelous and they really help nail the feel of that new age of discovery that Soul Calibur 
 and its multiplatform sequel managed to nail. The levels are beautiful, particularly the pirate 
 ship level and a frozen ice age-like level. Even the characters, as goofy as they look, are technically 
 done quite well, they just don't fit in with the game world as well as they used to. However, for 
 all that SoulCalibur IV does right, it also brings some silly quirks to the mix that just don't 
 sit too well. For instance, there's a level where giant lizardmen are on the edges of the ring 
 and they're all holding giant utensils. Or try for instance some freakish giant circus level, or 
 a merry-go-round. The stylistic choices made for the game simply don't work and they only detract 
 from an already same-y experience.
  
  The sound itself hasn't changed much, the weapons still clang, and the characters still shout and 
 grunt and the music remains unchanged yet again. What has changed are many of the voices, and not 
 for the better. In previous SoulCalibur games Ivy had a rather sexy voice, now she sounds like 
 a transsexual. Of course, other characters are simply just too annoying to listen to, for instance, 
 Tira sounds like a Rugrats dropout. Sure, Cervantes, Nightmare, Taki and many others still sound 
 decent, but it still makes the voice acting rather uneven.
  
  Taking everything into account it's quite clear that SoulCalibur IV is not up to the standards 
 set by the games in the late 90's as well as the turn of the century. Soul Calibur III only managed 
 to take the once great franchise and knock it off of the throne and SoulCalibur IV does nothing 
 to reclaim that throne. Yes, it's still a competent and oftentimes fun fighter, but why should 
 anyone have to pay $60 for this game when Soul Calibur and its sequel both offer the same thing? 
 What it does add does nothing to really help the game; the modes just feel like dead weight.
  
  Every gamer deserves at least one great fighting game in their collection, and whether you 
 own an Xbox 360 or a PS3 there are better choices than SoulCalibur IV, particularly Dead or Alive 
 4 and Virtua Fighter 5. But what's truly sad is that SoulCalibur IV does nothing to soften the 
 impacts of the three big upcoming fighters, as Mortal Kombat and Tekken get ready to return and 
 Street Fighter IV prepares it's stampede. In this console generation SoulCalibur IV will be remembered, 
 but it will be remembered for being the weakest of the well-known 3D fighters released on the Xbox 
 360 and PS3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Echonian
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  I rented this game first, as is my new policy. My old reviews were mostly hyped up bs, if I hadn't 
 played this for a while before writing this I might've given it a ten.
  
  Soul Caliber is, and always has been, a multiplayer franchise. You can choose from a large variety 
 of characters each with their own unique fighting styles, and mastering them all could be a lifes 
 work. A deep character customization system allows for any changes you desire, the combat styles 
 are fixed but the statistics and looks of your character can be greatly altered.
  
  The single player game consists of multiplayer fights against bots, 5 to win. There is a story, 
 but it isn't very compelling, and the voice acting leaves a lot to be desired. 
  
  Overall, a great game. But if you aren't a fan of fighting games, this isn't worth your time. It 
 has a lot of depth and fun until you get past the first 20 hours, then it can get boring quickly 
 for many players, including myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdawgg30
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  SoulCalibur IV is the most anticipated video game on any game system to date. If you're having 
 a difficult time playing the previous SC game, you'll have absolutely no problem playing this game.
 
  
  I've purchased the Xbox 360 version of the game and it looks even sweeter than candy. The graphics 
 look incredibly detailed and beautiful. Be on the extreme look out for Ivy, because she looks extremely 
 sexy and dangerous (This game should have been rated M!)
  
  The play control is much better than the PlayStation 2 version and the mechanics will be become 
 second nature once you get used to it.
  
  The orchestrated music are (once again) top notched including the score from Star Wars by John 
 Williams. And the voices (whether you want in English or Japanese) are better and humorous. Ivy 
 (on the other hand) still sounded geriatric.
  
  Whether you play this game with a friend or on Xbox Live, this the ONE game you do not want to 
 miss. It has everything you want in an SC game and a whole lot more. Whether it's the conclusion 
 of the SoulCalibur series or not, the legend will NEVER die...
  
  10 out of 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  Pros * Looks great * Solid game play * Decent character customization options
  
  Cons * Character customization often forces you to wear lame looking outfits simply because they 
 have better stats then the stuff that actually looks good. * Star Wars characters feel totally 
 out of place. * Cheesy voice overs, whilst initially amusing will grate on your nerves as you play.
 
  
  I never played the original Soul Calibur.
  I didn't get to play Soul Calibur 2, which from what I've gathered most people agree to be the 
 best in the series.
  I played 3 which played decently enough, which is what prompted me to get 4.
  
  It plays much 
 the same.
  
  Character customization plays something of a big part in the game.
  Most of the modes take your clothing's stats into account, so of course you'll want to be wearing 
 the clothes with the best stats.
  Unfortunately the clothes with the best stats often aren't aesthetically appealing in comparison 
 to some of the clothing options that come up short stat wise.
  
  Yoda being in the game annoys me.
  He's short, so he's often difficult to hit.
  And you can't 
 throw him, which sucks.
  
  Starkiller (The Apprentice) is better as far as playability is concerned, but still feels out of 
 place.
  
  Now one thing I've been pondering is boobs.
  Not in general, but in Soul Calibur.
  And I've been thinking of a way to discuss it without having 
 me come off as a pervert.
  But I don't think I can, so to hell with it - I SUPPORT JAPANS GIANT BOOBS FETISH.
  I've heard 
 a surprising amount of people being all up in arms about the female characters lack of clothing 
 - especially Ivy - who if she wears any less might as well not be wearing anything.
  All I have to say is dude, it's a fighting game.
  Since the dawn of time, chicks in fighting 
 games have been designed to be attractive and not wearing much. And I for one don't really mind.
 
  It's part of the games charm in my mind.
  
  Story mode is rather short, no matter what character you play as.
  You can lengthen it a little 
 by actually reading the incredibly slow scrolling text at the front, but after a few characters 
 you'll see that whatever story is there isn't all that good and just skip it to get into the game.
 
  
  It's more fun multi player of course, fighting games generally are.
  I've tried online and found it too laggy but I prefer my fighting games to be local anyway, so 
 it doesn't really bother me.
  
  So depending on how you feel about giant boobs, shoehorned in Star Wars characters and annoying 
 voice overs - well if you can ignore or even like those things this games easy to recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eman781
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 10, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is what it is, just another cookie cutter fighting game. It's a very good game, don't 
 get me wrong, but my score of 6.5 reflects the lack of innovation and ingenuity that I have come 
 to expect of a next-gen game. Not much has changed in the past 20 years in terms of arcade fighting 
 games such as this, and I just expect more. It is fun to play, it runs fairly smoothly, and the 
 graphics are as good as anything else that I've seen, but when a game is rated as highly as this 
 one is, I expect to be BLOWN AWAY but instead I experienced a pretty bad case of deja-vu. I noticed 
 that this game got game of the month in Game Informer magazine, and it prompted me to go out and 
 part with 60 of my hard-earned dollars in this horrific economy. I am left thinking that my money 
 could've been better spent. The game is very frustrating at times, esp. when you press the block 
 button and nothing happens at all! I was under the impression that the whole purpose of this game 
 was some sort of soul meter where you can't block all the time or "turtle" but it's impossible 
 to block a single cheap move. I usually lose when my fiance just repeats the kick button and there 
 is no way to block it whatsoever, and it's incredibly frustrating. Esp. with Yoda, she was juggling 
 me like a soccer ball, it was kind of hilarious but also frustrating because it is indicates that 
 the game is just flawed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chroniclehobbit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised at the games visuals, but what had surprised me even more was the online 
 play. The level system it uses is actually quite addicting. If you find yourself without online 
 capability, you may want to consider getting in on the action soon. It has everything that you 
 could want from Soul Calibur, although it may not seem like it. 
  
  Arcade mode it actually more of a time attack mode, and score attack mode combined. you can not 
 uses special effects in this mode, but you are graded on your score, and awarded money, depending 
 on how well you did. Story mode is shorter, but actually includes a tag team like system where 
 you encounter a fighter and they join you on your quest. You can switch out these fighters with 
 a single button and fight while your other character is regaining some of it's lost health. You 
 are also graded on how well you did in this mode like in arcade mode. The other thing is that special 
 weapon effects do apply in story unlike arcade mode. 
  
  Tower of souls mode has 2 options to choose from. Ascending! (which is more of a mission mode) . 
 This allows you to guess secret winning conditions which helps you earn extra money, or items for 
 customization mode. Descending! (which is more of a survival mode) . In this mode you face off against 
 multiple opponents each level. In the tower of souls mode you are able use a tag team fighting 
 system whether you decide to ascend or descend. 
  
  Another feature returns form SC3, which is called character customization, where you can make your 
 own characters. You can choose from the rosters fighters styles, and customize clothing, appearance, 
 and special effects of your characters. you are also able to customize the standard character roster 
 fighters appearance and there special effects as well. 
  
  My biggest hang up in the game is the changes that were made to the move sets of all the characters, 
 and the fact that they did not bring back some of the favorites, from previous games in the series, 
 and Whatever happened to having a character who can use all the weapons, like Olcadan, or Edge 
 Master. That and Darth Vader was not usable in X360 versions yet. Before I forget, Yoda and Darth 
 Vader's Apprentice are guest characters playable on the X360. 
  
  Well that is it! i think I've covered everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon_Knight08
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I love the series and this one isn't a disappoint. The graphics are superb. The character 
 creation is much better. There's no team battle but I can live without that. Also the Tower of 
 Lost Souls even challenge veteran players the higher you get. That fact that you can actually edit 
 more than the colors of the base characters is just sweet. The new characters are cool too, but 
 I don't know about Angol Fear and the likes of her, I mean their not bad but they just don't impress 
 me that much. The story mode is a little disappointing though. First off it is just too short and 
 second once you play it through a couple times it gets predictable and repetative. Anyway I just 
 have to say my favorite new feature is the character creation. Also Yoda rocks, and the Apprentice 
 isn't bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennyKB
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  .. the more you play, the more it becomes an alternative to crack.
  
  About button-mashing:
  
  You can only get to about a mid-level by button-mashing. Anybody above 
 mid-level skill will crush a button masher. This game requires strategy and relying on the predictability 
 of others online (trust me, you'll fight Kilik, Cervantes and Siegfried 80% of the time) . Find 
 a character that no one plays with, master him/her and own people. Try someone like Amy or Setsuka. 
 The characters are very balanced. And don't play as Yoda!
  
  SC4 will make you happy, sad, angry and everything in between. Recommend drinking a few beers to 
 take the inevitable "edge" off once you're finished. When you get frustrated, take a break, because 
 it is only going to hurt you're LIVE/NETWORK level. Now run along and get some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarple_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 is still a great fighter. Not much has changed since the 1st game other then updated 
 graphics. Its a great game for when you have a friend over or want to compete in online fights. 
 
  
  The graphics really look great, a bit more detail then what we got from the 360 Dead or Alive 4, 
 or Virtual Fighter 5. The gameplay is really fun, its easy enough for a beginner to start hitting 
 anything and feel like he is good, but its hard to perfect. The weapon play feels right, you want 
 to be aggressive when on offense and you want to hold back and block when on defense. 
  
  The biggest bummer in this game is easily the character creation system. Its more about stats then 
 it is about creativity. That's the thing I hate most about it. If you think your going to make 
 this sexy, cool, fun looking kick ass female / male you'll start thinking twice because of the 
 stats. Sure I understand someone with armor should have more stats then someone with more skin, 
 but did they have to make everything about stats??? I would have rather they didn't go so deep 
 with the stats system, its really enough to give a guy a headache. 
  
  The best part with the armor is that it can be knock off if hit too much, which gives loosing some 
 fun while seeing your character be stripped in the middle of a fight.
  
  But in the end its a fun fighter, the fighting style feels right and the online play is fun. If 
 only the stats weren't so complicated this game would have been the ultimate fighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Let me say this right off the bat: Make no mistake, Soulcalibur IV is a beautiful game. Beautiful 
 in the character models, the level of amazing detail on the character models and beautiful in the 
 amount of customization options in the character creation mode BUT..... I don't know what it is 
 with fighting game developers but they have not made a fighting game that innovates this generation! 
 I feel like every single fighting game to date has simply fallen short of the innovation we are 
 seeing in other genres like RPGs and First Person Shooters. 
  
  That is the case with Soulcalibur IV. Its beautiful as I already said but the gameplay feels and 
 IS the same. So much so that I feel like no current fighting game is worthy of my $60. I guess 
 I just am not seeing expectations I set for these games being met. I want to see damage modeling 
 to the point it affects the characters themselves. If a character gets slashed with a sword and 
 fails to block the attack, I want to see him bleed and his armor maybe damaged, not continue on 
 with his/her perfect haircut and untouched appearance. I also expect to see dirt on characters 
 by now on top of seeing them sweat. Playing into this I expect to see that if a fight has been 
 going on for minutes, I want to see fatigue take place if the character is losing the battle and 
 for chrissakes, get rid of rounds. Its stupid, unrealistic and does not make one iota of sense 
 unless the fight takes place inside a boxing ring.
  
  Come on, the only fighting game I saw that began to show us next generation game play was EA's 
 Fight Night Round 3. This same kind of gameplay needs to be brought into fighting games like Virtua 
 Fighter 5 Online. 
  , Soulcalibur IV and other upcoming games and it needs to be improved upon. You can say I was disappointed 
 with Soulcalibur IV just like I was with Virtua Fighter 5 Online. Been there, done that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eimin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  Wow, loved the previous entries in this game but SCIV blows them all away. Its complete with lost 
 in translation dialogue, great characters and wtf StarWars people.
  
  Oddly no one ever seemed surprised to see Yoda in the game. I mean out of my buddies who knew nothing 
 of the game prerelease. One of them, when playing for the first time, just picked Yoda and didn't 
 say another word... Does no one else think it's totally weird to have YODA in this medieval fantasy 
 game? Is no one surprised?
  
  Back to point, sad to see the additional fighting styles go but the customization is still awesome... 
 I will admit I created a curvy bikini wearing, dual kebob wielding babe named Keb00b. How can you 
 blame me, I enjoy hearing you guys laugh your asses off and then get to kick my n00b ass.
  
  Seriously, the 8.5 rating is very accurate and I commend GS for it. A game that is a given 
 for fans of the genre and that most other players will enjoy as well. Perfect description. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zigzag149
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  This is one reason why i usually don't play JRPG's (Japanese, RPG)
  (and yes i no this dosent play like a RPG but it has a ll the same asspects of one)
  Its the 
 same thing every time, a bunch of teenagers running around hitting each other with Glowing Sticks 
 the size of a dubble Decker buss. no to mention the fact that the girls in theas games all have 
 Massive boobs and a waist line of 1 inch (not to mention the giggle tec behind it) .
  If your making an adult game, make it for ADULTS, Dont make an adult game then.... take out all 
 the gore, nudity and, swearing then call it a teen game.
  
  in short, gets old fast, not really worth playing unless you LOVE GIGGLE TEC (i mean really just 
 watch some porn!)
  and or love throwing every one one 50,000,000,000 times to beat the game.
  
  Not a fan.
  
 peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kasmi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4.. a very unique game that namco created for all the consoles. But the game is not 
 as good as i thought it was.. why?
  
  1) story: the story of each character stay on track as they pursue the 2 holy swords. But I noticed 
 one thing.."why am I often get an ending scene with algol in it?".. the character's story may be 
 good but i feel twisted as i keep finishing the story mode ending with algol in the final scene.. it 
 drives me the question "who did really ended algol's life?"..
  
  2) side mode: tower of souls may be really good with some retouches.. i really don't like the way 
 on keep killing over and over again.. unlike the "tales of souls" on the previews SC game, getting 
 an RPG style based on SC really gives the player opportunity to get a new grab on the series.. not 
 to mention the gold being gained per stage :P
  
  3) weapon skills/character skills: having the weapons' skill are the best thing that i loved playing 
 this series. But in this 4th installment, I noticed that some weapon effects doesn't fit the character 
 wielding it (well depends on the player though) .. some skills are confusing to use, some are ace 
 skills and some are good to be discarded.. but in the entire game, all will be useful in each way..
 
  
  overall, the game is really well and great but after sometime playing, some may think this game 
 is boring but all in all.. i love this game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10 
  Long time fans of SC will feel right at home here. With all your favorite characters and a couple 
 new ones for good measure. The fighting is still quick to learn, difficult to master and that alone 
 makes it great. The fighting is dynamic and full of life and with the two dozen or so fighting 
 styles it's a lot to take in.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  SC IV is simply amazing to behold. Characters animate smoothly and the vibrant backrounds make 
 everything pop.
  Also there is a good physics engine here, clothes and hair move with an elegant wafting. SC IV 
 shows just how good fighters can look.
  
  Sound 8/10
  Now the sound is never a big deal in fighting games and it's the same deal here. Expect to hear 
 cheesy and goofy diologue. The soundtrak is good and the sound effects are good too.
  
  Value 9/10
  Between the deep and time consuming character creator and all the charaters in the 
 game also the addition of online play, it's safe to say you'll be spending plenty of time with this 
 game.
  
  The good
  Amazing graphics, deep character creation, online play, Nightmare is still awesome.
  
  The bad
 
  Cheesy diologue typicle of fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spazdog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Soul calibur 4 is one of those games that has a fun multiplayer and decent online play when it 
 is not lagging. In my experience with the game the graphics are beautiful, controls are solid and 
 voices are great. However the story mode is to short consisting of only 5 battles. The tols mode 
 is more frustrating then fun, i have spend countless hours trying to beat it. Also the lack of 
 the team battle mode was disappointing but pros beat the cons so which makes this game a good buy 
 if your a fan of the series or genre. The only problem I have with online is some matches lag and 
 most people online complain about cheapness and spamming. So save ur self the trouble and play 
 unranked matches to save ur self the hassle of dealing with kiddy antics. Overall I think this 
 game was well made but should have had more modes and better online support. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogsoblivion21
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  The best weapon-based fighting has returned with a new entry into the series, Soulcalibur IV. While 
 not much has changed with Soulcalibur IV, that's not a bad thing at all, and will please series 
 fans. The visuals have been vastly improved, the fighting remains much the same, and the modes 
 you'd expect from a Soulcalibur game return to make this a great package that's very easy to recommend.
 
  
  Soulcalibur IV has been made accessible for anyone to pick up and play, while maintaining enough 
 depth for hardcore players. The fighting still remains the sameit's all about blocking, attacking 
 and dodging at the right times. There aren't very many lengthy combos to memorize so timing is 
 very important. And as with any other fighting game, you'll need to defeat your opponent by depleting 
 their health bar or knocking them out of the arena.
  
  Besides just worrying about your health bar, you'll need to keep an eye on your 'Soul Gauge'. As 
 you block more and more, the Soul Gauge will change from green to red, and then start flashing. 
 When the gauge is flashing the player will enter a state of 'Soul Crush', leaving the player defenseless. 
 Another way to take your opponent's defense down is by destroying their equipment. If you attack 
 your opponents armor enough, it will break off and decrease that player's defense. This doesn't 
 effect the fighting too much, but it is a nice feature and a good visual touch.
  
  There are a number of modes you can play through. The most simple is Arcade mode; which has you 
 go through eight battles, each one increasingly harder than the last. During those fights you can 
 earn points, unlock new characters, arenas, and equipment. Story mode is also included, but is 
 a bit disappointing. You'll still be unlocking the same things as you would in Arcade mode, but 
 you'll be fighting more opponents in each battle and following a story with that character. The 
 stories aren't as good as in previous games though. Aside from the very few cutscenes you'll see, 
 the majority of the story is told through text. Story mode also seems a little short, even though 
 you are fighting 1-4 opponents per battle.
  
  Aside from Story and Arcade mode, the Tower of Lost Souls will be the main attraction and most 
 challenging. Before you start, you can choose to ascend or descend. If you choose to ascend, you'll 
 have to go through at least three floors at a time, fighting one battle on each floor. During those 
 battles, you'll be fighting "boss" characters, who often just have more health and a lot of defense. 
 Choose to descend and you'll see how many enemies you can defeat with one life bar, similar to 
 a survival mode. The challenge to the Tower of Lost Souls is not being able to regain health after 
 a battle. Every floor has treasure chests you can unlock by meeting a specific requirement in that 
 fight, netting you new armor or weapons. For example, in order to get a treasure chest in one particular 
 battle, you cannot take damage during the fight.
  
  For the first time ever in the series, online play is present. You'll have two options online, 
 Special Versus or Standard Versus. Special Versus allows players to use their characters customized 
 equipment, weapons, and skills. Standard Versus does not allow customized characters. The online 
 play works well and has virtually no lag.
  
  The roster in Soulcalibur IV is pretty much the same as in III, but of course new additions make 
 an appearance. Most notably, Yoda is playable on the 360 version while Darth Vader is on the PlayStation 
 3. Darth Vader's Apprentice also makes an appearance in both versions. Some of the new characters 
 include Shura; who wields dual katanas, Ashlotte; who is basically a big robotic doll with a pole-arm, 
 and Angol Fear; who is about 14,800 years old but looks about 20. You'll also be able to make your 
 own character, which will have to be based on an existing characters fighting style. Thankfully, 
 all the new characters fit nicely into the Soulcalibur universe and don't feel like they were an 
 afterthought.
  
  Every character is customizable with different equipment and skills. Everything can be changed 
 from head to toe, hair, skin color, etc. Different pieces of equipment will grant more attack, 
 defense, or HP. You'll be able to equip four different skills per character. The skill types include 
 Power, Impact, Boost, Gauge, and Special. The skills aren't very necessary to get through Story 
 or Arcade mode, but once you get deep into the Tower of Lost Souls it'll be important to manage 
 your skills accordingly.
  
  The visuals in Soulcalibur IV are stunning, and may be the best looking fighting game to date. 
 The detail on the character models is amazing. The detail in the different levels looks great as 
 well. You'll notice particles floating around, much movement in the background, a nice amount of 
 bloom, along with great lighting. If someone is thrown onto the ground, a small crater will appear 
 and small rocks will be left on the ground. The music in the game sounds great, but may seem a 
 bit over-the-top at times.
  
  Overall, Soulcalibur IV is a fantastic game that needs to be played by any fighting game fan. Whether 
 you're new to the series or not, it's great to pick up and play. With downloadable content clearly 
 on the way, there's enough content to keep you busy for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game and i thought it was going to be a game that i would love but it turned out 
 not that good. I guess the game was just okay. I was expecting more from this game. It felt kind 
 of like the same Soulcalibur that we played for years. There aren't that many new characters in 
 the game. When i first heard of the announcement that there were going to be yoda and the apprentice 
 and darth vadar in the PS3 version. I was like why in the hell are there Star Wars characters a 
 Soulcalibur game?! Anyway, the story modes are really short. I was planning to play story mode 
 as Siegfried and i was expecting for it to be like other story modes in games but it was a lot 
 shorter. So, i just beat all the characters' story modes. So, i didn't like it how they made the 
 story mode. Now, i think it's a little unfair that people can only unlock the apprentice by beating 
 him on arcade mode as Yoda. YODA. how terrible?! Plus, the apprentice is really tough. Also, i 
 thought that Yoda would be stronger but he isn't at all. The only thing that makes him good is 
 that he is really fast and he has great agility. He can just jump all over the place but die after 
 that. I would recommend to just rent this game before u buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tranceplant
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Namco Bandai comes back with a new Soul Calibur game and this 4th one is probably the best of the 
 series.
  
  I must say that i'm a huge Soul Calibur series fan, so I waited a long time for this and it was 
 worth the wait. It was better than I expected.
  First of all, the graphics are simply fantastic. Even if you don't have an HDTV, it still looks 
 stunning. I tested the game on an HDTV and the characters are gorgeous. They look big, the details 
 are excellent, it's colorful... you really can see that they worked a lot on this. Also the backgrounds 
 are simply breathtaking. 
  But i'm not a graphics freak, i'm more of a control freak. I was afraid that maybe they would change 
 the controls but they didn't really. It feels the same as the previous game and even better. I 
 found that the controls felt easier, kinda faster even with a control pad. I don't have an arcade 
 stick but if you don't too, don't worry. The controls on a normal pad are superb. 
  The moves are great, good thing they kept the same formula.
  
  As for the story, well, it isn't 
 what I expected... sure, it's a fighting game so you should not expect it to be extremely less 
 deep in the story than something like... an RPG for example. But I really wanted to see how this 
 would end up as the apparent last chapter of the series.
  It's pretty much short. All the back-stories and the endings felt... not satisfying. It's like 
 if they either didn't wanted reveal much or they didn't worked on the stories.
  At least the ending are on CG animations and they look really good.
  
  Finally you can play 
 the game with friends worldwide. The multiplayer is simple: find someone and fight. And I didn't 
 find much lag. It's simple and it's satisfying. But it can get frustrating with some people and 
 their "fighting styles" because you can find people with "cheap" tactics but I won't develop on 
 that because that's debatable...
  Some are also new to the game or the genre so you might find it difficult to find a true challenge.
 
  Anyway, you should have a good time if you play with your friends.
  
  Overall, I really love the game. It's the best Soul Calibur game and it's the best fighting game 
 I own right now.
  I recommend it to all the SC fans and the fighting game fans.
  This is a must. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allicrombie
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  
  Since Soul Calibur fought its way onto the gaming scene about a thousand years ago (1999) , the 
 series has garnered critical acclaim. Since then, it has evolved over the years, and featured a 
 variety of guest stars, including Link and Spawn. Its now the fourth game in the series and you 
 don't need to be a fighting game fan or have a burning soul (or even heartburn) , to enjoy it.
 
  
  In case you don't know, Soul Calibur is a one on one fighting game, where the characters all have 
 unique weapons and some kind of back-story (usually) . In essence, each character has some reason 
 for wanting to claim the spirit sword Soul Calibur, or the cursed sword Soul Edge. These mini stories 
 are played out in cut scenes, and are fun to watch, even if they aren't too in depth. 
  
  The guest stars in this version include everyone's favorite force wielding hand puppet, Yoda, and 
 making his first appearance in a game this year, The Apprentice (who also stars in his own game, 
 "The Force Unleashed", and will be appearing in a new reality show on FOX soon as well =P) . There 
 are some funny moments with Yoda, like in the opening cut scene montage, where a lot of the characters 
 are showcased, you see Yoda facing off against Astaroth while a three second version of "Duel of 
 the Fates" plays in the background, before Yoda force pushes Astaroth off a high cliff. Also funny 
 is how many of the other characters relate to Yoda before a match begins. They'll often say, "I 
 don't even know who you are", to which Yoda replies, "Know yourself first, you must"! 
  
  Unfortunately, in practice, using either of these characters isn't much fun. Each force wielder 
 has a "force meter" that depletes as they use force abilities, and when its gone, you're left with 
 just lightsaber attacks. This isn't too much of a problem for Yoda, but his weak damage and inability 
 to be thrown makes him more than a little unbalanced. The force meter is a problem for The Apprentice 
 though, who uses the force like its going out of style (and we all know the Force is so chic!) . 
 He levitates, shoots lightning, has force bombs and combos, and in the hands of a skilled player, 
 or the computer, can seem an unfair fight, until you learn how to beat him.
  
  Luckily the rest of the roster holds up pretty well. Old favorites like Kilik and Ivy and Talim 
 are back, plus new faces like Hilde, a lady decked out in a suit of armor who wields a short sword 
 and a lance (there's a hot date) . There's a good thirty or so playable characters once they're 
 all unlocked, and most of them have a fighting style all their own.
  
  Pulling off moves is pretty intuitive; you simply move the joystick in a direction and hit one 
 of the attack buttons. More complex moves can be pulled off by hitting two directions, or rotating 
 the joystick in different ways and pressing two attack buttons at once. Even button mashing works 
 to a point. There are high attacks, mid attacks and low attacks, as well as throws. The "A" button 
 guards attacks, but if you find yourself guarding too often, you'll set yourself up for a critical 
 finisher (just like in real life!) . Guarding depletes your "soul gauge", and when its gone, you'll 
 flash red and flicker with electricity and be vulnerable for a second to a screen filling critical 
 finish.
  
  Guarding has different levels as well. Regular blocks just require holding down the button, but 
 impacts need precise timing. You'll know you've pulled off an impact by a flash of colored light 
 after you guard. Impacts give you an advantage either by making your opponent vulnerable or by 
 knocking them off their feet.
  
  The main menu consists of Single Player, Versus, Xbox Live, Character Creator, Museum and Options. 
 The menu is set against a really nice backdrop of a closeup of a spinning translucent blue Soul 
 Calibur, or translucent orange Soul Edge, which is pretty neat.
  
  Single player consists of Story Mode, (a short 5 stage scene filled story about each character's 
 quest for one of the elusive swords) , Tower of Lost Souls (a 60 floor uphill climb through tons 
 of enemies for gold/items, or a 20 level descent with one character versus way too many opponents.. Where 
 the heck is the elevator in this tower??) . There's an Arcade mode, which is simply you versus a 
 number of opponents for a high score. Rounding out Single Player is Training Mode, where you can 
 check out move lists and practice moves.
  
  Versus Mode is simply an offline two player mode where you and your Fight Club buddies can go head 
 to head, using standard weapons or special weapons bought from the Character Creator. The Xbox 
 Live option leads to an online multiplayer mode, where you can show off your fighting skills against 
 people around the world.
  
  The Create a Character Mode is pretty nifty. You can use gold earned in the other modes to unlock 
 tons of weapons/armor/accessories for your favorite characters. Better yet, you can create your 
 own fighter, and even though you have to give them a specific moveset from one of the characters 
 in the game, its still pretty robust. Besides weapons, you can add armor/accessories to every part 
 of your characters body, as well as change the colors. You can also increase attack/defense/hp, 
 and even add special skills like hp drain, or venom (some weapons come with special skills as well) . 
 Finally, you can create the drunken boxing vagrant of your dreams! Yay!
  
  The Museum option is for unlocking various concept art and other little things about various characters 
 in the game and you can change the settings via the Options menu.
  
  The graphics in the game are excellent. Every character looks great and is fluid in their movements, 
 even the ones that bend over backwards and walk on all fours (damn sexy Voldo!) . Of particular 
 note to eye candy lovers are some of the backgrounds, like the blue tinted ice cave where you can 
 break through some of the icy rocks, or the carousel level, which features rays of ardent sunlight 
 shimmering onto colored horses. 
  
  The music and audio is also pretty well done. From the trash talking to taunting, to splashes and 
 swords clashing, everything sounds pretty good. The music during fights doesn't drown out the combat 
 at all, allowing you to focus more on kicking butt than enjoying the score (take that, John Williams!) .
 
  
  With great graphics and sound, and easily accessible controls, plus a pretty full featured create 
 a character mode, and a hefty roster of varied characters to choose from, you don't need to be 
 a druken boxer to enjoy it (though it couldn't hurt, right?.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebuckel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  With its beautiful armor graphics and glorious stage design soulcalibur delivers a visually amazing 
 fighting game. Gameplay is very similar from its predecessor with improved and more balanced combos 
 and characters, which leave us very little to criticize in that area.
  Character creation is pretty fun and you have a wide array of options to edit your character (except 
 for a lack of more options for you characters face.) but the real problem with the game is the 
 single player modes.
  Story mode is very short and has no real depth in its gameplay or story. I personally think the 
 story mode in SC3 was a lot more fun and it took you more than 3 mins to finish. Tower of lost 
 souls is an ok challenge and has pretty fun fights but it doesn't really make up for the story 
 modes problems.
  
  Single player aside, being a fighting game , Soul Calibur 4 is a great fighting game, with excelent 
 characters, graphics and gameplay, and leaving the story mode aside its probably the best fighting 
 game to be realeased in a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinzark
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because i was addicted to it's predecessor. Like '3' it is swift & most importantly 
 fun in two player. The moves are fluid & some are highly unique. Tekken, Streetfighter, DoA etc 
 don't play the same as this & i love that. After all, if they did I'd buy one of them instead.
 
  Single player however let it down a bit. It still has the character create which for me is like 
 a holy grail in any game (as long as they don't mess it up *cough
  Tony Hawk's Project-8cough*) But one of my favorite features of SoulCalibur III was the immersive 
 Quest mode. It broke up the fights nicely for anyone who got a little bored of the Arcade Mode. 
 
  Finally the Online Mode. Always a bonus in a fighting game, as they rely primarily on Vs. It's 
 done well in this, tho anyone playing on a Wireless Broadband connection (Like i have at home) 
 may suffer Lag. If you have a fast connection then it's wonderfully done.
  
  Not perfect but still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Henchman-24
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  WHAT IS BEST IN LIFE?
  
  To create an individual character, master its moves, and then to take it on-line to fight others 
 from around the world!
  
  Yes. So it has been written, so it is.
  
  The Bad News:
  
  Only period piece costumes, mostly. And that's cool for the world of SC, but I can't really 
 wait for the day when you can design classical super-hero costumes, 80's break-dancing outfits, 
 and futuristic urban cyborg ninja gear. 
  
  The Good News:
  
  A thing of beauty and of grace. Breasts are jiggly, abs are ripply, and backgrounds are so detailed 
 that you can fall right into them. 
  
  The game exists for the on-line play, as far as I'm concerned. And man-oh-man, when you come up 
 against that cheap punk who nails you 8 times with the same ankle-biting move? Or when some lazy 
 slob hits you with a ring-out after you've worked him down to his last inch of health? Rage, man. 
 Rage.
  
  The moves are pretty easy to get a hold of, though I find myself choosing, from the many fighters 
 available, about 8 primary brawlers, with a top 2 that I turn to if I really need a victory. At 
 first I wanted to master all the characters, but it didn't take long to see that I was far better 
 off excelling with a select few, rather than being mediocre at a whole bunch. Personally, I found 
 myself leaning towards the girls with the sword & shield combos. They seem like the quickest characters 
 of the game  even more deadly than cute little Talim. 
  
  Going on-line with your own character, fighting warriors from around the world. This is what fighting 
 games have been waiting for. This is what I have been waiting for. 
  
  And if I see you around, I'll do everything I can to drive a sword so deep into your gullet that 
 it drives your spine out of your back in little chunks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingcole225
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  TRUE RATING OF GAME: 6.3125
  
  Single Player: 5.75 (rating)
  
  The Story: Is actually so stupid, it takes about 10 minutes to beat it with one character and it 
 is just so boring that there is no reason to go back and play with another. It also has the same 
 cutscenes over and over again, which can really piss you off. Rating: 3.
  
  The Arcade: Is at first way too hard, but then once you learn moves it becomes way too easy. Also 
 you can easily just go through the arcade mode by grabbing over and over again. Rating: 3.
  
  Tower of the Lost Souls: Can be very fun, you go through the tower trying to defeat each level 
 and gain treasure, though after a while it gets ridiculously hard and you'll have to resort to 
 throwing the enemies off the level in order to get to the super hard, can't be thrown off the level, 
 double health boss with about one character and a half, which is very annoying to know that you 
 went throw 6 people just to lose. Rating: 8.
  
  Training: Is very good it teaches you well and has videos showing you what the correct combo looks 
 like. Although some of the moves can be very hard to pull off, such as Ivys special throw. Rating: 
 9.
  
  Multiplayer: 7.3 (rating)
  
  Local Multiplayer: This can be very very VERY fun if you have a friend who is decently good. Me 
 and my friend battle all day with custom characters and normal characters. Rating: 10.
  
  Normal Character Online: This is basically battling online with preset characters. This is the 
 most fun out of the online options because there really are no unfair advantages. There are two 
 options ranked or player match which is really all it needs. Rating: 8.
  
  Custom Character Online: This is battling online with custom characters, which to me is very stupid. 
 If you do a player match the person could have a style level 20 person which allows him to put 
 more stats and powers on his character while you have a style level 3. Also depending on your clothing 
 your character can start out with half the health of the other character. Rating: 4.
  
  Extras: 5 (rating)
  
  Custom Character Creation: This is very fun to do but once you realize 
 that you need to play hours and hours to get up the characters style level so you can make his 
 stats and powers up to the same level of the preset characters it becomes pointless besides if 
 you just wanna make someone, the character creation has no use for gameplay. Rating: 6.
  
  Museum: I have never even looked at this so rating: 5.
  
  DLC: WTF new useless equipment? New 
 music? Where are my new characters? Or New levels? Come on. Rating: 4.
  
  Gameplay: 7.2
  (rating)
  
  Controls: These are pretty straight forward I'm not sure if they want everyone 
 to use these because once you get good with a character you'll change the controls for that character. 
 Rating: 7.
  
  Movelist: These are very cool, a lot of times we will find something awesome like teleporting or 
 some awesome use of the sword. Although grabs can ruin the game seriously it's a full time job 
 trying to block them, so just make an honor rule. Rating: 8.
  
  Preset Characters: Are very very fun although Yoda is so cheap the only way to hit him is if you 
 crouch attack. Otherwise we have all kinds of characters with very fun fighting stances and weapons. 
 Rating: 10.
  
  Custom Characters: SUCK FOR GAMEPLAY. Rating: 2.
  
  Levels: Great ideas on the levels some will have actions that happen if lets say your hit into 
 a wall really hard it might fall down and create a big platform. Also it's a good thing that they 
 have levels that you cannot be ringed out on because that can get really stupid. Rating: 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrac_Warrior
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I've always had my mixed views about the Soul Caliber series, Soul caliber 2 on PS2 was probably 
 the best fighting game I had ever played, bar the usual things which make a great fighting game 
 such as addictive and deep combat, great graphics and characters it also had an in-depth weapon 
 master which was just the thing would made the game more addicting to come back to, so you could 
 beat those challenges and unlock those weapons, in total there was about 200 in the game. Multiplayer 
 action is like any other game, Friends would always enjoy Soul Calibers pick up and play combat 
 and it made for tight matches. There was always more depth for the fighting game expert to learn 
 character moves and form strategies. 
  
  One thing, which annoyed me was with the PS2 version we had Heihachi, he was never very good to 
 play with in Tekken and he wasn't very cool, He sank to his lowest point in Tekken 4 were you faced 
 him in a giant nappy, Getting him was like a cock-punch whilst XBOX had Spawn and Gamecube had 
 Zelda. Soul caliber 3 remained as good in gameplay and graphics but more of hates began to develop, 
 The AI started to become cheap and rubberbanding, it was very noticeable compared to Soul caliber 
 2, The Chronicles of the sword mode was also a pretty big joke because it didn't fit the series 
 at all, was incredibly hard and frustrating and that you had to unlock most stuff through that 
 mode, The character creation first introduced whilst ok was pretty basic and only was a mild gimmick.
 
  
  So now it's Soul Caliber 4 and my first opinions were wow this is a brilliant game, but with more 
 playing I've found a number of things I don't like or could be improved. Soul Caliber 4 is still 
 brilliant in gameplay as ever before and definitely the best fighting game to play locally or against 
 the CPU in my opinion. I always find guarding and countering very satisfying indeed. The graphics 
 are simply amazing with everything looking jaw-droppingly brilliant, Ok I only have a 24 inch SDTV 
 but it still looks great to me, The character models are well designed, the environments range 
 from pretty to the gritty and each looks realistic and fits the game very well. 
  
  So that's all well and good but now the problems start. There's a lack of modes for one with only 
 4 single player modes and none of them being Soul Caliber 2's Weapon Master, We have Story mode 
 as usual but the stories are rather lame with only 5 fairly bland battles and an ending, It can 
 take 5 minutes each if you're a good player and it's not particularly gripping. It gives you gold 
 though so that's a reason to do each story, Amy's and Lizardman's ending are rather amusing though.
 
  
  Tales of the Lost Souls is a like Survival mode on acid. 60 Floors of sheer frustration with really 
 hard AI cramming the higher floors, I haven't seen these higher floors as I'm stuck on level 22 
 but I have heard about it from many, many people. Treasure chests are something to collect on the 
 side but a mode like Weapon Master would have really gave the Single-player more meat.
  
  There's Arcade but there is no point to that bar the 450.000 point achievement and the Face Yoda 
 achievement. Oh and the apprentice is one over-powered, cheap character in AI Hands. It took me 
 around 40 tries to beat him first time. Character creation is back and in one sense improved, there 
 is a lot, and I mean a lot, of clothing to put on your characters, there are limitless options 
 in that department and it sure makes for some enjoyment creating yourself in a really over the 
 top fashion. However the facial options are a cruel joke, only 8 female faces and 20 male faces 
 with half having facial hair, which is not removable, is just lame. You can only select from stock 
 characters fighting styles too. If there were more faces or facial customisation options and more 
 fighting styles to choose from Character creation would be a bull's-eye, instead it just falls 
 outside the yellow circle.
  
  Local multiplayer as I said earlier is as good as ever and would be a blast at parties, one little 
 niggle though is that if 2v2 or 3v3 matches are in Tower of the lost souls and story then why not 
 multiplayer? Online multiplayer has the same options as Local apart from that you will get your 
 arse kicked a lot if you don't know a character well and the online community contains some of 
 the abusive and angry players I've seen in a video game, I've come across only one decent person
 
  
  In summary Soul Caliber 4 continues to do what it did before and better however number 4 brings 
 up a fair few new problems and annoyances, which prevent it, being a truly great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV is both a joy to play alone via arcade/story mode, and online or at home with a 
 friend. Although the fighting style of the game is much like others in its genre, when the unique 
 characters, smooth attacks and amazing visuals are factored into the equation, it adds up to be 
 a much more exciting experience. The characters themselves have a great deal of detail to them, 
 as do the various stages in the game.
  
  The story mode is fun, but it seems like it is over far too quickly. AI opponents fight very well, 
 although the first few fights may be a little too easy for the more experienced players.
  
  The fact that the characters in the game can not jump adds a bit of difficulty, but it is also 
 very frustrating when trying to get away from attacks. This leaves a player's only defense to blocking 
 or rolling around on the stage after getting knocked down.
  
  Bottom line; Soul Calibur IV is great for players who are new to the genre as well as players who 
 have mastered previous fighting titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r4v3gl0ry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  You'll first notice that the game's controls are very basic and "friendly," if you will. You can 
 strike vertically, horizontally, dodge/block, throw, and kick. It's got everything a 3D fighting 
 game should have. There are low-level attacks (where you strike an opponent's lower body) , high-level 
 attacks (where you strike somewhere higher) , and so on and so forth. If you're a button masher 
 or a casual gamer, this is all you have to to know to enjoy the game. It's very easy to pick up 
 and play, and you can still surprise opponents with basic moves. Take, for example, a "throw." 
 Throws can be executed by either pressing two buttons simultaneously (X and A) , or by pressing the 
 left trigger, which represents the two buttons on its own. The fun part of this is how cool the 
 throws actually look.
  
  Or, if you're a more hardcore player, you might want to try the many complex combos of SC 4. Although 
 not all of the combos for each character are very effective, there is a multifarious array of combos 
 to choose from. It's hard to describe, but trust me. The armor (the clothes, really) that the fighters 
 wear can be broken if you block too much, leaving you vulnerable to attacks, and even to deadly 
 one-hit KO moves, or Critical Finishes. You can do Guard Impacts and Just Impacts, which basically 
 parries your opponent's attack and can act as a counter attack. It's a very complex game when you 
 put it all together, and it can be very competitive.
  
  The story, however, isn't interesting. I'm not saying it's bad because it's not complex, but it's 
 very poorly written, and it tells me that the writers were very lazy on their own parts. The only 
 differences between some of the characters is the final boss, which all depends on their own individual 
 stories. Otherwise, all of their cut scenes are the same, and none of them actually show the fighters 
 you control, and NONE of them have dialogue. That is, of course, with the exception of the ending 
 cutscene for each character after the final boss fight. Each character's story is introduced by 
 a wall of text, but I recommend bearing with it.
  
  And the characters themselves? They are all individually unique. Some dual-wield large samurai 
 swords, while some use spears and scimitars. The amount of detail put into the characters can be 
 astonishing and amazing at times. The characters all come from different backgrounds, and they 
 look great (especially the female characters, yikes) . You also have the liberty of switching in 
 between Japanese and English voice-overs.
  
  As for special features/ special game modes, there is the Tower of Lost Souls, character creation 
 options unlockable characters, bonus characters, and skills and equipment and whatnot. The game 
 doesn't do a very good job at explaining all of those features to you, and the bonus characters 
 are pretty much based off of original SC 4 characters, which really means that they're only copies 
 of them.
  
  The character creation mode is a blast to play with though. You can customize a character's hair, 
 body, equipment, and special abilities. The Tower of Lost Souls can be fun, but at the same time, 
 a little shallow if you ask me. You battle enemies and ascend a tower, unlocking new purchasable 
 equips and items. The problem with this is that 97% of your enemies are copies of another character. 
 Their only differences? Their appearance and names. 
  
  To sum things up, while Soul Calibur 4's story and extras aren't very interesting, it makes up 
 for a deep fighting system that involves armor, special abilities, and combos. The same goes for 
 multiplayer. If you want to play a normal versus match online or off, you can. If you want to play 
 a match where special abilities are accounted for, go right ahead. At its core, it's a very solid 
 and enjoyable experience, and I recommend it to all 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleSword1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I was a big fan of Soul Calibur, a bigger fan of Soul Calibur II, and a MASSIVE fan of Soul Calibur 
 III. What are my thoughts on Soulcalibur IV? I'll tell you:
  
  Sleek, sexy and downright gorgeous. Just a select few words I can use to describe SCIV. During 
 my first 5 minutes of play, I was in heaven.
  
  First and foremost, the gameplay is most likely the best part of the newest Soul Calibur installment. 
 It's been polished to the max from Soul Calibur III - so much that, in fact, it almost feels like 
 an entirely different game. The new fighting combos never cease to amaze, and the ability to strategically 
 blow off pieces of opponents' armor is just damn awesome. A lot of the same combos from previous 
 games are still here, and they're better than ever - pile-driving an opponent into the concrete 
 and then ramming your polearm into their torso is a thing of beauty, literally. Which brings me 
 to our next topic...
  
  The game's graphics are just plain spectacular. You'll notice this from the beginning, as the main 
 menu alone is beautiful to look at. The character models are incredible - Lizardman's scales are 
 frighteningly realistic, and the way Hilde's hair blows in the wind is drool-worthy. The environments 
 are gorgeous as well - Imperial Garden and Sailor's Rest are two of the most breathtaking arenas 
 in the game.
  
  The character customization system is great - You can play dress-up with a pre-made character or 
 make a custom character of your own. The process of creating a custom character is deeper than 
 hell, you get to choose everything from fighting style all the way to alignment. The list of weapons 
 and equipment to choose from is practically endless.
  
  If you're not a fan of the series, there's another reason to love SCIV - Yoda! Yes, you get to 
 play as the small but badass Jedi master from Star Wars, and also another mysterious character 
 - The Apprentice, A. K. A. Starkiller. Seen in SW: The Force Unleashed, you face him in Arcade Mode 
 and he is a Force (get it?) to be reckoned with. If you beat The Apprentice in Arcade Mode while 
 playing as Yoda, you unlock him as a playable character. Niiiiice.
  
  All of these qualities combined makes this the best Soul Calibur yet, and arguably one of the best 
 fighting games on the market. If you are a fan of Soul Calibur, Star Wars OR any kind of fighting 
 game, I would advise you to buy this game NOW.
  
  Truescore: 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  There have been many fighting games that have been released since video games have been around. 
 Many became immensely popular, such as the Street Fighter's and Mortal Kombat's. Then in 1999 on 
 the Dreamcast, a new kind of fighting game emerged based entirely upon weapon fighting mechanics. 
 However since the release, few real changes have been made. Soul Caliber IV is no different.
  
  The sequels to the 1999 original have attempted to refresh the game by adding new features 
 and game modes that have had varying successes. Soul Caliber IV's game play has evolved, but it 
 is still distinctly similar.
  
  The majority of the characters will be familiar to fans of the series. About half are available 
 at the start, including the newcomers Yoda and Darth Vader who see play time on the Xbox 260 and 
 PlayStation 3 respectively. The rest of the characters can be either purchasing them with gold 
 or by defeating them in arcade and story modes. Just like before, there is a decent number of different 
 character playing modes. Unfortunately, many of these characters do not balance well within the 
 game and may even feel overpowered. A great example is Starkiller, also known as Vader's secret 
 apprentice.
  
  Every match is the same basic formula, deplete enemies health bar by severe beatings or by knocking 
 your opponent out of the ring. As it can be imagined, these can become tedious, and very frustrating 
 when the fighting doesn't go your way.
  
  Online play is a new feature with this years Soul Caliber, and it is a worthy addition to the game. 
 Relatively lag-free, there are few different modes. Bad internet connections may prove fatal to 
 players plagued with this, as moves put in will appear a split-second later.
  
  Previous fans of Soul Caliber will more than likely be dazzled by the beautiful graphics and familiar 
 game play. However, for those not infatuated with the Soul Caliber series, IV will do little to 
 change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LotsOfGrenades
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur, I've been a loyal player and buyer since Soul Edge. My best was Soul Calibur II and 
 to date my favorite one. I am no aficionado of Soul Cal, but I know I'm really good, and I love 
 this game series enough to just say, 'Man, I am getting really bored of fighting games'.
  
  Soul Calibur takes on the next chapter, where it again highlights Nightmare as the maker and breaker 
 of the Soul Calibur/Edge. Like any other fighting game you go through a conquest mode of defeating 
 a few opponents, beating a key opponent (Isn't it funny that characters always have someone they 
 are racing or competing against? But it's never more than two, and in this case, one.) After defeating 
 him/her you fight some more and then you face the boss.
  
  Other modes are quite boring and instead of the old classic Conquest Long-Mode, they basically 
 cheated us and placed in a Survival Mode with cash and prizes. Not that Conquest in III or II were 
 great, but it certainly gave you a better feel then a cheating SURVIVAL MODE.
  
  Soul Calibur hasn't done much to make itself Online worthy in my opinion. Characters are still 
 unbalanced and now to introduce into it, Yoda. Yoda is like Oddjob from 007 Golden Eye (64) . He's 
 impossible to do a standard through too and with enough button mashing you can end up the victor 
 and even you will WTF at the screen.
  I remember the forums, all over the internet, with kids with new and decent some ever GREAT ideas 
 for the new Soul Calibur. Personalized Reversals, Disarming, Mini-Games, all sorts of ideas. They 
 were not simple ideas, some went into long exponentially great lengths to explain what they meant, 
 but honestly, if you want to make a great game, you can't just cookie cutter, add contrasted edges, 
 and kick in a few new special guest characters and call it a sequel.
  
  However, Bandai has accomplished to fool players into thinking it's the greatest fighting game 
 yet. It's simply another Soul Calibur game.
  
  Onto Online Play:
  Bandai's server may just be worst than Bungie's, but I am not putting anything engraved yet. Bandai 
 has no real sense of just what a Ping and Connection is. Where I am sure many ELITE players were 
 looking to keep a solid xxx and 0 score, you can be beaten down by a newb who has 2 bright yellow 
 bars or less.
  
  Facing laggers is all I did when I went to ranked games. I even beat a few, but they were certainly 
 stronger on the side of wins in the end. I am not sure if anyone has faced this problem, but it 
 seems very common for me.
  
  Soul Calibur offers graphics that are just a little better than it's younger brother. It has added 
 very few moves to the list, so you will be able to jump into the action like it were III. Because 
 guess what? It's an even crappier version of III, but with crappy Online play.
  
  What anyone see's in this game is beyond me. But it's a waste of money.
  
  Why did I give it 
 a 6.5? Because it's an average game, but I would buy an average game. Not this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I have always thought the Soul Caliber series was the best fighter in the genre bar none. I was 
 excited to see it coming on the next generation of systems and I am not disappointed.
  
  The Soul Caliber series have always been easy to pick up and play and hard to master which makes 
 it fun for new players and veterans of the series alike. I am pleased that they didn't mix up the 
 formula very much. This is still the SC from the dreamcast days only more refined. The freedom 
 of movement and the style of fighting cannot be matched by any other fighter in my opinion. Namco 
 has included the critical finish where if a player sits and blocks too much their opponent does 
 what is called a soul crush and if timed properly the player can hit the left bumper and end the 
 round with the critical hit. This goes into a cut scene and the battle ends. A pretty cool feature 
 but is rarely performed and more of a novelty than anything. All the major characters return as 
 well as some new ones. I still think the older characters are by far the best but when you have 
 such fun and cool characters why mess up a good thing. Yoda and the Apprentice are interesting 
 to use for Star Wars fans. I personally like the Apprentice better as Yoda is a little slow for 
 my taste.
  
  There are a few different single player modes that are fun and offer different kinds of challenges. 
 It is fairly easy to unlock all the characters as you can run through the story mode and arcades 
 modes a couple of times and have them all. The real meat of the single player is the Tower of Lost 
 Souls which can prove to be extremely difficult. You can choose to ascend or descend in the tower 
 of souls. When descending you must reach floor 20 in order to get the achievement. A fairly daunting 
 task. When ascending there are 60 floors and it is very difficult to finish. But this also gives 
 the the single player some legs to stand on if you do not play online or have any friends to play 
 with.
  
  The real fun is with the online modes as you can take your created character to play in the online 
 modes. The character creation is quite fun and not overly complex which made me want to keep creating 
 characters. You also can create up to 50. All you perverts can make some really smokin hot chicks.. ha 
 Online you really get an idea of the depth of SC4 as you will no doubt run up against some really 
 pro players. There are also some chumps which really shows that SC4 is not just a button masher. 
 There is a ranking system and leaderboards so you can see where you stack up against the world. 
 There are also some addictive achievements to be had in SC4.
  
  There are a couple of problems mainly in the online. First there isn't random matchmaking. So if 
 you get into a lobby you will be able to see the opponents record and a lot of players will automatically 
 back out. Also if you are beating someone up they can quit in the middle and you are not rewarded 
 the victory. Something Namco needs to fix. I also experienced some lag at times which in a fighter 
 makes all the difference. But when I got a match with a player of equal skill that didn't quit 
 it was a very fun experience. Also there is not a whole lot of innovation in single player and 
 without multiplayer this game is probably not worth the purchase.
  
  Overall SC4 is very fun and worth the buy for people with internet or friends. The Soul still burns! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrkred
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 8, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  First of all I LOVE!!!!! the soulcalibur series... with the exception of this one. this game is 
 some of the laziest programing i've every seen. no depth, no story what so ever.... and what's 
 up with the character creator slimed down to nothing (ie no styles??? which means ten less characters) 
 ... im disappointed that no one is telling the truth about this shallow attempt at a fighting game. 
 all praise the fallen. is the genre that dead?
  PROS: 
  -good graphics
  -Cool sound
  -its spelled the same as the last one????
  
  ok now the nitty gritty:
  Cons
  - star wars 
 cariters don't fit... you can't grab yoda??? what kinda half ass programing lead to that?
  - ten less fighters the the last one... what happen to all the styles? you make it oneline and 
 the only cariters i can create with are the origanl cast? not even the boss?
  - anime created character are useless... welcom back Necrid but at least he was kinda origanl all 
 these character are just remixes of the old stlyes not even variation like in SC3
  - nothing to do... ok i've made character that looks nice ( note: same armor as the last but less 
 of it) but don't have the stats of the all powerful kitty outfit so now what??? no story no other 
 modes.
  - the lazyest programing i have ever witness
  - basically it looked like they fired all the creative people who worked on the game and hired 
 monkeys to make soul-caliber 2 playable online!!! 
  - good job Namco :) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sindath
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 Review (Good and Bad)
  
  Good
  
  -This game has prolly the best graphics I seen in awile for a game for the xbox 360
  
  -Alot 
 of moves you can invest your time to seen and playout and love the soul gauge critical finish movies
 
  
  -Character Creation theres alot of stuff you can buy and to improve your characters with skills 
 weapons equipment.
  
  -Tower souls really well put together this game mode will really test your fighting skills and 
 how well to survive aganist a bunch of people
  
  -Achivements are well put together medium-hard to get 1000 score 
  
  Bad
  
  -Online is 
 ok but it could be way much better. 1. People quitting get no penatly 2. No variety of matches 
 wish you could like use 2 characters or more 3. The leveling up system is weird I thought
  
  -Story mode has 5 stages in it that is not enough in the game for a story i know if you choose 
 differnt people that will have different outcomes but just wanted to see one big story wrap up.
 
  
  -Not enough creation stuff
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlyinH1GH
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  At first I was skeptical in buying this game and decided renting it. As soon as I began playing 
 it, I got addicted to it. It is really the only game I have been playing for a while now.
  
  The Tower of Lost Souls is a great addition to the game that requires a good amount of skill 
 to complete. This mode will keep you very busy and lasts the longest. You can either choose to 
 ascend or descend the tower, fighting various opponents on each of the 60 floors. Ascending the 
 tower will take the most time as it is much more challenging. Taking advantage of creating a custom 
 character whose skills you like the best will help you through the TOLS.
  
  Arcade mode is somewhat challenging and story mode is kind of short. The character customization 
 is very deep and you will get caught up in making custom characters or people in other games and 
 such.
  
  
  This game has a lot of replay value and is well worth adding to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fi123storm
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  The thing with Soul Calibur IV is, it's a pretty good game, but Namco tries as hard as it can to 
 emphasize everything but the fighting. 
  
  The first thing that'll grab you is of course the guest characters from Star Wars which are featured 
 prominently on the box, game, and marketing materials. It's in your face so much it hurts. Even 
 more so than the cross-promotion in Soul Calibur II. They hardly even try with how they tie in 
 these characters. Were they really necessary?
  
  The second part of the "let's talk about this instead guys" moment would be the design of the female 
 characters. Namco decided that its target audience is males and made sure to fill out the large 
 breast requirement in spades. Hell, Soul Calibur IV single-handedly pushes gaming back about 10 
 years in the maturity department with this moves. It's fairly creepy. 
  
  Underneath that though, you'll find a pretty good fighting game that's worthy of being the successor 
 to Soul Calibur II. Most people keep telling me they want to forget Soul Calibur III so let's just 
 do that. Maybe next time Namco will pay some respect to the franchise they've created and emphasize 
 the combat a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weapon93
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur is a franchise that would have been better served remaining an arcade only legend. 
 The fact that they keep shaving off characters from other games/movies is a sign of it's immense 
 lack of deep gameplay.
  
  Let's get one thing straight before I lay into this game. Soul Calibur 4 is a very fun game... 
 for the first hour or so. A fighting game where you can use a huge sword, nun-chucks, or a pole-arm. 
 Duels where armor is shattered from your opponent, and a very colorful cast of characters to choose 
 from. All these features sound cool but are all merely a nice paint job on a car that won't start.
 
  
  When you first pop the game in you'll complete arcade mode in about 10 minutes, and even your little 
 sister can do it without loosing a fight once. It consists of a whopping 5 stages where you'll 
 fight random characters woven with cutscenes that treat you like you're stupid for not completely 
 understanding the story that doesn't even really exist. At the end you get a letter grade and a 
 pile of gold which can be used to buy locked characters. You'll have enough gold to unlock all 
 the purchasable characters after 3 arcade games. So now we have a total 30 minutes into this game 
 and almost all the characters are unlocked. And oh, 90% of the characters suck horribly.
  
  The game has some other modes that are kinda, sorta, maybe fun. Tower of souls lets you play different 
 levels of challenges which let you pick a team of characters and puts you up against a number of 
 foes. Some fights are a lot of easy fights, and some are fights against a boss that has double 
 health or something. Do all that and you get... gear... that you can put on your "very own" character, 
 which brings me to my next reason to be disappointed.
  
  Now let's spend some time on ANOTHER feature that sounds so amazing, making your own fighter. Well 
 guess what, it's not your own character, it's one of that characters in the game, just with different 
 clothes and skin color. For every character you make you have to pick out a character that's already 
 in the game to model them after. That means they get there weapon type and all of there gestures. 
 So if you want to create a male character with Sophitia's weapons, he ends up acting like a girl. 
 And don't even bother making a serious character with Voldo's weapons. And if you get a character 
 you like, with the look and gear you want, you find out that nearly every piece of equipment has 
 "stats." So now your guy looks badass but it turns out he has very low health, or no armor at all 
 so he gets his ass kicked.
  
  The stages have nice visuals, but there's nothing that you can smash your opponent into, this generation 
 of gaming needs to have a more interactive environment. Most have edges making it VERY easy to 
 knock your enemy off the edge for an instant round winning "ring out." Where's the skill in that?
 
  
  Moves are basic, and grab moves are way to easy to preform, do too much damage, and are long and 
 repetitive for most characters.
  
  "But dude, they have Yoda and the Apprentice" Please, Yoda is way too slow and nearly invincible 
 because he's so short, the Apprintice is nothing special and it's a shame this is the first game 
 to introduce him rather than the one he was made for. SC4 did not do him justice, let's think about 
 it, could "Amy" stand up against a guy who can cut walkers in half?
  
  Xbox live... So what, not worth the 60 bucks for that. Hurray, I can smash buttons faster than 
 you, or knock you out of the ring. It may be an ego rush but it's not fun.
  
  In conclusion, please, RENT THIS GAME, you will enjoy it for a night or maybe 2 if you love the 
 series. But to buy this game would be a waste, it'll start collecting dust within the week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethan111111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  ok i rented it played it i first made a person a really hot girl with a sword, oh god she was hot. 
 and she was kick a$$. then my little bro played and made a girl that sucked but anyway. i went 
 to story and in 5 phases, you win. W. T. F?? ok that diddent have any story at all but what ever 
 arcade might be better. i played it with yoda and he killed everyone then you win. still short 
 but i got alot of money. baught characters. witch were made oveuss by a bunch of japanieze on drugs 
 thinking there cool. well i made a BA character. played vs. my little bro. having fun. i played 
 the stories of Whatever and got to sand or somthing and it was F**** inpossible. then i played 
 less and stoped all at once. hey. it was fun when it lasted.. i wouldent buy this only rent it 
 i buy it if it was 10$ or lower. if you like sword games go for it. but rent it first. and the 
 difficulty is so easy one sec. then impossible the next. im done with this ill go back to playing 
 CoD4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottydude182
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  First thing to say is that this is a very good game, the graphics are clean, the characters are 
 balanced and the stages are stunning. The biggest disapointment in this game is easily the story 
 mode, for each character it is only five levels long with very little story. However this is more 
 than made up with two other modes, arcade and tower of souls. The tower is easily the most enjoyable 
 because, you can either decend or ascend.
  
  I love the inclusion of the starwars characters especially the apprentice. he is a very strong 
 character however this is evened out by the fact that there is no real upgrades for him. 
  
  The online is solid however a fast internet connection is needed and as i am an Australian.... lagsville. 
 Also online you will see alot of people doing two or three moves and beating someone with a full 
 bag of moves.
  
  overall a great game and a must buy for any fighting fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fr0-n1nja
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  As soon as i started playing soul calibur IV i felt right at home. The controls and gameplay are 
 very familiar to veterans to the series and are easy to learn for beginners. They did add a few 
 elements to the game that actually improved the gameplay. No longer will you be able to block repetitively 
 against enemy attacks. If you do so you could find yourself in a situation in which you get pwnd 
 by a critical finish. The game is really fun to play and multiplayer is fun whether you're playing 
 online or with a friend. Depending on your connection however the multiplayer may or may not lag. 
 In the end there are only a few flaws in this game that keep it from a perfect 10. The first one 
 would be the story mode. Soul Calibur 3 had the best because it made you be involved in the story 
 plus you knew what was going on. In this installment you only play 5 missions and there is barely 
 a story invlolved with each of them. Overall this game was all it was cracked up to be. Even though 
 it could have been better and we were probably expecting more it is still a good game. I give it 
 an 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowserpwns
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  The good: Good graphics and lots of playable characters. Also INCREDIBLE char creation scale
  
  The bad: Really short stories for each Char. The Aprentice is wayy OP.
  
  
  
  
  Ill 
 keep this short... If you like soul calibur, you will love this game. If you like fighting games 
 but havent played soulcalibur, i would recommend renting it first. The star wars characters are 
 fun to play. (Aprentice is OP tho) I rented this game on both my 360 and my PS3 to see how yoda 
 and vader played and the aprentice is the only OP char in the game. Overall (in my opinion) it 
 is a very well put together game (But like i said in the title, it does get repetitive after awhile.) 
 I think you will have alot of fun playing the game. (BTW to unlock the aprentice just beat arcade 
 mode with the respective star wars char. (yoda=360 PS3= vader) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  soul caliber 4 is a great game in a lot of ways.. the details of the game are excellent.. each character 
 is well detailed with great weapons, great combos, great moves and excellent costumes, which rips 
 off as the intensity of the fight goes on, and to add the fact that each character has unique moves 
 and combos so that you never find anything repeating all adds to the rich details of this simple 
 game; the graphics is mindblowing-great environments, excellent lighting and details, sound effects 
 are awesome; the story mode seems to be not well detailed and narrative, not many unlockables, but 
 the multiplayer mode is good enough for anybody to be a fan; the details and combos of each character 
 are vivid enough to make you play the game with each one of them, character editing mode, creation 
 and customization, guest characters, all add to the credits of this beautiful game.. a must buy for 
 any xbox 360 fan.!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur is my favorite fighting game and there is much to say about that! Soul Calibur IV 
 was an instant masterpiece to me adding more to my favorite fighting series. The stories are sort 
 of short although they are fun to go through and they explain more about the character you use.
 
  The characters are cool most the characters we all know and love are back with some new characters 
 added and for the XBOX 360 Yoda and the Apprentice have joined the fight. The game also added something 
 neat called the Soul Gauge where if a player blocks to many attacks or block to long it turns red... 
 If the player hits someone then you gain Soul Gauge and it turns blue... If the gauge is red and 
 it blinks meaning the character is about to do a soul break where armor falls off, but if timed 
 correctly you use a secret attack and kill instantly.
  The game is now playable online where you can rank up and fight against friend and foe and become 
 the best of the best! Multiplayer is tough, but with practice you will rise in rank in no time.
 
  My favorite part of the game is the character creation option where you can upgrade old characters 
 with new armor or create your own character and send him out to battle to fulfill his/hers destiny.
 
  The game has improved and deserves a good score a 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samus1212
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  First off, graphics. They are amazing. They look really good on the 360 (only average for ps3) . 
 Luckily, it very rarely lags, and only really does when you go online. It sucks that if you play 
 someone and they have a bad connection it brings you down and you have to suffer for them. It really 
 throws off your timing for combos and special moves and things. 
  Next off is gameplay. Honestly though, there isn't much to say. It's just what we have come to 
 expect from Soul Calibur. Keep in mind though that this is for the most part a comparison to SC2 
 since I unfortunately didn't get to play SC3 all that much. The only thing I didn't really like 
 about it was that guard is the A button, which I think feels kind of awkward. Taunting is kind 
 of cool, but it's pretty useless for how the game works (not like in smashbros where there is time 
 between lives, and you have multiple) . It is kind of funny though when you are playing a button 
 masher and they accidentally (or purposely) hit it giving you time to attack. :D Critical Finishers 
 are really great too, but I feel as if they could have had a bigger role. For the most part, by 
 the time you can use it, your opponent has virtually no health left.
  Now, onto the Star Wars characters. Honestly, I think Yoda was just put in for kicks. Unfortunately 
 those kids can make people suffer because of how amazingly good Yoda is. I think it would have 
 better better if they put Obi-Wan or Luke Skywalker in his place. The apprentice though is a really 
 awesome character. Some of his moves are insanely good, and he's really fun to play as. He kind 
 of reminds me of Roy from Super Smash Brothers Melee (except for the fact that Roy sucks) as he 
 is being used as a promotion for the game he is going to be in more than anything else. Darth Vader 
 is pretty much just another regular Soul Calibur fighter but with a lightsaber and an amazingly 
 cool voice.
  Now, the sound. Honestly, compared to Soul Calibur 2, I think they sound terrible. Siegfried sounds 
 like freaking Yu-Gi-Oh. Kilik sounds a bit older, which isn't that bad since it's 5 years into 
 the future. Maxi on the otherhand sounds younger, which doesn't work so well. Raphael sounds like 
 a french/spanish stereo type, definitely not as good as Soul Calibur 2. Cervantes sounds absolutely 
 HORRIBLE. He could very well be the worst voice in the game. He sounds just like a pirate. Now, 
 normally that wouldn't be that bad if he was just a plain old pirate, but he is a resurrected spirit 
 pirate from the soul edge. He should have a creepier factor. I've got to say Astaroth sounds pretty 
 bad too. He reminds me of a biker thug or something like that. To make things shorter, what people 
 say when they win has really been cut down, which I don't like as much.
  Story mode. I'm really iffy about it. It has a lot of cool things, but every characters is like 
 10 minutes long and really vary in difficulty. Then there is The Tower of Lost Souls. I actually 
 really enjoyed it. It's really addicting. It takes awhile, but eventually the cpus start getting 
 good at kicking major ass. 
  Closing comments; Online is great, but playing can be kind of boring when people just do the same 
 thing over and over again, plus it's kind of laggy. Character creator is great, it just sucks that 
 you have to base it off of someone already in the game. But all the customization makes it really 
 fun, and it's easy for you to get hooked and can be a lot of fun. Overall, I'd give this game a 
 9/10. It's just plain great. I recommend it to anyone who is bored of their old fighting game, 
 whether it be Street Fighter, Smash bros, Mortal Kombat, ect. I hope you enjoyed the review, now 
 go out and buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Soulcalibur 4 is a fun game to play with lost of ups and downs. Ill start with the ups...
  
  Online mode is great and fun especially with the ranking system and the fact it doesnt lag. 
 The game lives up to expectations as a fighting game with weapons and playability but does get 
 on your nerves from time to time, i dont know how it just does. The character creation is a bit 
 addictive with so many styles to choose from and many upgrades to your character who you can use 
 online, my first game my first win. And now the obvious one of all... starwars characters. Yoda, 
 small and annoying when your up against him but fun and good when your using him. With this you 
 can use him to battle your way through arcade mode and unlock the apprentice who is worth the effort 
 you put into the arcade. Now the good list is the tower of lost souls mode, how addictive is that. 
 The achievements in the game are fun to get and the unlock ables are also one of the reasons your 
 eager to get some cash which leads you to online mode and career mode. But if your not the type 
 of person who likes unlocking stuff why not spend the money on making your own character the best 
 that ever lived.
  
  Now the bad, which is pretty brief. The career mode is too short, it occasionally gets repetitive, 
 sometimes gets on your nerves (i still dont know why) and you just know at the back of your mind 
 games like Takken will be better unfortunately. Nevertheless now is now and NOW it is by no means 
 the best fighting game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjroma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 is a great game. Combat can be easy and available to anyone willing to have fun. 
 It is not very engaging, but you won't regret spending some hours on it. 
  
  Story mode, like everyone says, fails. It's boring, easy, short and the cut scenes, seriously, 
 does not worth it. Tower of Souls is a kinda survival game, which is fun and challenging, having 
 you to discover how to unlock the hidden equipment (that you may use on your character customization) .
 
  
  Multi-player rocks. Get some friends at home and slash them out. Since it can be played by anyone, 
 it is great for small parties.
  
  Character Customization, for those who like to balancing things and RPG character creation, is 
 totally stunning. You can spend hours making one single character, adjusting equipment so it can 
 have those special abilities that you want.
  
  Apart of gameplay, the visual is beautiful. But the game lack of unity. The whole package does 
 not follow a visual identity. Menus and text boxes does not match with their borders nor with the 
 background. It has a good hierarchy but looks confusing sometimes. The character selection could 
 be better, since it does not show a big eye-candy illustration of the character you're choosing, 
 but a very small ugly blurry card. Text were badly picked, mixing shiny detailed fonts with simple 
 arial-like ones. 
  
  But what bothered me the most were the tutorials. It comes in text (lots of text) , and most of 
 the content belongs to the manual. In a system that allows such huge interactivity between the 
 user and the machine, this is not satisfying. 
  
  I would say that this game should be bought by everyone that likes the genre. If your a beginner 
 in the series but willing to learn how to play it you may be lost and confused sometimes, but you 
 will be able to succeed soon and have a lot of fun meanwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Temari_874
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV has to be the best I've played.
  
  The graphics were awesome, it really got better.... seriously. I give it like an 8.5
  
  I really 
 like the stuff they added to character creation. Like certain armors or weapons you chose gives 
 you more or less power and HP. I love the new skills added.
  
  Online battle is better than playing against the computer or the same friend over and over again. This 
 was my first time playing online and it was really fun. (2 thumbs WAY up.)
  
  The controls was a little diffrent because ive never played Soul Calibur on XBOX360 before ,but 
 you get used to it and also you can change your buttoons around to make it seem like a ps2 controler. Nothing 
 really changed, but its all good.
  
  The story was alright, I'd give it an 8.0
  I just didnt really care about the story only the fighting and the characters.
  
  Adding Yoda 
 and The Aprentince was cool and they're strong if you know how to control them, I dont because im 
 still trying to figure out the combo's and stuff. Also the bonus characters seem pretty cool, I only 
 play with them when im picking at random.
  
  The music (to me) sounds the same, its not good and its not bad... its like in the middle. Its goes 
 perfect with the Soul Calibur games and nothing else, its like its own type of music.
  
  
  I could play SC4 all day if I didnt have internet.
  I give Soul Calibur IV a.....9.0!
  Yay!
 
  
  Its better than all the other fighting games I played. (Thats just my opinion)
  
  I hope the Soul Calibur series gets better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noambartouv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Single player: (4 game types)
  
  Story mode: Play 5 stages against different enemies. The enemies change according to the player 
 you choose.
  This mode is really easy with any play even on Hard.
  
  Arcade mode: In this mode you defeat 8 enemies while trying to score the highest you can.
  This 
 mode is easy until the 5th enemy and from then on it gets a little harder especially against the 
 apprentice.
  
  Tower of Souls: In this mode every time you win you go up a floor. The objective is to go up as 
 many floors as you can. This is the only mode that really challenges you because you fight against 
 multiple enemies every round and also the AI is smarter.
  
  Training : Training is fun to figure out moves and stuff and the nice part is that there is a move 
 simulation so you can know how the move looks like.
  
  Although the single player is nice and all its not that fun playing against the AI. That is where 
 the Verses mode comes in. Playing the game with your friends is awesome! The game is just made 
 for it.
  
  Even though I haven't played online that much I can say that loading is good and there is no lag.
 
  Though for some reason everyone online seems to beet me easily...
  
  P. S. Graphics are awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adaram1050
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to keep this review short. I like SCIV, a lot. 
  
  Graphics: Good for the genre and just right. Score: 10
  
  Sound: Appropriate, enough said. 
 Score: 10
  
  Story: Lacking, given the hype that surrounded it. With the theme of "What's within your soul?" 
 in all the adds and trailers, it doesn't really come out in the story mode. Rather than text in 
 the beginning, a cinematic would be better. Score: 4
  
  Cotnrols: Apppropriate and easy to get into. My only issue is the ability to launch the ultimate 
 finishers & how hard (at least for me) to launch them. Score: 7
  
  Unlockable/Bonus Characters: Generally these are all right, Yoda and the Secret Apprentice are 
 great. The five you unlock, not counting Algol, are merely clones of main cast characters and don't 
 do much for me. My annoyance with the eight bonus & unlockable characters is that you can't modify 
 their appearance and their weapons only change bonuses & not appearance. Score: 5
  
  Conclusion: Overall SCIV is a good game with tons of replay value as you try to get some of the 
 various achievements, create new characters, and try to earn enough gold to obtain all the weapons 
 and gear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comeon123987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Let me start with saying way better then I excepted this game after I got mad with dragonball z 
 budokai tenkachi 3. The graphics were beyond great clean picture. A lot of detail with each character. 
 Also unlike another game I love tekken it moved a lot faster when you press a button to hit your 
 opponent so that made me happy. Storymode was pretty awesome how each character each got there 
 own I haven't seen that since naruto ultimate ninja 1. I like to make custom characters a lot I 
 made one for most of my friends and I make them good too I don't buy what with what I have I keep 
 playing until I have enough for what I want. Lat, but now least my favorite part of the game vs 
 mode. My favorite character and opponent is I pick Kilik and fight the appertance. Vs is fun playing 
 with everyone and wish I have played it for ps3 too so I have used and fought dark vader. The one 
 character that didn't work for me was Yoda I hate fighting and playing with him. When I fight he 
 I miss with my best atactks he is too small. When I play him his attacks stink and when he runs 
 at an opponent he misses and almost falls off. Last thing is how some character hit only one way 
 and that gets boring they need more movement. That is all I have to say about this amazing game. 
 Any gamer hard-core or a I play sometimes gamer I hope they make a soul calibur 5 with more awesome 
 guest stars and better movement. Namco Bandai great job also for all fans visit the fansite http://www. whatswithinyoursoul. com/
 
  -Ivan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihs21596
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  Soulcalibur was a great game. So was 2, and so was 3. But Soulcalibur 4 tops the list, in visuals, 
 characters (35 in all, + create-your-own) and game play, but not sound. The other SC games have 
 the better soundtracks, you can purchase tracks from the original online. 
  
  The characters in SC 4 a great, and have a myriad of details in them. There are 5 characters designed 
 by anime artists, and they're pretty good too. But even if their character model looks good, it 
 doesn't mean they'll play as well as you want them to. Some characters are really powerful (like 
 Algol and Seigfreid) , while others like Setsuka may suffer if you're playing as them. So the game 
 turns out hopelessly unbalanced.
  
  Create-a-character, however, is AWESOME! there are hundreds of design options, from long dresses 
 to armored breastplates for the girls, and duelers coats to chain mail armor for the guys and girls 
 alike. Shoulder pads, neck garments and capes are all at your fingertips, and then comes the colour. 
 Your warrior must have a style of one of the characters from the game (star wars characters excepted) . 
 And there are many weapon choices for the class you choose. You can even create your own interpretation 
 of one of the characters from the game itself.
  
  The stages aren't in abundance, though, with only about 20 to play with, and you'll soon get tired 
 of them.
  
  The voice acting is decidedly dull, with only a handful of good moments in story mode. You can 
 warp and change the voice of a created character though, which is pretty cool.
  
  The Star Wars characters sort of come as a welcome inclusion, even though I have no idea why they're 
 there.
  
  The apprentice from The Force Unleashed makes an appearance, and after the difficult fight you 
 have with him, you can play as him. He's actually pretty good, and you can use him against any 
 enemy quite effectively, as with Yoda and Vader. Yoda can't be grabbed and it's difficult to get 
 a hit in if you're versing him until he launches himself into the air. Pitting 2 Yoda's against 
 each other in a death match is great fun, as almost all of his attacks require him to jump into 
 the air, Soaring over the top of the other Yoda.
  
  In Conclusion, this game is a lot of fun, whether you want to rent or buy, you should definitely 
 check this one out. But it's best played with friends, so get your best mate round and own him 
 in the best and up-to-date fighting game currently on the market.
  
  8.6 out of 10 
  By ihs21596 [instant message me for questions on gamespot] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-kill33
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  Soulcalibur has always had stupidly high expectations to live up to, with the dreamcast iteration 
 scoring 10's across the globe and ranking top on many players games of choice. Each subsequent 
 game has failed to match the hype that surrounds it, but this hasn't stopped the guys at Namco 
 trying.
  
  For the latest installment they have teamed up with Lucasarts and managed to bag Yoda, Darth Vader 
 and the apprentice, I'm warning you now... while worthy additions, they look and feel overpowered 
 and out of place. Deep down, we are all here for the same reason and that is to pound the sense 
 out of each other.
  
  Soulcalibur 4 is the series' first foray into HD, and it is an extremely successful one at that. 
 It looks slick and runs well, the audio is top notch and the game barely skips a beat. It plays 
 just as well too. The control scheme is complex yet intutive and provides you with two different 
 types of attack, a kick, a block and multiple kinds of grab, parry and counters... you get the 
 idea. Unfortunately it isn't in the gameplay that this game is lacking, it's in the games variety. 
 It completely lacks any kind of tag match, survival mode or team battle and what is included is 
 short, shallow and very basic.
  
  Story mode has you pitting your favourite characters against the usual competitors, with a few 
 cut scenes that are re used for other characters, the same few lines of dialogue and about 6 minutes 
 worth of total gameplay time. Arcade mode, again is the usual affair, 8 stages each increasing 
 in difficulty. Depth is added from the rather robust character creation mode and the unlockable 
 weapons and costumes. Art work also makes an appearance. But all this is just extras and adds little 
 to the actual focus of the game. 
  
  It's saving grace comes in the form of online play. It's full of the usual LIVE crowd, but play 
 without your headset and you will be just fine. You are given the choice of playing ranked matches 
 or not, and can join or host them yourself. It is very minimal and may be full of people who love 
 to mash the same button over and over, but it is buckets of fun none the less. 
  
  While the games foundations are solid, and at its core it plays almost flawlessly, it is still 
 nothing more than a glossy, padded out version of the 1999 hit. New additions like the soul gauge 
 and critical finish do make nice additions, and the game does obviously look and sound much better 
 but after 9 years and 3 more installments but is this enough to warrant another full price purchase? 
 I would argue that it is, but only just. I hope that this is the start of something and that the 
 inevitable number 5 builds upon these changes and adds more depth to the options given to the player. 
 oh... and maybe give Ivy a boob reduction?? 
  
  Like I said, despite its shortcomings, as a stand alone game it does its job well, it just lacks 
 any real variety... but if your willing to stick with just good old fashioned 1 on 1 without all 
 the bells and whistles then you can't go wrong!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm back reviewing an game, renting it right now and this time it's "Soul Calibur IV" for Xbox 
 360/PlayStation 3. I've been playing fighting video games since "Street Fighter II" on SNES days. 
 Between SC, Tekken, DOA, Darkstalkers and Marvel vs Capcom fighting games, Soul Calibur is different 
 than rest of them for weapon play. Most people gave this game an positive reviews and others gave 
 nonsense reasons to downgrade it. Here's my pros and cons on "Soul Calibur IV".
  
  Pros
  Over 30 characters in this game, including two Star Wars fighters 
  gameplay is fast and furious
 
  Gamers can destroy armor and leave others in a vulnerable state 
  Sound is good, but...
  Music is fantastic 
  Character Customization is a ton of fun and 95% of gamers will spend more 
 time on it
  Thank you Namco for getting rid of Real Time Strategy play that plague last game.
  Less loading 
 time
  Soul Gauge and Crush
  
  Neutral
  Great online Mulitplayer, but haven't play it
  
  Cons
  Star Wars Characters were very imbalance (The Apprentice and Yoda are THE most cheapest 
 fighters in the game!) 
  Fighters can be really cheap half of the time
  American voice acting and announcer are either flat out cheesy or annoying 
  Story Mode is way 
 too short
  Graphics is average
  Game crashed on me
  
  Most gamers are going to buy it for two main reasons: online play and star wars characters. If 
 you're an Soul Calibur or fighting video game fan, it's a must buy. For me, I'll wait for the price 
 to come down to get it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EstebanPiecrust
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Soul Blade (or Soul Edge for the non-EU gamers) , the series has succeeded in being the 
 fighting game that lasts. Whether it be the earliest game with its branching story mode depending 
 on your performance, the various map based modes of the later games or the strategy infused romp 
 of the third calibur, Soul Calibur has offered fighting fans a more involved take on the genre 
 that sets it apart from the Tekkens and Virtua Fighters.
  
  Now I must ask, why on earth have Namco dumped their "offer the gamer variance" concept, that kept 
 the game fresh, in favour of a new "throw in some cheap marketing scheme and an online mode" initiative? 
 What Namco have done is thrown themselves back into contention with the competition they had set 
 themselves apart from! Now that this has happened, rather than saying "Virtua Fighter 5 has a better 
 fighting engine, but Soul Calibur IV just offers so much more" we are left with just the former 
 part of the statement.
  
  Talking of the cheap marketing scheme, the Star Wars characters are in fact implemented rather 
 well, both visually and technically. The Apprentice is easy to use and really makes you feel like 
 a Jedi. The same can't be said about Yoda, who really can't be recommended for beginners, but with 
 a little work, the fighting experience is very satisfying. The other bonus characters however really 
 could have been left out. Again they look good (bar Angol Fear, who looks very out of place) but 
 the un-tweaked move sets and stock voices just make them seem rushed and dare-I-say lazy. Two cases 
 in point, Shura (having been given Cervantes' move set) has various gun moves despite not actually 
 holding any sort of ranged weaponry and one of Ashlotte has a throw where no contact between herself 
 and the opponent is made during the throw! All they had to do was perhaps throw in some projectile 
 sparks to give the illusion of energy shots and slightly tweak a throw animation!
  
  The Create mode is really good in SC4. It offers a lot of items and the body morphing that was 
 sorely needed in SC3. The problem is that it takes a long time to obtain the gold to unlock the 
 full potential of this mode. Without alternative challenges and modes to play through, this makes 
 it feel a lot like grinding, like in an MMORPG... a method used to keep people playing without 
 really advancing in the story (usually to keep wallets open, though in this particular case, it 
 doesn't apply) .
  
  So I keep talking about no alternative to the rather short, uninteresting story mode and the slightly 
 longer arcade mode with no story... but what about the Tower Of Souls mode? some of you may well 
 be asking. In truth, this mode is again, lazy. It's not really an alternative because it's just 
 a variant of a typical survival mode with optional challenges. These fights vary in difficulty 
 from easy as fooling a dog by pretending to throw a ball, to so hard that I'll need a new controller 
 tomorrow because my old one is through the TV screen (I shall also need a new TV) . Now this sounds 
 good, but the truth is that the additional challenge is not really there, a lot of the time it 
 is quicker to forget the additional challenge, complete the stage and claim the money to buy the 
 reward in the shop.
  
  The truth of the matter is that Soul Calibur IV is still a good game. It is fun in short doses 
 and that's fine, but so are the other fighting games available in the shops. It feels more of a 
 step back, which stops it from being a great game. I'd like to think that this game was rushed 
 for release, because it suggests that a better game is yet to come because the Soul Calibur series 
 has always had so much promise. I know I haven't really touched on the positives, but that's because 
 all the positives come from the earlier games... Unfortunately a pretty face and a good fight system 
 doesn't cut it when longevity is an issue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phynixblack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I picked up my long awaited copy of this game and played for my first time that same day. I have 
 been playing it ever since.
  
  The multiplayer made me proud, it was all anyone could have expected it to be, nearly lag free, 
 fun, and full of players who us only high damage characters and floor juggle.
  
  I will address that unless you intend to get those achievements, don't bother much with online 
 play. Sadly, it is boring. Every player uses either Asteroth, Nightmare, Seigfired and Misturugi 
 (in order of popularity) and the Top ten of all the Rating Boards prove it. Actually, for tower 
 of souls, the top 50 are only Asteroth. This is only because of the high damage attacks these characters 
 dish out to people when they knock them down. So expect the first person to hit the ground to lose 
 in multiplayer, as the game lacks recovery moves good enough to defend yourself.
  
  Single player and Versus modes are a lot of fun and make for a good time. The characters are as 
 fun as ever and are each pretty cool in their own way, Single player balances pretty well and I 
 like it immensely how no one character can completely trounce every other.
  
  Yoda is fun to play as, and the Apprentice is neat too. I have not put too much playtime in them 
 yet.
  
  Character creation could be better, but it is great nonetheless, having to balance out all your 
 stats and abilities can be challenging. The part you unlock are dictated by your achievement progress, 
 which adds a fun little challenge to the game. 
  
  For those unsure of whether or not to buy, I honestly think this is an excellent game and it is 
 fun to play with freinds. It has all the makings of a good time, even if you only play it when 
 you need to chill out from another game.
  
  I gotta say, the game isn't perfect, but it gets a definite 9.5 for meeting all my expectation 
 and even managing to make it fun in the process. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hastati4
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I took a bit of a risk in getting SCIV. I've always sucked at fighting games, and didn't really 
 know why I was buying it. It turned out to be more fun than I could have imagined. 
  
  It's pretty hard to get going with Soul Calibur, as there isn't any real tutorial, apart from the 
 text tutorials which won't make much sense to a newbie anyways. I was really worried as I began 
 to play, because I was struggling to get anywhere. 
  
  I don't know when it happened, but after enough playing time, the game began to really click for 
 me. I've spent hours customizing characters and creating new ones. I've thrown the controller across 
 the room in frustration one minute and jumped for joy the next on Tower of Lost Souls. At first 
 I was proud of myself just for beating Arcade mode. Now I get angry when I don't get perfects. 
 
  
  It's hard to describe, but if you just get a little bit of skill at SCIV, it all of a sudden becomes 
 really fun, and suddenly there's tons of things to try and conquer. The story mode is quite disappointing, 
 yes, but that's really the only major flaw in the game that I can find. 
  
  I strongly recommend Soul Calibur IV to anyone who loves fighting games, and to even those who 
 don't, I think it's worth a shot. I gave it a shot, an it turned out to be more than I expected.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clai11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Over all soul calibur iv gave me exactly what to look for in a typical fighting, with a couple 
 of nice tweaks to it compared to others such as tekken and DOA. One of a few things I was impressed 
 with was the extensiveness of the character creation mode. I probably spent more time making Cloud 
 Strife and Seiphroth than playing the actual game. The game play was pretty clean and with some 
 training you can go online and pwn. Which brings me to my next point, the online game play , sorry 
 for the lag of better term, blew horribly. I mean it would be nice if i actually go through a game 
 without the other players lagging out or scream frantically at me as i'm beating their ass. I have 
 to admit, the major motivation behind getting this game was the fact that yoda were in it, and 
 because of this fact I probably over looked over a few too many flaws and this game. If the few 
 subtle fun features like character creation, critical finishes, and YODA!, i would've thrown SCIV 
 straight into my pile of junk next to metropolitan and star wars battlefront. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  So we can now confirm that "A long time ago in a galaxy far far away" was simply referring to 1500s 
 Europe. Or at least an alternate dimension of 1500s Europe where the nutrition of the general population 
 was different enough to make their women significantly more endowed and the men look significantly 
 more like Elvis. After Soul Calibur 3 became a box office bust due to Namco trying to sell it on 
 the name value of just the franchise itself, SC4 returns to the series to its co-branding ways 
 by introducing assorted Star Wars characters in a manner far less believable than any Zelda or 
 Spawn cameo ever could. 
  
  Let us get what appears to be the biggest selling point out of the way. A fighting game with Yoda 
 seems like somebody's dream come true, at least to those who cheered with glee when Yoda drew a 
 lightsaber in Attack Of The Clones and proceeded to have as great of a fight sequence as a muppet 
 possibly could. In Soul Calibur 4, Yoda is the modern update of the little T-Rex with boxing gloves 
 from Tekken 3; limited moveset, but short and unthrowable. On the surface he seems unbalanced but 
 he has so few moves that he's just not fun to use either, more a novelty you use once and never 
 touch again than anything else. Likewise, "The Apprentice", the anti-hero from the upcoming Star 
 Wars : The Force Unleased, is moreso painfully unbalanced and someone who can learn his abilities 
 will be throwing weird-looking lightning balls much to the world's dismay. Needless to say, you 
 won't make any friends using either character online.
  
  Soul Calibur 4's other major selling point is the character customization. Players can either edit 
 existing characters or create new ones from scratch. Appearance-wise, your editing options aren't 
 as robust as a typical wrestling game filled with a hundreds of different pairs of tights but at 
 the same time more than a golf game filled with maybe four or five choices of hat. The one thematic 
 limit here is that your appearance choices are restricted to whatever would be believable Middle 
 Ages/Conan-esque attire so don't expect to create your dream axe-wielding clown cyborg. Likewise, 
 your choices of movesets are limited to the ones used by existing characters, understandable since 
 getting too in-depth with move selection would shatter what little delicate balance any fighting 
 game should have. But the game tries to make up for this with upgradable character attributes that 
 can be unlocked through the assorted story modes. These can include "Your character starts with 
 a thimbleful of more health" or "every now and then you'll break your enemy's guard with what's 
 normally a guard-breaking attack". Casual fighting game fans can't possibly be made to care about 
 such minute changes while the hardcore crowd will shy away from anything that can disrupt their 
 PRECIOUS balance of the game so needless to say, the odds are the option to use these attack upgrades 
 will almost never be exercised. So in conclusion, the upgradable aspect of character creation is 
 a big waste of time and will make you wish the developers spent more time on something more useful.
 
  
  The actual fighting mechanics themselves have changed little. A new one-hit kill system has been 
 implemented, but it'll only come into play if your opponent blocks an obscene number of shots so 
 odds are the only way you'll see these super attacks is if you play in Practice mode. The other 
 new gameplay addition is the way your fighter's armor will shatter with enough blows, and this 
 ultimately feels like an excuse to get the female fighters out of what little armor they were wearing 
 to begin with. Going into gameplay modes, "Tower of Lost Souls" is your typical fighting game challenge 
 mode, with the incentive of unlocking more clothes for custom characters, so your interest in that 
 mode will vary on how badly you want a more revealing corset for your busty brawler. "Story Mode" 
 is poorly named, in part of how bad the story is. Each character gets a text introduction explaining 
 their background followed by some 3 or 4 fights, then a boss fight, then a not-very-rewarding story 
 about what happens once your fighter wins the big prize of two shiny swords. If there's one weakness 
 inherent to the Soul Calibur series, it's that the storyline is always very hokey and overdramatic, 
 yet despite this (and despite the presence of the first ever fighting game character designed by 
 Frank Oz.) the game takes its story, theme and characters very seriously, even providing a flow 
 chart to explain in great detail every characters motives and relationships. It's a great feature 
 for you the player to not use.
  
  Soul Calibur 4 does have the one saving grace of functional online play. It's not the most fleshed 
 out online mode of any fighter, but it's sufficient enough to get the job done, and courteous enough 
 to let you play without any of those blasted character upgrades. And the core fighting gameplay 
 is still solid, rewarding players who study the nuances of each character and any given fight can 
 be won by a smart player over a button-masher. But without any enthralling story, interesting solo 
 gameplay modes or the same tutorials that SC3 had to explain the finer points of the game, the 
 game fails to create new smart players, rather it's appeal is limited to current fans of the series. 
 That said, existing fans should go out of their way to purchase SC4 so they can go online and wage 
 war on the hundreds of Killik fans worldwide. Please do that. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukekey
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  When you first play this game you will notice the outstanding graphics each character looks very 
 good and the environments are a treat to The gamelay is very good lots of different fighting techniques 
 each character has the own fighting style there is a down point its not the fighting because that's 
 great but the story mode is very dole short and boring saying that one good thing is that there 
 are loads of characters you can use you can even create your own character this part of the game 
 I really like the only thing I didn't like about the create mode was that it could have been abit 
 better you can use your created character in story the sound is ok but could have been better the 
 voice acting is good
  
  Overall this is a really fun game with plenty of characters to choose from it's a must have 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azeran
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I recently picked up a copy of Soul Calibur IV, and I must say that I am thoroughly enjoying the 
 game, despite the fact that I tend to take a considerable amount longer to adjust to a new fighting 
 game than most other genres of games. As I stood in Best Buy trying to decide whether or not Soul 
 Calibur would be worth the purchase, I ended up concluding my reasoning when I thought of the endless 
 hours of joy that Dead or Alive 4 brought me, and I left the store game in-hand with high hopes. 
 Needless to say in the long run I was not disappointed, though my first hour in the game I was 
 thinking I may end up regretting my purchase... but that all changed when I finally tried something 
 else other than story mode, or to be more specific when I tried the Tower of Lost Souls.
  
  After the brief acquaintance period as to how the Tower of Lost Souls was played, I found myself 
 to be quite addicted to the game in general thanks to the experience of crawling from floor to 
 floor, trying to unlock every item I could. I knew I was truly having a blast with Soul Calibur 
 once four hours had passed and I hadn't even moved from my seat to soothe my brutal need for a 
 cigarette - normally I can manage to tear myself away from a game for a smoke every hour or two, 
 but seeing how long Soul Calibur had made me procrastinate, I truly felt like my purchase of the 
 game was one that wouldn't leave me with the slightest sentiment of regret. I strongly recommend 
 Soul Calibur IV to anyone who is in search of a new game to occupy their time with. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonps
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  I've just finished playing the BEST Soul Calibur game everyep I'm talking bout Soul Calibur 3. 
 Now before I get hung at the gallows I have my reasons for this opinion. First of all the game 
 is slightly slower than its predecessors, which is a real pain especially when you're playing online.
 
  
  However to compensate we have a rather good (not great) character creation tool. And there's enough 
 variety here to make a unique character. Saying that you can't choose your profession/job anymore. 
 Instead you just choose a style from one of the main characters. (Which does not include Yoda or 
 The Apprentice)
  
  Storyline line wise it's not as epic as 2 or 3. It would seem as though their killing of half the 
 roster. (Maybe this IS the last Calibur game) I certainly didn't feel immersed like I did when 
 I first booted up SC3. The excitement is still there it just feels slightly diluted.
  
  Which leads us perfectly onto the games BIGGEST flaw, graphical game dynamics. Sometimes (albeit 
 not all the time) you can strike a character and your weapon will pass through them without any 
 damage accruing. This can be extremely frustrating, especially on the harder difficulty levels 
 when a single mistake can prove disastrous.
  
  Cheesy characters like The Apprentice and Nightmare really don't quell this fault at all. Fans 
 of SC 2 and 3 beware! This is not as free flowing as those games.
  
  However you can still see the small sparks of genius in the game. Using the 8way run technique 
 to avoid a cheesy player still feels as satisfying as ever. As does avoiding an unblockable attack 
 only to unleash your own devastating combo.
  
  Flaws aside this is a brilliant fighting game. The way you can level up your created character 
 and assign skills to them is not only cool, it also allows strategy to play a major role. The game 
 is not poor not by a long shot, but it could have been so much better.
  
  Then again maybe its because I'm comparing it to SC3 that I feel this way. After all SC3 still 
 is one of the greatest fighting games of all time. This game will be in that list, but right down 
 the bottom somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bugsrock120
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  It was a great game but somethings... not quite.
  
  First of all its a fighting type game like Mortal Combat or Virtua Fighter. 
  
  The game introduces 
 3 new characters from a well known movie series, Star Wars. In the Xbox 360 version you can play 
 as or battle Yoda, but in the PS3 version you can play as or battle Darth Vader. In both games 
 there is another star wars character. I dont think he was in any of the movies though. His name, 
 The Apprentice (I'll let you find out who he is if you decide to play the game though)
  
  One thing I loved but had a problem with was the Character Maker. Yes, it is awesome. You choose 
 your gender, then type of weapon (longsword, katana, Rapier, etc.) Sounds great so far, huh? But 
 wait... You can't choose a lightsaber unless you edit Yoda, Vader or TA (The Apprentice) And all 
 editing does to a pre-made character is changes their weapon. Not facial or body features. So, 
 as Yoda would say, "Lightsaber for you is not"
  
  Another thing I didn't like at first is the story mode. What is there to like? I can beat story 
 mode in 10 minutes and im not exaturating! Thing is, there is a different story for each character, 
 or so I was told. There may be a different story for each character but, all you do is fight in 
 5 stages and its over, and you fight the same people, too!
  
  Thats pretty much my review for now. I'd say rent the game first and I wouldn't spend $60 on it 
 unless I REALLY liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Soulcalibur IV will be my first fighter review. Soulcalibur IV has a story mode for each character. 
 Each character wants to either destroy or use Soul Calibur or Soul Edge. Because of this, every 
 character is fighting each other. The problem is that each character's story is very short (five 
 stages) . The grapics are great. The gameplay graphics are just as good as the cutscenes. The gameplay 
 goes deep. Every character has a long movelist and signature moves. Fighting is simply but more 
 advanced moves are harder to pull off. Every character has a one-hit KO move but it's hard to do. 
 There's a "Tower of Lost Souls" mode where you can either acend or decend the tower. The tower 
 is a mode where you can unlock items for custom characters but you must win with a certain condition. 
 The Character Customization mode allows you to customize an existing character or create one. The 
 mode I enjoyed the most is Versus mode. Versus mode is when you fight either a computer or a friend. 
 Fighting computers isn't that fun.
  
  Story- 8
  Graphics- 9
  Gameplay- 9
  Enjoyment- 10
  Final Score- 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ufmo
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Yeah it was a good game, it made it worth placing because of yoda and the Star Wars additions but 
 the game really lacked in some areas. First i was frustrated with the controls. They didn't always 
 work and the moved were some what more complicated then they needed to be and whats with the button 
 labels in the controls. 2nd the character stories and endings where way to flat and well preschool 
 for such a block buster. No real animation endings or story plot. 3rd why didn't they just put 
 more voice overs like in the introductions in the story mode this is 2008 and they can make that 
 deep voice announcer dude say a bit more then the same four sentences in the game.
  
  Over all it was a solid fighting game and yeah they character creation mode is anything but character 
 creation. They should have called it change the pre-existing character attributes editing mode, 
 yeah thats better what a waist.
  
  Take it or leave it thats my opinion. I would wait to buy a used copy of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyalPurple
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  The long awaited continuation of the Soul Calibur series finally arrives on next-gen consoles, 
 and although it's definately no classic, it improves on the core gameplay & adds a functional multiplayer 
 mode.
  
  In Soul Calibur IV you can play as 26 original characters, including the 2 new additions Hilde 
 and Algol, an additional 5 new 'bonus' characters, which are designed by guest artists, and 2 Star 
 Wars guest characters. All of the characters are quite different from one another, ranging from 
 a dual claw wielding contortionist to a titanic axe wielding golem. The exceptions are the 5 bonus 
 characters, all of whom are simply clones of other characters - which is quite disappointing.
 
  
  For the most part, all of the characters feel rather balanced. No character has exactly a massive 
 advantage over another, but a few characters are better at dealing with anyone, a few characters 
 may have a SLIGHT struggle against certain opponents. 
  
  The exclusive Star Wars characters are extremely different from one another. The PS3 version gets 
 to use Darth Vader while the XBOX 360 will be able to use Yoda. Out of the two characters, Vader 
 definately feels more in place. While Yoda has quite an original moveset, he is terribly unbalanced... 
 Other characters can't hit Yoda with high attacks or throw him due to his small size, these attacks 
 will simply pass over his head leaving you wide open to an attack. Both versions will have access 
 to 'Starkiller', the secret apprentice from the upcoming game Star Wars : The Force Unleashed. 
 Although he may feel slightly overpowered when you are fighting the AI playing as him, in the hands 
 of another player this is no longer evident.
  
  Apart from the Star Wars characters (which may be downloadable content in the near future for the 
 opposite system) , the console's versions don't really feel any different from one another. The 
 visuals are are practically exactly the same. The only other difference is the optional install 
 on the PS3 version, which may improve loading times somewhat, however, this feature will be available 
 on the XBOX 360 version too, shortly.
  
  The game looks amazing, in my opinion it is one of the best looking fighters ever. All the 13 stages 
 look beautiful, the characters are impressively high detailed and the animation is smooth and fluid. 
 
  
  The actual gameplay feels rather unchanged compared to previous installments. The pace isn't as 
 fast as Soul Calibur III, but isn't as slow as Soul Calibur II. It feels just about right in terms 
 of speed. Compared to other fighters Soul Calibur is more of a 'pick up and play' type of game, 
 you don't need to spend hours on end remembering long, 10 hit combos. Rather than spending time 
 learning how to attack, you need to choose when to attack, making this a more skill-based fighter 
 rather than memorizing combos. 
  
  Alot of the changes made to the gameplay are welcome additions, the critical finish system will 
 now no longer reward players who block constantly ('turtling') which makes the game more offensive.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the game hardly has any content with most unlockables just being bought by gold 
 which requires 'farming'. Story mode is now only 5 stages long, although the stages including the 
 AMB (Active Matching Battle) system, which basically lets you or the AI switch between characters 
 during battle. The addition of this feature in single player makes you wonder why it wasn't included 
 in VS modes or Multiplayer, the only option being a 1 vs 1 match.
  
  The main mode, Tower Of Lost Souls, is honestly not very fun. You can choose to ascend the tower, 
 where you will have to play through many stages where the opponents have different abilities, there 
 are 60 floors in total and around the 40th floor thing start to get a little cheap. The AI will 
 guard impact and counter you almost constantly, which sometimes mean you have to resort to cheap 
 tactics to beat the AI. It makes the Tower Of Lost Souls just one extremely drawn out mode. The 
 descend option is a little better, it's basically survival mode in which you have to slaughter 
 foe after foe to see how far you can get down, when you die you will be taken all the way back 
 to the top.
  
  One of the best features of Soul Calibur IV is definately the character creation. Create A Soul 
 mode offers many options, unfortunately the created character movesets have all been removed and 
 you are limited to choosing a moveset from the main cast. This is made up for by the large range 
 of equipment, all offering different abilities for your character. You can then choose from a number 
 of skills such as invisiblity or auto grapple break, which are all suprisingly well implemented, 
 and take your character online via the Special VS mode (where stats are in play) . Or, if you don't 
 care much for stats you can take them on Standard VS mode, where you wont have to worry about the 
 disadvantages of your equipment, and can shape the appearance into anything you want. You can also 
 fully edit the original cast, minus a few characters, so if you want to fully cloth Ivy, you can. 
 Or you can make it so that she is wearing less clothes, which I thought was practically impossible.
 
  
  Overall Soul Calibur IV is a fun, engaging experience and one of the more memorable fighters in 
 recent years. Anyone can pick up and play this and have some great fun with it, but it's pretty 
 stripped down in terms of ingame content and gamemodes, so if you don't have many friends who like 
 playing fighters or don't want to head online, I wouldn't recommend this game for solely the single 
 player content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tktomo01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 4:46 pm PT
Review:  The highly addictive and largely known fighter franchise hits it home on the current gen consoles, 
 characters, weapons, the force (..?) , and all. 
  
  Graphics and Sound: As usual, hilariously bad dialogue and voice work is rampant, which is then 
 made unnoticeable by the not-so hilariously awesome visuals and character models. Everything in 
 this game shines, from the partial 3-D backgrounds to the sparks bouncing off opposing blades. 
 The music and sound effects are extremely good too, especially since you have John Williams Star 
 Wars tunes in the background. The frame rate is always smooth no matter how demanding a frantic 
 battle may be, even online.
  
  Controls: Mastering all of the characters moves will certainly take time, but overall mashing multiple 
 buttons at once works okay with some practice. Still, a PS3 controller is far better tailored for 
 this kind of thing.
  
  Story: As a regular game, the story is a mediocre. As a fighter however, its pretty dang good compared 
 to games like Street Fighter and early SSB games. At first, it seems like nonsensical fighting 
 between random characters to get to the place where you fight Algol, Siegfried, or Nightmare. After 
 reading the actual text at the beginning and end and playing through as a few characters, everything 
 clears up and you realize each Soul Calibur character is fighting to get to Soul Edge for their 
 own personal benefit, which explains why you are fighting these guys at random while you draw nearer 
 to Soul Edge. 
  
  Multiplayer: Great. Whether its Live or battling your best buds, this is where Soul Calibur 4 truly 
 stands out, just like in every other fighting game. Critical Finishes are the new way to piss off 
 your friends even more in new and exciting ways! Theres even an online ranking system. You can 
 use your custom characters both online and off as well, a first for the series.
  
  Other: The Tower of Lost Souls is the biggest compilation of endless battles I have ever seen. 
 Arcade is good as well. Character balancing is decent, but hardly comparable to Brawl. Seriously, 
 in that game there was hardly any point at all in choosing a different fighter at all! A big plus 
 however goes to unlockables. You wanna know why? Because theres hardly any! Some characters you 
 just buy, only one you actually have to somewhat work for.
  
  Overall: 8.9924002/10 = 9/10 (in simpler format)
  
  Recommendation: If you like fighting games, 
 Star Wars, or competitive multiplayer, this is it. If you have never played a fighter before, rent 
 before purchase.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: edgen_edne
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing Soul Calibur since Soul Edge in the PS1, so I see the new legend in the Dreamcast, 
 watch a little twist in SC2 in PS2 and XBOX, understand an love the changes in SC3 in the PS2 too. 
 But one of the the sole motivations to buy a 360 for me was SC4. Well Im a huge fan of fighting 
 games, all of then except for UFC, they dont have famale characters yet but there is a league 
 of female fighters, straaange...
  Anyway, since the 360 are coming with some good titles in this area, I like to cover the SC4 for 
 anyone that can read this review:
  
  1-Creation mode
  This mode was more stripped down than amplified. The Project Soul removed he most charming thing 
 in the character creation mode: the exclusive weapons! in SC3 you get a wide range of variations 
 of weapons, you get all the weapons from other characters and can use some new ones, like the sharp 
 shoes (this is not the name of the thing in game) . This was really fresh but since it was the beginning 
 they made some mistakes like not implement a way to fix a character to one fight style inside each 
 class.
  In SC4 this classes and variations just disappeared, here you can only be a copy of one of the 
 main beings of SC world, witch is a vary bad management choice. they downgrade their product for 
 a unknown reason, they could just keep it, it was ok.
  For the rest, get the items become a very hard and really not so fun idea. Its easy to just lost 
 a item because I dont know what to do to get it.
  The body customization really get two steps forward and one back. You now get a wide and realistic 
 skin tone a a very nice way to change body shape and voice, but you cant create a fatty character, 
 this is just do not exist in SC world, except for B@@Bs.
  
  2-Rooster
  This is by far the less entertaining select screen for a Soul Calibur game yet. And for the characters 
 and levels, the way it was in SC3 was a very nice touch and do not needed any changes, but they 
 not only changed it, it was removed. Sad.
  For the characters, well I dont like Star Wars, Im not thinking in buy Force Unleashed or any 
 SW product, So Im not here to say things in a crazy fan style. Yoda is nice, the Apprentice is 
 nice and Darth Vader maybe can be nice too, but why that?? From all characters that could be in 
 a Sc game they think in Jedis? Why not a Tales of character? Maybe a Xenosaga one? Namco is full 
 of good additions and anyone who played Namco x Capcom could see that. Well we are in a Age of 
 Conan, so why not Red Sonja or Conan? Why not the girl of Heavenly Sword? Why not Dick from Dragons 
 Lair? But the other special characters, these girls in the star all came from the mid of some good 
 japanese artists and except for Angol Fear they are a very nice addition, they could only had a 
 unique fighting style for each one. But maybe next time they uses a more wide rage of world artists 
 to bring special adds.
  The new characters for the series was Hilde and Algol were not bad ones, but our American continent 
 and some old cultures could have make their ways, like Mayas, North and South American natives, 
 India, Russia, Australia, Africa, well the world was already very big in that ancient times, but 
 not in SC.
  
  Play-Well every character become a powerhouse, mostly because every single move have a bright light 
 for it. Its even embarrassing to see all that light for a sword battle but no blood or hurts, 
 bruised, nothing. But you can now break the armors, even if you are fighting against Xianghua, 
 that only use clothes, no armor at all. They say it adds deep for bringing danger points, but the 
 fight is so fast that is easy to win a match without break nothing in the opponent.
  The rest is just like always, we get some stages that become small with the time but the fights 
 are way to fast to it become a real danger, we get the character changes just like marvel vs capcom 
 2 and the power ups that really change the game-play in a lot of ways, but not always good ways.
 
  
  So it is a good game in graphics and a must have for PS3 and X360 fighting game lovers, but is 
 not the addition to the series I wanted, it fails at some very strange points, points that just 
 couldnt go wrong but, everything could be better or worse right?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green3362
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This new soulcalibur is the best so far in the series it has a solid sp that will keep u playing 
 till the early hours in the morning. The mp is good if you can find some one that can play the 
 game.
  
  The sp is one of the best so far. The stories are still kinda weak. They need more cut scene and 
 a little more explanation in them. There are other modes for you to play in as well that will keep 
 you playing. I was sceptical about the game when i bought it. I started playing it next thing i 
 new it was 4 in the morning. 
  
  The mp is good only if you can find someone who can play the game. All i ever get is people who 
 spam the same move over and over again and if you cant find a way around it you lose, or people 
 who ring out in every match they play. This just kills the mp for me every time i get on to play.
 
  
  Over all this game is a great game to buy. The replay value is great you will be playing this game 
 for a long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ecyoral
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  fun online has been reborn. Grab some weapons and battle it out against numerous opponents. There 
 will be casualties, great combos and bragging rights. Soul caliber 4 has a good create a fighter 
 feature and the graphics are breathtaking. I saw little lag while playing and the numerous game 
 modes make this a summer blockbuster. The physics are realistic and the backgrounds and draw distance 
 are true works of art. The soundtrack is a good mood setter as the stages progress. This is the 
 new standard in video game fighting perfection. All other companies should use this formula. Just 
 the right amount of carnage without the bloody gore. The star wars characters were a nice bonus 
 and any download able characters are more than welcome. A jolt in the head for any fight lover 
 that has a desire to conquer the world one battle at a time. Soul Caliber is a must have in the 
 library title. Nothing like beating your loves to submission in a family battle fest. No true gamer 
 can resist it's charm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuartdotnet
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV is a very worthy successor to the superb SC III. The graphics and audio are simply 
 stunning, the animation on the characters is both fluid and beautiful to watch. The gameplay has 
 been tweaked in the right ways for a beginner to intermediate fighter like me, whereby I can learn 
 a few good moves, put in a little block practice, and come out winning more matches than I lose.
 
  
  However, where SC IV falls down is in similar areas. The button-mash possibilities are a little 
 high, and in fact I tested this once by simply mangling the face buttons while in another room 
 grabbing a soda. I actually managed to make it through the first four stages of Siegfried's story 
 mode without even looking at the screen. I pressed start and A where appropriate to skip cutscenes 
 based upon the noises of battle. Button mash FTW!
  
  The story mode could have been a little longer and the stories themselves feel a little less than 
 baked. I love the lore of the characters in the Soul Calibur universe so to get only a one-liner 
 ending for each character felt a little light. However, there are so many characters to play through, 
 all with such a rich arsenal of moves that I have still enjoyed playing through every character's 
 story at least twice.
  
  I'm about 40 hours in and about 60% done with the achievements and game modes. I'm looking forward 
 to finishing up the rest and really can't complain about getting what I guess will be 60-80 hours 
 from a single game.
  
  Well done Namco/Bandai. Two thumbs up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fleshandblood10
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 3 back on the good old PS2 Took me by surprise. It advanced on the SC2's RPG element 
 and made a one player mode that was extremely well thought through and fun, with lots that you 
 could do and achieve. This was done whilst still having one of the best multilayer fighting experiences 
 you could have on the console.
  
  Soul Calibur 4 has gone on to expand the multilayer phase of the game. The fighting and the variety 
 of characters, each with a very nice selection of moves, makes playing with a friend on or offline 
 extremely satisfying. 
  
  But I am disappointed in the one player modes. Arcade only allows for 2 characters to be unlocked. 
 The story mode also only unlocks a few characters. The rest you can just buy.
  Where is the challenge in that?
  Yeah ok, you have to earn the money to buy them with, through 
 the arcade or story modes etc. and so you do have to fight to get them in a way, but it misses 
 out on the challenge of fighting them to get them. When you can just buy them the one player mode 
 quickly runs out of necessity. You can play a few times with the same character and then that's 
 it. Buy the rest and get a friend to help increase the fun you can have with the game.
  
  What they have now instead is a challenging and fun game mode involving going up or down levels 
 of a tower and challenging many foes to advance a stage. The missions are all fairly simple but 
 you will get a couple of hours out of it if your looking for something to do on your own.
  
  Having had that little nit pick, the rest of the game I celebrate for how good it is! Read 
 the sections below for detail about different areas of the game:
  
  The character creation mode: 
  This is a fun and very easy way of creating a fighter of your 
 own. There are a lot of choices and a lot of abilities for each character. You can also buy new 
 costumes and create them yourself for normal game characters.
  
  Graphics:
  Its like playing a cut scene. They are so pretty and very good quality. 
  
  Movement:
  One 
 thing I have noticed is how you move about the arenas. You have a lot more freedom to move around, 
 where as the previous games felt a little more 2D this feels like everything is available. 
  
  Arenas:
  As previously mentioned these have been done very well. They are very big, very 
 pretty and all fin to fight in.
  
  Moves:
  The vast number of combo's and moves are amazing. Its hard to let yourself spam a move because 
 there is so much variety you want to try anything out that you can. The controllers are very nicely 
 incorporated and natural to play. The 360's controls don't take anything away from the game as 
 it mimics previous games.
  
  There is also the new soal charge moves to end a fight with. These are quite a mission to activate, 
 however they are pretty spectacular. 
  
  Accessibility:
  Both casual or serious gamers can have a go. It can be easy or hard depending on skill. I am impressed 
 by the handling of the game.
  
  Characters:
  All of the traditional characters are making their appearance again, and of course some fairly 
 interesting new ones. On the 360 you get Yoda and the apprentice, Both of whom have very unique 
 moves and are a lot of fun to play as. As long as you dont think too much about how a lightsaber 
 doesn't cut through a sword you will be all right. 
  
  All of the characters have been given new moves as well as the old, and so you will have a great 
 time mastering these.
  
  Summery:
  Well worth getting. Personally I got it with the console, and the normal asking price for the game 
 is a bit steep, but when you can afford it, go for it. You will enjoy every second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  ... I'd give it a 9 or something. Unfortunately I suck so its kinda annoying dying all the time. 
 I still think this is a great game. It's fun to play with your friends whether its online or on 
 the same console. I don't really understand the story mode other than everyone is after one of 
 the two swords: Soul Calibur and Soul Edge. I don't understand the story probably because I didn't 
 play the previous Soulcaliburs. Anyways, I'd give this game a lot higher score if I were good at 
 it. Whenever I play arcade mode or story on hard, they just attack and won't let me up so I die 
 in like 10 seconds. Oh well. The characters are cool but I'm just confused on the whole Darth Vader 
 thing. I don't know if he is in the game or if he is just in the PS3 version. If he is that is 
 lame. Whatever, Soulcalibur IV is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j4ckof4lltr4des
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  First of this is the 4th installment in the SC series. ive played the previous ones.
  this one is by far the best.
  
  THe story mode feels shorter than the story mode of its predecessors
 
  its consists of 5 stages. no matter which character your playing. each stage has 1-4 battles.
 
  Story mode for me was easy.
  but on hard. i was actually challenged.
  
  Tower Of Lost Souls is by far the hardest mode in the game. On each floor theres a secret treasure 
 that you unlock by meeting the required condition.
  Then later you can use these unlocked treasures in your "Create-a-Custom" these treasures hold 
 armor, and Stages that you can play on when u unlock.
  Creat a Custom is the best feaututre in the game there is so much customization that i dont even 
 have enough time to go through every little detail on my character.
  but its simple enough for you to create a character that you think looks cool and feels good.. 
 thanks to the option that lets your custom character use any of the +20 fighting styles used by 
 the main characters.
  theres 25+ main characters that you can fully customize. You can change their armor, hair, everything, 
 that you can do to a custom character, you can do to the main character.
  There are 3 new main characters. One of them being Algol. Which is the wielder of the Soul Edge 
 and Soul Calibur. Its much more indepth than that. but you'll find out when you play the game. 
 another new character is Yoda of course. and and third one is a secret. but i'll tell you this. 
 Beat arcade mode with Yoda and you'll unlock him.
  Project Soul made a new skill system in the game that actually adds an rpg element to the game. 
 but its inst very hard to comprehend. You can equip 4 skills per character. Ill give an example 
 of the skills you can equip and what they do. 
  "Nullify Ring Out A" gives you a high chance not to ringed out when you wouldve been ringed out. 
 Another is "Dash C" gives you a small boost to all your stats at the beginning of the battle.
 
  There is online play which is fun and a good learning experience depending on who your facing. 
 
  But what makes this game rea;; y shine is when you got a friend to play with your battling it out 
 with your custom characters.
  If you got siblings or someone to play with online or split screen. then this is a definite good 
 buy.
  
  The replay value is high. Each character has a diffrent story. Which is interesting. The music is 
 one of the best. Graphics are stunning. Gameplay is smooth and easy to learn. But mastering a character 
 is very hard.
  only thing I can say that i didnt like about this game was the short story line for each character. Otherwise 
 everything else about this game was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vegiroth
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  Soulcalibur 4 is a good game, just about all around. Good graphics, character creation, tag team 
 style and the new ability to let players test their skills on Xbox Live vs players from around 
 the world is a nice touch and good practice. Though it did seem that the story mode was a bit short 
 and was a little too easy on normal, but none the less was ok. BUT! One of the biggest let down 
 in the game is that if one of your friends has a custom character on a different profile on the 
 same console, you can't pit your custom character against each other in vs. mode. That definitely 
 was really disappointing after I discovered that. I hope and pray it will be fixed in an upcoming 
 patch. Good job Namco and Bandai. It is a good game, but I don't think that its a, "gotta run out 
 and buy it now" kinda thing. I DO however, think everyone should at least rent it and check it 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  After pre-odering this game and recieving it when it came out in the UK on August 1st, my hopes 
 were high for Soulcalibur IV. As being a huge fan of the series' inital debut on the Sega Dreamcast, 
 and enjoying the previous installments of the franchise, I was hoping Soulcalibur IV would deliever 
 that same experience. Does it? Mostly, yes.
  
  Soulcalibur IV contains everything we loved about Soulcalibur III, and expands it in many intresting 
 directions which makes it arguably a title you will consistently return to, however, either these 
 directions feel uninspired or dated, which makes Soulcalibur IV not as complete as it was going 
 to be, but, this doesn't stop Soulcalibur IV from being a truly fun and engaging game, which it 
 most certainly is.
  
  Right off the bat, Soulcalibur IV uses a character customization feature, which allows you to create 
 your own fighter in the Soulcalibur saga. This is the same idea that was in Soulcalibur III, but 
 just tweaked with a few new features such as voice adjustment. This feature still is fun, but yet 
 feels dated from when you play it.
  
  The character roster in Soulcalibur IV is quite simply perfect. Ranging from classic Soulcalibur 
 characters such as Asaraoth and Rock from Soulcalibur III, to third party protagnists from Star 
 Wars such as wise Jedi leader: Yoda, and the main character in the upcoming next gen debut for 
 the Star Wars franchise: The Force Unleashed. There is no question about it, the character roster 
 in Soulcalibur IV is quite simply a flawless selection, and will satisfy a huge amount of fan service.
 
  
  The online mode, whilst is nothing new on it's own, is a nice addition to the Soulcalibur brand. 
 The online play is very fun, and no technical problems rarely occur to hackney the experience, 
 so the online play is a service of consistent old school entertainment.
  
  The thing that keeps Soulcalibur IV away from a true event rather than a game is that it feels 
 just like a refinement of Soulcalibur III with online play an an extensive story mode in for good 
 measure, but for what it has to offer it still is an entertaining experience.
  
  Overall, think Soulcalibur IV as Soulcalibur III refined, but for a refinement, it certainly is 
 a highly enjoyable one. Soulcalibur IV has a hefty amount of content to keep purists of the series 
 such as myself, playing it for a long time, and, for that reason, is arguably the purest Soulcalibur 
 game since Soulcalibur on Dreamcast in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: To_Ashes
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  SouldCalibur 4 has come out to each system and all I can say is old school fighting is fun as always! 
 SoulCalibur 4 is one of the few 360 games that really just wants you to get some friends and beat 
 them up to show who really is boss of this game. Yes it is a button masher still but it really 
 feels its been a lot more revamped that more skilled players will surely win the bout. But yet, 
 this is one of those games that really does not require any skill and that is whats great about 
 it. You will be questioning yourself sometimes when you pull off a maneuver and your friend will 
 ask, "How did you do that." And with a smile you know you will say, "Thats my little secret..." 
 But in reality you where just messing around and it was just the sense of karma that was on your 
 side. That is the main factor why SoulCalibur is still one of the greatest fighter games of all 
 time in my opinion. The only thing really to bash about this game is the lack of team fighting 
 and a more in depth story. Character creation works very well and the new critical finishers are 
 a blast to do. Just it will take you time to pull one off as it may feel that they should of programmed 
 it another way then to soul break someone by only blocking. But in the end, I would say pick this 
 up but for anyone that is still wondering if they should pick it up still. Rent it first, play 
 it and if you enjoy it. You have a game that you will be addicted to for hours! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmonkey7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Lets start off with a good note: Fighting is entertaining even though they added nothing to it, 
 graphics are great, there are plenty of characters to choose from, and the create a character mode 
 is AMAZING. Unfortunately, the story mode is horrible... it has the same scenes every time you 
 play except for after you beat Algol, its short, and it has these stupid sentences at the end of 
 every characters story mode which basically explains wat the character does in the future. I would 
 suggest making the story mode so you can walk around with the characters, and talk to people like 
 in a role playing game. I dont know if the point of the game is to only fight but an RPG addition 
 would be very interesting. I also think it would be great if they had 3 to 4 way battles. Multiplayer 
 is already good but if it could have this addition then it would be even better. Overall its a 
 good game with some major set backs, but its worth buying if you are a fan of the series. Otherwise, 
 rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyb808
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  I remember playing this game on the PS2 and while it wasn't quite as good as the likes of Street 
 Fighter, Tekken and Mortal Kombat it was still good fun. I wasn't expecting much from the next 
 gen game except better graphics and slightly more 3D animation. And it's that. But not much more. 
 It is okay for the first hour or so but then its pretty much the same gameplay. It was lacking 
 something that the PS2 versions had. Overall I was somewhat dissapointed. For the hardcore fan 
 it might bring some enjoyment but for me it's Street Fighter 4 and Tekken 6. 
  
  The look of the characters and the japanese style customization of everything down to what pants 
 you where is too much. It is too confusing and turns into a EA style game. 
  
  The graphics are a delight and the backgrounds have good animation. This cannot be said of the 
 actual players in the game which move very jerky. 
  
  I would rent first.... or not
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Soul Calibur is my favorite fighting series to have ever hit this 
 earth. This game is utterly amazing in many ways and has just a few letdowns. Now dont wet yourself 
 but im going to be completely honest and if you dont like my views or opinions then go jump off 
 a cliff cause I keep it real.
  
  As you king of review I will begin with the positives that stood out to me. Graphically this game 
 is top notch and one of the most beautiful games that I have ever seen on 360. The graphics are 
 followed by even more beautiful gameplay that makes this game more addicting then crack. The game 
 offers many feautures and additions with a wide array and assortment of charcaters that are great. 
 Not to mention in the next few months it has been confirmed that a character pack will be downloadable 
 for 7.99 off of xbox live witch includes such character as Darth Vader, cloud, sephiroth and seven 
 others for a total of ten. Also the biggest one will be Ryu Hyabusa. Thats right I said Ryu from 
 ninja Gaiden
  
  Now the game is the first to offer online witch is great, however it is greatly flawed in many 
 ways. For on let me start by saying that you can win and defeat opponents but before it saves they 
 quit the match not to be penalized at all witch is utterly ridiculous. You also get robbed like 
 a blind man and dont recieve any win what so ever. The online is very glitchy and more often then 
 not lags however it is great to play with people around the world and show off your talents and 
 custom characters.
  
  This brings me to the next thing. This game customer creation is utterly superb allowing you to 
 virtually do anything that makes for unique combos and strategies witch is always a welcome additon.
 
  
  Now my biggest gripe with this game is the tower of lost souls. You all know what im talking about. 
 This part is ridiculous. As you find that some challenges are easy and a waste of time, you will 
 also find that as you progress, some floors are utterly ridiculous and will have you stuck on for 
 days wanting to go into a fit of rage, grab a sword from the game and go outside and go on a killing 
 spree. The tower of lost souls is flat out cheap and the challenge mode from the previous successors 
 was much more fun and involved. Also to unlock some of the chests is down right a contest of you 
 and your blood pressure trying to co exist as you feel like your having a heart attack from how 
 cheap it can be.
  
  All in all it is a beautiful game that was put together brilliantly. This was its first edition 
 on a next gen console so over all it is very impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent2800
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  soul calibur IV is the fifth game in the soul series and takes place after the events of soul calibur 
 III and follows the main character seigfried in his quest for redemption. the fight mechanic is 
 pretty much what you expect from a soul calibur game, which is not a bad thing almost all the characters 
 from SCII&III have returned with an amazing cast of new characters with unique abilities. the graphics 
 in this game have gotten a total makeover the best the series has ever seen. the music in the game 
 is all orchestrated and is completely epic and really fits the game, soul calibur offers a great 
 deal of game modes including story, arcade, tower of lost souls (a sort of a survival challenge) 
 single and online multiplayer modes, a character customization modes and lots of extra content. what 
 it lacks in its short story mode it makes up in its online and offline multiplayer which is just 
 great the new sheild breaker specials are kind of useless as it is a rare opportunity to see them. 
 Character customization mode in my opinion could have been better the special attribute and effect 
 customizatiion was brilliant but i think there should have been more attack and moves customization. all 
 in all SCIV was a fantastic game that is fun for online play i still don't think it lives up to 
 SCI or III
  but is better in its own right
  
  Graphics: 5/5
  
  Music: 5/5
  
  playability: 4/5
  
  Replay value: 5/5
  
  Total= 19/20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maraos
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  The Soul Calibur series has always been one of the best fighting games up there with street fighter 
 and tekken but for some has gone downhill since the first game was released on the playstation 
 1. None of the games since then have had the impact that the first game did and to be honest the 
 2-4 games also failed to really mix things up in the games combat system. Obviously I would say 
 the main problem with the game is that it stays far too close to its roots and seems to be afraid 
 of innovation, it needs to change somethings in the game around. Soul Calibur is also known for 
 brining in characters from other franchises like Link (Zelda) and Spawn in Soul Calibur 2, however 
 I think they mave have taken this a bit far in Soul Calibur 4 because while it may be fun to have 
 star wars characters bashing people with their lightsabers and throwing them around the map with 
 the force it throws off a bit of the realism from the game and makes the story a bit farfetched. 
 Oh and they didnt bring Necrid back, = (. But its still a good game with the online being added 
 seemlessly. AA seems right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  SoulCalibur4 is here and in full force. There's new modes, new characters, and improvements all 
 around.
  
  Storywise it's the same old nonsense we love. A bunch of guys want/ want to destroy SoulEdge- an 
 ancient and evil sword. Of course, theres SoulCalibur, essentially the good guy version of the 
 sword. The main hero of this Soulcalibur is Siegfried, now the wielder of SoulCalibur and wishes 
 to defeat Nightmare an evil knight born from soul Edge... blah blah blah
  
  If you're playing SoulCalibur for story, you're an idiot! It's all about the fighting and it's 
 still got one of the best fighting systems ever. Improvements are seen everywhere- whether it's 
 balancing a former cheap character, making a character better, adding new twist like the Soul Gauge, 
 and even a Mortal Kombat like finisher move called a Critical Finish, which shows a really cool 
 little cutscene and an automatic victrory- plus it's really not cheap at all.
  
  For the first time, SoulCalibur is online and for a first time, it's pretty good. Almost no lag, 
 unless your playing a stupid player and the lobby system is done very well. Hopefully new modes 
 will be available ( as of now there are only 2) .
  
  Overall SC4 is a great game, for fighting games it's a dream come true, everyone else should enjoy 
 it's excellent graphics and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meme378
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  As my first Soulcalibur game, I was greatly looking forward to playing it after reading previews 
 and reviews. Now after playing it for over 10 hours, I have to say that this game is entertaining 
 and can be indepth, as most fighting games tend to be. 
  
  When I first got this game, I played against my little sister, who obviously like me had not played 
 it before. I was trying to guard properly and try combos and throws whilst she was button mashing 
 away at me. She ended up winning most of the time and it started to get frustrating. However, after 
 a short few sessions in Training mode, I have greatly improved and I am now better than my little 
 sister. What an achievement! 
  
  But basically, i'm trying to say that with a bit of practice, you can overcome button mashers in 
 this game due to all of the game's fighting mechanics.
  
  Anyway, I found the single player mode a little dissapointing to be frank. The difficulty level 
 of theTower of Lost souls increases to a very high level at an early stage, whereas I found the 
 arcade mode to be too easy. I think the difficulty level should have been thought through more 
 to enhance the longevity of the single player mode. 
  
  I found the training mode very useful and like all the fighting games I have played, you can enter 
 a moves list and select each move to see a demonstartion of each move. You can set the difficulty 
 of the CPU and vary your and your opponent's health and soul gauge.
  
  I found the character customisation very fun and the fact that you can buy pieces of armour or 
 weapons, from the money you earned from arcade mode and story mode, is very rewarding. Before you 
 start your character customisation, you have to pick one of the existing characters, which is essentially 
 picking their fighting style. There are several different variations with the weapons once you 
 have picked the fighting style and they each have their own attributes. For example, one may enhance 
 you HP and attack and lower your defence. Althought the character customisation makes up for some 
 of the single player mode's shortcomings, it is still a little short of the mark.
  
  You can also give your characters different skills such as HP drain and many others. They require 
 certain skill points to be gained in story, arcade mode or the tower of lost soulds mode, before 
 you can equip those attributes. 
  
  All in all, I am very happy that I bought this game. However, I do not recommend getting this game 
 solely for the single player experience, as the difficulty may hinder your enjoyment of the game 
 itself. However, for those of you that are into fighting games and want a challenge, it is easily 
 recommendable with it's great graphics and gameplay mechanics. If you are after a multiplayer experience, 
 whether offline or online, this is a great game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:04 am PT
Review:  Where to start? Well for one I didn't know it was going to be customizable! So that blew my mind 
 when I seen that when I started it up.
  
  Graphically the game amazing. Especially during the customizing of characters.... even the "physics" 
 (cough) were very real. The controls were much easier it feels although sometimes it was hard to 
 duck and or jump. The difficulty was not bad either except for the tower. Further in it was hard.
 
  
  I want to just point out the pros and cons!:
  
  Customizing was great! Theres alot to do! And you can virtually do anything since you can change 
 body color, eye color, hair color, armor color, weapons, clothes, voices, names... etc. I mean its 
 pretty dang good! You will be overwhelmed at first with all the ideas in your head! 
  
  On the opposite side the is the fact that in order to unlock parts for customizing they unlock 
 for every 5 achievements. Which is easy at first. But gets harder eventually and for people that 
 aren't into achievements you get mad that you waste so much time earning achievements just to unlock 
 some more parts to use. Who want to win 100 matches online JUST to unlock some more stuff?
  
  Another problem is in this tower that is basically one of those "Harder as you go" things. 
 There are items you can unlock as you go through but you have to know how to get them. Some times 
 you get hints and some times they things are easy... such as knock an opponent of the stage. But 
 others are so ridiculous that you won't give up on the items and just beat the stage.
  
  On the plus side again there are ALOT of people to unlock. Although vader isn't available until 
 later supposedly as a download. Kind of ashame. But its almost a good thing because the Star Wars 
 characters are both over powerful and over crappy at the same time. When using Yoda for instance 
 hes untouchable because hes so small but at the same time hes annoyingly easy to kill if you know 
 what to do. 
  
  On that same note as with all games in the series no one really plays the game right online. They 
 just mash buttons or mostly just do the same thing OVER and OVER and OVER aka repeat button. So 
 online pretty much isn't fun, to me anyways. And half the time no one can makes real characters. 
 Everyone is in the underwear or purposely stupid looking. Funny at first but annoying after while. 
 The blue afro wearing green skinned woman in purple undies using a giant sub sandwich was funny 
 the first time... now its just old.
  
  Theres also no team mode, which was always fun to see just how good your team was against someone 
 elses, more so with custom people.
  
  A good thing is this special fighting mode where what you wear, what weapon and abilities you have 
 all make a difference in the game. You might have more heath or less, maybe more soul gauge or 
 less. Maybe you abilities let you poison someone (so they lose HP) or lets you go invisible. Its 
 so cool! But it needs a little work because its pretty easy to screw around with it so you can 
 create unstoppable people.
  
  The only other kinda sad thing is while you can create your own guys they do let you mess around 
 with a few of the main characters but only to certain extents. As in only certain items work with 
 them. Which I know makes sense because of how some people are built but still I really wanted to 
 see for instance how Voldos bondage suit (lol) would look on Ivy. Hey a Man can dream right?
  
  Aside from some other little things the game is pretty good and really the only thing that 
 makes it worth buying is the fact you can customize people. The stories are rather short and online 
 is rather dull. I'd say get it once it goes a little cheaper. Right now its fun but aside from 
 playing it with a friend and customizing some guys theres not much else to do without some pains. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fezilla
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV is nearly identical to the previous Soul Caliburs. Eerily so, in fact. I have a 
 hard time finding myself being interested in this game for more than a couple hours at a time. 
 I mean, it's fun, but I've played it before more than once.
  
  The characters are nice, basically every character has been brought back, along with a couple more, 
 plus the Star Wars characters are a very strange but welcome addition. As the author of CAD said, 
 "We have Soul Calibur, circa 1685, everyone's fighting with swords and staves and here comes an 
 evil cyborg from the future with a laser sword and his 800 year-old green midget nemesis."
  
  My only beef is that The Apprentice is brutally overpowered. If he knocks me down (which isn't 
 hard considering his moveset) , he'll combo me to death and take about half my health. If I get 
 knocked early, I always find myself saying "Oh, seems like I lost!" Other than that though, the 
 roster is very well-rounded, and the created character feature I feel is improved from SCIII.
 
  
  The story mode should be longer, I feel. I can't find myself caring about it because it feels like 
 a tacked on joke. The tower of lost souls provides a good (if not sometimes f***ing annoying) challenge, 
 but it gets old.
  
  Soul Calibur IV is a good fighter and anyone that likes a good fighter but has never played a Soul 
 Calibur should definitely pick it up, although I wouldn't blame you if you went back to SCII, but 
 either way, it's an excellent fighter all around, it's just far too recycled mechanics-wise and 
 stripped down story-wise for me to sing its praises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appokalipto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  im very impressed with this game, it as got enough options to keep u playing long after u bought 
 it, well spent money, and its hilarious to go online and see other gamers creations, u can create 
 up to 50 diferent new characters, that will keep u busy for a while..
  single player as a (never ending) battle mode, sort off, its just a long fighting scheme, were 
 the enemys increase in numbers, and u get to take more characthers with u, good story mode too, 
 a diferent ending for every character, all in all, its a great game in whole..
  the bottom line is that u can pick up the game and play it anytime, its easy and quick if u wanna 
 get instant action button mashing style, take my hat off to u soulcalibur, it overpassed my expectacions 
 and thats a rare thing to happen, goodbye virtua fighter 5.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Seeing as for once I'm not reviewing an RPG I'm having to stray a little from my usual review format. 
 I'm by no means a beat em up expert but I enjoy a few franchises in the genre relatively well, 
 Tekken, Dead Or Alive and Soul Calibur have all graced my games library in several incarnations. 
 I was excited about SCIV looming on the horizon and had the title preordered as hype for it reached 
 fever pitch. Nearly everyone reading this will have played one of Soul Caliburs previous titles, 
 so the key question is:- Is SC IV any good? The resounding answer to this question is happily yes, 
 BUT the game is not without flaws and is arguably the weakest installment so far.
  
  Now, I'm a single player gamer me, I like to buy games with a decent single player offering and 
 it irritates me when this aspect is annoyed unless its the whole point of the game. If your going 
 to have a single player mode at all make it good. Soul Calibur IV's single player mode is decent, 
 not good, but decent. The story mode sees your character battling through five fights sometimes 
 against multiple opponents, you watch some beautiful to look at but incredibly pointless cutscenes 
 with a narrative presumably written by a fourteen year old fan of action movies. It's entertaining 
 enough and is addictive to finish all the casts plot lines but ultimately it's not what it should 
 have been. The other single player modes involve good old arcade mode (which you need to play through 
 to unlock certain things) and a "Tower Of Souls" mode which is a highly challenging experience 
 where a team of characters plow through various challenges if you ascend the tower, and survival 
 mode if you descend. It's the best the single player game has to offer and each match has hidden 
 criteria to meet in order to unlock new things. The game does give you slight clues as to what 
 these criteria are, but their usually so cryptic it may just as well be giving you steaming hot 
 turds or perhaps small inflatable dinghys instead. As you gight in the game you of course unlock 
 new modes, playstyles, weapons, characters and level up fighting styles all the usual.
  
  So here we have a reasonable single player offering that while o. k pales in comparrison to what 
 the previous titles in the series have to offer.
  
  What we have left of course is the multiplayer mode, I havent played online and its unlikely I 
 ever will but I have played Vs mode against other humans and it's great. Well balanced, fun, multiplayer 
 gaming in the same room.. like the days of the good old N64 (yes I'm getting nostalgic :p )
  
  Character wise we have the full roster of muscular guys and even huger breasted than the previous 
 installment girls for you to get to grips with, all pretty much retaining the same moves and play 
 style your used to by this point in the series. There are a few new additions in the form of some 
 characters contributed by manga artists, some new "proper" cast members and of course Yoda and 
 The Apprentice from Star Wars on the 360 version.
  
  You can also add your own character using the frankly amazing create a charecter mode. This is 
 quite honestly the best create a character mode I've come across well.. ever and the game gains 
 marks for this being better than even what Mass Effect had to offer. Theres so much to play with, 
 customize and enjoy, I can't quite put into words how good this feature is.
  
  Overall SC IV isn't going to win any new fans to the franchise, but if you enjoyed previous installments, 
 want more of the same with a new online mode, some of the single player cut out but still a decent 
 chunk there and a superb character creator then give it a whirl. Or maybe a rent first if your 
 unsure. 
  
  Oh and I forget to mention.. visually and sound wise this game is breathtaking eye candy, ear candy, 
 arguably some of the best visuals this gen so far thats for sure and certain, another thing to 
 hike the mark up a little.
  
  In the words of Yoda:- Moderately strong in the force is this
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoxOfPocky
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game, especially after the great disappointment of Soul Calibur III. 
 This game brought back what I liked from SCII and a lot more. I'll keep this review simple with 
 the "Good" and the "Bad".
  
  Good
  +More characters! You get yourself Hilde, Amy (more or less a faster Raphael) , Algol, Yoda, and 
 the Apprentice (my favorite) and a bunch of xtra chracters (they play more or less like the main 
 characters) .
  +Graphics are greatly improved and dazzling. I'll just include the "Havok" system here also. When 
 you fight, you can tear off your opponent's armor.
  +Critical Finish - This is really a like or dislike aspect. After "X" amount of hits (depends on 
 the dmg of the attack) , your opponent's "Guard" lowers and flashes red. When you see a red explosion 
 like thing, you press the LB to initiate a "Critical Finish". It's just a flashy cutscene-like 
 attack that is 1-hit kill. The 1-Hit kill makes it seem a bit cheap, but I like it.
  +The Create-A-Character is greatly improved over the previous SCIII. The styles you choose mainly 
 is a copy-cat of the main characters. However, the way you design your character is extremely in-depth 
 and sometimes... too engrossing, lol.
  +Great Offline Multiplayer - Meh, I just put this here because I like kicking my friends' butts 
 and watch 'em cuss, lol.
  +Online Play - Well, I assume it to be good, I never played it since I'm too cheap of a person 
 to cough up $50 to play online, lol.
  
  Bad
  -To unlock new items for your create-a-character mode, you have to play Tower of Souls. That's 
 fine and all, but you have to complete various "objectives" each round. These objectives can range 
 from simple to absurd. 
  -There's no real story. Ok , you're probably saying "It's a fighting game; I just needa kill people. 
 What's the point of a story?" Well... I like a story in my games. Like all you get when you play 
 the story mode is a long-ass epilogue about the character. Fight a few rounds, cutscene the boss. 
 Kill the boss and get a cutscene of the ending. Then a little 1-2 sentence about what happens after. 
 FYI, the 1-2 sentences doesn't even explain much of anything. I just find that stupid.
  
  I highly recommend this game for fighting fans, and a must for SC Fans. It's one of the best in 
 the SC series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  soul calibur is the greatest 3d fighting game. I don't play the first of the series, i start my 
 collection from the second part on PS2 and then the 3rd part, also on PS2. I was hugely amazed 
 by this game! The graphics was beautiful, the fighting was great and the characters was awesome! 
 Plus, unique mode on single player was extremely fun.
  
  that's why i buy my next soul calibur, the 4th on xbox 360. And... i don't know why but... i feel 
 a little dissapointed by this game. 
  
  first, the story going crazy with Yoda come to the game (well, it's not really a problem, Spawn, 
 Heihachi, and Zelda were on the second game too) The real problem is the story mode is extremely 
 short! it took less than 10 minutes (including reading the story) for me to completed it. That's 
 not a good idea. the final boss (Agol or something like that) is the worst boss on Soul Calibur 
 series. He reminds me of one of Kenshin Himura's (samurai x) enemy (which is the weakest) . The 
 story is poor (i hate to see the final scene of Xiang Hua, what a waste) Soul Calibur 3 has the 
 greatest story mode.
  
  Second, the new concept of fighting by using soul gauge (the mechanism that allow us to beat our 
 opponent after destroying his/her defense) , changing behaviour of our character, and increase our 
 character's level by using experience point are great ideas but, it doesn't fell much on the game, 
 just beat your opponent or push them of the stage.
  
  Third, the graphics is ordinary, i don't see something special with it.
  
  Fourth, the new 
 tower battle mode is boring and absolutely far behind the chronicles of the sword on Soul Calibur 
 3, and tales of the sword mode on Soul Calibur 2. 
  
  Fifth, the costumazing mode is great, you can costumize the original characters. That's great but, 
 you need to make a new slot of your character to use different weapon. You can't choose your weapon 
 on character select (now that's what i call idiot)
  
  Sixth, the museum mode doesn't provide the exhibition theatre! this is a great loss!!! I love to 
 see my Talim and my Seong Mi Na dance with their weapon but now, i can't see that anymore!!!
  
  it is a real shame for this game. I wait so long and this is all that Namco Bandai's people 
 can give? I hope Tekken 6 would be better than this. 
  
  last, Talim never look as cute as when she on Soul Calibur 2, too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I remember picking up my Dreamcast on day 1 and asking what I should get for my first game. When 
 I was handed Soul Calibur I had never heard of it before. Once I popped it in and played it, I 
 (and my friends) couldn't stop playing it. 
  
  I was a little worried with the inclusion of the Star Wars characters (i have a ps3 and 360 so 
 I had a hard time deciding which to pick up... thank you xbox achievments) , but their inclusion 
 doesn't feel completely out of place. The Apprentice is the only character that can get really 
 frustrating when the games controls him (it's not too bad when you are playing as him, or against 
 him) .
  
  The Good - Graphics are great, deep fighting system yet really easy to pick up as well.
  
  
 The Bad - Story is lacking, the narration is cheesy... but then again what do you expect
  
  The Ugly - There is a spot to download the other consoles "exclusive" character... so when do I 
 get to play Darth Vader? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of the series - then obviously you will love the online play and customization added 
 to the game. If you aren't a fan though (like me) - it's not something that will bring you around 
 to the series. 
  
  The main problem is the fighting , instead of being fast paced and easy to pick up (like Dead or 
 Alive and Brawl) - you have to learn all the different moves : and this might not be so bad if 
 the online actually let you acess your moves list. Only in single player can you access your enourmous 
 moves list , which takes a ton of time to become even decent at. The learning curve for this game 
 is massive - being a fan of Dead or Alive , which consists of very fast paced combat and reqiures 
 lots of fast blocks/counters. Soul Calibur is pretty much the opposite , where having fast reflexes 
 won't get you far - the fighting is basicly picking what move is best against whatever move your 
 opponent is using. 
  
  Blocking is way to simple for it's own good - holding the block button pretty much saves you from 
 any kind of attack in the game. Unless you get grabbed - which makes up about 1/2 of all the fighting 
 in the game (all you do is hit the A button basicly) . 
  
  The single player , customization , unlockables are all there - providing a replayable experience 
 to those who actually enjoy the fighting system. If your a fan of DOA though - you will most likely 
 find this , very slow and obnoxious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: souledge959
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  I just got the game and I thought it was great, but not amazing. Lets look back at the old soulcalibur 
 III it had the same cariture craeation but I thought it was more simpler like the skill system 
 is sort of confutioning. Also the single player in three had a sort of Rpg story line on the side 
 and 4 replaced it with a tower advansing game ugh. I liked it when I couled use my cariture as 
 a more influational person in the game.
  Now lets look at the story Why is it shorter ya I asked it It was just fine and now there is only 
 five stages only five what the hell, and the story is so confusing and I I just don't know. You 
 go and make it to complicated.
  Thought I have some good news yes me I know. The online play isn't bad no longer will I need a 
 firened to play a fun v. s, but I digreas this is the sadest of all the soulcaliburs I played it 
 lacked fealing and heart I will play it for fun but I hate it becuse I know youo can do better 
 yes you can Blizzard.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Like_Muffins
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  To me this game seemed like a remake of previous editions. Granted the graphics are far superior 
 (but they really should be considering the next generation systems) but it feels the same... I 
 suppose that's to be expected though. After all, what could be changed that would make it feel 
 different, but make it better at the same time? The answer, nothing. Of course, it isn't a bad 
 game as such, just repetitive.
  
  STORY
  Oh, I'm sorry, I wasn't aware this had its own section. Story mode was a complete let-down. An 
 abysmal 5 levels is all that stands in your way for each and every character, all of whom have 
 the same cut-scenes throughout. This mode starts off with a wall of hard-to-read script telling 
 you the story of the character that you chose to play; and ends with the same boss battle, a new 
 character named Algol (who isn't particularly difficult to defeat) . The only things that differ 
 between the characters you choose are the beginning dialogue and the final scene (basically Algol 
 dies and the character gains [or rejects] the power of the Soul weapons) . Compared to SoulCalibur 
 II's story mode, this is just pathetic, but at least this one doesn't cause controller-through-TV 
 syndrome...
  
  ARCADE
  This mode is basically the same, repetitive mode it always has been and probably always will be. 
 You have 8 one-on-one fights which you are awarded points for, depending on things such as your 
 remaining HP upon victory and the damage you dealt to your opponents armour. After the 8 rounds, 
 you are awarded money determined by the amount of points you earned. Arcade is a quick and relatively 
 easy way to earn money, considering that no matter how many times you lose in battle, you can 'retry' 
 and start that battle over. This has happened quite a few times to me and I've still finished with 
 the same, seemingly generic 10,000 gold.
  
  TOWER OF LOST SOULS
  This is probably the best single player mode in the game. You have the choice to either ascend 
 or descend the tower. To do the latter however, you need to first ascend it. You pretty much fight 
 your way through numerous enemies to reach the next floor but the higher you go, the more difficult 
 it becomes. There are also a few specific requirements that you can meet to earn yourself some 
 new equipment to customise and create characters with, which adds a feeling of wanting to keep 
 trying because you actually get something for it. This is something the rest of the game lacks.
 
  
  CREATE A CHARACTER
  SoulCalibur IV allows you to not only customise characters like in number III, but also enables 
 you to create your very own. The catch? They have to be based entirely on a normal character and 
 cannot be based on the guest Star Wars characters. So this 'new' character that you make has the 
 same moves and attacks as an existing one, so all you can do is make it look different. Although, 
 the 'Create A Character' section is still probably my favourite part of the game. It's good because 
 you can't give a character super strong skills unless you've levelled up the template character 
 first. But the game mode could still be improved dramatically. There are lots of different outfits 
 and accessories that you can equip on your character, but you basically have the option to look 
 great and suck in battles, or do great in battles and look utterly retarded.
  
  ONLINE
  I've not only been told but I've also read that SoulCalibur IV's online capabilities 'make' the 
 game. Do I agree with that? No, I most certainly do not! I never in a million years thought that 
 I would say this, but compared to actual people playing this online, the games' AI is fantastic, 
 and I prefer it, for this reason: AI does not 'button mash' constantly or do the same move over 
 and over again, never letting you get up off the ground (about 90% of the time anyway) , which makes 
 even the pro-est pro feel like a noob! Occasionally however, you may stumble across someone who 
 actually 'plays' the game like a real person (or more likely, someone who just sucks) , who doesn't 
 constantly 'downward strike' you so you can never get up. Someone like this I have found only a 
 few times. Although, in this game, practice does lead to slight perfection. However, online game-play 
 graphic-wise is very good. It looks just like you weren't connected to the internet and it hardly 
 ever lags for me. So depending on your skill and internet connection, online game-play will either 
 make or break your enjoyment with this game.
  
  STAGES
  It appears to me that the stages in the game resemble greatly those of passed games. Disappointing? 
 Yes, very. I don't know about you, but I'm pretty sick and tired of fighting on a tiny platform 
 where practically one well-placed kick from an opponent sends you flying in a dramatic "Ring Out" 
 or vice versa. Where's the challenge in that?
  
  SOUL GAUGE
  A neat little addition they added this time around, (one which renders useless the pansies who 
 would constantly block attacks) is the Soul Gauge. It works like this: When your opponent blocks 
 your attacks, their Soul Gauge depletes and yours increases. After enough blocking their SG will 
 flash red showing that they are in a "Soul Crush" state. When they are like that you are able to 
 perform a Critical Finish, a One-Hit-KO move that will end the battle with a dramatic (and often 
 unbelievable) attack. Funny, but does this remind anyone else of the infamous "Fatality" from of 
 Mortal Combat? I like this because it stops people from constantly blocking, but also because it 
 takes a fair while for the conditions to be right. 
  
  STAR WARS
  Lots of people are complaining a lot over the Star Wars characters. Why? Okay, sure they don't 
 fit with the game or its' genre and the stories that try to explain their odd appearance in the 
 SoulCalibur universe are beyond laughable, they still play alright. Alright because they both (Yoda 
 and The Apprentice) have their flaws, like any other character.
  
  Yoda is quite slow in his stride and pretty much all of his moves are based on him jumping around, 
 which means he falls to the ground a lot. His attacks aren't particularly bad though, and when 
 fighting against him, keep in mind you cannot grab him to perform a throw. Presumably from his 
 tiny stature. Which results in you having to re-think your battle technique (not necessarily a 
 bad thing though) . When used and fought against correctly, he can be a very good character.
  
  The Apprentice on the other hand is not so fair. When I encountered him or the first time, 
 I lost repeatedly. He focuses very much on his powerful Force moves and his lightning fast attacks. 
 Also, just one example of AI not letting you get up off the floor. Of course using him is a completely 
 different story. He is fun to play with because he is so good but a lot of caution is needed. Because 
 his Force moves are so powerful, they take a lot from his Force Gauge (something all Star Wars 
 characters have) which can leave you defenceless for a few important seconds.
  
  I should also point out that Yoda is currently only available on the XBox 360 and Darth Vader on 
 the Play Station 3. This is likely to change in the near future, once downloadable content becomes 
 available, based on the fact that there is an empty character slot in the Star Wars line.
  
  TEAM BATTLE... WHERE ARE YOU?
  Something that disappointed me in the game was the removal 
 of the much loved Team Battle. I don't know why the makers decided to remove this aspect, but there 
 must be some good reason for it (although there doesn't seem to be a good reason for all of its' 
 other flaws...)
  
  
  So overall, not really a bad game, but not particularly good either. SoulCalibur II being the last 
 game in the series that I played, I was definitely disappointed with this one. I still like it 
 though, because once you get better at it, the annoying, homicide inducing aspects of it are either 
 expelled from the game because you destroy all other players, or your brain just pushes them aside 
 until one little thing goes wrong and you explode in a murderous fit of rage!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NIJASKILLZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Ehm, in all seriousness this game is EPIC in my opinion. Though in a way it looks like Soul Calibur 
 and plays like Soul Calibur, it is portrayed in such a better way that it almost makes it seem 
 like a completely different game. From creating your own unique character to playing one of many 
 epic characters that make there return, you still feel comfortable and used to this whole game. 
 I'll admit, the story could have been longer but the story being so short has an advantage considering 
 there is a ton of characters to beat it with. We all know there is new additions to the new SC 
 which is "Tower of Lost Souls" and one of the newest features never seen in the series "ONLINE". 
 Yes folks, I said online. Which means you can take up to four buddies (Including yourself so I 
 guess 3 buddies) and duke it out in a mini tournament kind of way. Though the online part of SC 
 was a little on the rough side at times (Minor to Major LAG) it still is enjoyable if you get some 
 of your buddies. Create a Soul (Character Creation) as some call it includes the depth any "Character 
 Creating Junky" would want to make the most epic character ever seen. There is a new skill system 
 where every armor piece has stats where you can use those stats as skill points to give your character 
 abilities. There is breakable armor in this SC, which means someone can Create a real epic looking 
 character and you can choose Astroth and take a couple power swings and BAM! no more armour now 
 your opponent is just in his undies. If stats and abilities aren't your thing then you have a choice 
 of Standard Versus (No special abilities) or Special Versus (Special abilites) . Tower of Lost Souls 
 is a new feature to Soul Calibur 4 and offers you a challenge as you go through 60 Floors Ascending 
 and around 40 floors descending and the more you ascend or descend the harder it gets. So be prepared 
 for fight of your life. What I did not mention earlier was the two "New" characters introduced 
 in SC4 which are Yoda (Master of the Lightsabre and shorter than a dwarf on his knees) and the 
 main character from the upcoming hit "Star Wars: The Force Unleashed" Yes, it is The Apprentice 
 (Darth Vader's Apprentice. Why else would he be called an apprentice?) . All-in-all the game is 
 great and if you are familiar with the series you will be able to pick it up and kick butt right 
 away but also, people not familiar with the game will also be able to pick it up and master the 
 learning curve and kick the pro's butts online. Happy Gaming and i'll see you ONLINE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanzo175
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Let me just first state that I'm usually not a big fan of 3D fighters, but this game changed my 
 mind. I've been playing this game ever since it came out on July 29th and I have been highly impressed.
 
  
  Pros: The game play is quite complex, yet quite chain-able. The balancing for most of the characters 
 are well done. There are a lot of cool unlock-able weapons and armor and the single player mode 
 will keep you interested for at least +30 hours. And the online game, plus lobbies makes one hell 
 of an online player.
  
  Cons: The online play can be a little laggy at times and the story mode could have had cut scenes 
 to illustrate everyone's story more (but who really pays attention to stories in fighting games) 
 Also, I would have like for Tag matches to be online and for 2P.
  
  Overall: Soulcalibur 4 is fighting game that is not only for the online, but the offline players 
 as well. look forward to many, many hours on good game play to come 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalvageRunner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game, I was struck by the first story I played. It seemed like not much 
 thought was really put into it. There's a story at first, you do some battles, then there's a closing 
 cinematic and a little tidbit of info. That's about it. It seems as though the stories were on 
 the backburner for most of the development.
  
  After that bombshell, I went to another game mode Soul Caliber IV offers: the Tower of Lost Souls. 
 While this is initially fun, giving some incentive to ascend the tower, it gets pretty boring pretty 
 quickly. After every set of floors, the fights become more and more challenging; and while this 
 is very cool in a game, it becomes extremely difficult a bit too fast. This would be alright for 
 a person who bought it, I guess, but I merely rented it, so I saw no point in practicing a lot 
 to beat one floor.
  
  Then there's the arcade mode. There isn't much to say about it. I played it once or twice, and 
 that's it. I saw barely any reason to play it, besides sentimental value and unlocking a few players.
 
  
  And after all this disappointment, I tried the online mode. It was actually a surprise to me. I 
 had some fun playing with other players. There's only one problem though: they're all experienced 
 players. That means no fun online until you get pretty good at this game. That means that you'll 
 need some serious time under your belt.
  
  But, you know what; I kept coming back. I'm not sure why, but somehow this game kept me coming 
 back. And you know what? After a while, I grew to love it. The modes may not be very engaging, 
 and the AI may be extremely hard at some points, but the combat is just so great. There are tons 
 of attacks, more than I could ever imagine learning, the animations are so smooth, and it is just 
 overall tons of fun.
  
  So, if you're a fighter fan, I think you'd love this; and if you aren't, I think you could still 
 find some enjoyment in this game. There's just one thing I think you should remember; keep your 
 cool. This game can be pretty frustrating at times.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fasih_awan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  The game brings a fun fighting style, and the characters have great voices. The story could be better, 
 as all the characters have pretty much the same story, fighting wise. I really liked this game, 
 but one thing i dont like is the ring out. It happens easily sometimes :P The game is great and 
 is a must buy for anyone who loves fighting games. Also, there is some cool things like detroyable 
 armour, and you receive points for it, which, in the end, earns you gold. I gave this game a 9.0 
 because it is great, but the story mode could use some work. Also, everyone has the same attacks, 
 just with different weapons. You can move around which is a plus, but sometimes it gets annoying. 
 If you arent a big fan of fighting games, i suggest renting it first. The graphics are amazing, 
 and with good detail. The background also is good graphics wise, unlike other fighting games. If 
 only the story was better... like where you can walk around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I have been into the soulcaliber games since number 2, but soulcaliber 4 was... Disappointing for 
 me.
  
  First lets talk about the good things. One good thing that i really liked about number 4 was the 
 graphics, they really improved the graphics from number 3 and i noticed a difference in how the 
 characters move, characters looks, and just the game its self. Another good thing i liked about 
 SC4 was the online play. SC4 was the first SC with online play and its AMAZING ! Online , one thing 
 i really liked was that you can level up, so it really makes it different then just going into 
 a fight and ending it, but instead you have something to work for. The last good thing i liked 
 about this game was that you could make ur own character. You can customize the looks, weapons, 
 characters fighting styles, and alot more !
  
  Now lets talk about the bad things about SC4. The biggest disappointment i noticed was that there 
 wasent a story mode! When i went to the menu and selected story mode, im like this is gunna be 
 the best, but after about 10 minutes of playing and fighting guys the credits came on and im like 
 "WHAT !?!?!? IS THAT IT !?!?" and that was a very big disappointment for me. Another bad thing 
 about SC4 was you start off with OVER half of the characters! I wanted to be able to unlock all 
 of them and have fun doing that but there was no story mode so i gess they had to do that.
  
  Overall, SC4 had good times and bad times. I kind of expected more in Soulcaliber 4, but when 
 i played it, it just wasent there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lghtbrsuga
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited about this game, since I played the other three. I believe this game delivered, 
 but it has some significant drawbacks.
  
  Gameplay-9 -easy to play
  Game Modes-8 -nice modes, wish there were more
  Concept-7 -story line was a letdown, but still 
 somewhat fun
  Graphics-8.5 -beautiful graphics, but some things could be altered
  Sound-7 -nice dramatic music, but the characters' voices aren't so nice....
  Replay Value-Moderate 
 -I can play and then get bored after a while.
  
  Overall Rating- 8.5
  
  The Story-hmmmm. If you are comfortable with slow scrolling words and sometimes a great deal of 
 them, then you won't mind the beginning of each character you choose. The storyline consists of 
 five stages where you fight either one or multiple opponents. Depending on whom you choose depends 
 on who you fight. I didn't really mind that I had only five stages to fight, but after I finished 
 I felt disappointed. Each character has a small cutscene at the end, (unless you use the characters 
 from the star icon, then you get a comic book looking ending) and then a sentence or two describing 
 their ending. I expected some cataclysmic ending, with epic demise of either good or bad. I was 
 wrong. I sat in front of my television, baffled. I didn't expect to read a sentence. After you 
 use a character in story mode, you receive the opportunity to get all of their weapons and some 
 gold to spend.
  
  Fighting-The fighting looks fantastic. Some things are familiar, like ring outs and impacting. 
 Some moves are from the previous series games, and some are new. They added a particular part that 
 wasn't there before, soul crushing and critical finishes. This means a person cannot be a blocker 
 the entire time without risking an instant death. If your health bar is flashing, beware. 
  
  Game Modes- well, aside from story mode, there aren't really that many modes left. There is 
 Arcade mode, Character Creation, Training, Tower of Lost Souls, and of course Online play. You 
 can also view some history and game art. I have the 360 version, so I was able to do Xbox live. 
 
  
  Arcade mode-consists of eight stages of two rounds to win. You get a chance to battle the Apprentice 
 in this mode. You also can unlock him from this mode. You acquire gold, and that's pretty much 
 it. 
  
  Character Creation-is very expansive and allows you to create your own character, or customize 
 an existing one. You have the option of creating a character with special abilities, or just make 
 a character however you like. I found this mode interesting, but disappointing when I wanted to 
 make my character with special abilities. I ended up making a character that I didn't like the 
 look of but was strong. I don't really enjoy looking at a character with a crocodile head and no 
 tail to match. Alternately, I was able to make a character that I thought looked nice without worrying 
 about the attributes. This mode was fun. I like how it limits the power of certain things while 
 raising others. Except when the clothing is ugly. 
  
  The Tower of Lost Souls-was something I thought would be similar to the Mission mode of Soul Calibur 
 3. I thought I would make a created character and level it up in the Tower of Lost Souls while 
 finding treasure. I was mistaken. Plus, characters go up to 9 style levels just to unlock new or 
 upgraded skills. Maybe this mode was not as popular among the masses as it was for me. Either way, 
 TOLS (Tower of Lost Souls) consists of ascending or descending the tower. You can go up around 60 
 floors and go down about 40 or so. I haven't made it to the top, but from what I played I was able 
 to see that you can collect items by performing certain tasks during the match. Some are easy, 
 like voluntarily ring yourself out, and some aren't so easy, like win with all critical finishes. 
 If you play a floor when you've already beaten it, you can get a hint on how to get the treasure. 
 Most of the floors are connected, so if you have a cluster of 3 floors to master, you start over 
 from the beginning if you fail. For example, if you're on floors 3 through 5, and you fail on floor 
 5, you start over from floor 3. Now the descending part isn't as simple. You start from floor 1 
 and you don't choose any floors. If you make it to floor 19 and die, you start from 1. Your health 
 does not regenerate unless you switch characters or have the HP skills. If one of your characters 
 die, they're done and don't come back. This mode can provide many challenges but not much else 
 besides new items. 
  
  Online- This mode is pretty fun, but I barely play online. I only played player matches with friends 
 and I was happy to be a spectator. It was sort of a winner stays kind of thing of up to 4 people. 
 
  
  Training- It's pretty self explanatory but I will admit that I was hoping it was a little more 
 inclusive. I was finding it difficult to actually learn the moves when I was in this mode. They 
 don't exactly show you how to do them, and I found myself pressing start more than I liked to view 
 the moves list. I was hoping there was a mode where I could practice by pressing the buttons that 
 were shown at the bottom of the screen or something. Most of the moves are easy to do, but I tend 
 to forget them if I don't see how they're done or what buttons need to be pressed.
  
  Cast of Characters- I felt I needed to talk about the fighters in this game. Yeah they added a 
 couple of new people, but not really any new fighting styles. Some of the new characters fight 
 just like the old ones, like in the previous games, but with some extra, signature moves. With 
 the exception of about 3 or 4, all of the new characters are someone else in the game when they 
 fight. 
  
  All in all, I think this installment was a good game, but it had some noticeable faults that made 
 it feel unfinished. Not all fighting games need a plausible story, but they could at least look 
 nice and be lengthy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) Great graphics will distract you when you are fighting and you will always be looking around 
 at the environment.
  
  2) Tower of souls is challenging and it gives you a fun and long single player experience because 
 the story mode is short.
  
  3) Over 30 different characters to choose from and they are all very well balanced with their own 
 unique moves and now you can play as yoda and the apprentice from star wars. 4) The controls are 
 sharp and they are easy to get use to.
  
  5) You can customize any character in the game from their armor to their weapons and you can create 
 your own character from start.
  
  6) For the first time ever you can play online and it is a lot of fun.
  
  7) It wil keep you 
 playing for hours on end because of the variety of different modes and characters.
  
  8) There are a huge variety of levels and they are all very nicely designed.
  
  Cons:
  1) 
 Story mode is short.
  
  2) You cant play as Darth Vader. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spicyramen08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  I had made my purchase at a local Best Buy store the day of it's new release; and, the game was 
 like a fish hook by involving brief character introductions in the first several minutes of Soul 
 Calibur's movie like introduction. Soul Calibur IV on the X360 has much more to offer than just 
 beauty in its animations; the stages are complete with design and possible destruction. For example, 
 if players are against a metal gated wall, by force the wall will collapse that may lead one of 
 the players to attempt a ringout KO. As a result, fighting strategies among mulitplayers online 
 or against the CPU can be rather competitive! Story mode is enjoyable with each and every player; 
 although it may have only 5 stages, the game has 3 levels of difficulty to accomodate the user's 
 preferences. 
  
  For another quick challenge, I recommend Yoda's character in Arcade MODE to eliminate the apprectice's 
 defenses. After I used Yoda, I could defeat him in 9 minutes give or take. However, it is possible 
 to defeat him with Yoshimitsu, too; but, in any case, the apprentice will be your toughest enemy 
 in the entire game! By defeating him, you unlock him which is a worthy prize! The Star Wars theme 
 being featured in the game is delightful! Even for those who have not been fans previously like 
 me, will become friendly with Yoda's character. My ultimate and favorite character is KILIK because 
 of his distant attacks and defenses! While fighting against Cervantes in the Tower MODE on level 
 10 of many, I discovered that KILIK could become temporarily invisible!!! 
  
  A matter of fact, all characters have secret special moves that are unique with their weapon of 
 choice. Another example would be Yoshimitsu's helicopter flight while pulsing lightining. The female 
 characters are rather beautiful, and their fighting styles are down right tough. The selection 
 of players are about 20 + and many unlockable items can be used for Character CREATION MODE!!! 
 This game is again, an instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  After being disappointed by Soul Calibur 3, I was actually excited for the fourth game in the series. 
 The promotional videos looked good, and since Project Soul and Namco Bandai announced that the 
 game would be for both 360 and PS3, I felt like that they realized their mistakes and fixed them.
 
  
  Soul Calibur 4 brings back the true majesty of the game in full force. Smooth combat with wonderfully 
 balanced characters for all playing styles, aggressive, defensive, and others. And of course, you 
 can expect the beautiful graphics that the Project Soul team almost never fails to bring to you.
 
  
  Even with all these things described above, you may have a feeling in your gut that the game was 
 downsized from it's older relatives. The Story mode is nothing special, basically an extra Arcade 
 mode for your custom made characters to duke it out against teams of 2, 3, even 4 people. One plus 
 to it is that you get a nice sum of gold after you beat it, which you can spend on buying extra 
 weapons for all the available characters. Little plot in the Story mode, so be prepared for that.
 
  
  Arcade is the same as ever, 8 stages of pure chaos. Gold is also earned here, about 10,000+ upon 
 beating it. I must warn you, Arcade can be a little aggravating. Characters like Asteroth and The 
 Apprentice are absolutely relentless in their attacks, waiting to find an opening and then going 
 at you full force. However, they are good if you want to practice Guard Impacting, and can be the 
 key of getting a couple of nice achievements.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game is great. Smooth attacks and plenty of moves that can be used in a devastating 
 combo. However, they took out the ability to Soul Charge and added Critical Finish, a instant kill 
 move that is very hard to pull off. Getting the circumstances right and pressing the button combination 
 in order to activate is happen once in a blue moon, and you only have a second to press the buttons. 
 Most of the characters are very well balanced. Characters that should be looked at very closely 
 when facing them are Yoda and Maxi. Yoda because of his shortness and attacks that can send you 
 flying off the edge. Maxi because of his speed and easy button mashing capabilities.
  
  The ability to make characters is very nice. Not being limited to the 2 costumes all characters 
 start out with is a nice change. And also, you can make characters from other games with relative 
 accuracy to looks. Zack from Final Fantasy 7 and Dante from Devil May Cry are only two of the characters 
 that have been made with great accuracy.
  
  Online play is the cherry on top of this ice cream sundae. With little to no lag time between the 
 time you enter a command and the time you see the move on screen, you don't have to adjust how 
 you play in order to compete online. All characters, custom and original, are allowed, so you can 
 have some very interesting lineups. Mitsurugi vs Himura the Battousai. Nightmare vs The Pope. The 
 possibilities never end. There is both ranked and nonranked matchups online, so you can fool around 
 if you want to without hurting your overall rank.
  
  In conclusion, Soul Calibur 4 is a great game. A definite title to put into your game collection. 
 Not as groundbreaking and amazing as Metal Gear Solid 4, but it's a fun game that will have a solid 
 online community for a while. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CH0SENCH4OS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  After being disappointed by Soul Calibur 3, I was actually excited for the fourth game in the series. 
 The promotional videos looked good, and since Project Soul and Namco Bandai announced that the 
 game would be for both 360 and PS3, I felt like that they realized their mistakes and fixed them.
 
  
  Soul Calibur 4 brings back the true majesty of the game in full force. Smooth combat with wonderfully 
 balanced characters for all playing styles, aggressive, defensive, and others. And of course, you 
 can expect the beautiful graphics that the Project Soul team almost never fails to bring to you.
 
  
  Even with all these things described above, you may have a feeling in your gut that the game was 
 downsized from it's older relatives. The Story mode is nothing special, basically an extra Arcade 
 mode for your custom made characters to duke it out against teams of 2, 3, even 4 people. One plus 
 to it is that you get a nice sum of gold after you beat it, which you can spend on buying extra 
 weapons for all the available characters. Little plot in the Story mode, so be prepared for that.
 
  
  Arcade is the same as ever, 8 stages of pure chaos. Gold is also earned here, about 10,000+ upon 
 beating it. I must warn you, Arcade can be a little aggravating. Characters like Asteroth and The 
 Apprentice are absolutely relentless in their attacks, waiting to find an opening and then going 
 at you full force. However, they are good if you want to practice Guard Impacting, and can be the 
 key of getting a couple of nice achievements.
  
  Gameplay wise, the game is great. Smooth attacks and plenty of moves that can be used in a devastating 
 combo. However, they took out the ability to Soul Charge and added Critical Finish, a instant kill 
 move that is very hard to pull off. Getting the circumstances right and pressing the button combination 
 in order to activate is happen once in a blue moon, and you only have a second to press the buttons. 
 Most of the characters are very well balanced. Characters that should be looked at very closely 
 when facing them are Yoda and Maxi. Yoda because of his shortness and attacks that can send you 
 flying off the edge. Maxi because of his speed and easy button mashing capabilities.
  
  The ability to make characters is very nice. Not being limited to the 2 costumes all characters 
 start out with is a nice change. And also, you can make characters from other games with relative 
 accuracy to looks. Zack from Final Fantasy 7 and Dante from Devil May Cry are only two of the characters 
 that have been made with great accuracy.
  
  Online play is the cherry on top of this ice cream sundae. With little to no lag time between the 
 time you enter a command and the time you see the move on screen, you don't have to adjust how 
 you play in order to compete online. All characters, custom and original, are allowed, so you can 
 have some very interesting lineups. Mitsurugi vs Himura the Battousai. Nightmare vs The Pope. The 
 possibilities never end. There is both ranked and nonranked matchups online, so you can fool around 
 if you want to without hurting your overall rank.
  
  In conclusion, Soul Calibur 4 is a great game. A definite title to put into your game collection. 
 Not as groundbreaking and amazing as Metal Gear Solid 4, but it's a fun game that will have a solid 
 online community for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtis342
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  The game is just simply amazing. The graphics are good and the cut scene graphics are even better. 
 The extra characters from Star Wars series which includes Yoda for the 360, darth vader for the 
 ps3 and the apprentice for both is great. I had a great time playing this game. This is simply 
 one of the best fighting games that the 360 will have. Though is your not a very good player you 
 might have some trouble defeating certain characters but when you get used to the game you are 
 a wrecking machine. And for the players that are even too good to fight the AI's, no worry. Its 
 360 live compatable. You can go online and find someone who is as good as you, maybe even better. 
 And the character creation is just great. Although not as much armors nad different things that 
 you can choose from in the beginning, you will unlock more as you go through the game. So even 
 if your not a fan of the series you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  In the game you can pick what kind of selection you what to do like there is story mode when you 
 pick a character and you versus against other characters that have been locked or unlocked. There 
 are multiplayer where you versus against a friend or someone on Xbox Live and you can choose a 
 character that you have created or a character that you didn't create. There is also arcade mode 
 when you versus against other characters. The last thing there is. Is Tower of Souls when you versus 
 against floors and floors of characters and you can win prizes on some of the floors. You can also 
 unlock plenty of characters and stages. You can also create your own character and you can also 
 buy weapons and that stuff.
  
  The good of this game is that there is plenty to do and the game is really great to play.
  
 
  The bad of the game is really nothing.
  
  Overall this button masher game deserves a 10 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackc2k8
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  I'm not usually a fighting game fan. And I'm not usually a fan of Namco. And I don't know why I 
 bought soulcalibur 4 last wednesday, maybe it was fate?
  Well, whatever it was, I'm glad I bought it because it has truly taken my breath away.... and shoved 
 it right back down my throat at 100 mph. If you don't know what I'm talking about, then you should 
 play it, as it truly is the most action packed thrill ride I have had in a long time.
  
  Graphics, are a modern day "must have" in good games. And soulcalibur 4 definately has that. It's 
 a clean, detailed, realistic view on a fighting game, with a touch of sparkle here and there.
 
  
  Moving on to gameplay. You can't really have a game without good gameplay, and this is where soulcalibur 
 4 excells. No glitch's, no bugs, just smooth, well balanced fighting mechanics. And as a bonus 
 theres not even bugs or glitches in online play.
  
  Speaking of online play, soulcalibur 4's is extremely impressive. With 2 modes, ranked and unranked 
 matches, and levelling up online and offline, plus more, it'll keep you busy for a long time.
 
  
  Game modes are also important in a good fighting game. And guess what soul calibur 4 has quite 
 a few. Arcade mode, storie mode, versus mode, and an all new tower of lost souls mode, plus online 
 play, means you have an awful lot of replay value. Which is a good bonus.
  
  Overall, soul calibur 4 is a fighting game, tuned to perfection. And most of all it is fun. And 
 very addictive. I hope you all agree with me, and have fun playing it!! See you all online!
  SOULCALIBUR 4 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Overall Soul Calibur 4 is a very good fighting game. The graphics, especially the character models 
 are gorgeous (gotta love the girls in this game) . The music isn't bad, but it's not anything special 
 either. The announcer makes the beginning of each fight seem like it's pro wrestling, which is 
 not even funny, but whatever. Overall the game is good because it's a fighting game and fighting 
 is the main point of focus here, everything else is just the background. To be honest, they didn't 
 make it all that bad. I know a lot of people are complaining about how the story mode is so short. 
 Well, it is short. It took me one evening to beat story mode with all characters, including the 
 bonus ones and the ones you have to buy at Character Creation. But somehow I had the feeling that 
 going through the story mode is just the beginning. I was right.
  
  What saves this game from being at most mediocre is the character evolution and customization option. 
 It's really fun to pick your favorite characters and modify the way they look, what weapons and 
 skills they use. The game gives you the tools and a whole lot of equipment to choose from (once 
 you unlock it) . But it's not only fun, it's also useful, because by customizing a character you 
 can make them better, and beat arcade mode or The Tower of Lost Souls easier. Really there are 
 so many options that you won't get bored with this for a long time. 
  
  And here's when another cool feature jumps in: Character Creation. You can create your own character 
 from scratch. And this time it's not only altering something you've already been given, you can 
 build your fighter from the ground up, including creating a unique physique (you can't change the 
 physique of existing characters) . Basically Character Creation is the most fun thing about this 
 game, in my opinion. Only one thing is disappointing: you can't create your own fighting style, 
 you have to choose one of the game characters' style. But to be honest, I think creating a whole 
 new set of moves and assigning them to buttons would take far too much time to be worthwhile. So 
 it's both a bit disappointing and a good thing at the same time. 
  
  Another thing that has to mentioned is that there are various single player modes, which also save 
 the game from being mediocre. In addition to the story mode you have the Arcade Mode and the Tower 
 of Lost Souls mode. The latter is basically a survival mode in which you have to first ascend to 
 the top of the tower by defeating all enemies on each floor. Once you've reached the top you can 
 choose to descend and see how many enemies you can beat. The thing that makes it different from 
 normal survival modes is that on every floor there is a hidden treasure chest which you can aquire 
 by fulfilling the floor's task. It can be anything, really, from things like performing a throw 
 attack to pulling off a critical finish (which by the way is almost impossible in most cases, because 
 you always kill your opponent before you can make the move) . 
  
  To wrap it up, Soul Calibur 4 is a very solid weapon-based fighting game. All the unlockables and 
 character altering make it shine. Not to mention the fact that the game is very pleasent to look 
 at. Maybe it's not the best word to describe a video game, but... Soul Calibur 4 is a sexy game. 
 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WESTOMOPRESTO
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  i find that some of the Characters are ever powered somewhat, and some are underpowered, Such as.... 
 Yoda. Yoda is very under powered because of his move set, but he is also over powered because of 
 his size. i think they (as in the SC4 team) should have thought of that before releasing the game. 
 ( in my opinion of course) and i find that Arcade mode Aldol is too F*cking hard!
  Aldol on Arcade in my opinion is too fast compared to his actual speed.
  i actually had to get 
 one round beat with against him, then leave the game on over night, then i woke up and beat the 
 second round. ( i did that to get some sleep before trying to beat em up again) i find this game 
 Very Frustrating.
  but i love this game, other than those two aspects and the Unbalanced Online multilayer with no 
 Rank Match system is GREAT!
  any way, i think its a good game, but i wouldn't buy it if you already enjoy SC3 or i would buy 
 it if you want online.\
  Yoda Over/Underpowered=Unbalanced
  Aldol (arcade) Overpowered=Frustration
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punkytrd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Soulcalibur IV brings together all of the old character and slams in some new ones. Soulcalibur 
 is a great weapon fighting game that will keep you busy with friends for quite a while. This game 
 is loaded with extras and has amazing character creation.
  
  To start with, this game has some amazing graphics. Soulcalibur IV is one of the best fighting 
 games i've seen. Any character that you play as looks great and just feels right. The controls 
 are easy to learn and you can customize them to any way you want them. Although the Joystick and 
 the D-Pad aren't the best thing for this game. The D-Pad just doesn't feel right and th Joystick 
 sometimes screws up your moves that your trying to do.
  
  Next is the Character Creation or Create A Soul. This is pretty amazing, the customization isn't 
 as good as the one in SC3, but it still gets the job done. You pick your fighting style and change 
 your character cloths, weapon, colors, and skills. You can choose between Male or Female. The creation 
 can be used for many different characters, up to 50! You can also create characters from other 
 games. For example, I made an Altair, Cloud, Auron, and many, many more.
  
  Last and sadly least is the Xbox LIVE. This is a good idea but fails so badly. All people do online 
 is spam one combo until they won. Although, this is good for playing friends.
  
  Overall, this is a very tight game. The graphics are great, the controls are average, the creation 
 is fantastic, and the online is average. This is the best Soulcalibur to date. And is a true enjoyment 
 for fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothcheese4444
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Don't buy this game for lenghty fun or action, buy to keep entertained until something like The 
 Force Unleashed or Fable 2 come out. I don't mean to imply that you'll not have fun playing this 
 game a lot, I just mean that there are better games coming out this Fall. Anyway, this is a rather 
 addicting game with smooth gameplay and good graphics. You'll find that every character plays amazingly 
 well (except Yoda who is the cheapest green ball of death ever included in a videogame) . Online 
 is pretty fun but you'll have to know the game pretty well to not do horribly. The biggest problem 
 with the game though is the story. Each character has their own ridiculously short story. All the 
 story is is literaly 5 battles and then an ending cutscene. My other annoyance with the game is 
 that you'll come to to find that the only way to make your customized character have good stats 
 is to make them look retarted. Which raises the question of why a cotton shirt gives me +40 power 
 (this is an actual example) . After you beat story mode though, you can move onb to the highly addicting 
 tower of souls. In this you ascend a sixty floor tower with a battle on every floor. This modew 
 starts out easy but by stage 20 i was cursing off at my TV. This is a good game, not great, not 
 bad, but just good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reaper_15
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  Alright first of all I wanna say what an excellent game I rented it not being a big fighter genre 
 fan and was very happily surprised, I figured that I liked that game after I noticed I didnt put 
 down the controller for almost 6 hours lol, but other than that I had the Masters of Teras Kasi 
 game and after playing as Yoda and The Apprentice (didnt have the PS3 version available for rental) 
 I was like holy turd buckets, they could make an awesome remake of Teras Kasi. Plus with the enormous 
 cast to choose from now ex. Grevious, Obi Wan, Darth Maul, Dooku, Anakin, the list could go on. 
 But just after playing this game and how nice and smooth it was It really made me think of the 
 good ole days playing Teras Kasi. The only thing I had against the game is the Story mode was pretty 
 horrendous, I mean not being a fighter genre fan like I said it only took me like 20 minutes to 
 beat the story with a created character on Hard, but oh well dems da breaks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic-Speed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  If you want to know if this game is good, you're in the right place. If you want to be one of the 
 5 people cult who hate this game and looking for someone to join, go %#$@ yourself. This game is 
 amazing, from the huge selection of almost every character that's been on Soul Caliber, to the 
 amazing Character Customization system, to the awesome Critical Finishes, to the clever special 
 moves. If you want to know about the game, i will explain a couple of things.
  First of all, the Critical Finishers. If your one of those @$$** who keeps on blocking in a fighting 
 game, your dead. When a character blocks to much, their life bar flashes red. At this point, you 
 have two choices, you can either keep on blocking, or you can attack back. Now, you may be thinking, 
 why would i start attacking when i can just keep on blocking. Well, if you keep on blocking, your 
 guard will break, your opponent will will press LB, and you'll die immediately. It'll look nice 
 when you die, but you still die. Now i know that may not very clear, but i don't wanna spoil your 
 first Critical Finisher. :)
  Second is the Star Wars characters. Since I have the 360 version, i can only talk about Yoda and 
 the Apprentice. Each Star Wars character has a meter that depletes as you use Force energy. Yoda 
 is awesome to play as. His force abilities are flips and and quick strikes. Luckily, the moves 
 don't use that much force powers, so you can do quite a few of then. Yoda is impossible to grab 
 and very short, with most high attacks whizzing by his head. All of his techniques are very jumpy, 
 and it's sorta funny to watch him jump around. Sadly, this could also be considered a handicap, 
 as he falls more then most characters. But enough about Yoda, onto the apprentice. This guy is 
 a strong, force heavy, quick strike Sith. He can use the force to send his opponent in the air, 
 jump up, and do a combo in mid-air. He can also shoot out lightning, and a wave of force energy 
 from his light saber. He can also do corkscrew flips in mid-air. Yeah, Yoda ain't the only one 
 who can flip. The apprentice may sound impossible to beat, but he's not that hard. His force powers 
 have pause time long enough to attack before he can release them, plus because of all of his force 
 powers, he has fewer weapon combos then most of the characters, making him very force dependent 
 and weak when he's out of force. 
  If you managed to read through this review, you'll know that this game is very fun. I hope you 
 if you were thinking about getting this game. It's a blast. I'm sorry i couldn't talk about the 
 Create-a-Character, but just know that it is very customizable. That's all i have to say.
  
  P. S. No, you cant make a character based on Yoda or The Apprentice
  P. P. S Yes you can change 
 the color of all of your characters gear and skin
  P. P. P. S YODA AND APPRENTICE RULE!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danomeon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Soulcalibur, a very popular fighting game series, and one of my personal favorites. After a mixed 
 bag of games ranging from the excellent first two, an okay third one, and an atrocious adventure 
 game, I was hoping to see something new. As it turns out, SC4 introduces less than I had hoped, 
 but still keeps its fighting roots intact.
  
  The first thing I noticed about the game is how it did an excellent job of sticking to its guns 
 in terms of gameplay. The characters all control the same as you would suspect them to, but with 
 a few new moves on their list making things a little more interesting. Several new playstiles are 
 also introduced, as 4 totally new characters enter the scene. Hilde, is a near-perfect blend of 
 melee and ranged combat, and is a blast to play. The same goes for the games new boss character, 
 algol. I wish I could say that about the 2 guest characters to hit the scene. The ps3 version receives 
 darth vader, a balanced character that is fun to fight with and against, while the 360 gets yoda, 
 a little guy who cannot be grabbed, and is too short to be hit without ducking most of the time. 
 it is frustrating to play against him, as all of your intricate combo teqniques that make you feel 
 like such a pro at the game are removed, forcing you to crouch and use generic face button combos. 
 The apprentice, who makes an appearence on both consoles, is nearly broken as well. Frustratingly 
 enough, he has several moves that cheaply resemble an abnormally long combo when used right, meaning 
 that arcade mode isn't fun when you are nailed by him. 
  
  Speaking of the modes, soul calibur 4 has an alright variety. first there is the dissapointing 
 story mode, which pits your character against a measly 5 stages, with minimal story actually involved. 
 you just read a wall of text about your character, battle your way through 5 stages, and then watch 
 a brief animated cutscene. Arcade is basically just story mode with 3 extra stages, and no story 
 involved. Tower of souls in by far the nicest edition to SC4, as it is basically a linear campaing. 
 you complete floors by eliminating hordes of enemies, and completing optional objectives to unlock 
 more equipment along the way. after you gain 20 floors, you have an option to descend, which allows 
 you to fight a never-ending onslaught of enemies just to see how many you can survive through. 
 The game also throws a surprisingly meaty character creator your way, which allows you to make 
 your own hero, or customize ones that already exist. more gear is unlocked via tower of souls, 
 giving you even more incentives to unlock everything. There are some problems, though. for one 
 thing, it would be great to have an option to hide ugly pieces of clothing out of sight, but still 
 have their hats. it sucks that some of the best equipment in the game, is butt ugly. Next, I would 
 really love it if you could take existing chracters and change their fighting styles. (imagine 
 mitsurugi with ivi's whip, or talki's coldo claws.)
  
  Another edition is the long-awaited online play. This holds up very well, with the occasional lag 
 spikes. The only problem is that button mashing can get you surprisingly far in this game, you 
 won't feel like a pro when your friend obliderates you on his first try by hitting random buttons. 
 
  
  Finally, finishers make an appearence, showing some very cinematic (and not so cinematic) sequences. 
 I'm very glad that they are extremely difficult to pull off, stopping people from rushing immediately 
 to get them. My only issues are that 1: every character's awesome finisher is replaced with a lame 
 and generic one due to his height, and 2: that some are just ridiculous. Cassandra's finisher, 
 for example, has the character knocking characters over, then leaping into the air and then flattening 
 them. needless to say, I doubt that someone could die from having someone sit on their face, and 
 it is a little ridiculous.
  
  All in all, though, soul calibur 4's great fighting system alone makes the game worthwhile, and 
 if you can push past the fact that some modes are similar to eachother, and that not everything 
 is actually beleivable, then you will have a fun enough time with it to justify a purchase. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowSlip
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Now I have been playing the Soul Caliber series since the beginning and I must say that I am totally 
 and completely satisfied with this game. It took all of the great features from the previous games 
 and tweaked them a little to make them that much better.
  The inclusion of an online batttle mode is a feature that I, personally, am very glad was included 
 in this installment. I can safely say that I will never get old of playing online.
  All of the favorite characters are back with the inclusion of a few new ones. The customizing in 
 this game is incredible, being able to customize almost everything on the characters. You are still 
 able to be able to create your own from scratch, which is a great feature.
  I have alot more to day about how great this game is, and there is pretty much nothing wrong with 
 it, but it's late and I'm tired so sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phinfan3329
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  This is just another very fun soul calibur game. It doesnt really do much different then the previous 
 installments just fine tunes everything, online play is great (i have limited time spent online 
 so this is on a small amount of experience) and the character editing and customization is fun. So 
 if youve enjoyed the previous ones you will enjoy this one.
  
  My only gripes are that at times there just doesnt seem to be enough diversions all of the fights 
 seem to be too similar and the story mode is very weak. I miss the different modes that were in 
 soul calibur 3 that werent as popular with alot of people but offered something different (somewhat) 
 to the experience for those of us that dont feel like playing online matches all the time. As is 
 the case with most fighting games this one is more enjoyable if you like online matches or have 
 some friends that enjoy playing with you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowShinigami
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Alright. I've first gotta say, that I actually pre-ordered this game. It's that awesome. Sadly, 
 I don't believe the game truly lived up to its hype -- let's face it, no games ever do, but still.
 
  
  The graphics in the game are phenomenal, and the combos are far easier to use as compared to previous 
 installments. Numerous balances and many other small things caused the game to be a MASSIVE improvement 
 over all other Soul fighting games.
  
  The create-a-fighter mode is awesome (though, I'd like a few thousand more outfits available) ... 
 However, the game barely delivered on the story. I mean, [spoiler] Yoda sees some rift and winds 
 up in the Soul Calibur universe? WHAT THE HELL? Come on, there are so many other ways they could've 
 worked in the Star Wars franchise, and pretty damn much any of them would've been better.
  
  The new options (Critical Finish) and some of the other techniques are pretty awesome. The 
 new characters, however... need a lot of work. (Hilde is a pain to use, Algol is almost useless, 
 The Apprentice is overpowered, and Yoda is incredibly strong if used right, meaning, he's almost 
 always useless. The characters created by the manga artists, however, aren't that bad.)
  
  The only thing I really have a problem with, and the only thing that keeps this from getting a 
 perfect score, is that the fighting system is exactly the same as the prior games, although slightly 
 slower. They did almost nothing to innovate it at all, and after playing for about 15 hours, I 
 felt I'd seen all the game had to offer.
  
  This is definitely a great game; amazing graphics, stunning abilities, and a tried-and-true fighting 
 system...
  
  Yet, for the amount of time the game was in development, the developers didn't change much. They 
 could've done far more with the game, yet didn't want to risk losing fans by changing the game. 
 So, I'll say it again -- Soulcalibur IV is definitely worth owning... but, it isn't the best the 
 developers could've done.
  
  (Well, at least they didn't completely screw up their fighting system from the start, then screw 
 it up again, like Mortal Kombat.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperBlueMonkey
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 7, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of the Soul Calibur series since the first Calibur landed on the Dreamcast... 
 and I still regard it to be the best version. Whilst the second in the series brought more of the 
 same, it's expansive rpg mode was more involving and intriguing. This depth carried over to the 
 3rd game on the PS2 and was still enjoyable with the inclusion of customising your own character. 
 So what does the 4th one have over previous versions? More characters.... not good enough. More 
 modes of play..... not good enough. Online play..... still not good enough. This 4th installment 
 has nothing over previous versions apart from slightly nicer graphics and even those could've been 
 better. It seems as though Namco have decided to use the same engine as the last game.... and the 
 one before that instead of truly adapting to the next gen technology. The game suffers from uninspired 
 environment design with fighting on a small floating on water platform feeling nothing like fighting 
 on a small floating on water platform. Everything is so static and the characters and animals used 
 with the levels aren't particularly interesting. Why can't I fight on the pirate ship in a pouring 
 storm with massive waves coming over head?! Surely that can be done with today's generation? Another 
 aspect the game lacks is in character design. Whilst it's very cool to have the customisation option 
 back, it's not so cool to see the general lack of commitment to new characters. Adding in Star 
 Wars characters is BS in my opinion. Couldn't care less. First off the Star Wars world doesn't 
 fit at all with the Soul Calibur world, it's a complete clash. The levels from Yoda and the Apprentice 
 are pratically the same and completely dull to look at. There are so many more interesting and 
 graphically challenging scenes from Star Wars, why pick the most uninspired of them? Why couldn't 
 I fight on Yodas planet amonst the foggy trees and swampy creatures??! As for the Apprentice, well 
 he's not in there to sell anything is he?! In my opinion Namco should've kept to Spawn characters 
 from the Medieval Spawn series, at least it's more suiting the Calibur world. It's the presentation 
 of the game as well. Whilst the main menu is easy to navigate, loading screens and endings are 
 just not worthy of this generation or this gaming series. I'm actually shocked to see such lack 
 of commitment from Namco. Each ending tries to explain the reason why this character is trying 
 to find Soul Edge in the space of a couple of minutes and each one ends with some really horrible 
 sentence of where the character goes after they've found or destroyed the sword. It's just white 
 text on a black background! They're typical beat'em up endings but Namco seems to be living for 
 depth to their game and yet none of this depth is put into the stories of each character. There's 
 no satisfactory feeling when you complete the game with a character, just poor direction and characterisation. 
 This game has a ton of things wrong with it...... sound fx, no vibration function (!) , presentation 
 is incredibly static, uninspired level design, uninvolving rpg element, exclusive characters are 
 a joke, who the hell is Agol?!, everyone pretty much looks the same as the last game..... so what's 
 good? It's Soul Calibur. The gameplay is still enjoyable, practically pick up and play and it still 
 keeps you on the edge with each fight.... most of the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur is the premier fighting series. The original game garnered wide critical acclaim and 
 even earned a perfect score from Gamespot. Since then we've had a great sequel (Soul Calibur 2) 
 and another which was met to mixed reception (Soul Calibur 3) . I'm happy to say Soul Calibur IV 
 takes the best parts of the series and makes this game the best Soul Calibur game since the original 
 came out all those years ago. What makes Soul Calibur so much fun is the fact that anyone can play 
 this game. Thought it takes skill to learn your fighter, it is still easy to pick up and play much 
 like other successful fighting games (Brawl and Dead or Alive) . 
  
  The gameplay is relatively the same old-school Soul Calibur formula. Each character has a different 
 weapon from Katanas to Nun-chucks and each character has their own set of unique and odd dialogue. 
 The object is to knock out the other fighter by depleting their healthbar or to knock them out 
 of the ring. This is standard to any fighting games but Soul Calibur successfully is able to make 
 this simple type of game enjoyable and addictive. This is thanks to a tight control scheme and 
 the pick up and play style of gaming. The controls work perfectly, no changes are needed and it 
 feels natural. Your fighter also responds well to the controls which is important as it makes you 
 feel totally in control which is the backbone to any fighting game. My only complaint about the 
 gameplay here is the fact that there are some fighters which are easy to button mash with for example 
 Kilik and Maxi. Other then that Soul Calibur IV is solid gameplay throughout and is some of the 
 strongest this generation in a fighting game. 
  
  The graphics and sound are excellent and are up to this generations standard. They are easily some 
 of the best graphics seen in a fighting game this generation. The character models are gorgeous 
 and the environment look great as per usual. I have no complaints about the graphics and the style 
 this game has really works for it. The sound is also great, every clash of swords and weapons is 
 well done and appropriately fierce. The dialogue is cheesy and often doesn't make sense but hey, 
 that is part of the Soul Calibur charm.
  
  There are many other notable features in Soul Calibur IV. For one the online mode is some of the 
 best in a fighting game this generation if you don't lag. I have never lagged online in my 110 
 matches and it's been a great experience. It'll last a long time with the addictive level up system 
 and finding a game is pretty easy as they kept the lobby system as simple as possible. Another 
 feature of this game I love is the custom character creation which is excellent. You can unlock 
 new items all the time through playing the game and you can either make your own character from 
 scratch or customize a premade one. This is great fun and each clothing item and weapons has their 
 own stats. With these stats you can buy powers which make the game a lot of fun. With these special 
 powers you can buy you can explore farther and farther into the Tower of Lost Souls. The Tower 
 of Lost Souls is brilliant and challenging, it's very fun and really satisfying. It gives the single 
 player the lasting value. All in all Soul Calibur IV is a great value and well worth paying 59.99 
 for.
  
  The only bad things about this game are the button mashing and the star wars characters. I'm not 
 big on them and I hate the apprentice. Yoda is fine, he's quite easy to kill with skill but the 
 apprentice is downright cheap and annoying. Other then that Soul Calibur IV is an excellent game 
 and well worth buying. Fans of the series and newcomers all have something to find here and it's 
 well worth purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  Developed by Project Soul and produced by Namco Bandai Games, Soul Calibur IV is the next game 
 in the Soul Calibur/Edge/Blade/Whatever franchise.
  
  Soul Calibur IV, brings back all your favorites and even tosses some new faces into the mix, from 
 a galaxy far, far away. The graphics are pretty, and the audio is ok. There seems to be some minor 
 voice syncing issues in what little cut scenes there are.
  
  The game play is fine and the controls are smooth. There does, however, seem to be some very minor 
 hit detection issues. I also, very rarely, noticed that at times, I'd find my character being thrown 
 out of the ring even when they were no where near the edge. Single player offers four different 
 modes to play. Story mode, which consists of five whole bouts, three fights are against multiple 
 opponents and two one on one fights. Some opponents may join you during the story mode, but chances 
 are, you'll rarely ever need them. Then there's the Tower of Lost Souls, which has about 100 floors 
 in total. Each floor has certain requirements you must complete in order to unlock the treasure 
 located on that floor, and the more you ascend/descend, it gets more challenging as foes come equipped 
 with better armor and skills. Then there's always the Arcade mode, which is eight, one on one bouts 
 with the computer. Each fight will award you with points, depending on the conditions met in the 
 fight and you'll be awarded points and at the end you'll get a certain amount of money, varying 
 on the amount of points you scored. And lastly, there's training, for you guys who have no idea 
 how to play the game or just want to try out certain things. In my opinion, the story mode is the 
 most interesting single player mode. It's fun, and it's an easy way to earn some quick cash for 
 weapons and accessories for your created characters. Creating characters or simply customizing 
 characters already in the game can be fun and time consuming. There's a plethora of accessories 
 and ways to change around your characters appearance. Armor, clothes, and other accessories can 
 improve your characters stats, or add points into a certain area so your character may have access 
 to better skills. Weapons may, or may not, add skills or points.
  
  The multi-player is fun, yet frustrating. Some time's you'll come across the player who uses a 
 character they enjoy and doesn't spam one attack. Other times you'll encounter the one who uses 
 one character and uses one attack, and it really takes away from the fun factor. You can take your 
 favorite characters online and throw them into special battles, where your equipment and skills 
 are used, thus making things more challenging for both combatants. If that's not your thing, then 
 you can just have a normal, one on one match.
  
  In the end, people should really try out Soul Calibur IV. Set up some tournaments with your pals, 
 or try to conquer the cyber world of live with your favorite character. If you don't have live (or 
 friends) , rent it. Soul Calibur IV is a welcomed addition to the series none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This review is for Soulcalibur IV on the XBox 360. Soulcalibur IV is a one-on-one fighting game 
 that, unlike many others in the genre, utilizes melee weapons throughout. It is a visually appealing 
 game with a wide selection of playable characters and, as of the time of writing, a flourishing 
 online community.
  
  Gameplay: 4/10
  Soulcalibur IV certainly does not have the easiest controls I've ever seen. I've never played a 
 Soulcalibur game before, but even so, I really fail to see the logic behind labeling your attacks 
 as "A, B, K, G." G made sense, being that it was used to "guard," and when paired with another 
 button, often performed a grapping maneuver of some sort. K, logically, stands for kick. But on 
 a controller that has "A" and "B" as two of the buttons on it's interface, placing those corresponding 
 actions anywhere else on the control pad made it a chore figuring out how to do any of the more 
 elaborate attacks in a character's move set. It's also all but essential to lean the attacks of 
 a character inside and out if you plan to be decent online; playing the game extensively for four 
 days (and being no stranger to these fighting-type games) , I got my butt kicked by most of my online 
 competition, and usually because they were able to perform one nie unblockable move ad nauseum. 
 As far as CPU difficulty, there are some entertaining challenges to be found in game modes like 
 the Tower of Lost Souls, good for new and experienced players alike, but regarding the raw "normal" 
 and "hard" difficulties found in story mode, there's not much to boast about. Performing one or 
 two grappling maneuvers in repeated succession is usually enough to breeze through the normal difficulty. 
 Having played the hard difficulty only once (to get the achievement) , I had no problem beating 
 the entire story mode within an hour on the very first night; not terribly impressive for a person 
 new to the series.
  
  Customization: 8/10
  I'm adding this category because, being a very creative person myself, I greatly enjoy it when 
 a developer gives me the option of doing any manner of customization in their game. In this case, 
 you can revise and improve (or worsen, if you really want) the pre-existing characters. More importantly, 
 though, you can create your own characters! The created characters are given a wide variety of 
 clothing and accessories to choose from at the onset of the game, and even more as you unlock them 
 through playing story mode, Tower of Lost Souls, and earning achievements. It really seems that 
 a good deal of attention was paid to this create-a-character option, as the created characters 
 (if given the proper attention in the creation process) can look just as realistic as those built 
 into the game. My one qualm with this is the statistics attached to each article of clothing and 
 accessory that the character wears. While it does contribute to a sense of realism (ie. you won't 
 find a guy in a fundoshi with 200% defense and HP) , it can prove to be a pain if you want your 
 character to look a certain way. Nevertheless, I will praise the create-a-character function in 
 this game for two important traits: 1) There aren't many (if any) accessories that don't fit within 
 the game's universe, so in playing online and seeing other users' created characters, you won't 
 come across much that will wreck the continuity. 2) Realistic physics is attached to every article 
 of clothing that the character wears, from the way it flows when the character moves, to the way 
 it should weigh down and restrict a character's movement. Bravo, Project Soul. You could teach 
 THQ a thing or two.
  
  Story: 2/10
  Speaking of the story, I had heard it was short, but this was truly disappointingly minimal. Every 
 character's story differs, but most of the back-story is revealed through slow-scrolling text which, 
 if you're like me, you wholly ignore after reading it for two or three characters. Each character's 
 story is five chapters long (ie. five matches, with varying numbers of opponents and allies, from 
 one to four) . By playing as certain characters, you will encounter other hidden characters in the 
 game, which you unlock by defeating. Characters with history in the series may be paired up as 
 allies or enemies in the story mode, which gives a nice sense of continuity to the game's universe, 
 but it still isn't nearly enough to save the laughably-short campaign.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  This game is very visually appealing. Bright and colorful levels, coupled with vibrant characters 
 and ostentatious combination attacks, makes for a very sensually appealing game. Clothing realistically 
 moves and flows with the character. Maybe that's no big deal to some, but I personally found that 
 attention to physics appealing. While you're not going to be spending too much time admiring them 
 in a fight, the various stages are all beautifully designed, with only a negligible few that stand 
 out as being overly-simplistic.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  This shouldn't be a real deterrent; sound is a tough one to grade. There's nothing overtly amazing 
 about the sound in Soulcalibur, but there's nothing it does to detract from the gameplay too much. 
 In the beginning of each match and after the match is won, the characters will say something. Usually 
 it's just a little generic quip, hyping themselves up or otherwise revealing a little about the 
 character's personality. Once in a while, though, you get a real hackneyed gem like "my ally, the 
 force is" or some equally silly and irrelevant comment. Some of the voice actors really seemed 
 to enjoy performing their lines, giving their characters believable dialogue, whereas others seem 
 like they were taken straight from the cast of Two Worlds and were only looking for a paycheck.
 
  
  Replay Value: 6/10
  Without XBox Live, the replay value of this game is very limited, unless you are a big fan of the 
 series and addicted to achievement points. The shallow story mode probably isn't enough to keep 
 anyone interested for very long, and even if you play through it with every available character, 
 it still probably won't take you more than 10-15 hours making reasonable progress. With XBox Live, 
 I still wouldn't speak too highly of the replayability unless you are a big fan of the series. 
 I found it rather dull and repetitive after a couple fights, and like I mentioned before, if you 
 don't know the ins and outs of your character, prepare to take a beating from those who do (which 
 are not as few-and-far-between as you might expect) . If you have XBox Live, are a huge fan of the 
 series, and are completely achievement-obsessed, then I could recommend this game to you in good 
 faith. There's nothing critically flawed about the gameplay; it just strikes me as shallow. 
  
  Overall: 6/10
  This isn't an average. Overall, there's nothing wrong with the game, but there's 
 nothing I found to be really special or unique; nothing I wouldn't hope for from Tekken 6 or Mortal 
 Kombat vs. DC. Soulcalibur is a visually beautiful game, but in every other way, it just feels 
 average or, as in the case of the story mode, simplistic. Fans of the series will probably find 
 nothing wrong with it and, thusly, that's certainly the demographic to whom I'd recommend Soulcalibur 
 IV. To the casual gamer though look for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silensmemorias
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  OK, I'm a hardcore gamer, but not THAT hardcore. I still have yet to even get 20% in GTAIV. And 
 yet in two days, or 8 hours of playing, I unlocked every character, beat it story with every character, 
 got through 23 floors of the Tower mode, beat Arcade, and purchased every weapon and art. So yeah.... it's 
 a little too easy and short.
  
  Graphics (8.5/10) :
  Graphically, this game is about as good-looking as a fighter game can get. They're pretty good, 
 but not extremely impressive. I mean... don't get me wrong, they are pretty damn good, but kind 
 of what you expect from the 360. Nothing more.
  
  Sound (6/10) :
  Don't even get me started on the voice acting. It is TERRIBLE! I mean, absolutely terrible. The 
 only good sounding guy is Nightmare, but they distorted his voice to make it sound badass. Anyways, 
 in-game fighting noises are nothing new. A smack here, a grunt here... and sometimes a crack there. 
 Yeah. Some grapples let you break bones... but it doesn't affect in-game play. Honestly, I don't 
 know what else to say about the sounds except they're what you expect from this game. Punches, 
 kicks, grunts, screams, growls, and terrible, horrific voice acting.
  
  Game play / Storyline (8/10) :
  If you're a hardcore gamer and good at fighting games, you'll 
 LOVE the gameplay. It's solid and very responsive. The only problem is power moves and chains are 
 easily pulled off by button mashing newbies or casual gamers, which can deteriorate the online 
 experience. And online play isn't for newbies. Experienced players will easily unleash a hell of 
 combo and chain moves, not ever giving you a chance to even release the A button. Also, the characters 
 aren't very well balanced. Maxi is the main culprit, pulling of 10 and 20 move chains. As for the 
 story.... eh. It wasn't good. Nothing like the previous SoulCaliburs where you had to travel across 
 a map and a story ACTUALLY DEVELOPED. Each story for the characters are kind of hard to follow 
 if you haven't played since the first Soul game and you can EASILY beat it in about 10 minutes.
 
  
  Lastability/Multiplayer (5/10) : 
  Unless you're a hardcore fighter, you probably play this game for three days and that's it. By 
 that time, you'll have every character and beaten story with them, beaten Arcade and the Tower 
 of Lost Souls, bought every weapon and art, and unlocked half of the achievements. Online playing 
 can really destroy the experience for experienced, casual, and newbie players. Experienced players 
 will have to deal with button mashing newbies and power move throwing casual players. Newbies and 
 casual players will have to deal with experienced players pulling off DEVASTATING combos that will 
 really destroy the online experience. So really, unless you're a die-hard fighter/SoulCalibur IV 
 fan, I really recommend renting this game. You'll have it done under 10 days. Oh yeah, there's 
 a character customization
  
  Final Comment: 
  SCIV is all-in-all a satisfying fighter. Veterans will LOVE the game and its controls and roster 
 of 30 something characters. As for newbies, unless you like button mashing, forget this game. For 
 those that are casual, I recommend a rent. If you really like and think you'll want to buy it, 
 then buy it. There could be a few more characters and a much, much better and longer story, but 
 it's still a good game, gameplay and graphically wise. I recommend renting it and I give it 7 out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evolution7187
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  The game hasn't changed much over the years. There's now a trade off between points required for 
 special abilites and the armour you want for your character. The soul guage is nice touch but the 
 potential to destroy your opponents weapon has been used in soul blade and this made for more challenging 
 fights (can't block without a weapon) . Also the jobs option form soulcalibur III didn't carry over, 
 which would have made for more varied fightstyles. It's not like they would have to design them 
 from scratch just port them. It is great that you can customise the main characters with plenty 
 of different abilities but it would've been better if the points for the abilities could've been 
 earnt from battles and then assigned to a character. I would have liked to have seen moree fight 
 modes in soulcalibur IV, these seem to have been sacrificed for online play. One thing that I really 
 wanted to see was multiple characters teaming up in the same ring instead of switching between 
 characters. Still maybe this is for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksaibot
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 25, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  You can tell by viewing the screen shots the graphics are great. Blah blah blah... There are plenty 
 of fan-boys (and girls) on this website that have already told you everything good about the game. 
 
  
  But allow me to explain what really sucks if your a casual gamer who's just trying to have fun...
 
  
  You'll only have fun playing against another casual gamer, which means not going online. The nerds 
 on the internet will tear you a new one. 'nuff said. So if you don't practice 10+ hours a day and 
 put your complete concentration in this game, you will lose within 20 seconds. So since casual 
 gamers have lives, we obviously can't devote so much time in our day to this game just to get good. 
 We have jobs, girlfriends, friends, more productive hobbies, etc.
  
  I should have learned my lesson when I first played Soul Calibur (which was SCII on PS2) . When 
 you try to play a different game play mode other than arcade or story, there are STUPID things 
 that ruin a fair fight. Like that lame tower mode where you ascend and descend.
  
  This brings me to my next valuable. point. They (the characters) have dumb abilities now - like 
 auto-grapple counter, or something stupid like that - meaning you can't throw them... ever. And 
 if you hit them with a powerful strike YOUR health suffers from it. It's this kind of crap that 
 makes this game only something hardcore fans of the series will enjoy because they're used to this 
 kind of stupidity. 
  
  Another thing worth mentioning is that many characters are unbalanced especially The Apprentice 
 and Yoda. The idea of bringing the Star Wars characters can be appreciated, but they did a terrible 
 job balancing them especially when it comes to the AI.
  
  If you want a good fighter, pick up Virtua Fighter. That is much more realistic - hell, you might 
 even enjoy Tekken better than this, and I thought I hated Tekken. If you want just strictly a fun 
 game to play, go get Mortal Kombat. Soul Calibur is not for you unless you're a complete gaming 
 nerd. I don't expect many thumbs up on my review, because I'm sure I'll be hurting many feelings 
 and offending a lot of gamers by all my truth.
  
  Soul Calibur IV is by far the most frustrating game I've played in my entire life, and that's on 
 the easy setting. To HELL with the Tower of Lost Souls. The difficulty creates enough irritation 
 to the casual gamer that SCIV becomes a chore - not a game for fun. I found myself only playing 
 to unlock things, but then what? I sell it for something better... a game worth my time and has 
 a respectable way of creating replay value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_209
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  soul calibur has come a long way been around for a long time the newest one in the series soul 
 calibur 4 is the newest one. the story is the same as the other one fighters come from round the 
 world in seach of the soul swords some want destory them others want it for evial. in soul calibur 
 there are over 30 fighters to chose from also this time around new guest charters from star wars 
 have been added in the the 360 has yoda ps3 has darth vador but both have darth vader's sceret 
 apprentice from the star war force unleashed as a playable charater. there is also charater creation 
 where you can build you own fighters. the graphics just look great in this game the battle area 
 look really good plus the star war battle arena look see the battle for the death star in the backround 
 you in a star destoryer x-wings fly in see tie fighters looks great. this is a must buy for star 
 wars fans or fighting game fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konikoffster
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  A lot of people have been waiting for this particular game and it is finally out. I found it to 
 be a bit disappointing since the story mode is way too short and takes about 10 minutes to beat 
 a story. Online multiplayer lags a lot however I don't know the reason behind it. Darth Vader isn't 
 available to play on the 360 which is disappointing but the introduction of another dark Jedi makes 
 up for it. Darth Vader is said to be made available for download in the near future so that's something 
 to look forward to. If you've played a Soulcalibur game then you know how to use a lot of the attack 
 buttons however, for new players it takes quite a while to determine the button combos and how 
 to make them effective in battle. The multiplayer is amazing and the most attractive part of this 
 game. It is fun to experiment with and the ability to create a character of your own and to boost 
 the stats of that character is a fun bonus. If you like multiplayer games then this is the game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcooper56x
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  
  I have always and always will be a fan of the Soul Calibur series. No other fighting genre (except 
 for maybe Mortal Kombat) has had a really engaging story or cast of characters that you'd actually 
 like the way the SC series has. Soul Calibur 4 is a great sequel and most likely the best so far. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  The gameplay for Soul Calibur has always been good but never has really gone any major overhauls 
 until now. Now you can break off an enemy's armor (now which affect gameplay, especially for custom 
 characters) and the new critical finishers are just amazing and reasonably challenging to pull 
 off. There is also far less "ring outs", some stages you really have to work to get any sort of 
 "easy win", the same goes for excessive blocking, which encourages the player to be more active 
 in battle. 
  
  The Story Mode is somewhat disappointing, a lot of the endings are very short and really don't 
 give any conclusion to the story whatsoever (let's just hope that means the soul still burns) , 
 and it is only five levels. What makes up for it, however, would be the Tower of Souls mode, which 
 is both fun to play and frustratingly challenging, depending on how you view the AI and how lucky 
 you are. The AI can be extremely cheap at times, especially when facing some of the overpowered 
 AI custom characters and certain levels. 
  
  Overall though, the gameplay continues to be exceptional and definitely in my opinion surpasses 
 Virtua Fighter or Street Fighter. 
  
  Sound: 8/10 
  
  The music has always been epic since Soul Blade, and Soul Calibur 4 delivers when it comes to excellent 
 background music. However, a lot of the music seems revamped from other levels this time around 
 and instead of being exceptional, the music has more or less become "just enough to fit" rather 
 than overhaul it. The voice and sound effects are great though as they always have, so nothing 
 has changed there. 
  
  Character Customization: 7/10
  
  The character customization has vastly improved from the last series, allowing the player up to 
 50 slots instead of a measly 10. However, while the character customization is better than the 
 last, it isn't without its flaws. 
  
  For starters there are no unique movesets, all of your custom character's movesets are based off 
 of the 25 standard Soul Calibur characters, which is a good and bad thing. Good because Soul Calibur 
 3's unique movesets were largely half-baked for lack of better term and because at least your character 
 gets a critical finisher, but still it doesn't feel totally unique. There is also not as much parts 
 you can use to equip your character, or at least they aren't as easy to get (you can't just buy 
 them from a shop like you could in the 3rd game, now you have to go through Tower of Souls which 
 can be a pain at times) . 
  
  Lastly, most of the parts have an effect on your character. While that makes for a good "RPG style" 
 build, it also takes away your chance to make your character the way you want him or her to be, 
 and almost forces you to equip parts just for that extra gauge boost or that impact you need. The 
 voices of the customs, while you can select their pitch, really don't seem at all different from 
 one another, and alignment doesn't seem to come into effect. For instance, my "evil" custom character 
 wound up sounding like a "martyr" because of her equipment parts, making her an overdramatic heroine 
 instead. Character customization in this game is good but not great, to say the very least. 
  
  New Characters: 8/10
  
  The new characters in this series are largely a mixed bag. The 
 five "bonus" characters, Schezerazade, Angol Fear, Kamikurisi, Ashlotte, and Shura are lame both 
 with storylines and that they are basically carbon copies of the existing characters. You look 
 at them and most of your custom creations and think "I could've made better than that", considering 
 Angol Fear looks totally out of place with the rest of the cast, Ashlotte and Kamikurisi are just 
 two more little girls, and the other two just aren't all there. You can choose to ignore them thankfully, 
 but that space could have been put for something better, such as Battle Theatre or maybe even more 
 custom parts. They are just a waste of space. There also could have been at least one or two male 
 guests to even the odds out, but thankfully they aren't considered canon to the story (at least 
 I hope not) . 
  
  The Star Wars characters, I can only speak for Yoda and the Apprentice. The Apprentice is really 
 cheap as an AI opponent and frustrating, but he's also quite effective and fun to play as. Yoda, 
 on the other hand, while he seems cool on paper to have in the game, both playing as him AND facing 
 him is quite an ordeal. You cannot grab or throw him and he's just too small to be any sort of 
 balanced match. 
  
  On the flip side, the two new canon characters, Hilde and Algol, are excellent. Hilde is by far 
 my new personal favorite, as her fighting style is totally unique and unlike the rest of the female 
 cast she isn't scantily clad nor is she a little girl. She fits in with the series well, and she's 
 great to play as, the only thing is she has a bit of a learning curve, but once you get past it 
 she's a great character for sure. Algol plays the role as the new "boss" quite well, unlike some 
 of the previous bosses he has a really good heart despite being intimidating, and he's actually 
 likeable (and human) . Those two are the reasons I bumped up the score so much, especially for Hilde. 
 
  
  Overall Score: 8/10
  I wanted to give this game a 10, considering how much I really love the Soul Calibur series. The 
 Soul Gauge, Critical Finishers, and some decent new characters are what the series needed. However, 
 with the inclusion of the Star Wars characters the the "guest characters", it makes such a good 
 series become more like a license and name brand rather than being totally unique. There should 
 have been more effort and concentration into putting things that made the series classic, such 
 as Battle Theatre, Exhibitions, more artwork like the first Soul Calibur had, and definitely more 
 to the story (like Soul Calibur 3 did) . Instead, Namco commercialized the series, and while I respect 
 that, I do hope the series will remain true should it continue, because while this game is good, 
 its definitely not the ultimate conclusion for sure.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: REMLOC
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  SOUL CALIBUR 4 is by far one of the greatest fighting games ever. Great gameplay and a pretty extensive 
 create a fighter mode really adds to the replay value of this already masterpiece of a fighting 
 game. SO MANY FIGHTERS! SO POWERFUL AND SO FAST! This game absolutely rocks and it already has 
 downloadable content. Graphically it is amazing , everything from the characters facial expressions 
 to the glimmer of their blades look phenomenal. I have always been a fan of this great series, 
 but this latest installment by far is the best yet. If your a fighting game fan this is definitely 
 for you, especially since their hasn't been a great fighting game like this in years. Soul Calibur 
 really delivers in all the right places, and with the inclusion of yoda and the apprentice it makes 
 it even better. Hopefully Darth Vader will be able to be purchased from XBOX LIVE soon. But other 
 than that this is an absolute MUST BUY FOR ANY FAN OR ANY GAMER THAT APPRECIATES A WELL MADE GAME! 
 SOUL CALIBUR IS AN ABSOLUTE MARVEL IN THE FIGHTING GENRE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inferna_hermit
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  It's a best fighting game yet fot this generation ,great graphic & Physix .the story mode is so 
 short and after an hour the game becomes boring .Star wars charecters are not welcome to soul calibur 
 IV ,Star wars has difference .we saw like this games Mortal Kombat vs. DC and i don't know why there 
 mix two different games and Two different Gameplay ,and story ? ... anyway you can enjoy Soul Calibur 
 IV and have Fun for Minutes . Gampeplay : good but boring in an hour
  Story : there is no story
  Graphic : Great but not too great
  Sound : Bad
  and some lack 
 & frame problems in game .
  Nice shoping & Upgrading Weapons
  Number of charecters is good
  Very Easy Game and short. dont waste your money of this, i don't 
 know what to say maybe soul calibur fans wants me dead but i only say facts and i'm not a other 
 fighting games fanboy but street fighter is much more better than soul calibur IV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkzelda
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Alright first off, screw the postive, Im talking about the negative. Alright so I think the Star 
 wars characters seem really out of place and not fun to play. I actually like star wars but playing 
 them fight ing the soul caliber characters was just wierd. I only played them in the begining then 
 I just played the others. I thought starkiller would be one of my favourite characters but it turns 
 out, he wasen't. Second in Soul Caliber 2 they had that sweet weapon master thing or whatever it 
 was. Whocares. Well they got rid of that. Theres no team battle. Damn. Third and most important 
 why can you just buy all of the characters at the start. It's not like there expensive either, 
 i enjoy unlocking characters but project soul just empties the character bag right on your ass.
 
  
  Well thoughs are the negatives and dont give this a thumbs down because it doesn't have any postives. 
 If you want that check out all of the other billion Soul Caliber reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herkamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? One of the best games this year. Lots of fun, bunch of character customization 
 options, and a nice ending to a great series. The only bad thing about it is they took away the 
 original fighting styles, but thats ok. It would be cool to throw in these originals as downloadables. 
 It would be like an expansion pack, but better. And again, BETTER than GTA 4. They can also throw 
 in some more of the older characters like necrid, and Hwang. I DON'T CARE WHAT OTHER PEOPLE SAY 
 ABOUT THE JEDI CHARACTERS! They were fine. Yoda is not impossible to beat. You just need to be 
 smart about it. The Apprentice was cool. Can't wait for Darth Vader. The only thing they need to 
 do is make it possible to make Jedi characters. Other than that, STOP COMPLAINING! Link was overrated. 
 Anyway, it would be nice for new original fight styles like a hammer, a set of fighting gauntlets, 
 and. my favorite, A REGULAR SIZED BROAD SWORD! That is the only problem with the series. If it 
 had that, the game would be perfect. I stressed this too many times. Just think of what you can 
 do. Other than the huge thorn in my side, I highly recommend this game. One last time, IT'S BETTER 
 THAN GTA  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tangyorange
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 is a beautiful fighting game filled with alot of strategy and it's easy to pick 
 up and play. Great for having the guys over or for those days when you only have 20 minutes to 
 play a game.
  
  The graphics and effects are great as is the normal standard for the Soul Calibur series with many 
 of the character designs a welcome change. 
  
  The sound is almost too much though in my opinion some times. The english voice acting is a bit 
 hokey, but at least it's a step in the positive direction.
  
  The important part here is the controls though. I am happy to say they are very tight. Alot of 
 game balance is for the better although i think Talim got the raw end of the deal, and Ivy's gameplay 
 will feel completely unfamiliar til you figure out her new stance system. Critical Finishes are 
 a welcome addition and add some tension to the third round of combat. 
  
  The bad news is no team modes, and while there is a bit it doesn't offer as much as the other games 
 in the offline modes.
  
  Great game though, fun, immersive, and addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_dude101
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Ok well thanks for reading the review. First to start off this is a very good game and it is very 
 worthy of the series is it the best of the series? read on to find out.
  
  Now we all know that Soul Calibur was an amazing fighter, it almost perfected the fighting series 
 (IMO) , but is this game better? well yea I think it is but that's my opinion, is this the best 
 fighting game ever? well that's for you to decide now for my grading system........ First the Pros, 
 then the Cons......
  
  Pros: The graphics are amazing, the action is smooth, the online is very smooth also, tons of characters, 
 very balanced characters, Tower of Lost Souls gets pretty hard, making a new character is very 
 in depth.
  
  
  Cons: Some lagging in online, short and repetitive story, 5 cloned characters, yoda is very unbalanced.
 
  
  
  All in all it's a very good game. If your a fan of the series then go buy the game if you haven't 
 already. atleast try to rent if you like fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schlabayzell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  The characters we all know and love are back in full force to continue the fight against Soul Edge, 
 an angry looking sword with a taste for souls. Indeed, the story is a little lacking, but what 
 can you expect from a fighting game? Soul Calibur IV delivers where it is most necessary: the combat.
 
  The fluidity of the characters movements, the satisfaction in perform a killer combo with only 
 a few mashes of a button, the beautiful visuals: it's all here. What is great about the SC series 
 is that it is accessible to the casual gaming community in that button mashing can actually snag 
 you victories. But where SC IV differs from it's predecessors is that it offers a depth that only 
 expert controlling will unveil. The amazing finishing moves may remain unseen by a large majority 
 of the gaming public, but to those who are willing to master the subtleties of their favorite character, 
 they are a breathtaking cinematic reward. 
  There is a lot of time to be spent playing this game. The many modes and unlockables are very intriguing 
 and offer hours of additional gameplay outside of the single player story mode and arcade mode. 
 
  SC IV is a great game and you'll love playing it with your friends (if you have any friends) or 
 your girl friend (if you have a girlfriend, if not you can salivate at the gorgeous gals of SC) . 
 And if you don't have any one, well, you can make friends with other players on the new Online 
 mode! 
  The Verdict: With a bunch of additional modes and the new online feature, SCIV is a rewarding experience 
 that is worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virtuetek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short: The grahics are unreal... but the best thing about this game is that 
 is how it plays. I love the fact that I can play online against others around the world. Like going 
 to the arcade without leaving home.
  
  The game mechanics allow for button mashers and skill players alike. My kids can pick up the game 
 and enjoy it, while I can learn all there is to learn about my favorite Mitsurugi. The "Character 
 Creation" is AWESOME!
  
  I haven't been excited about a "fighter" like this for some time. I tried VF5, DOA4, etc.... none 
 of them compared to the "Tekkens" of old. This game brings back my Dreamcast days of Soulcalibur, 
 and the old PS1/PS2 Tekken days.
  
  Bravo to the developers. This is truly one of the best games for the Xbox360. Support the developers 
 and go get this game! 
  
  - VT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenrome
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Many reviews, including Gamespot's, have put a huge mark of shame over Soulcalbur IV for it's lack 
 of single player features
  But today I had a group of friends over and played it for hours on end, just fighting and creating 
 characters and we all agree- this game is better than most fighters out there. It's plain fun and 
 the customization is nothing short of awesome. 
  So why are people being so harsh? I'm not sure, disapointment from hype? I'm not sure, but all of 
 the modes seem to work, though there are some issues.
  The story is appallingly presented, however good it may be, the presentation spoils it.
  Also 
 Yoda and The Apprentice are so crazily unbalanced that it ruis some parts of the game. Pry you 
 never fight Yoda, becuase he's horrid. Especially online. However without Yoda online it's great, 
 with very little lag. 
  At least rent it, it's amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SephirothX-
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Some might say that I am biased because I have played all of the Soul Calibers to date. Well, I 
 disagree, because I don't really like fighting games all that much. Here is why most fighting 
 games are shallow. You might say, well fighting games are supposed to be about multi-player, but 
 even in that case they tend to be shallow, with no character development in any way. This is what 
 makes Soul Caliber IV different than most. You can customize nearly every aspect of the characters 
 you take control of. Don't like the gear your character has? Change it. Don't like the visual appearance 
 of your character? So change it. Want to make your own character? Have a blast. So, from the start 
 of the game I was in the character creation room modifying the skills/gear of my favorite characters, 
 and creating new characters from scratch. This one aspect of the game made all the difference. 
 And I will say, the creation system is rather robust for a fighting game. I mean I can successfully 
 make characters from various other games/stories with fairly good accuracy. 
  
  Here are few of the minor downsides (what good is a review without the full picture?) . The single-player 
 story mode "per character" is pretty short. Realistically, you can multiply that time spent by 
 the total number of characters in the game, and that gives you a decent single-player experience. 
 Overall though, I would have liked for each character to have a longer story mode (Because some 
 characters I'm just not interested in playing) . It would have been cool to see Vader in this version 
 of the game too (even if non-playable) . It is not really a big deal (definitely not losing any 
 sleep over it) .
  
  Breakdown:
  Game play  No complaints here, overall the fighting is fun and action-packed. The same Soul Caliber 
 fighting system everybody has come to know, with a few neat additions. They upgraded the AI pretty 
 significantly from the last games (Be weary of the Apprentice) . Also, don't forget about the awesome 
 character creation system. 
  
  Story  The story of Soul Caliber isn't exactly inspiring, but it is intriguing enough to watch 
 the endings of multiple characters. 
  
  Graphics  This is where the game really shines, the graphics are absolutely amazing. The character 
 modeling, the animations, and the texture mapping are all super high quality. In the character 
 creation screen, try zooming up on the face and looking at the reflection in the character's eyes 
 (very nice) .
  
  Sound  Once again, expect over-the-top voice acting (love it or hate it) . Also, it's kind of funny 
 when the match starts and your character says something, and the opposing character says something 
 completely out of context. Like: "You aren't human are you?" response: "I don't care about your 
 situation".
  
  Replay factor  Excellent. When you unlock achievements you unlock new gear for your characters. 
 Also, you have a plethora of bonus items at your fingertips (art, story, bonus characters, equipment, 
 new weapons, etc)
  
  So what are you waiting for? Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadrikerXIV
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  The initial hype for the game clouded my judgement and prevented me from coming up with a comprehensive 
 review up until this point. Having unlocked nearly everything the game has to offer, and countless 
 custom characters later, the replay value is starting to reveal itself.
  
  Like many others, I've been highly anticipating the release of Soulcalibur IV. I've been a big 
 fan since the very first game released, Soul Edge for the Playstation. Rather than delving into 
 a complete state of nostalgia I'm going to skip the reminiscing and get to the review.
  
  What we've got here is an exceptional fighter with some content flaws holding it back.
  
  The 
 moment the game booted up I was presented with my first let down. I was expecting to be blown away 
 and hyped by a rendered cinematic intro movie like the ones found in Tekken V and Soul Calibur 
 III. Unfortunately, the cutscenes throughout the game are driven by the in-game models. Not to 
 say the in-game models are fugly, on the contrary they're anything but the latter.
  
  The visuals are incredible, though there are some set backs. Some sequences feature a blend of 
 3D environmental elements placed atop a pre-rendered 2D backdrop. While it was acceptable back 
 in the day, it fails to impress with this game. Aside from these flaws, the character models are 
 beautifully rendered (with the exception of Angol Fear, who looks incomplete at best) and animated, 
 as are the lush stages. The visual eyecandy is healthy and inspiring  no surprise coming from 
 Namco.
  
  All visuals aside, the game has the basic core modes that are expected of any fighter; arcade, 
 story, training and versus as well as a new progressive mode titled Tower of Lost Souls.
  
  The brief story mode is, by far, the biggest disappointment. High expectations of Namco contribute 
 to the unsatisfied disposition one has after completing the very brief arcade mode with one of 
 the stock characters or custom characters. The lack of effort placed into the story mode is unforgiveable. 
 Players are presented with a wall of text prior to the first stage which fails to thoroughly engage 
 most players. Judging by their previous fighting titles, this game falls terribly short of reaching 
 Namco's story-telling standards.
  
  Versus mode is partitioned into two different versions: standard and special. Characters in Soulcalibur 
 IV have the ability to equip skills and equipment which enhance skills in battle much like one 
 would expect from an RPG. Special mode enables the stat enhancements provided by the armor donned 
 by a character while standard disables all stat enhancements thus placing both players on even 
 ground and eliminating any advantages not already present within the stock movelists.
  
  The training mode features mostly everything you'd expect from a training mode now-a-days save 
 one crucial feature; a command list mode. You're forced to manually pause the game and open the 
 command list any time you wish to view the movelist. Some Just Input commands, which rely on precision 
 (exact frame input) are very difficult to pull off and, unfortunately, the training mode doesn't 
 help you with the timing at all. Yeah, Zasalamel's movelist frustrated me to no end, hahaha.
  
  The new game mode, Tower of Lost Souls, has been a topic of debate since the game's debut. 
 The mode features 60 floors to ascend and a survival mode descent. A set number of characters are 
 presented for each floor and characters do not heal between fights  stressing importance on proper 
 stat and skill allocation. Each floor during ascension has a treasure chest that can be unlocked 
 by meeting specific requirements during the fight (finish the opponent off via ring out, don't 
 take any damage, finish before X-amount of time, etc.) . These chests contain pieces of armor that 
 can be used in the character creation mode, unless you've already unlocked the armor piece (in 
 which case the treasure chest's contents are replaced with gold currency) .
  
  Many claim the mode is far too difficult, however I believe the difficulty is just right. The mode 
 forces you to respec and gear your character accordingly to tackle and gain the upperhand against 
 the circumstances each floor and opponent brings to the table. The requirements to unlock treasure 
 chests (can significantly) add to the challenge of each floor, forcing the player to control the 
 flow of battle. If a stage permits the use of more than one character the fighters can be switched 
 in and out on the fly with the new switch button. There is, however, a three bar meter (which fills 
 as attacks are performed) which warrants you the ability to tag in your next character. This adds 
 onto combo possibilities and survivability significantly.
  
  Regrettably, we were not graced with a tag or team versus mode to take full advantage of the newly 
 implemented switch.
  
  Online play is the most likely candidate to sustain Soulcalibur IV right next to the character 
 customization. The online interface is a breeze; simple, practical and efficient. Online console 
 gaming should be this easily accessible. The two versus modes are present; standard and special, 
 along with two versions of each titled ranked and player matches. As the titles suggest, ranked 
 matches are ranked on the leadership boards and added to your gamertag win/lose tally. Player matches 
 are lobby based allowing you to join a session and wait your turn to fight a la arcade mannerism. 
 Spectator mode allows you to watch the action while you wait your turn.
  
  The create a character mode still features the usual limitations (no sliders, limited number of 
 faces) but presents a healthy amount of gear you can slap on. Stock characters are customizable 
 this time around, though just how much you can customize them is also stifled (skin tone, eye color, 
 physical measurements are among those that cannot be altered) .
  
  Each piece of armor can contribute or take away stat numbers and category points. Health, defense 
 and attack are the core stats along with five skill-related categories. Each skill requires a number 
 of points put into a specific category to equip. In most cases, if you want to create an enhanced 
 character, with exceptional skills and stats, you'll have to sacrifice your appearance and don 
 armor based solely upon numbers. However, if you plan on playing standard versus and arcade, and 
 straying away from most of the single-player content, you can be as cosmetic as you want with your 
 gear.
  
  All in all, this is a very solid fighter; excellent gameplay but with content that leaves much 
 to be desired. The controls are tight and responsive. The combat mechanics are solid and refined 
 from previous versions, though some balancing issues are being discovered and are being looked 
 into. It will take a lot more time before players can accurately put together a decent tier listing 
 and judge who are the broken and/or OP characters in the game.
  
  There's already a listing of downloadable content up and the chance for more is very high. Hopefully 
 we'll be graced with more content in the future for this great fighting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicmole
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 gets off on all the right feet and does a damn good job of bringing the fighter 
 genre into the current generation of consoles.
  
  Graphically it is easily the best game out there. From effects to animations SC 4 excels in big 
 way as you would expect from the franchise. Every character in the game shows off amazing attention 
 to detail and a fluid animation systems that brings it all to life. If you want proof look at the 
 hairs on Yoda's head, LOOK AT THEM!! Once you wrap that all up with amazing lighting and visual 
 effects you have a master piece. This is much more then the HD upgrade in Dead or Alive 4.
  
  Gameplay wise you basically get SC. If you liked it before you'll like it now. It's been tweaked 
 a little, but all in all the same idea. One thing has been added, just not very well. It's called 
 the soul gauge. It basically restricts how much you can block. Block too much and the opponent 
 can destroy your armor and then do a finishing move that KO's you instantly, problem is, you will 
 never get that far cause it take so long to deplete the gauge and then even longer to bust the 
 armor that you'll have beaten them old fashioned style long before it comes to that. The best part 
 of SC 4 is the character creator, but this time it is almost a must due to the fact that it really 
 matters what armor you wear. You can literally shuffle skills and armor for hours to get the perfect 
 fit for your gameplay style. The modes feel a bit more lacking then the last entry due to the streamlining 
 of the whole thing down to online multiplayer, versus, story mode, and arcade mode. The online 
 holds little surprises ,but is still the best online fighting to be seen on any console. The story 
 mode is a short affair having only 5 stages but each stage has up to 3 enemies that you must fight 
 consecutively. This is basically the main back bone of all modes. You now rarely fight only one 
 character, rather you fight 3 to 4 in a row with one health bar. The last mode is the Tower of 
 Lost Souls. This gives you the option to "Ascend or Descend" fighting a wide array of characters. 
 If you achieve specific secret goals you can open up special armor or gold. The Tower starts out 
 good enough, but the difficulty sharply cuts you down around the 12 floor, and becomes plain unfair 
 around the 20th level, and don't even think of trying to descend. It would have been much wiser 
 to give a little more on this mode since it makes up a majority of the gameplay. Few will reach 
 the upper floors or even the mid floors for that matter. Though it lacks the amount of varied modes 
 that SC 3 had it is still the largest fighters on the current consoles, and will probably stay 
 that way until SC 5.
  
  I also wanted to point out an odd fact. SC 4 has a TEEN rating, but is FAR more sexual and violent 
 then that of it's M rated counter part DOA 4. Jiggly women in there under wear and swords some 
 how slipped under the radar. I personally don't care. I think the T rating is fair, but it brings 
 to question why DOA 4 earns a M for MUCH less sexual and violent content.
  
  In the end what you get is not only the best fighter but one of the best games to be released this 
 generation, and well worth your $60.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke1002
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  Soul calibur 4 is the fighting game we have all been waiting for! Soul Calibur has never looked 
 better, with jaw dropping graphics and physics, lots of single player modes, Xbox Live fights and 
 much much more. There is a somewhat lacking story mode for every character, a fun and simple arcade 
 mode in which you fight several opponents while trying to get a high score using combos, and special 
 techniques. The "Tower of Lost Souls" is a great addition too. In the Tower of lost souls you can 
 eithier ascend, in which you choose characters and fight consectutive battles with no health recovery, 
 or descend, in which you fight non stop consecutive battles to see how far you can get without 
 healing in between. These modes are complete with unlockable treasure chests. There is also a great 
 custom chracter creation mode too. Once you choose your characters style, clothes, voice, physique, 
 and hairstyle you can change the colors owever you like, then set up skills that will help your 
 character in battle. Battles over Xbox Live are virtually lagless with a okay connection, but there 
 are certain characters with cheap techniques the players like to use just to get their rank up. 
 If you want you can play agianst your freinds in versus mode. You can buy new characters, weapons, 
 artwork and more with you money you earned playing online, or in arcade or story mode. Overall 
 soul calibur 4 is not the greatest fighting game of all time, but is definitely one of those games 
 youll remember long after you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mossfan1245
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  It is that time of the year again. Soul Calibur has become 'the' fighting game that has nailed 
 down weapon-based fighting since its inception on the Dreamcast. Now that the game has moved on 
 the the next-gen consoles, the game has made sure to leave a mark on the gaming world.
  
  This is a good game for both rookies to the series and veterans of the game alike. The game mechanics 
 have pretty much stayed the same. Your character has a weapon and pretty much uses it to defeat 
 your opponent. Blocking can be easy to do. However, block too much and some of your armor or equipment 
 will get destroyed. It's a nice new feature that adds some realism in the game. Another new feature 
 is the Soul Gauge. Blocked attacks will decrease your opponents Soul Gauge to the point where your 
 opponent's gauge will be flashing red. Once that happens, you can go in and try for a Soul Crush 
 leading to a decisive Critical Finisher which ends the round automatically. These new features 
 sound very exciting and they are...... when you can execute them. For inexperienced users, the Critical 
 Finisher will come later rather than sooner. Even veterans have some trouble doing them. However, 
 when you get the hang of it, it's very satisfying.
  
  There are a few new modes in SC4. The game brings back the Arcade mode from SC3 along with a new 
 mode called "Tower of Lost Souls" where you either decide to ascend or decend floors against increasingly 
 tough enemies.. The story mode is also back though very short in supply. Online modes are also 
 introduced this year. It's fun to play against your friends on Xbox Live or the PSN. However, when 
 trying to look for a match against anyone, matches seem to fill up very quickly. But sometimes 
 when you create a session, it takes 3-5 mins before someone actually joins. There is still a bit 
 to be worked on but overall, it's a step in the right direction.
  
  Another new addition is the Character Creation mode. This allows you to create characters accustomed 
 to your playing style. You can make characters look as clothed.... or unclothed as you want to. 
 This does affect all the attributes that your fighter has. You can level up your character through 
 fighting matches in any mode. You can also customize any regular character in the game. Speaking 
 of characters, Yoda is playable on the Xbox 360 while Darth Vader is playable on the PS3. Even 
 though there are rumors of cross overs for those characters, they share one thing in common. It's 
 another secret character that is involved in the Star Wars universe.
  
  Soul Calibur 4 is a great fighting game. It's easy enough to get a novice player playing well but 
 also deep enough for experienced players to excel. The game isn't perfect but it is definitely 
 a must-have in your Xbox 360 or PS3 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatatay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  You may think that Soul Caliber 4 is just your average fighting game right? WRONG! Its probably 
 the best fighting game available for the 360 so far. With the addition of new charaters, levels, 
 and online play, why wouldnt you buy this game? Now to go into a little more detail.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, the game feels very balanced. You wont find many situations where you 
 are completely overpowered by another character. The main controls are basically the same for each 
 character, but once you start using some of the more advanced combos, you will find that each character 
 has a completely different fighting style, but its your choice to choose which one suites you best. 
 
  
  There are also a lot of different gametypes to choose from. You have "Tower" which is basically 
 just you trying to survive each floor of enemies without ever healing. Its probably the biggest 
 challenge you will find in the game. Next you have the story and arcade mode, which are almost 
 the same but arcade has 3 more stages and the story mode is very very short = (. But you do have 
 to beat the story with every character which adds loads of replay value. 
  
  Although those gamtypes are cool, the most exciting addtion to the soul caliber series would have 
 to be online play. But be warned, do not start playing online mode until you understand a few of 
 the basic combos or else you will get owned lol. Anyways, the online mode has a cool ranking system 
 similar to the one in COD4. Regardless of whether you win or not, you get experience that goes 
 towards your total level which can up to 30 i believe. Online play is a great and fun addition 
 to soul caliber and it should not be ignored!
  
  As far as graphics goes, they are acceptable for a fighting game. Its no Call OF Duty 4 but it 
 has some nice visualsand effects that get the job done. Besides, fighting games arent meant to 
 be graphical powerhouses anyways. 
  
  So, all in all Soul Caliber 4 is a must for all fans of fighting games. It should not be forgotten! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_268
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Usually fighting games are over the top and unbalanced. Soul Calibur 4 is well made and mostly 
 balanced. Just like the previous installments you can pick your favorite character (s) and go through 
 a series of trial battles. In Soul Calibur 2 it was an awkward story that relied too heavily on 
 reading text, taking away the attention from the fighting itself. Soul Calibur 4 has an improved 
 and shortened version of the story-mode, and a new mode called Tower of Souls. The Tower of Souls 
 is a basic hold out as long as you can and attempt to either ascend or descend the tower. All of 
 the results are posted online, so try your hardest.
  
  But what really stands out in Soul Calibur 4 is the online gameplay. The graphics are just as sharp 
 and the controls are just as smooth online as they are when playing against the CPU in arcade mode. 
 If that wasn't enough you can now build and customize your own characters and take them to battle 
 in the arena. It is really fun.
  
  Aside from the small problems, the Star Wars characters really disappoint, Soul Calibur is not 
 only one of the most solid fighting games, but one of the most addicting and enjoyable as well. 
 I am not a fan of the fighting genre, I think they are linear and repetitive, Soul Calibur 4 is 
 always and new, exciting experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meangreen420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  FRIST OFF I'M NOT GOING TO GET INTO THE STORY OF THIS GAME BUT I WILL SAY THAT THIS GAME IS SO 
 AWESOME AND A BAD REVIEW IS NOT WHAT A GAME LIKE THIS NEEDS ..... I'V BEEN HAVIN SO MUCH FUN WITH 
 IT I CAN'T PUT IT DOWN NOMCO DID A GRATE JOB AT THE ART WORK AND GAMEPLAY VERY FUN TO PLAY WITH 
 YOUR FRIENDS AND SOME PEOPLE ON HERE ARE SO WRONG THIS GAME IS HOT IN EVERY WAY AND YODA IS THE 
 BOMB TO PLAY WITH..... HE CAN GET HIS LIL BUTT WIPED ON JUST LIKE EVERYONE ELS IN THE GAME YOU JUST 
 CAN'T THOW HIM THAT'S IT BIG DEAL RIGHT? NOT REALLY IT'S NOT HARD TO BEAT HIM AT ALL. I THINK ALL 
 TYPES OF PEOPLE/GAMERS CAN GET INTO THIS GAME AND HAVE A BLAST PLAYING.
  WORNING DON'T LISTIN TO BAD REVIEWS CAUSE IF YOU LET THEM STOP YOU FROM PLAYING ONE OF THE YEARS 
 BEST FIGHTERS YOU'LL BE MISSIN OUT BIG TIME
  SCORE:9.5 GO GET IT NOW
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kente10
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 3, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  So i've been waiting quite some time for SC4. i was almost to the point where i was gonna preorder... 
 good thing i didnt do that.
  
  
  So Soul Calibur 4 is one of the most popular weapon based franchise games up to date. If you've 
 never played a soul calibur game, than this game probably wont be as bad to you as it was to me... 
 but wutever, basically its just a sword fighting game... It's also a button-masher's delight and 
 up to 75% of the people that play it have no skill at all, yet still beat it by pushing random 
 buttons.
  
  
  First things first... the controls. the button mashing is bad enough... i dont like bragging and 
 im not trying to sound arrogant but i actually play the game how you should. I'm not that good 
 but i can proudly say that there is not one fighting game i play that i button mash in. The controls 
 are ok for the game but the list that tells you how to use these controls seems as though it was 
 made by a jibberish speaking, hyroglyphic writing, monkey.
  The controls are based off of a key... ill show you wut it looks like... its just an example
 
  
  
  [Triple slash MMK+B]
  
  
  Now im sure youre wondering wut that means, but the m stands for medium, which you have to figure 
 out means the X button... the K is for kick, which is the B button, and the B stands for Block 
 which is the A button... Its so confusing that i have trouble typing this part of the review, let 
 alone decoding the moves and performing them in the game.
  
  
  Aside from that nonsense, sc4 has literally nothing new with the fighting engine except for the 
 fact that your armor can fall off... woo-friggin-hoo.
  The characters have the same moves as the previous 2 games and has not one change wutsoever...
 
  
  Next, the online.... god, where do i start???? 
  The online is terrible in my opinion... not because of the functions and lag because these things 
 seem fine, but its the people playing the game online that do the same move ALL THE TIME, yet still 
 win. no less that 95% of the people online are button mashers that do random moves that theyve 
 never seen before... i have proof of this because most people will be seen doing random blocking 
 and attack across from the stage when youre waaaaaay outta range to hurt them... this doesnt penalize 
 my score for the review though however, because this game couldnt control the button mashing... 
 although it could have made this game non button mashable (i dunno if thats a real word or not...)
 
  
  Finally... the star wars characters. Now im not a big fan of star wars but even i know that a lightsaber 
 could easily cut through a sword made of steel any day. If this is true, than why the f*ck can 
 you block??? especially when your using a character like maxi that uses nunchucks... In my opinion 
 yoda, darth vader, and the apprentice, should have never seen the light of sc4 mainly because it 
 doesnt make sense... well anyway, yoda is really slow in the 360 version and only has about 3 effective 
 moves, vader seems like everybody else in SC4 but he can use the force, but the apprentice seems 
 like he's god... he is the only character in the Whole game that can chain together more than 4 
 attacks. in fact, it felt like i was playing against a character from dbz. 
  
  
  All in all, this game is a total letdown and has easily been seen before if youre a SC fan like 
 i am. If the game would have had more depth it would have easily been worthy of a 9.5 but theres 
 nothing new to it...
  
  7.0
  
  
  Kente 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SupraGT
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the series since SC2 and it still stands, to me at least, that SC2 was the best 
 in the series by far. SC4 feels like an extension of SC3 system wise with a huge emphasis on stuns 
 and what not. I'm basing this review solely on the fighting engine which feels exactly the same 
 as SC3. Namco only changes the characters moves sets and expects you to relearn each character. 
 From what I see, many of the characters move sets are less inspiring and are rather more boring 
 to play with as they nerf a lot of aspect to many characters. It just feels like a step backwards 
 as characters can do less and less with their movesets. 
  The online experience is just terrible with players spamming the same moves which are effective 
 online, however they wouldn't be face to face. There is too much lag in the gameplay and 90% of 
 the time matches are just random slashing. Be prepared to throw moves out in advanced of the animation 
 since the latency is terrible. We need better net coding namco.
  If you are a serious player that has been playing the series for a while avoid online at all costs. 
 It only leads to more frustration about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jp4202006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  To me fighting games ae hit or miss. I liked games like Marvel VS Capcom 2, Tekken's 2 and 3, and 
 some others. But there will always be fighting games I think are quite bad. Soul Calibur 4 is indeed 
 a kick-arse game. The visuals are top-par, and the gameplay is where it should be unlike Virtua 
 Fighter 5, which was too stiff.
  
  The features I like about SC4. For one character creation is really cool, because you get all this 
 equipment and you can make a sick male or female character. It's almost like an RPG aspect to it 
 when you're creating a character. The equipment boosts stats and stuff, and you actually have many 
 ways to make a fighter. 
  
  As far as the regular characters almost every one is cool. Some of the weapons are really cool. 
 The moves are easy to master and as I said the gameplay is good. The moves and stuff aren't sloppy. 
 It's kind of a button-masher type game, but hey whats wrong with that? My favorite aspect is the 
 RPG aspect of creating your own character. Because when you use them online it just shows you how 
 good of a character you made, especially if you're all over your opponent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otanikun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I've never really been that huge a fan of this fighting series, but I've enjoyed some of it's characters 
 and the weapons based fighting mechanic, it makes things more interesting.
  This newest incarnation of the Soulcalibur franchise, is no different; the character models have 
 been bumped up to realism on the newest generation of consoles, the cheesy announcer is still in 
 tact along with the somewhat inspiring battle themes for the arena you're going to be fighting 
 in.
  
  But the character customization is still here as well, carrying over from the previous Soulcalibur 
 III, although I do have some complaints about it.
  For one thing is the lack of customization options, the armor you select, seems to be attributed 
 to every single character in game by only a little bit; and what's disappointing is just that, 
 lack of armor to choose from and undergarments for the male and female fighters, the women seem 
 to just have your generic run of the mill undies you could likely find at your local convenience 
 store, and the men have some sort of bondage fetish going on, creepy.
  
  The hair is severely lacking, only some differing styles from the outset but other than that it's 
 either choosing the short hair weave, long hair, Chinese braids which are all to common in customization 
 and the extremely strange afro for this type of fighting game; though I suppose I could create 
 Shaft if I wanted to, but I don't.
  Lack of custom fight moves and special attacks also make this feature feel like it's just missing 
 that extra little kick.
  
  One diamond in the rough, I suppose would be that you can customize the overall physical appearance 
 of your would be fighter, the eyes, hair color, muscular mass is kinda fun; oh and messing with 
 the voices are a blast too, but I'm a simple kinda guy whom gets a kick out of almost anything 
 silly or funny
  
  And just one little complaint, which would be the fighting it's self, they seem a little heavy 
 to control, even somebody as light as Yoda, feel like Astaroth and he's one huge dude.
  
  Okay enough bad, some good shall I?
  Good stuff would be the nice bump up in graphics, take a 
 step into the 21st century with awesome detail to the character models, their clothing, armour 
 and weapons; along with their backgrounds and background damage.
  Though everything could be just a tad more realistic, I can see some skin marks on characters, 
 almost like moles or birthmarks, which I kinda like, shows off detail well.
  
  The tower system is kinda fun but after the first few stages, it seems to me to drag on and on, 
 unless you truly wanna get all those hidden armour pieces or special items for your characters; 
 though it seems to want to focus more on online fighting to achieve this, which is understandable 
 in a small way.
  Basic features are still here, Arcade mode, Training and the like.
  
  That really seems to be about it for me on this game, it could be just a tad bit better, but maybe 
 the downloadable content can remedy some missing things eh?
  Get it if you love fighting games or this series in general, other than that, rent it or play it 
 at a friends house on the weekends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garvaos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  When I first heard the idea of soul calibur 4 my initial reaction was an excited one. But the first 
 thing I heard about it was the star wars characters that were to feature in the game. And to be 
 honest it burst my bubble a bit. But now having played the game on the 360 I have come to really 
 like the apprentice. As for Yoda? Well he is good to play with but against is a totally different 
 kettle of fish. He is too small and he is pretty broken in my opinion.
  
  Anyway the general game play is classic soul Caliber. It does the series justice. And with the 
 addition of the soul gauge and critical finishers (even though I still have not managed to pull 
 off a crit finisher yet) it brings the game to a respectful and very enjoyable whole. If you are 
 new to the soul calibur saga then game play wise I think you will be able to pick this game up 
 rather well but if your new and its story you want then I would suggest going back to basics and 
 downloading soul calibur off the Xbox live arcade. Just to get an idea of what's happening.
  
  There is a good selection of game modes. The introduction to game play on live is awesome with 
 the ranked level up system being very well constructed giving the online experience a bit more 
 of a challenge.
  
  The story modes for each character seem a bit short in my opinion. But that said there is a good 
 amount of fighting to be had in them. The tower of souls is a worthy addition taking the place 
 of the tale of souls mode in SCIII. But I would have liked to see the tales of souls mode make 
 a come back.
  
  The character creation has been upped in soul caliber 4 for the better. It is a more in depth system 
 that lets you make your own character from scratch or totally over hall the appearance of your 
 favourite character. It is a good system that should not be under estimated. One gripe I do have 
 about it though I that it doesn't let you customise the star wars characters or even make your 
 own guy/girl with a light sabre (or if it does I haven't unlocked it yet) which I wanted to do. 
 But you can't have it all.
  
  All in all Soul Calibur IV is an awesome game which you should pick up weather it to unleash some 
 stress or to have a good time with your mates online
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RIDDIK72
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Where to start with this amazing game. The graphics are simply amazing. They took full advantage 
 of the 360's capabilities. The fighting is awsome. They have added some new stuff with the fighting. 
 Like if you hate it when people use gaurd all the time, then your in luck! They have added a new 
 system to where the more someone blocks, they lose armor. And if they block to much then you have 
 a chance for a critical finish which if you pull it off will leave you with a victory. I have yet 
 to do it myself since I have only owned the game for a small handful of hours but my friend told 
 me that in order to do it the screen will flash black and when it does you have to hit the a, b, x, 
 and y buttons at the same time. And thats it. Oh but you only have about a fraction of a second 
 to do it, so if you know its coming, be ready for it. They now allow you to fully customize the 
 story characters now too instead of just change the color of their costumes. Ever want to make 
 Nightmare look like a jester? Well now you can! Have at it! The weapons system is different now 
 too in that you can choose what perks to put on your weapons as long as you don't exceed some kind 
 of limit. I havn't figured that one out yet. They did take out the cool quest thing from the third 
 one and threw in the Soul Tour. I only just started that so I can't really say much about it. The 
 addition of online play is really nice if you get sick of playing the computer all the time and 
 no one wants to play. The story mode combat system has changed as well. You now don't fight just 
 one person per stage every single time. you can be facing up to i believe 3 people per stage. Which 
 gives the game a nicer challenge. The addition of Yoda and The Apprentice seems out of place though. 
 I still don't see why they choose to put in random characters from other games and stuff like that. 
 If they want to do that put in characters that would actually fit like Dante and Virgil from DMC3. 
 Or even someone from Dynasty Warriors or Samurai Warriors. But they didn't so oh well. Yoda and 
 the apprentice are kinda neat though. Yoda cannot be grabbed and is hard to hit because hes so 
 short. Hes pretty cheap really, although he doesn't have very many good moves. The Apprentice is 
 alot of fun to play with though. Other than that they didn't really change character moves from 
 the third one any that I have noticed. As far as I can tell they dont have that character that 
 uses random styles which is a bummer. So other than all that this game is alot of fun. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhh34c
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  The game is a ton of fun. The characters all feel new, compared to how I remember them in SC3. 
 Kilik has a few new moves, Raphael can... teleport now, as can Cervantes. I've yet to pull off 
 a critical finisher during a match, but in training they look awesome.
  
  Alright I'll try to answer the main questions I had before I got it:
  Japanese and English are 
 both selectable for voices.
  
  The Create a Character is... way too deep to go into here. The skills and boosts on all the items 
 are hard to describe.
  
  Graphics are beautiful.
  
  Yoda is a flipping lil bastard. The Apprentice is Akuma with a Lightsaber.
  
  Online: Standard 
 or Special Versus choices, game rooms are setup in lobbies of four people (Kinda like Dead or Alive 
 did) At the moment... no one's online, so I can't really test how the voice chat works. There is 
 only 20 people total on the leaderboards.
  Standard is the arcade version, Special mode lets your skills and boosts come into play. 
  
 
  All characters can be changed in the create a character. You can re-dress Taki to a degree, or 
 just give some of them new weapons. Again: all of these changes change how the guys play, and what 
 they are able to do well.
  
  Singleplayer is what we've all known, Tower, Story and Arcade. Tower lets you go up (Boss fights/challenge 
 modes) or down (Survival Mode)
  
  I'll be playing until my eyes bleed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _DeadlyFred_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Regardless of your feelings for the nuances of past Soul Caliburs -- how much better SC2 was than 
 SC3, how much you hated Chronicles of the Sword, how much the extra weapon styles sucked -- you 
 simply cannot excuse the huge cut in content which marks the latest entry in the series.
  
  If something is bad, or needs improvement do you A.) Try to make it better or B.) Remove it entirely 
 and hope no one notices. Namco has opted for the second option here. Unfortunately, even if you 
 don't care a bit about content, that still doesn't save the game from feeling incredibly slap-dash 
 and shallow. What you get is a basic game with a few rudimentary options and modes which seems 
 intended solely as a frontend for the on-line component. And even that is pretty cut and dry.
 
  
  The only thing deep about SCIV winds up being one of its more frustrating components and that is 
 the new Stat-based Character Creation and Weapon Effects. Apparently the majority of the game's 
 development cycle was spent worrying over this feature and, in the end, it really ends up being 
 a lackluster affectation that really does nothing but prevent you from making a character you like 
 the look of and having to constantly shuffle junk around to get the desired effects.
  
  Ironically, a far more workable solution to this issue is ALREADY IN PLACE in the customization 
 options for canon characters' 1-Player costumes. You tie your stats to a single equipable item 
 (non visual) as well as the weapon selected and customize from there. It works stupid more efficiently 
 and accomplishes the same exact ends without having to juggle every bit of equipment on your character 
 to get the skills you want. As opposed to SC3, leveling up in 4 is an entirely trivial task which, 
 while it has tangible results, takes VERY little time and/or effort to achieve.
  
  Single player game modes are non-existent. You have a VERY short story mode, a basic 7 round Arcade 
 (with no option settings mind you, so if its too hard you're out of luck) and the Tower of Lost 
 Souls. The latter is basically a quick way of saying: Endless strings of matches against consecutively 
 worse odds which some lame-o decided could pass as "challenging". It's not, and coupled with the 
 horrible AI, its pretty much nothing but an exercise in frustration. Heck, there isn't even a guided 
 training mode in this one but... I suppose that's just because Edge Master took the sequel off.
 
  
  The AI in SC3 was annoying, and Namco has gone to great lengths to make it even more so in SC4. 
 At times it will stand around and let you pummel it into oblivion, at others it will dance around 
 and block/dodge everything you attempt to throw at it then hit you with eighty chains of combos 
 until you've been killed five times over and, if possible, ring'ed out for good measure.
  
  I suppose I should mention something about the new characters. Well, one new character, a pair 
 of jedi and 5 cosmetic overhauls of existing styles. I for one was really looking forward to a 
 character with two katanas, as Shura seemed to represent but she, along with all the rest besides 
 Hilde, are not customizable (beyond Weapons/Skills) and not usable in Character Creation; though 
 that's somewhat pointless anyhow since all but the Jedi and Mrs Krone are copies. I will say that 
 the Jedi are at least interesting to play with and Hilda makes a great and unique addition to the 
 SC roster, but that is a sole diamond in a pile of mammoth sh... well, you know.
  
  So, are HD graphics and On-line worth it? You'd better hope so because that's about all you're 
 getting. The only things they didn't manage to bash repeatedly with the Fail Hammer are the core 
 fighting system and the game engine. Even if everything SC3 presented wasn't perfect, that's no 
 reason to cut ALL of it out entirely and present something so utterly lacking and incomplete.
 
  
  Sad.
  
  If you just want it for on-line or have never played Soul Calibur before, you may not find it quite 
 as bad. However, I am openly rating this with a heavy bias and quite frankly find it to be a complete 
 and utter disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  If you have not played the previous Soul Calibur games this is almost similar to another Fighting 
 games. This is based on each Characters stories, Fight your way in Castle mode and Arcade mode. 
 There are many weapons and armory to chose from. Creating your own character to build stats, weapons 
 and other things to able to improve your character.
  
  Graphics/Music:
  So far the graphics is average, seems like the previous Soul Caliburs games are quite better. But 
 the graphics are pretty good and a bit more update. The music is pretty good, same as the other 
 games.
  
  Characters:
  Each characters are unique and different in there own ways. They also have different styles and 
 strengths as well. When you play each characters in story mode you will have different ending for 
 each characters.
  
  Fighting system:
  Pretty much it's the same as other fighting, sometimes the when fighting can be annoying, when 
 you playing the arcade mode when you reach stage 7 it can be quite annoying. But when fighting 
 in Story mode in Normal and Hard is quite easy and fast to beat. When you play in the castle mode 
 it's a bit annoying when reach a certain level of the castle mode.
  
  This game is quite like the other fighting games, same but unique in there own way. Probably if 
 you not sure rent it, but if like to get everything in the game then buy this game. This game is 
 enjoyable but it can get boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HotVchick
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I got the game the day it came out. the first thing i noticed was how beautiful the graphics characters 
 and fighting arenas were, namco went all out on this one. The fighters moves had been tweeked a 
 bit so it took me some time to re-adjust to that, but all in all its a great fighting game the 
 only thing i wish was that there was like an adventure mod of some sort but still its a fun game. 
 The whole system about adding specials to ur weapon and things like that i think was a bad idea. 
 they should have stuck with what they know was fun and left it at that. but it did notruin the 
 game for me at all. it seems that the characters move set has been shortend. or so it feels like 
 from playing it. there arent as many combinations and side step moves, and the new designed characters 
 dont even hve there own moves but the weapons and moves of other characters, so i think that there 
 should have been more time put in to make it a suppurb game in every single aspect. the characters 
 each move very easily across the screen so that the fighting seems very seemless, the camera is 
 great no problems there. i do think that a different guest character besides yoda would have been 
 better. itjust seems so fake when yoda appears it kinda ruins the mood for me. maybe a final fantasy 
 character. that would have been amazing but whatver, its pretty fun tp play as yoda. but its a 
 great game and if u are even interestged in fighting games u might as well start with this one 
 its pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shujikun07
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I was never a big Soulcalibur fan, but I did play the original a lot back on the Dreamcast. However, 
 my fighting games of choice have been street fighter and tekken. Bring in Soulcalibur IV and I've 
 been playing it non-stop for the past few days, minus work.
  
  Now, my record online is like 38% winning and 62% losing. I've lost a few times to spammers who 
 will use the same low attack over and over, and it infuriates me. Overall, however, my online experience 
 has been somewhat favorable although I want to break my controller sometimes. 
  
  I think the a HORI arcade stick is in order, otherwise I may throw my controller out the window 
 one of these days. The d-pad is absolute garbage for this game, and the l-stick works sometimes, 
 but down down angle forward doesn't register half the time and I see my character do a sidestep. 
 This can mean the difference between pulling off that combo to win a match or to allow the enemy 
 another chance to win. 
  
  I really hope they put out a better controller with a better d-pad that is wireless. Unfortunately, 
 if you want to enjoy this game and want to win without worrying about controller mishaps, you'll 
 probably be better off buying an arcade stick.
  
  Alas, that ends my current view of this game. I gave it a 9.5. While not the most technical fighter 
 I've played, it's definitely got some stuff that is unique. This is just plain fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaponmaster01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  As a die-hard Soul Calibur fan since it's first appearance during the final and climactic days 
 during the Nintendo and Sega wars, I've watched as this series grew into an effective and addicting 
 fighting game throughout the 12-13 years that followed. And though I'll forever miss Soul Calibur's 
 awesome Weaponmaster mode, it's not to say that the two predecessors have made their mark. With 
 the final release of Soul Calibur IV, I have to say that although the story mode is quite a drag, 
 this game does not disappoint. The idea of Star Wars characters being the Kameo characters of Soul 
 Calibur IV was the grandest idea that the developers came up with along the series. That's not 
 to say that their previous ones were any worse, but I'm a big Star Wars fan and to see the Apprentice 
 at work even before his glory day comes in the next few months... is pretty sweet.
  
  Character creation is back, and although fighting styles are based on existing characters, and 
 not based on the selection of weapons like in Soul Calibur III, this is made up for with a system 
 of RPG like stats, which is based on Attack, Defense, And HP. These attributes rise and fall depending 
 on what armors and wear you apply to your character. Also available are skill sets, which are certain 
 abilities you can call upon in the midst of battle that may increase your HP, or cleave damage 
 through your opponents blocks, or even go so far as to make your character temporarily invisible. 
 
  
  Another thing I like is the ability to shatter armor, successive hits to certain points of your 
 characters body will break away their steel and iron platings, leaving them to die an embarrassing 
 naked death. The additional Soul Crush is also amazing. As your opponent or you relies strictly 
 on nonstop blocks a soul meter will start to slowly change color until your life bar starts to 
 blink red. Any further hits after this will lead to a soul crush, to which you can then release 
 your characters critical finish, which ends the match with a devastating finale.
  
  Soul Calibur IV ditched a lot of it's addicting single player modes, with the exception of the 
 Tower of Lost souls (or so I think it is called) here is were most players will spend their time 
 in single player trying to ascend and then descend the tower, all the while meeting certain requirements 
 to unlock hidden chests that contain more armor and wear for character creation mode. Though it 
 was disappointing to see that team tag was not available online, and it was furthermore saddening 
 to see so many things disappear from what was available on previous games, I could see why it was 
 necessary. Soul Calibur is a dynamic and complicated game, more so than I think some people are 
 taking credit for. To achieve this level of innovation in a game like this is enough to give the 
 developers praise for trying to bring the best to the series finale. This is a game that must be 
 tried, especially if your a fighting gamer. 9.5 for SCIV just caz I'm a fan, though I understand 
 Game Informers choice as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willstudz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  If you like fighting games, and are a fan of the series, you will not be disappointed. It is the 
 same weapon based fighting game with a few tweaks.
  
  Gameplay wise, its a fighting game. Plain and simple. The soulcalibur series differs from other 
 fighting series simply because all the characters have different combos and weapons. It may seem 
 like some characters feel like another character. For example Siegfried and Nightmare. Essentially 
 the same character, they were in the second one anyway, they carry the same style of weapon and 
 only their combos are a little different. 
  
  The game is complete with a single player story mode as well as this tower-survival type mode. 
 The story mode is what you'd expect, however you don't have to unlock certain characters via story 
 mode, but you unlock them by buying them. While you earn money in story mode, you also start with 
 20,000 and can buy 5 of the unlockable characters off the bat.
  
  The graphics is definetly a strong point in the game, as it has been in the series. Enough said.
 
  
  Compared to most first person shooters, rpg's, and action adventure games, the replayability is 
 worth buying this game alone. It will last longer than 10 hours, because you can always just bring 
 some friends over and have a ball. I purchased the collectors edition which was complete with a 
 t-shirt and a little tournament poster which I plan to use when my buds come over. Its definetly 
 worth the 10 bucks extra. 
  
  Overall, it's what I expected from the next game in the series. The old game, but better. Graphically, 
 soundly, and gameplay wise. It's definetly a step forward in the right direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorughfire
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Ok here is the basic breakdown of whats good and whats bad for Soul Caliber 4.
  
  Good:
  Each Character Has Their Own Story Mode.
  You Can Create And Edit Characters.
  Tower Of Souls 
 Gives You A Challenge.
  Graphics Are The Bomb.
  
  Bad:
  Story Mode Is Very Short.
  Creating A Character Is Difficult.
  Tower Of Souls Only For Xbox Live.
  No New Weapons.
  
 Characters Are Disapointing.
  No New Characters.
  No Team Mode.
  Buying Items Is Difficult.
  
  If I were making Soul Caliber 5 here what I'd do.
  I Would 
 Make Story Mode Longer For Each Character (about 15 Stages) .
  I Would Add Tower Of Souls As Regular Play (Still Playable On Xbox Live) .
  I Would Make Editing 
 And Creating Characters Easier And More Fun.
  I Would Add About 5 To 10 New Weapons For Each Character (Replacing Some Old Ones)
  I Would Have 
 A Store Where You Can Buy Items And Weapons.
  I Would Add Team Mode Back And Also Put It On Xbox Live.
  I Would Have 6 Players Playing Team 
 Mode (1 vs 1 Each Round)
  I Would Create About 3 To 5 New Characters.
  I Would Add Awsome Guest Characters In The Game (Like Yoda) .
  
  I think that because it had 
 a lot of hype, Its gonna be a total letdown for people who love the Soul Caliber series. I still 
 think that Soul Caliber 2 was a way better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digeratess
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 1, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  SoulCalibur is the greatest of all button mashers, no doubt; and this edition of it is very well 
 done. It has Yoda. What else is there to say? Well, plenty. After you've played for more than 15 
 minutes, you want to learn the special moves, which requires you to look at the button combos for 
 the special moves. Well, all the button combos are documented (on screen and off) for a controller 
 other than the XBOX360, so to know what buttons you need to mash, you have to then compare the 
 documentation to a key for your console's controller. Now, the documented buttons use letters to 
 identify them just like the 360 controller does, and some of the letters overlap -- like A-- but do 
 not coincide. That's right. An A in the SoulCalibur combo documentation actually means an X on 
 your 360 controller. The SoulCalibur G means press A. 
  
  Namco does not deserve full price for a game whose main feature is so amateurishly documented. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaorikaori1992
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game was acually good, not the best in the series but definetly upgraded, the story mode was 
 alright the tower mode was popin! Character customization, new characters, online mode achievment 
 and all made the game enjoyable. The graphics are beautiful, gameplay easy to learn, and the fun 
 factor was great. I guess the game could have been a little better and more depth but other than 
 that i can say the Soul Calibur legacy hasnt been ruined, lol. I give this game a 9.0. I guess 
 i expected more because of the previous games that came out and showed us what a game can really 
 prove to be, and not more than a button masher, if you understand what i mean. What else can I 
 really  
 great game, but could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylepotterton
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  this is the first SC game i have played and i thinks its great apart from the online rankng system. 
 The combat is fast paced and fluent which makes it very fun, the graphics are amazing proberly 
 the best i have seen using a HD ready tv. The only bad point is that there is no vader: ( i cant 
 belive they make us pay 4 him. The tower mode is really hard when you get going and decending it 
 is just like a survival mode which can be fun. Online your meet button mashers and cheap people 
 who use one attack over and over but you meet them all the time on these games but a great addition 
 is the critical finsih because it stops lame people hitting you then blocking for the whole match 
 which is highly annoying .But seriously great gmae well worth the investment and has plenty of 
 content that will keep you going for ages specally the tower its super hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fentekreel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I'll be breaking this down the game into several areas.... Graphics, Gameplay/controls, Re-playability, 
 Online, yoda.
  
  Graphics: 
  While the grapics are much improved according to the videos, they do not really seem all that. 
 The 360 seems to be quite colorful and the lens flares are wonderfully blinding... Though working 
 through the character editor you'll see how limited they can be. The breaking of the armor is audible 
 but not too visual until it is off the character. The levels are wonderfully back-dropped but still 
 lack a 3D environment feel like DOA unless you could the few levels that have walls.
  
  Audio:
  The sounds of the game are great on a 5.1 surround sound. You can hear nearly every footstep 
 and clash of the weapons on the distinct side of each character. Though the voice overs are quite 
 dull and repetitive. The customer characters seem to have this the worst as the game will tend 
 to loop through only 3-5 different sayings and boy does it suck when your playing the tower... 
 The story from the announcer is just the same as it has always been... boring and sometimes informative.
 
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay has been tweaked somewhat to provide a more precise feel for the game though it seems 
 that they tweaked something out of place. The bounding boxes on the characters are still large 
 and near misses are more than what seems to be a foot away from the character. This can be noticed 
 on a few characters such as Nightmare, Algol, Zigfreid, and The guy with the Scythe (too lazy to 
 look him up) . The guard system has been slightly revamped to include some-more directional blocking 
 and it feels a little laggy or loose depending on the game-play type. It seems to me that the block 
 is sometimes too slow to fixing it's position while other-times it is quite snappy. I seem to notice 
 this on the horizontal attacks when character sometimes tend to follow the movement of another 
 character. 
  Looking at the controls a little more i've noticed that movement towards an opponent and horizontal 
 attack creates a problem when advancing by making a short half foot attack which sometimes interrupts 
 game play. Hopefully there are some changes after an update.
  
  Online:
  Here is the main reason i purchased the game was for the arcade experience which it didn't fail 
 to deliver. The game-play is overall great online through the xbox. I wish i had an arcade stick 
 and the cheater buttons as i call them were turned off. These would be the combination buttons 
 on the top of the controller. I don't see a purpose for them other than allowing the button mashing 
 to continue. Which brings me to the actual setup of the arcade experience. This is much like the 
 DOA setup without the lobby intermediary. The main lobby is quite compact and asserts places for 
 1 host and 3 players. I noticed while hosting a game and playing a few hosted by others that players 
 entering and leaving a game can sometimes have a great effect on game-play causing lag temporarily 
 even for the host. I hope this issue is fixed in the near future. Though it doesn't happen all 
 the time you'll hate it when it does... I spoke to my roommate about the ps3 version and he noticed 
 the same issue with people hopping on and off. The other that we both noticed was the blocking 
 tends to lag a bit in the middle of a lot of action.
  
  Yoda! and other starwars stuff...
  
  Yoda sucks.... a bit slow too short and no where near as 
 cool as the movies... though he is the best done character graphics wise and looks great! His moves 
 are something left to wonder. Vader did seem to me a bit better. The apprentice i dont have yet... i 
 keep killing him but no dice. Cant wait to see if vader is a dlc. I was in the character creation 
 menu and was unable to create my own star-wars cast.... i hope this is something i can unlock as 
 i go... i'd kill for a saber fighting game.... it'd be sweet!!! I'll make my own vader if i have 
 too :) but with no clothing and accessories for yoda other than sabers i'd say it was a bit disappointing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blank2k2
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur has always been one of my fave games for beatem up's.. this ones a very good game 
 (onlines even fun aswell!) ... but.
  
  Story mode - Pointless, story seems to be the same for every character (in terms of who you fight, 
 text is different!) lasts about 8 minutes on hard & the credits at the end last about 10 (Abit 
 much when credits last longer than the game.) i was abit disappointed when i completed the story 
 with Yoda and didnt fight Darth or The Apprentice, was very much a "What the hell does Siegfried 
 or Nightmare have to do with Yoda?" moment.
  
  "Yoda" - Pretty annoying personally, very short... reminds me of Tekken when you had to fight Gon, 
 very fustrating since typically only low-attacks hit him... he has some nice moves, but feels very 
 much as if your "exploiting" when fighting online, and he isnt that great.. i imagine Darth Vader 
 is better.
  
  Arcade mode - Very good classic gameplay, but can easily floor every battle, then suddenly The 
 Apprentice comes up, my god what a **** of a fight! if i ever do that without continuing 10 times 
 ill be stunned!.... then when you start thinking "Rah! Finally its getting harder!"... its the 
 final battle, and you can push him outta the ring in about 5 seconds, if not then you can easily 
 beat him anyway.
  
  Tower mode is pretty good so far, im on about level 12/20 (theres another 20 after) not really 
 hit any difficulty there yet but hopefully it'll get harder.. and theres also little goals to perform 
 to unlock all the items during the fights so u'll be repeating them a few times.
  
  Create character is also very good, can customize alot & it now has stats / skills. just a shame 
 you cant customize a jedi.
  
  All in all, good game not regretting the purchase at all, if there was more difficulty to it then 
 it would be a good 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt437
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  After going to blockbuster today to trade in the very disappointing Alone in the Dark, i got Soulcalibur 
 IV. Im so glad that i did so, its like tekken with swords, spears, lightsabres etc, its just plain 
 fun:
  
  The good:
  -Fantastic graphics
  -Easy, slick gameplay
  -Great online play with very little lag
  -Voices arnt too bad either
  -Huge amount of characters 
 to choose from
  -Great arenas, including a Star destroyer
  -Yoda is awesome to have around
  -Character customisation is great
  -Create a character is 
 a nice asset
  -Fast, action packed gameplay
  -Not hard for those that arnt good at these sorta games
  
  The bad:
  -No Darth Vader YET
 
  -Story a bit short
  
  Overall this game is very easy to recommend to anybody, and you have to have it in your game collection 
 because it is a masterpiece with rich graphics, slick gameplay and more importantly its great fun, 
 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer1
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  First up the good, because after this next statement it's pretty much all downhill from there. 
 The game is absolutely gorgeous to watch, the character models are amazingly detailed and the levels 
 are beautifully crafted. However... (Don't you love that word'However?' ... Nothing good ever follows 
 that word. Like a girl will say "I think you're the best guy I've ever met, you're funny, amazing, 
 great to be around... however... I just don't like you.") 
  
  However, past the looks, this game is just meh. It feels so hollow. I really enjoyed past SC's 
 but this one just doesn't grab me and pull me in like the last one's have and I don't expect much. 
 I mean, how could you expect much from SC? I wasn't expecting a story, god knows any story from 
 a SC game is pretty much non-sense, it never explains anything anyway. I wasn't expecting Yoda 
 to fit into the cast (Which he doesn't) , I wasn't even expecting new modes to play in. However 
 (There's that word again) I was expecting a decent fighting game, a challenge, some fun maybe... but 
 all I got was disappointment.
  
  The fighting in the game first off feels slow, I remember fighting with Maxi or Kilik or Taki and 
 the speed that those characters fought with was amazing... but in this installment when I'm facing 
 off against Ashtoroth and I'm Maxi... there's no reason Ashtoroth should get the first hit. Speed 
 just feels so sluggish in this game. The fighting itself isn't all that difficult at all, there's 
 no real strategy to the fighting, just mindlessly press **** and you'll eventually win. There's 
 no incentive to really learn a characters move list because you can easily make it by with simple 
 throw moves and a few basic combos. The need to block is pretty much non-existant, just flurry 
 your combos and you'll be fine. The time it takes to unlock characters is about all of 20-30 minutes. 
 Go through the story mode a couple times and you'll have more than enough gold to purchase every 
 character... that's just weak, what do I have to look forward to when I've already unlocked every 
 character? Oh yeah... character creation mode, that's what I have... meh. Seriously to really max 
 out your character you have to put on the most ridiculous looking armor you've ever seen, so it's 
 either look cool and have almost no stats at all or be maxed out but look like a giant hunk of 
 metal moving across the screen.
  
  I wanted to like this game being that I loved past ones, but namco just made it too difficult to 
 do so. Story mode is short and non-sensical, fighting is slow and unimaginative... in the end this 
 game is just... meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rozencruse
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  Soulcalibur IV is the best in its series to date, with great online mode and some-what challenging 
 achievements, expect to be playing it for many days to come. Though the story mode is lacking greatly 
 compared to previous titles such as Soul Calibur II, it is slightly enjoying to say the least. 
 Ascend the tower mode offers up-scaling challenge that one would expect from a Soulcalibur title. 
 The create a character feature is simply amazing, the ability it gives a player to make his or 
 her own characters and make it completely unique is in my experience untouched and expect to spend 
 hours creating custom fighters to show off to your friends and your opponents online and offline.
 
  
  All said and done, Soulcalibur IV is a great fighter that delivers on most levels other than the 
 story mode. The addition of Yoda and The Apprentice was a choice of nothing but pure win, though 
 in my opinion The Apprentice much too over powered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acecs1989
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  When I played through the story mode of this game, I was highly disappointed since it only took 
 about 20 minutes to beat on normal difficulty. After that I decided that I would try the tower 
 fight mode where you see how far you can make it up the tower and let's just say it hooked me. 
 I got to the 11th floor when I hit a wall and just couldn't pass it no matter how hard I tryed. 
 I had to go back and replay the story as well as some other tower matches in order to get my skills 
 high enough to attempt it again. I'm looking forward to tackling that task tomorrow as I cannot 
 wait to make it through all of the floors. Rest assured, it is a very ambitious task. There are 
 so many fighting styles and customization options that the replay value of this game is secured. 
 I like how each character has a unique style and you can create your own character to mirror their 
 styles. This is definitely a fun game. Even if you don't like it, it's an easy pick up and play 
 multiplayer game for having friends over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YankeeDan345
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  For starters, this was one of the least exciting games I have ever paid 60 dollars for. Thats because 
 i knew exactly what it was buying it, because I played the last one. It seems like these fighting 
 games are content to make sequels that only add a small amount of new content much like an expansion 
 pack but at the full price. That said, I'm not sad i bought it. Finally having online is nice, 
 but the game missing any tag mode for 4 player fun is sad, the modes are pretty skimpy.
  
  Oddly, I've run into a fair amount of lag online, this is odd because this game is just two players 
 to a room, Unreal 3 has lag but that game has 16 players on huge maps, on this game I just don't 
 get it.
  
  I may seem to complain a lot, but hey, that's what reviews are. This game is a better version of 
 SC3, and if thats what you want, buy it. if not, don't. It certainly doesn't have any flaws that 
 would keep a SC fan away. It's good, but it could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giflow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has very few flaws .The graphics are perfect, sound is very good, the gameplay has 
 perhaps the best fighting engines ever for a arcade fighter also one of the most intricate fighting 
 games by far, i have nothing to complain about with this game, now this is one of the few games 
 that deserve a 9 or better. Im a serious game fighter and this game meets my every arcade fighting 
 needs and smooth online play is the icing on the cake, this game is literally a work of art. Im not 
 sure why gamespot gave this game a 8.5 rating ,thats a big tax to the rating just because of a 
 subpar story mode but anyway this game in my opinion has no weaknesses. And i was surprised that 
 soul caliber 4 was going to still have the create a character mode and also you can fight with 
 your character online!! There is no other arcade fighter that can offer you this much and still 
 a top quality project ,well done namco. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PureSkillAndLuk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I believe I may have been in the small crowd of people who greatly enjoyed SC3. I really loved 
 it, and was looking forward to this game greatly. Did it live up to my hopes? Yeah, pretty much.
 
  
  There really isn't too much new in this game, but the few things they added benefits the game greatly. 
 The most obvious improvement is the online play, which usually is very flawless. Occasionally you 
 will join a game where the host has slow connection and you'll find slight lag but thats not a 
 big setback at all.
  
  The Tower of Lost Souls is a lot of fun, at least once you customize your character. The customizing 
 is great and there are tons of options, but there are so many options that it takes a long time 
 to create a character. That annoyed me slightly, but I'm an impatient person, so it's unlikely 
 that that would be a complaint by anyone else.
  
  The characters are pretty balanced (besides the Star Wars) and Hilde fits in greatly.
  
  The 
 Graphics are also great, and the characters look great and the sound is pretty good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowWhiteHawk
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  A perfect mix between all the great components of it's previous installments. The customization 
 is MUCH improved, allowing you to create almost any character you want. It's obviously not a Spore 
 Creature Creator, but it's damn complete still.
  
  The online is great, giving the game great replayability even if you finish the story mode. It 
 should be noticed that although the story mode isn't particularly long, it'll take a while until 
 you finish it with ALL the characters. Tower of Souls mode adds even more to the variety factor, 
 and as I've already said, Multiplayer allows you to keep playing for a long, long time without 
 even having to invite people over.
  
  Finishers are also an interesting novelty, that allow for a very rewarding experience if you make 
 the most of the new armor breaking feature, another excellent addition that adds a new tactical 
 factor to combat.
  
  Overall, excellent game, arguably one of the best in the series along with the classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Nerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I don't know about you but the Soul series is my favorite fighting series to date. There are many 
 great things about it. The many characters, each with their own personality and story to tell. 
 The weapons based combat, which may seem easy at first, but once you get into it their are many 
 complex moves and combos, like the new Critical Finish. The Soul series is constantly revolutionizing 
 how we see fighting games.
  The first thing you notice when you start playing are the beautiful graphics. The character models 
 are nice, each unique in thier own way. The environments you fight in are also varied and each 
 is different in size, shape, and other things. The effects of weapons clashing and te sounds of 
 battle are also great. This is one area SCIV truely shines.
  Each of the characters are also great and varied. Some may be more overpowerd while some nearly 
 impossible to use, but each fights with different style. Many fan favorites have returned to fight 
 again, including Kilik, Nightmare, Maxi, and the always strange Voldo. Thier are also two new characters, 
 Algo and Hilde, both strong and a welcome addition to the roster. SCIV also has 8 bonus characters, 
 5 of them were created by famous japanese artists. The other 3 come from the Star Wars universe.
 
  SCIV is and will always be one of my favorite fighting series. The graphics are updated with each 
 game, the characters stay fresh and unique, and the gameplay is better then any other fighter i've 
 played. Soulcalibur 4 is a great game and a welcome addition to the Soul series. Only one question 
 remains. What's within your soul?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing the Soul Calibur series since it's original back on the Dreamcast (which is 
 still my favorite console of all time) . I never had a chance to play the third game in the series 
 (a PS2 exclusive) , but if playing the other three (including this new one) is any indication, I 
 have basically already played it. You see, the Soul Calibur series isn't known for taking huge 
 leaps in evolution with each game in the series. I haven't even played ANY fighting game in a long 
 time and the last time I played a SC game was back on the original Xbox. When I booted up this 
 game, I jumped right in like I never had left. Don't get me wrong, I absolutely love this fact 
 as most games tend to make you memorize a bunch of stupid button sequences just to be able to pull 
 off a decent move. The Soul Calibur series does away with that nonsense and it's for the better.
 
  
  My only problem with the game is the lack of depth in all of the single player modes, as usual. 
 I had this same problem with SC2. Here you get the usual 'Arcade' mode, which is exactly what you 
 would expect it to be. Then there is the 'Story' mode. This is a mode that should've been fleshed 
 out to greater depth and detail. Instead it has you pick a character, read about a minute's worth 
 of text relating to the background of that character, fight in five battles against various opponents, 
 and then you get a nice cut-scene at the end. That's it.
  
  Now while this might not bother some people, beating the game with each character is very anti-climactic. 
 The opponents you face are a joke that I could beat if I was in a coma. And to not have opening 
 cut-scenes instead of some stupid text on screen is lazy and inexcusable. Now I know the amount 
 of time it would take to do this for about thirty different characters, but then take some characters 
 out. I would rather have it that way than have some of the lame characters we have here. All of 
 that aside, I did enjoy each ending. They were nice to look and helped push the story along for 
 each character. There just wasn't enough of them.
  
  Then you get to the 'Tower Of Souls' mode. This is essentially an endurance/challenge mode. It's 
 pretty fun and way better than the story mode. This is where you will probably be spending the 
 most offline time with the game. What really makes this mode is the fact you can bring your customized 
 or created characters and use them in this mode. That's right, you can finally create your own 
 characters. And this has been the best part of the game for me. Actually, I found customizing the 
 real characters in the game more fun. Depending on what type of equipment, weapons, items, etc. 
 that you give them it can change their strength, defense, health, and special skills. It's an addictive 
 system that is really the only reason to spend a lot of time with the game in single-player mode.
 
  
  The online play is nice, but it's restricted to player vs. player matches. The lack of game modes 
 here is disappointing and the game can get laggy. And lag in a fighting game is death, so that 
 is annoying. But overall, it's a fun game to boot up and play for awhile online.
  
  And how can I not mention the fact that you can play as Yoda in this game. While this was exciting 
 to hear about, the actual execution is worse than how cool it sounded. As most people know, Yoda 
 is quite short. So playing as him or against him is an entirely different match and both ways are 
 annoying. I didn't like using him very much as I found him to be kinda weak. When you play against 
 him, it can be even more annoying as he can't be thrown and since he is so short, he avoids a good 
 amount of attacks so you will be attacking low quite a bit. If he is used correctly though, as 
 I have learned through practice, he can be quite nasty but in that 'cheap' kind of way that will 
 probably infuriate other players. The other 'Star Wars' character in the game is 'The Apprentice' 
 from upcoming game 'Force Unleashed'. This character is actually pretty fun to play with and is 
 tough to beat. But to be honest, the Star Wars characters stick out here like a sore thumb especially 
 in the story mode. Their presence in the game makes absolutely no sense and just feels silly after 
 awhile. I am excited to play as Vader whenever he becomes available on Xbox Live, but just like 
 Yoda, he will feel greatly out of place.
  
  The game looks great in motion and the graphics are very nice overall. The cut-scenes are gorgeous, 
 as you might expect. Some of the definition in the character models could be better, but it's nothing 
 that is a detriment to the game. The music is nice and voice acting isn't too bad in that cheesy 
 sort of way.
  
  While I am happy with the new edition into the great Soul Calibur series, I would really like to 
 see Namco take this game to another level in the story mode. I have no idea why no fighting game 
 has managed to do this yet, but the ingredients are all there: great characters, cool background 
 story, nice looking visual cut-scenes, & a great game surrounding it. But until this mode is fixed, 
 lengthened, and fleshed out...... the Soul Calibur series will be what it always has been since 
 the first one: a fun and easy to sit down and play fighting game that is best played with other 
 people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadAirPsycho
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  For reference: I'm only a few days into the game but have been playing SC since it was Soul Edge 
 in the arcade. I skipped SCIII since I never owned any Playstations. I was recently playing SCII 
 which is my favorite (former favorite?) version of the SC series.
  
  SCIV is a gorgeous game. The graphics are fantastic, the models awesome and stages look great. 
 The physics of the game work really well and the motion is fluid and believable. But in the end, 
 it comes down to gameplay and on this the jury is still out for me.
  
  To compare I played SCII and SCIV side by side. SCII feels a whole lot tighter and faster than 
 IV. Much more technical as well for Just frames and certain moves/combos. SCIV feels a little looser 
 overall and slowed down. I may be a bit biased because I'm not a huge fan of multiple stances completely 
 changing movesets. 
  
  Case in point is Ivy. In SCII I can whoop up with Ivy and have every move of hers committed to 
 memory. Being able to throw almost all her moves from any whip stance made her formidable. Granted 
 I have to relearn Ivy from scratch now with the way her moveset is in SCIV but I don't like how 
 she only does certain moves from certain stances. Not just Ivy has been a victim of this but several 
 other characters as well. It feels to me (and I may change my mind as I get used to IV's play mechanics) 
 that they've sacrificed technical prowess for an easier to use moveset but more complicated way 
 to use it. Still Ivy is one of my favorite characters and I'm definitely relearning her first.
 
  
  Sidestep was a monster in SCII, which I liked. It has definitely been toned way way down in SCIV 
 to the point where I wonder if I tapped to sidestep at all. This gives an overall feeling of less 
 maneuverability and I don't really care for the change as sidestep has always been a huge part 
 of my game. 
  
  Bottom line is that overall it's a great and fun game. A little more spammer friendly than previous 
 versions which can frustrate more technical players as no one likes to be beat by one move wonders 
 while they're trying to bust out summon suffering or the like. I'll have to get a couple characters 
 mastered before I can really evaluate whether or not I like the gameplay better or not than SCII. 
 But it is the greatest looking SC ever and if you like fighters then this one is a sure buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CwNilsen
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Great visuals, and classic Soulcalibur fighting style aside, there are a couple of critical faults 
 to the game:
  1. Story mode
  The rest of the series had a lengthy, but badly scripted, story mode that was useful in training 
 a new character. It explained how to pull off some combos, grabs, parry moves, and other neat tricks. 
 It also attempted to give some back-story, however much of it was lost in translation.
  
  The new story mode fails in epic fashion. The first time I played the game out of the package, 
 I started the game with Raphael on hard in story mode. Twenty minutes later I had finished the 
 story mode without losing a round. No challenge to be had. I didn't even parry or guard impact 
 (not sure if it even exists) a single attack. The other reviews discuss how the Tower of Souls 
 mode makes up for it, but I disagree. 
  
  The Tower of Souls mode is more challenging but only in the respect that you're health never replenishes 
 from opponent to opponent. Survival modes just tend to wear you out then challenge you with the 
 opponents skill. It could be the case that the opponents become more tricky as you ascend the tower, 
 but I got to bored to care.
  
  2. Online game play
  
  Having been disappointed by the offline modes, I thought I would pit my residual SC3 skills online 
 against some more tricky opponents. I was prepared to get schooled. Epic Fail. Giant amounts of 
 FAIL with more fail for desert. 
  
  I appreciate the difficulty in designing an online system. The fail I experienced was not of a 
 technical nature which speaks to the great skill of the designers. The fail I experienced was in 
 interface and usability.
  
  As a caveat, I was already bored and anxious because of the story mode. As such, I went straight 
 for the a "quick match." And got promptly kicked back to the lobby. Specifically, I highlighted 
 quick match, hit A, found a match, received a message "The game is full" and got sent back to the 
 lobby. Repeat. Repeat. Repeat. Fail. 
  
  On to a custom game, on my third attempt made it to a lobby, hit a to indicate I was ready to fight.... 
 FAIL. The other two players in the lobby must have been ready before me, because they got to fight 
 and I got to watch. 
  Watch? Why am I watching other people fight? There are plenty of other people to fight, why set 
 it up so I watch other people? Ok, so maybe I would like to watch my friends duke it out, in a 
 sort of mini-tournament, but why strangers and why as default? I don't get it. 
  
  One of the players gets schooled, the match ends, we all hit A. Fail. Having been bored by watching 
 someone get schooled, I went to get snacks. I dive for the controller, only to be a split second 
 late. So I get to watch the same guys duke it out again. Boring. Lame. Fail. Bad design. I'm sorry 
 I don't like to watch, that doesn't entertain me.
  
  Finally, I get in a game. I was hoping for one of the epic matches I had back in the SC3 days. 
 Matches where there were long combos and guard impact and grabs. Matches were I was like "Whoa 
 that was a cool move, how'd he do that?" Fail. Simple combos, a couple of grabs, almost no blocking. 
 Basic moves. Victory.
  
  The scenario repeats at least a couple of times until I through my controller down in disgust. 
 I can't believe I was so amped on this. The only high point was as the victor I didn't have to 
 worry about hitting ready right off the bat. 
  
  Perhaps if I get some of my only buddies online and play against them it will be better.
  
 
  3. Game play
  
  Same old, same old. New characters, same moves. While I admit its nice that unlike other fighting 
 games you do not have to memorize long chains of complicated finger twitches to pull off cool moves, 
 something still lacked.
  
  The fighting seemed to basic. Maybe it was because it wasn't that challenging or maybe I was playing 
 the wrong modes, but the fighting never became varried. It seemed centered on wearing an opponent 
 down rather than finding an opening. None of my opponents parried many of my attacks. There wasn't 
 even that much blocking. 
  
  Long and short, the game play is virtually the same as in the older versions of the game but the 
 opponents have gotten worse.
  
  On a high note, all the new characters are great looking and there is much more variety in speed, 
 agility, reach, etc. The CPU just seems to lack intelligence or the ability to switch style. Maybe 
 I haven't played enough. I doubt it. 
  
  Overall: Entertaining but not worth the wait or the money. I should have just bought the XBL version 
 of SC3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV does not disappoint. Game play is smooth and loading not so long on the XBOX 360 
 system. It took little time to adjust to character moves, since they were slightly different than 
 Soul Calibur III (but not that difficult to overcome) .
  
  I do miss Team battle but "what they hey" its easily overlooked when considereing the superb quaility 
 of the game. 
  You do have to keep you eye on the new soul gauge and force bar for the Star Wars characters. Also, 
 I didn't experience any lag or any other problemswhen playing online.
  
  With the installment of character creation this made the game a homerun. You can spend countless 
 time there ugrading, changing the look, and retooling any character.
  
  One of the reasons why I still had my old XBOX was because of Soul Calibur III - which still is 
 an awesome game. But with the installment of Soul Calibur IV maybe now I can let that old console 
 take a rest.
  
  Overall, I gave it a 9.0. A superb game. This score wassn't higher since it did not include the 
 team battle mode.
  
  
  I would love to see Bandai offer several new characters for download later
  
  Great buy well 
 worth the buy or begging your parents for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEEBUCKLER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  This game has really improved since xbox. Of course, I would expect nothing less since it is, now, 
 on the 360 console. The fighting is alot more intense and personal, which, I think, is also complemented 
 by the improved quality of sound. Having been a fan of DOA and the graphics it's had to offer since 
 xbox, I anticipated nothing less than extreme detailed and killer graphics w/ Soul Calibur IV, 
 I mean I feel that it's DOA w/ weaponry, and while I still don't think it's graphics are as good 
 as DOA, the graphics are still nice and have improved extremely. Plus the character creation option 
 kind of makes you forget about anything that might be remotely wrong w/ this game, like not having 
 a tag team option, the short story lines, or the Yoda w/out the Vador. But over all, great job 
 Project Soul the game is niCe!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afroloq1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  I don't have a lot to write on this game. Why? it's Soul Caliber!!!! If you have followed this 
 franchise you already know what to expect, who is in it and so forth and you already know to purchase 
 this game.
  
  The cutscenes are a welcome improvement over the always wordy storyboard of years past.
  
  
 The improvements show as this is one of the most beautifully detailed fighters out there. The game 
 modes are excellent. My only minus is that they tried to incorporate a tag mode a la Dead or Alive 
 but it's not as fluid as that game.
  
  But the BIG selling point this time around is the create a character skin mode!
  
  Don't like 
 the skin that you are using? Make a NEW one! Make an original character (mapped over the in game 
 character of course) or make it based on something... and the more you play the more items get unlocked!
 
  
  Creating skins will suck hrs away just like that and you will find yourself torn between playing 
 and making new skins
  
  I have created characters such as Afro Samurai, Conan and Lara Croft.
  
  I have a few other 
 ideas at work that I won't share suffice to say wait til you see me online.
  
  Speaking of, online handles pretty well and sometimes there is a bit of lag but I am hopeful that 
 this clears up... but nonetheless what Call of Duty did for FPS, this game will do for fighters 
 so, don't read anymore and get the darned game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeAngelo404
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  I just got this game yesterday and spent several hours with it offline to get a feel for a few 
 characters and level up some guys. Vader is off the charts, Mitsirugi is stronger than ever, and 
 the Apprentice is by far the best character on the game! That's a good thing when I am playing 
 friends offline but a terrible thing for online play. Everyone and their momma will be using him 
 online which will make for some bland gameplay at times. I like the customization options and power 
 boosts but the game does an awful if nonexistent job of explaining how the system works. I spent 
 half the evening customizing three characters because there is such a fine line between style and 
 power. My Maxi customized looks like a mini Voldo but he's strong as heck... and in order to get 
 your style level up, you'll have to play the game for a few hours with one cat and there aren't 
 enough modes to get you really excited to dive back in with the same guy. I do love the graphics, 
 sound, and speed of the game (I installed the game on my PS3 and the load times are like 3 seconds 
 or less) so I can get through quite a few matches fairly quickly. Overall, It's a great game but 
 that's mainly because there are so FEW fighting games on next-gen consoles, there really isn't 
 anything else to compare it to....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowkiller94
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  Soul calibur 4 is a great game that has all new features such as tower of lost souls, a new soul 
 finisher feature, a new advanced create a character or you can just edit one of the soul calibur 
 characters it also has a new story mode and tons of old and new characters 34 in all. The graphics 
 are amazing and the gameplay is as fun as ever. The online play is amazing and you cant help but 
 play this for hours. Also you can play new characters like yoda or the apprentice from the upcoming 
 game star wars the force unleashed angol or rock or you can play as the old characters such as 
 kilik, maxi, raphael and talim. Soul calibur 4 is not a game you will get bored of easily and the 
 tons of new features will keep you playing till you realize its 1 am in the morning. This is one 
 game not to be missed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I have been a SoulCalibur fan since 1996 when the fighting series came on the scene as Soul Blade 
 for the PSone. The series got an amazing graphical and gameplay overhaul when it arrived on the 
 Dreamcast as SoulCalibur where it left its mark as a classic. 
  
  SoulCalibur IV is the BEST SoulCalibur yet. The games graphics are state of the art and are the 
 best I have seen in a fighting game since DOA 4. The character creation is as every bit addicting 
 as it is fun to use. The online play is there and what a treat it is. Also online is lag free and 
 has no faults in my book. The story mode is a real treat to play as I have become relentless in 
 my pursuit to beat all the characters stories. The arcade mode is as fun as always and can be frustrating 
 at times for a casual fighting fan like myself. Overall the game is as great as a fighting game 
 should be. It's SoulCalibur it cant get any better than this. You have fun, addicting and at times 
 challenging gameplay mixed with outstanding beautiful graphics. The game is an instant classic 
 by far. 
  
  GameWired Score: 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sunrie
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV is one of the most highly anticipated fighting games in a very long time. Namco 
 has been expected to put the bar even higher than before. Did Namco achieve what gamers expect? 
 Well, yes and no.
  
  
  ~Gameplay~
  Obviously Soul Calibur IV is a fighting game. The great thing about this addition to the series 
 is the fact that it is easily accessible to just about anyone. There's no need to worry about dedicating 
 countless hours to one character, picking apart each frame of animation, in order to be effective. 
 Hardcore fans of the series, who do such a thing, will find most of the game play is exactly how 
 it was in the past.
  
  The major down side is the story mode consists of five stages. Yes, that's it. You get a brief 
 introduction as to why the character is there, and then you fight through five stages. Sure you'll 
 battle a lot of character, as each fight is done in a type of tag-team match, but it's just lacking. 
 The arcade mode is your typical arcade style fighting, where you have no bonuses attached to your 
 character (unlike in story mode) , and you fight eight 2 round matches. Instead of an ending, you 
 get points which can be uploaded to the XBL leader boards for bragging rights... or something.
 
  
  Characters have three basic attacks (Horizontal Slash, Vertical Slash, and Kick) which can hit 
 in three different areas (High, Mid, Low) . No fighter worth it's salt doesn't have special moves, 
 and each character has a myriad of them. None of the moves seem overly cheap and the game is very 
 balanced because of it. Actually, every character is extremely balanced against each other, even 
 with a slight "Rock, Paper, Scissors" priority with some of the attacks.
  
  The main goal is, of course, to take your opponents health bar down to zero. There are many ways 
 of doing this, from repeatedly striking your opponent, to tossing them out of the ring.
  
  A new addition to the game is the Critical Finishers. Each character has a high, middle, and low 
 piece of armor which can break if enough strikes are delivered to the area. Now, if you're one 
 of those players who like to block the entire match, you're going to get punished if this happens. 
 After a piece of armor breaks and your Soul Gauge turns read after blocking too much, your opponent 
 can hit all four buttons (Horizontal, Vertical, Kick, Guard) and take you out in one strike. Don't 
 worry. Critical Finishers are not a major component in the game play, and rarely happen.
  
  So, how does the game respond to your input? Like every fighting game should. You don't have to 
 be exact and you can't really get away with button mashing. While some of the more intricate combos 
 take practice, you'll get the feel of the game after a few matches. Master one character, and it's 
 not too hard to be good with another.
  
  This is the first time online has been available for the Soul Calibur series. Unfortunately, I 
 cannot speak of it at this point because my XB360 is not connected to the Internet. I do not know 
 what downloadable content, if any, is available, nor can I comment on the lag, or lack there of.
 
  
  
  ~Graphics~
  Not uber, not mushy, just right. Each character model is excellent and clean. The stages are a 
 little bland compared to ones in the past, even if the graphical representation is so nice to look 
 at.
  
  Character clothing floats in the breeze, individual hairs move as the characters jump about, and 
 the lighting seems spot on. Still, this day in age I'm a little surprised some of the issues with 
 clothing layers is still coming around. Many times when you create your fighter, customize a fighter, 
 or use the default models, you will see items clipping through each other and even behave in strange 
 ways.
  
  Case in point... I created a fighter with a cape. Not only do the daggers obviously poke through, 
 the cape sometimes seems to have a difficult time in knowing how to behave with my actions. The 
 cape either jumps about oddly instead of falling straight down or it will stay curled up and twitch 
 before laying flat. Granted, it doesn't always do this (except with the weapons poking through) , 
 but it's there a lot. I don't understand why games have the clothing react to other items even 
 in this generation of gaming power.
  
  Still, because I can really only complain about the clothing issue, it's a huge win overall. Some 
 arenas have areas where you can smash objects, or knock them down in order to expand the ring or 
 give you the ability to ring out your opponent. Inside of Ostrheinsburg Castle there is a row containing 
 suits of armor. As the battle progresses, these suits of armor take on a life of their own and 
 march forward a few feet, making the arena smaller! It's really cool to watch.
  
  
  ~Sound~
  The game is available to be played in Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound, and boy does 
 it sound good! Plugging the game into your surround sound system is going to give you audible joy 
 seldom granted in fighting games.
  
  The music itself isn't all that great and may irritate you after a few plays, however. It's not 
 that the music is bad, it's just not as good as some in the past and in some other fighting games. 
 Still, it's difficult for me to knock the soundtrack as it is so good overall.
  
  Every clang of metal on metal or the buzzing of a lightsabre is going to make you smile. I don't 
 think it's ever sounded so good in the series. The sounds of cutting flesh and bashing bone rings 
 out of the speakers in high glory.
  
  Each character has a different voice set this time, including the additional characters, which 
 is welcome. There are three different intro and exist statements for each character. Their screams 
 of pain will send a chill up your spine and their screams of victory will make you beat on your 
 chest with pride.
  
  
  ~Bonuses~
  Well, there's a lot of them! Available to players is the Tower of Souls, fighter creation, and 
 online play.
  
  Tower of Souls is a 60 floor tower in which you take any fighter of your choosing, including customs, 
 and fight your way up one floor at a time. Some areas require you to fight from one to three floors 
 at a time with different amount of fighters at your disposal. The clincher is between matches and 
 enemies, you do not regain health. One trick is if you have two or more fighters, switch to a character 
 with more health and keep fighting. If you last long enough, the characters in reserve will slowly 
 regain health as time passes.
  
  The fighter creation is back and a lot of fun to play with. Downside? Yep... Unlike in Soul Calibur 
 3, you can only select the main fighter's "souls" for moves. In SC3 a fighter could be created 
 using a Ninja, and after unlocking the ability, the soul of a Dancer could be introduced and weapons 
 from that style could be used. This is a major step back.
  
  Still, the fighter creation allows you to mix and match a lot of items to make the person look 
 how you want them to. You get to chose if the fighter is good, evil, or neutral instead of letting 
 the items decide for you. Everything from clothing to body mass, from hair to voice pitch and tone 
 can be edited. The only thing you cannot change is how tall your character is.
  
  Every time you use a character, or a character with a type of soul, you gain more "honors" to equip. 
 Each honor has a different cost, which is effected by your items and weapons. Want to shave off 
 enemy HP when they block? It'll cost you!
  
  Even with some step backs with the fighter creation, it's as fun as always. The best part is you 
 can use your creation online against other players. Characters made and customized aren't necessarily 
 more powerful then the regular characters, they are just different, which keeps the game balanced.
 
  
  
  ~Overall~
  At the end of the day, Soul Calibur IV is a great game with a few flaws. Could the game have been 
 better? I believe that is a matter of opinion. The story mode should have been longer and more 
 involved, but really the draw is the fighter creation with online play.
  
  Should you rent or buy? The game is a definite buy if you like the series or fighting games in 
 general. If you are really unsure, then rent it to see if it is your cup of tea.
  
  Soul Calibur IV is one of the games you'll regret if you miss. With new downloadable content confirmed 
 to be on the way, there will be things to keep you busy for quite a while, even after the shine 
 has started to fade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off I wanted this game to be good, I really did. I loved the first 2 soul calibers but 
 this one just felt like the same old but stripped down in a sense. Since i got tired of writing 
 reviews nobody will agree with me on, I'll simply bullet point the pros, cons, and shades of gray 
 (or personal opinion) .
  
  Pros:
  - Gorgeous graphics
  - great customization of regular characters and your own original
  - fast smooth game play
 
  
  Cons:
  - Button mashing is exploited to its fullest here
  - star wars characters are completely out of place
  - the story is told through text and lasts 
 about 5 rounds
  - the new characters dont have the depth and originality of the originals
  - limited modes of game play
  
  Shades of Grey:
  - Game becomes boring after a limited amount 
 of actual game play
  - unlocking characters is a joke, you'll have them all in about 20 minutes to an hour
  
  Unless 
 youre a fan of the franchise i honestly cant see many people getting too much enjoyment out of 
 this. Due to the things i mentioned above. I actually rented this about 2 hours ago and i already 
 regret it. Anyway as always check it out for yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypt_mx
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I was always a fan of soul calibur games. Whats not to love?
  They have a bunch of cool characters, fast paced combat, fantastic graphics, and they are a blast 
 with friends.
  
  This one does what the original did for us, plus a whole lot more.
  
  Gameplay/story/Graphics/Online - 
  
  STORY
  
  Ok so the story isnt that deep, but its a 
 fighting game keep that in mind. Basically everyone is fighting to gain the power of an ultimate 
 sword, or swords. And you have to fight towards it. The game features over 30 characters with unique 
 weaponry.
  
  There is a story mode, and a classic arcade mode which you can beat in under an hour. On the other 
 hand there is a fun mode called the Tower Of Lost Souls, where you go up floors doing many insane 
 challenges, and you can do bonus challenges to unlock content on each level. 
  
  This will last you a while if you like single player...... and the content you gain leads me in 
 to my next point.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The character creator! Or create a soul (CaS) is the greatest part of the game, you have limitless 
 lists of options to choose from, and everything can be changed. Down to the string on your necklace, 
 no color is permenant. You can choose one of the main characters fighting styles to play as, aswell 
 as the weapon. Lets not forget that there are many variations to voice, hair and body.
  
  As an adition to that you can also edit made characters, dont think taki is skanky enough? well 
 you can edit her to your hearts desire!
  
  This time around you will be able to add "skills" to your characters that can assist you in battle, 
 the RPG element makes it more fun to play, and make combinations.
  
  The combat is the top amoung fighters, and it truly is a fluid experience that seperates it from 
 other fighters. The over the top battles and combos are un-matched. And with new mortal kombat 
 style finishes called "Critical Finishers" the game has just gotten a total upgrade.
  
  And everyone knows about the couple star wars bonus characters, which are both fresh and fun to 
 use. You are open to Yoda, and The Apprentice. Vader is coming soon.
  
  This game also introduces the online play, which is fun, fast and smooth.
  
  You can also use 
 your CaS online aswell. Online you can fight the toughest oponents, and learn your strengths and 
 weaknesses. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  One word , stunning. The graphics have un-beleivable texture, life like movement and armor breaking 
 with your swings. It takes graphics to a whole new level with new art design, and a look that will 
 blow you away in every level. Stage after stage you will se great design, effects, lighting, and 
 just about anything else you would expect in the future of gaming.
  
  Wrap-up:
  
  STORY
  
  The story mode is painfully short but the other single player modes are just as fun 
 to play through. That said its still a great experience.
  
  9/10
  
  GAMEPLAY/XBOX LIVE
  
  The gameplay is amazing. The intense combat, character creator, and the 
 sweet online just blends so well. You'll spend your time learning combos, learning how to fight 
 different enemies, and making crazy looking custom characters or icon character look alikes. Its 
 fast ,fun and over the top.
  
  10/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  10 out of 10. period.
  
  
  If you can get one game this year, it better be this. Because it is the best game you will 
 play in a long time. If fast paced action, character creation and weapon based gameplay is your 
 taste then this is your game.
  
  10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnott13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV is definately one of the top Xbox 360 games of the year so far. the game runs so 
 smoothly and everything looks amazing. the soul gauge was a very nice addition to the game, i have 
 no querks with that area of the game. i do wish the story mode was a little but longer, but other 
 than that it was superb. the Tower of Souls Mode is amazing for honing your skills, so you can 
 go online and really PWN n00bs. the online sometimes gets alittle laggy, but what game doesn't 
 so no problem there really. IF you are new to SC, have no fear the tutorial is great for learning 
 how to play. Also, if you are a veteran of SC than this will easily be one of your favorite if 
 not your favorite SC game. all in all SC IV is a must buy for people new to SC and long time players 
 of SC. kthxbye...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merciless911
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Well this is the first Soul Calibur game I have ever bought... and to be honest probably the only 
 fighting game I have ever bought. I have played some at friends houses though. 
  
  Well the gameplay is solid and the graphics are decent but after an hour or so... well you have 
 done almost everything in the whole game which is just fight after fight after fight. The story 
 mode is to short and the character customization is kind of bland.
  
  But there just isn't enough substance to this game to get me really into it. It's just fight after 
 fight after fight and to be honest it can get a little borring. I do like the aprentice character 
 though. If this game was about 30-40$ then it would deffinatley be worth it.
  
  all in all it is a decent game... I'll stick to RPG's, shooters, and Sport games I think but if 
 you like Fighting games you should deffinatley pick up Soul Calibur 4!!! 
  
  If your like me and havent played a fighting game like this in a few years then rent it first...
 
  
  My gamertag  Merciless 911
  
  hit me up w/ a message, later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wproiet1
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  On july 29th, the best fighter of 2008 has come to ps3 and 360. When i started to play i knew i was 
 going to experience something great, i actually have been a soul caliber fan and so has my sister. So 
 when we started fighting, i actually was beaten by her (and trust me, she is as much a casual gamer 
 as it gets!) I sat there with my jaw almost ready to fall off as she had beaten me 3 more times 
 in a row!!! She brought over some of her friends and played it and then competition went wild as 
 each seemed to excell at each game and my sister began to lose. I have never played a fighting game 
 so user friendly, so i say this completely sure, this game is great for both the casual and the hardcore, even 
 longtime fans that are great with the game can be beaten. The online is great too and the achievements 
 arent that easy or not too hard to get. The graphics are beautiful abd each character has great 
 voice acting and weapons. Characters can be pretty easy to unlock though because some 10 can be 
 bought in the character creation mode which is a little complicated. Yoda and starkiller (the secret 
 apprentice!) have great detail and arent too tough to beat, though i would try to block the lightsaber 
 every time you come in contact with it (TRUST ME!!!) so overall, this exceeds as much as the first 
 soul calibur and will please hardcore and casual gamers so i give it a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaybird209
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  It's missing some stuff that they've had in previous games. There's a story mode for every character 
 even for your custom made ones. The thing is though, every story mode is only 5 stages long. On 
 most of the stages you'll fight more than one person, but still, it could have been longer. There's 
 also a tower of lost souls mode where you go through a tower and fight opponents and unlock special 
 itesm. I havent gone that far into it, but it seems like unlocking the items might be a bit of 
 a challenge. Character customization is much better and more in depth. Taking characters online 
 is real fun too. Limited Edition comes with extra character parts, not that many though, but enough 
 to let me create a Michael Jackson character and take him online, which is pretty fun. So yeah, 
 this one is probably the best in the series and if you like the series, try it out and possibly 
 buy it. If you just like fighting games, give it a shot and see what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilipepper87
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur is one of the best, if not the the best fighting game I have ever played. It's a game 
 with a great roster of accessible and hard to use characters that are for the most part unique 
 in their own way. Each one is designed beautifully with awesome graphics that really make this 
 game look wicked. Not only are the graphics superb, but the games runs with no hiccups in the game 
 play at all and is excellently cleaned up.
  
  Soul Calibur gives you a lot to do but I think they could have given you more. The characters are 
 extremely easy to unlock and there could have been more cooler ones. The armor and iitems are fun 
 to unlock though. To get them you must go through the new mode in the game which takes you through 
 battle runs.
  
  Soul Calibur is a game which will give you tons of great fun with its top of the line game play 
 and graphics as well as its new critical finisher move system. This should be on top of most peoples 
 "Things I want to buy" lists.
  
  THX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkanaloth
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Let's just cut to the chase... Some DARN fine fighting game here... not perfect, but darn good.
 
  
  ok, now for the messy details. 
  
  I've never personally been a big follower of weapon based fighting games since, on the whole, characters 
 with reach will win... I've always enjoyed Soul Calibur but I've never really *dug* into it seriously 
 like I did DOA and Tekken, however, I think that's about to change... For the record I have the 
 PS3 version (why the post a review link popped me over to the X360 section from the PS3 section 
 of the site I'll never know)
  
  - Gameplay -
  solid, core gameplay you've come to expect from Soul Calibur. I can't say it brings anything "new" 
 to the table but then again, does it have to? It's fast and fun. The new feature of armor breaking 
 applies a bit more strategy to combat but odds are it would be more meaningful in best of 5 matches 
 or excessively long fights with equally skilled opponents online... But even in the short, quick 
 skirmishes of the storymode there's something satisfying about hearing that shattering sound... 
 even if combat won't really last long enough to take advantage of it. 
  
  My absolute favorite is the tower mode, a VERY challenging single player mode that makes up for 
 the relatively short story modes.
  
  - Characters -
  Normally this wouldn't even be a consideration in a fighting game since typically they are what 
 they are, but *now* we have the create a fighter mode. MMO developers take note.. this fighting 
 game has more character customization options than many MMO games multiple times it's size!!!! 
 Sure MMO's are making entire worlds but we gamers *LIKE* to tinker.. don't skimp on us and Soul 
 Calibur 4 doesn't!!!! I've never seen so much depth in making a custom fighter done so well and 
 intuitively with so many options. Outside of that you have the core canon of characters who are 
 very well rounded and added to this list is Hilde who's exceptionally well done....... there are 
 also newcomers that, despite being based on old favorites, are still fun to play such as Shura 
 (Cervantes style combat) , or Ashlotte (appears to be Rock style combat) . 
  
  As for the Star Wars characters.. Vader is a bit broken, not badly but still a bit, I've not played 
 him enough to unlock the apprentice but I hear he's broken beyond belief as well, but still fun. 
 Not having an X360 I can't say about Yoda but I've heard he's insanely broken too... anywho, like 
 it or not is pure personal choice, but it really doesn't mar the quality of the game.
  
  - Graphics -
  Simply stunning... down to the clockwork gears ticking in Ashlotte's chest or the 
 various insane detail levels in Hilde's armor... Character animations are so smooth butter comes 
 to them to ask for tips and pointers. Additionally, framerate has never dropped one inch.. Combine 
 that with incredibly lush and detailed combat arenas and you simply have a graphical powerhouse 
 to show off your PS3 or X360. The game runs at a nice solid 720p and simply looks amazing showing 
 no signs of jaggies or other technical issues.. certain pieces of armor have a slight bit of clipping 
 here and there but even that isn't enough to begin to take issue with... 
  
  Now that I've lavished upon the game like a new-found kitten, let's go into the not so good.. as 
 i said the game isn't perfect.. but the issues are hardly epic making. Firstly.. I think they should 
 really look at re-inventing the training mode. To date DOA has one of the best training modes I've 
 seen allowing you to see the move commands you're trying to do *as* you're trying to do it, other 
 games do this as well such as VF5 and Tekken... I've tinkered with the training mode settings and 
 if there's a way to turn this option on please let me know.... 
  
  The only other issue is the fact that reach characters typically win however I can easily quantify 
 this issue: I'm not good enough at the game.... yet, and I suspect this is hardly an issue for 
 a seasoned SC vet... so take this as a newbie screaming "RAWRG!!! Sigfried sux... grumble..." after 
 loss number 26.
  
  Anywho.. this has gotten long enough so let's just say it: If you like fighting games and don't 
 have SC4... why.... not?!?!?! Perchance you are in bed wracked with fever and sickness... so crawl 
 to your local game store and get it anyway!!!! Make sure to cough on a few patrons while you're 
 there.. they will thank you when they get to burn some sick time to play SC4!!!!
  
  GO! GO get it!! SHOO!!!!.... you're still here?!?!?!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deron18
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  i thought this would be great but it turned out disappointing sc2 was the best i don't know why 
 namco decided to make 3 ps exclusive cause that created a gap for gamers who didn't have a ps and 
 now 4 is more of the same stuff as 3 . strategic playing is harder now cause some of the moves 
 are so quick ppl just keep doind them and your powerless to react, i'm not even going to talk about 
 gaurd impact cause it might as well be taken out of this version , and what the hell happened the 
 mini adventure mode, the tower of souls is a tower of crap, this game is now best played online 
 where button mashers rule, games are really going downhill from the first time i played i knew 
 it was geared towards noobs vets of 2 and 3 stay away it looks good and it's fun for a while but 
 then u start realizing that the playing mechanics were stupified in order to make a quick buck. 
 after playing sc form the dreamcast days to now i can tell u that the best thing about the game 
 is the graphics and being able to play online whenever u face "REAL" opponenents and u'll know 
 when u do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV still amaze many gamers with is all new graphics (f****ing awesome!!!!) , cuztomization 
 of characters (look, I can put those skill many skill and have 158% ATK!!!!!) and many others little 
 things.
  
  The game is "better" in multiplayer mode than solo, the story are a kind of not "boring", but still, 
 something is missing in that mode in solo for sure, but I don't know what......... The towers of 
 the souls (or something like that) is like the chronicles of the swords for me, the advantage in 
 this one, is that you don't have to move to your ennemies (SCIII) .
  
  The multyplayers mode is surely the big must of this game, if you don't have Xbox live, you're 
 missing something really good! A lot of fun to do with the muktiplayer, invite your friends, you'll 
 see that will be much funny thazn the story mode or arcade mode.
  
  Here the Checklist!
  
  Gameplay : 9/10
  Nothing really change for the gameplay.
  
  Story line : 6/10
  The 
 SCIII was better for this point.
  
  Graphics : 10/10
  OUTSTANDING!!!!!!!!
  
  Positive of this game : 8.5/10
  -Create your own characters is cool, but if you can choose his 
 skill and and modify is ATK, DEF and HP, this is just AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!
  -Great Multyplayer, the online mode will give you hard time ^.^' so, start betting your friends 
 first.
  -Outstanding new characters design by Hirokazu Hisayuki, Hiroya Oku, Yutaka Izubuchi, Mine **** 
 and the pen name "Oh! Great," (Air Gear and Tenjo Tenge) . They all do great job!!! Arigato ^.^
 
  -The "Armor break" concept is good.
  
  
  Negative of the game : 7.5/10
  -Something is missing in the solo mode, but what.......
  -Critical Finisher is like the soul 
 charge in SV II and III, It's useless.
  -No Shop? I must find my item in the towers of the soulm and my weapons too?!!!! I'm gonna kick your 
 big ass!!!!!
  -Star Wars?!!! They could put something better like Lord of the Ring or Darstalkers, something fantasic 
 or medieval, not Sci-Fiction in a game so beautifull like this!!!!!
  
  The game is Innovative for a arcade game, you just gonna be truly happy when this game will be 
 in your hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JordanMJ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  Ahhhhh, to be playing Soul Calibur again. Soul Calibur 4 returns with the option to finally play 
 against other people online. Woo! Now I can actually fight people that aren't my friends who really 
 hate playing the game! The problem with online matches is that it can take awhile to actually get 
 into one. The quick match is highly unreliable, so your best bet is selecting from a list of matches 
 from the Custom Match option. The problem here is that the list is ridiculously short; about 8 
 choices, and one page of choices. Half the time, you pick a room with one person in it, only to 
 find it full 2 seconds later. It's an annoying experience, but when you finally get into the match, 
 it's gravy.
  
  I haven't had too many problems with lag, but when I did, the game would be next to unplayable. 
 The match would either crawl along at an annoyingly slow rate, or it would take 80 days for the 
 game to register my combos and moves. For the most part though, online play has been an enjoyable 
 experience.
  
  However, there's always the annoying part. As I started playing, about 90% of the time my opponent 
 would choose Kilik. I haven't played the game in forever, so I figured "Oh, Kilik? This won't be 
 so bad." Unfortunately, no one learns how to actually play. All of the people who picked Kilik 
 used the same annoying two moves, the "POKE YOU WITH MY STICK ATTACK!" and "HA, SIDESTEP THIS ATTACK, 
 WHORE!" rendering anything I did useless. This was remedied when I actually learned how to play 
 the game, and actually started winning a match. I felt so proud of myself.
  
  This brings me to the fun part; balance. Say what you will about being cheap, the fact of the matter 
 is that having characters who only need to do one or two moves to win is bull. There's a select 
 few characters where you can simply just hit "Y" a bunch and still win. Yes, i do very much suck 
 at this game so far, but there's no excuse for giving a character that much power just by spamming 
 one button. To make matters worse, some characters are just too damn slow to do anything. Whatever, 
 perhaps it's a lack of ability on my part. Oh, and Yoda sucks. Don't play Yoda. Maybe it's a skill 
 thing on my part, but I haven't had a fun time with Yoda yet.
  
  The big plus with this game is that characters are easy to unlock. You start with 20000 gold, that's 
 5 characters you can buy right there. You play through the disappointing story mode (Really Namco, 
 5 missions? Come on now.) in about 10 minutes, and earn at least 10000 gold, which bring in 2 more 
 characters. You can unlock the main characters in about 20 minutes tops. Oh yea, back to Yoda. 
 He's pretty bad. The Apprentice is gimmicky, and adding Star Wars characters to this game was incredibly 
 retarded. Annnnd ending nerd rage now...
  
  The character creation is soooo much better in this game than the last. But that's not really saying 
 much. You can't make a character with the Jedi move set , yea it sucks, but come on. I wanted to 
 make an afro-jedi! My dreams are ruined! Though the SC3 'unique' move sets sucked, I will miss 
 them. Instead you choose from the main characters move sets. Basically, you're recreating the main 
 characters to suit your tastes. You have the ability to set voice pitch, (I won't go into too much 
 detail, but they all sound funny either way) and the body structure of your character. But you 
 still can't make a really fat guy. You can make a really big, beefy guy, however, which is close 
 enough I suppose. Regardless, the Character Creation is good, and I've plenty of humorous, and 
 incredibly awesome characters online thus far.
  
  I haven't had a chance to try Tower of Souls yet, but the damage caused by the RTS special mode 
 of SC3 makes me extremely hesitant. Perhaps one day the countless mental therapy sessions will 
 cure me of this damage, but that's a very small ray of hope.
  
  In short, Soul Calibur 4 is a great fighter. Some competitive players will be put off by the imbalance 
 between some characters, but their only solace is getting better with the characters they favor. 
 Online multiplayer needs some work, but is still very solid. Anyone who enjoys fighting games will 
 experience countless hours of fun with their friends, or other random people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2observer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I've been looking forward to this game for a while. Not even for the Star Wars characters: 
 I loved SC3, so I was looking forward to next-gen qualities. Was it perfect? Hardly. But it is 
 wonderfully fun.
  
  The Good:
  
  - Great Graphics, with clothing and armor gorgeously rendered. Not to mention some... flamboyant 
 exposure of well rendered skin *cough**cough* Ivy *cough**cough*. Even non tit-ular characters 
 like Nightmare and Mitsuguri are wonderfully presented with sharp graphics.
  
  - Character Creation. This is the strongest point of the game, with you being able to customize 
 and change already existing characters (except bonus characters like the Force-users, the big boss, 
 and the manga creations) and make them newly yours.
  
  -Armor+Critical Finish System: An interesting element to combat that increases the challenge for 
 those who like to block for eternity (or CPUS who do it without fail)
  
  
  The Not So Good:
  
  - The Force Users. Ok, I've played as Yoda, Vader (my sister has a PS3) , 
 and Starkiller. Vader is ok, Yoda seems tacked on, and Starkiller ranges from over-powered to not 
 well used. Fun for a bit, but mainly regulate them to being used against friends on a non-serious 
 level.
  
  -Stat Building. I'm not sure I like this element. Sure, it makes it so that you know your good 
 with characters and adds a challenge to online play, but it feels a bit like a hassel.
  
  The Bad:
  
  - The "Story" Mode. 5 levels? Thats it?
  
  - Noob-tastic. My friend who rarely 
 plays fighting games sits down and opens up a can of whoopass on me when I'm using a character 
 I'm relatively ok at. Why? Cuz I wasn't button mashing, and he was. This has always been a bit 
 of an issue in the Soulcalibur series, but I must admit that it luckily isn't as bad this time 
 around, with some characters being way too advanced to just mash with.
  
  
  The Ugly:
  
  - The number of guys online who will make female-fighters or pre-exisiting female fighters 
 run around in only their underwear. Nice for a little bit, then gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4... george lucas edition. Again we step onto the stage of history, a nonsensical phrasing 
 that always appears to have been written by a 13yr old fresh from his AP english test, just to 
 prove he can sound smarter than he is.... and that, is exactly what i was expecting from SC4. and 
 yet...
  
  It's not bad, miraculously enough. The story is still as ridiculous as ever. In fact my largest 
 gripe with the game is entailed here. Namco and lucas lied to us. Now george lucas being full of 
 it is totally expected but Namco swore up and down they would make the star wars character additions 
 "make sense" in the story. now lookout, -spoilers-, but apparently that meant "yoda feels a disturbance 
 in the force... and then jumps thru it." ???
  
  whu? really? really? ok, i need to find my calm. now to the guts... where to start? oh yeah the 
 game is fun! lots of fun actually! so many of the created character balance issues from the last 
 game have been solved. this was easy enough actually since, at least for now, your original fighters 
 can only assign fight styles and moves from the existing fighter's roster. i. e.- feel free to make 
 a taki who looks like a crocodile in a dress, but it's still taki fighting. however if you can 
 look past the move set limitations, the create a character is robust. and yes, for all the pervos... yes 
 you can change lady physique, i. e. creating a larger chest on your lady fighter. happy now? good, 
 go away.
  
  different armor and equipment and clothing will affect your stat output, plus skills to augment 
 your fighting can be assigned. it's impressive. the fights are fast and furious, the balance is 
 solid, and the action is satisfying. but then you go online, and big surprise? there-is-lag. but 
 it's an online fighter. are you really surprised? if you adjust your timing for online fighting 
 it's serviceable and still fun. matches take too long to start, and find for that matter, but the 
 load times are quick and that's nice. there's three modes online to fight in, but i'm just thankful 
 namco finally went online at all. ( (oh and before i forget, the difficulty is balanced in story! 
 no itagaki sadism here!) )
  
  finally, about points... they might come too fast. i put in six hours last night and acquired 20% 
 of the game's total available points. that's all great but it calls into question how the game's 
 longevity will play out. will the game just become a diversion? i think dlc will answer that question, 
 but it's worrisome that 48hrs after launch i'm already waiting for it.
  
  in conclusion soul calibur 4 is a blast to play, for how long though? you tell me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tookytooky
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  I was excited for this game to come out, was thinking it might be faster fighting now... unlike 
 sc3.. which is why i never liked it. Namco has yet again brought back the sluggish fighting WHY!!! 
 WHY!!! I ask... Just do a sc2 remake... thats been the best one so far, sure these new ones look 
 pretty and have some interesting feats.... but they could up the fighting speed to be like sc2. 
 
  
  Adding yoda and Apprentice to the game wtf? Why star wars characters Namco? Couldnt you keep Necrid 
 in the game hes better than any stupid star wars character will ever be... Im ashamed of this game. 
 I tried to play it but i cant find myself liking it I play talim alot on sc2 shes fast as hell 
 but going to sc4 its like some one had slipped her demeral. 
  
  The graphics are nice and theres an ok weapon base, the character editing is ok.. alot better than 
 sc3's though. You can quickly unlock all the characters in like 20 minutes and the story mode is 
 only 5 missions..... WTF Namco... you could have atleast made a solid single player for those with 
 out xbox live, I do have it but there are some out there who dont who might want longer stuff, 
 ya know? But even with xbox live.... I want longer story mode....5 missions just doesnt cut it. 
 I find this game more frustrating than anything and yes I do love fighting games dont get me wrong, 
 this one just isnt on the top of my list and i wish i would have just waited to rent it instead. 
 I could have spent that 60 dollars on something more so worth buying in my opinion... I'm sure 
 some are gonna disagree with me, thats fine your opinions are yours as much as mine are mine. Maybe 
 one day they will make sc2 for 360 with pretty graphics, even though it looked pretty good even 
 on the gamecube or one of the younger consoles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknyarth
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  I've always loved the Soul Calibur games. The Dream Cast version they just put out on X Box Live 
 was a great game all around. This version puts it to shame. 
  
  The graphics are awesome, the character motions are better than ever, the models amaze and the 
 brutality is exquisite. The 'story' mode was a bit short but with so many other play options that 
 doesn't seem like such a big deal. 
  
  New character options expand the options with Yoda being a blast and Hilde bringing a sword/staff 
 combo to the party. With old favorites like Kilik, Taki and Mitsurugi still lingering around, old 
 school fans of the series won't feel out of the loop and should be able to dive in and experience 
 some of the new offerings.
  
  The soul guage and losing equipment really changed it up nicely. There won't be any more 30 minute 
 block fests in this puppy. People actually have to stay on the offense and use their blocks wisely. 
 That frees you up to see some more flowing fights (always a good thing!)
  
  Frankly, any fan of fighting games will find this a worthy addition to their library. If you want 
 to get into some of the most intense fighting for the next gen console to date, you must buy this 
 game. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Okay, now I am not going to copy and paste like that one kid who did so with the Team Xbox review 
 (Check the reviews before mine) . This review is legit from me. 
  
  I will just continue on main aspects of the game like I normally do, so if you are reading this, 
 bear with me (Dont worry, this wont fail to dissapoint)
  
  Graphics: What more could I say. Look at the game. Its beautiful, gorgeous, sexy, and more. I could 
 keep on going, but you get my point. Plus, some characters are very jiggly (hehe)
  
  Gameplay: If it aint broke, dont fix it right? Everything you have seen in past SC games is here. 
 Arcade, Versus, Survival, etc. There are also new, welcomed game modes. Story (which I am sure 
 that in past games they incorporated the story in Arcade mode) , and the Tower of Lost Souls, which 
 is reminiscent of something similar in SC3, but this time, its better. Character Creation can never 
 be any better, with a deep, involved, and invigorating creation system. This ensures that each 
 character you create is new and unique. The new Critical Finishers move is a welcome addition which 
 prevents those avid blockers from, well, blocking. Instant kill if you land the CF. The regular 
 characters are back, plus new ones. 34 total, and how can you deny that? 24 fighters are returning 
 fighters, from the bouncy Taki to the fearsome Nightmare, they are all here. Then there are the 
 magna inspired characters, who are cool to fight with. Then you have the Star Wars characters. 
 I dont know why, but anyone who hates this fact doesnt deserve to even play SoulCalibur, nor talk 
 anymore for that matter. The inclusion of Yoda (360) , Vader (PS3) , and the Secret Apprentice (Both) 
 add a new flavor to SC. Yoda is quick, can chain good combos together, and is very hard to get 
 grappled. Vader is slow, but very strong. The Apprentice is a mix of both Vader and Yoda. Of all 
 3, the Apprentice is the most fun to use, but all of them are a little difficult at first. By the 
 way, his name is not Starkiller, for all you poor saps out there who actually believe that. Anyway, 
 gameplay is also amazing.
  
  Sound: Fighting games always have good sound, and SCIV is no different.
  
  Online: Finally, 
 SC has online play. This is a great addition, and adds a lot of replay value to the game. It has 
 many options for players to fight how they want to. Leaderboards are present, to track stats and 
 such. The only problem here is that the online interface can be clunky at times, but all in all, 
 Online play is amazing.
  
  Price: The Limited Edition I think is a little too overpriced, but it has got cool features if 
 you want to buy it (I am not going to spoil anything) .
  
  Replay Value: This is the weakest part of any fighting game, no matter what. SCIV will keep you 
 interested for a long time. It wont have the same effect as WoW (lol) but its that kind of game, 
 like Fight Night R3 that will keep you coming back for more. 
  
  Overall, buy SoulCalibur IV. It doesnt fail to dissapoint, and it includes all you could ever want 
 out of a fighting game, plus lots more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halodawg
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  If you are like me, you don't really play and love fighting games. I decided to take a chance on 
 SC4 because I played the third installment and genuinely liked it. It was worth it.
  
  SC4 builds on the weapon fighting franchise so popular today. I focused a lot on the new graphics 
 of the game because, well, they are so improved. The gameplay is very fast and smooth and the wide 
 array of characters are fun to mess with. 
  
  Yes, Yoda is in the game. He of course has his light saber and he seems like a great edition to 
 the SC team. Many returning characters have kept their looks and combos but they fell more smooth 
 than the previous games. Most characters can be easily unlocked by spending money earned in-game 
 and most are unlocked initially.
  
  The modes are pretty simple, like story, a 5 stage adventure with a character (beaten in 5 minutes 
 or less, really!) , or arcade, 8 battles against opponents. The Tower of lost souls is the CotS 
 of SC4. I personally liked CotS better because of strategy, but the Tower is cool too. You pick 
 a set of floors and fight enemies with a team you picked to unlock bonuses and weapons.
  
  Sadly, since I don't have Xbox Live, I play with friends and SC4 is the perfect 2 player duel game. 
 You can choose to use special weapons and armor for more of a customized-character type battle 
 or standard to fight without special things.
  
  The Character Creator is so fun! You pick a fighting style from most main characters and equip 
 them with armor, skills and weapons to match your style. As you get better with your character, 
 you can equip new skills but only if you have enough points in one or two disciplines dictated 
 by armor and weapons.
  
  In all, its a great game with few problems but there is always room for improvement and new characters 
 and modes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernandomarques
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Soulcalibur has been one of the most successful combat based franchises and finally it makes a 
 debut on Playstation 3 and Xbox 360 platforms. IV offers the same style of fantastic weapons based 
 3d fighting with a wonderful and wacky list of characters which is sure to appeal to both casual 
 gamers as well as dedicated fans of the series. The game isn't flawless as we will find out, but 
 it should be shortlisted by any self respecting gamer.
  
  
  
  The game has over 30 characters to play with and there are some inventive and graphically beautiful 
 levels. Rest assured there are still many moves and commands to learn and those who dedicate the 
 time while find the results very rewarding. Additionally the game has many unlockables and game 
 modes which keep it fresh and there is a new online mode which lets you battle across the globe.
 
  
  Soulcalibur IV has the usual Story and Arcade modes that every gamer will be instantly familiar 
 with, however there are some differences, for example, every character in the game has their own 
 story to play through, however in the grand scheme of things, these individual stories can be completed 
 in around 10-15 minutes. There also aren't many individual cinematics and most of them are repeated 
 at the end. It works a lot better than it sounds however and I enjoyed playing this mode for a 
 few hours.
  
  
  
  The Tower Of Lost Souls is the other single player mode that gives you a chance to ascend or descend 
 the tower and facing various challenges as you progress. Ascending the tower for example requires 
 you to select a stage and a set of floors to fight across which usually means you are fighting 
 against several overpowered foes. If you complete the requirements you get equipment unlocks which 
 sets you up for the Character Creation mode and then you can advance further up the tower.
  Going down the tower is a rather different affair altogether and you select two characters at the 
 start and they fight throughout the scenario in a tag team style format. Each floor pits you against 
 new enemies that you must defeat and you acquire goodies after clearing a specific amount of floors, 
 such as passing the 15th or 20th floor marker. This sounds challenging, and in practise it is, 
 however the player you aren't fighting with from your duo slowly recovers health in the background, 
 so you can switch between each of them to keep going.
  
  This mode could really have been much improved as it is a perfect scenario for an indepth experience 
 with fleshed out storylines and cinematics. The end result however is rather shallow, with the 
 only reason for playing being the usefulness of unlocking content. As this is important to some 
 aspects of the game, most players will spend time in this mode.
  
  
  
  This leads me nicely into the aforementioned character creation mode. You can customise characters 
 in here by altering their equipment, weapons, hair style and skill set, you can also create new 
 characters ... although they have to act as copies of pre created fighters when it comes to the 
 combat part of the game. You also can not alter the build of pre created fighters when you are 
 modifying them. The option to set up the skills works well as the weapons you choose dictates how 
 many points you can spend in various categories. Acquiring skills relies on how much you use a 
 specific character and you are awarded them as you "style level" increases. This cool ideal of 
 getting more for playing more carries over to the equipment as well, so you are basically being 
 rewarded for playing the game. I like this idea and am surprised that more game developers don't 
 avail of this simple yet effective methodology.
  
  There is also the obligatory versus mode which means you can jump into a quick match with either 
 a computer AI opponent or a buddy. There isn't much to say about this as it works perfectly well 
 and means you can get a quick fix without having to compete in something more indepth.
  
  
  
  Online support is a cool addition which many people will be talking about and both PSN 
 and Xbox Live work equally as well in either ranked or unranked matches. Surprisingly you can even 
 take your customised characters online which is a fantastic addition I wasn't expecting when I 
 first fired it up. Lag is kept to a minimum and both networks should be commended for their proficiency. 
 That said, as I have review copies they aren't that packed out right now so there is a possibility 
 that when the game hits retail that things might slow down, only time will tell in regards to this.
 
  
  The characters are very well designed and for those of you who don't already know, Darth Vader 
 and Yoda make an appearance. Yes, seriously. The Playstation 3 gets Darth Vader (obviously as the 
 console looks like his toaster!) , and the Xbox 360 gets the charming and wacky Yoda. Both versions 
 get "The Apprentice", the main character from the upcoming Star Wars Movie "The Force Unleashed". 
 Salivating yet?
  
  
  
  Well clean the drool from your chin because all is not well in the land of Star Wars meets Japanese 
 fighting game. Let's get Darth Vader out of the way first. He works great in the game and Playstation 
 3 owners will be very happy with this addition, he is balanced and works well in the context of 
 the game (even if it is a little bizarre) . The apprentice however is rather overpowered as he can 
 levitate and fire lighting which is tough to deal with unless you are very skilled at the game 
 (which I am not) . Yoda however is slightly broken, I will explain. He is too small to grab and 
 even if you select Yoda to fight himself, he still can't be grabbed. Obviously this is due to this 
 limited height, however it just ruins the gameplay for me as a lot of the more interesting attacks 
 just go over his head (literally) . This means the Xbox 360 owners get the poorer deal of the two, 
 especially when the PS3 Darth Vader works so well.
  
  This doesn't ruin the game for 360 owners, but I can't help but think that more play testing would 
 have somewhat rectified this balancing oversight slightly. It really is best just using Yoda for 
 a laugh but omitting him totally from any serious gaming sessions.
  
  
  
  The combat in the game is wonderful and I can make very few complaints, the controls are responsive 
 and there is much room for people to spend time mastering the commands to become a true master. 
 There are new moves such as Critical Finishers and Armor Destruction. The Armor Destruction means 
 that if your opponent blocks too much that there is a chance part of his outfit will "break" which 
 makes them vulnerable to the Critical Finisher moves. If you combine this with the fact you can 
 wear down the Soul Gauge (a coloured sphere which turns red as too many blocks are used) you can 
 then initiate a finisher which causes massive amounts of damage and looks absolutely stunning! 
 The combination of bullet time and stylish design of the critical moves makes them worth mastering 
 and using.
  
  The new gameplay mechanic of combining blocking and attacking is a welcome addition and it means 
 that if players are chickening out and just blocking that they will end up paying the price for 
 it. It certainly has in my experience meant that games are balanced and more fun, than just having 
 to deal with a player who only attacks on the counter. For those of you worried that the critical 
 finisher moves will ruin the game, fear not, because it is not very often that all the requirements 
 needed to use them are in place.
  
  
  
  Fans of the older games will be pleased to hear that old favourites such as Volvo, Ivy and Kilik 
 are still here and they work just as well as they did before. Masters of prior games will feel 
 right at home lifting up the controller and this can only be seen as a good thing, after all the 
 developers certainly didn't want to alienate long standing fans.
  
  Unfortunately, button mashing can quite often lead to a victory and even after 2 weeks of mastering 
 a single character I would get occasionally pounded by my friend who had no idea how to play the 
 game. Frustrating to say the least, however it may be more a case of the fact that I suck at the 
 game, rather than a game control issue. It certainly will be appealing for beginners, but perhaps 
 this time around there is slightly too much focus on attracting new gamers to the series. I feel 
 that they needed to alter some of the button commands, after all most of the more powerful moves 
 can be initiated by merely pushing down two face buttons, together. Hardly complex.
  
  
  
  All in all however, Soulcalibur IV is great fun and will appeal to a wide section of gamers 
 for the lovely graphics (which look almost identical on PS3 and 360) and exciting character development. 
 It not only looks beautiful but it sounds just as great with some wonderful weapon sounds. Once 
 again however I have to give the edge to the Playstation 3 version, the install, while slightly 
 annoying at the start, makes the game load significantly faster than its counterpart. Also Darth 
 Vader is much more useful than the ill balanced 360 Yoda.
  
  Both are recommended, however if you are lucky enough to have both consoles, go for the Playstation 
 3 version, it is superior.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  I will be the first to admit that when it comes to the fighting genre, I am hard to impress. Sure 
 I grew up on Street Fighter II for SNES and I remember all the hype around "Mortal Monday" and 
 spent my fair share of allowances on X-Men: Children of the Atom at the arcades. 
  
  However as I have got older and games and genres have matured there really isn't much that the 
 fighting genre can do to make itself more innovative, and till the introduction of online play 
 the genre for the most part was fairly dry. 
  
  Soul Caliber II offered a very addictive blend of story and standard arcade madness which assure 
 that many classes in University were missed in order to accommodate "just one more game". The after 
 the third one was released I figured that the series has just lost it, and all and all not many 
 franchises can get a forth incarnation out (Starting with Soul Blade) , so when the fourth was announced 
 I was reluctant to get excited. 
  
  I opted for the 360 version, simply because my friends list on Live is a lot more diverse and it 
 would be easy for me to see who was playing or even who had Soul Caliber IV and challenge them 
 to a match. 
  
  My first impressions were simply this:
  
  "Wow"
  
  Let me make this clear, in terms of solely graphics: This is the best looking fighting game I have 
 ever played in my life. 
  
  Of course my first match almost demanded that I opted for Yoda (The 360 versions unique character 
 and resident jedi master) and just the small things like the detail of the small grey hairs on 
 his head as it zoomed up on him before the match was just fantastic. The clarity and the detail 
 that was given to each character are simply unmatched in this genre. 
  
  Each stage also offers its own unique layout and look which of course is of great benefit when 
 it comes to keeping each fight "fresh". 
  
  From a Gameplay aspect, I have never been a fan of the 360 controller for the purpose of gaming. 
 I find that even at the best of times both the analog and the d-pad do not offer you the same crisp 
 follow through as the PS3 controller or even the old Gamecube controller. Although I will be the 
 first to admit that it isn't too bad, while it did take some getting use to and a few tries to 
 get my running attacks going once you have it down it really does become seamless. 
  
  Perhaps it's just me, but there seem to be a lot less opportunities for the cheesy "Ring Out" victory 
 as many stages seem to not have all sides open any more which I find terrible for single player 
 as I can no longer just cheese out the computer, but I find wonderful in terms of multiplayer as 
 I don't get bounced out of the ring as often. 
  
  There are various modes of gameplay ranging from the standard Arcade to Story, to a few single 
 player  esk quest modes which I guess I could take or leave but do tend to kill some time. The 
 effort has been made to make the play value of this game more broad and the various modes certainly 
 do help achieve that. 
  
  The character customization is pretty awesome as well, there are some items you have to buy with 
 money that is accumulated as you play the game, but honestly after beating the game on story and 
 arcade a few times I had more then enough green to do whatever I wanted to do. 
  
  Needless to say Voldo looks awesome in a Shinobi cape. 
  
  You also have to either unlock or 
 buy certain characters which seems to be a growing trend and to me a very annoying trend, but all 
 and all after a few plays through I have all but two of the locked characters unlocked, so it's 
 not a chore like some of the more recent Mortal Kombat games. 
  
  The one item that I cannot heap enough praise on is the soundtrack. Soul Caliber is the benchmark 
 that other fighting games soundtracks need to be gauged, and it seems every incarnation of the 
 franchise simply raises the bar to new heights. If you hear anything negative about the soundtrack 
 they are lying. 
  
  It swirls around you in 5.1 like a mothers loves, and adds a whole new dimension to each battle. 
 
  
  The voice acting, well
  
  It's well done, but I have always been of the thought that it's as though they are just trying 
 to hard to make this game seem like an Epic. Some of the narrators voiceovers at the start of a 
 fight tend to come off as something I would read on a placemat at my local Thai restaurant. It 
 comes off at times as being rather cheesy, but I guess it works as a whole. It does not take away 
 from the game at all and I know its standard fare for all Soul Caliber games it's just at times 
 it comes off as over the top. 
  
  The bread and butter of most fighters in this gaming generation is of course the Online play. 
 
  
  While at first attempt the match making took three tries (about 40 seconds total) before I was 
 able to find an opponent with a similar record to mine, the match itself was well done as the connection 
 was fast and there was almost no loading. It would me an opponent, we confirmed ready and we were 
 fighting a few seconds after that. 
  
  After a few random matches online I had people from my friends list requesting matches and that 
 again was a very smooth process. 
  
  In terms of ease of use for the multiplayer I would say that Soul Caliber IV is among the easiest 
 interfaces to use to date. 
  
  Now of course for the two questions that I am sure are on your mind:
  
  Achievements? And is 
 the collector's edition worth it? 
  
  First off, the achievements are not too bad. Some of them as with many fighting games will require 
 time, but you are generally reward for finishing the various modes on various difficulty settings. 
 You get achievements based on the amount of grapple moves, and various other moves that you use 
 over the course of the game. After my first night of playing I sat at 105 achievement points so 
 it doesn't give them away but they are reasonably paced. 
  
  As for the collector's edition, keeping in mind its only ten bucks more I found it to be a pretty 
 good value. It was able to get you some additional content for customizing your characters that 
 I guess the standard edition does not offer, it came with an interesting artbook, and a tournament 
 chart with marker and "T-Shirt Prize" so I guess in theory you could hold a tournament in your 
 home
  
  A little on the cheese side, but my thinking is that for ten bucks just for the cool metal outer 
 case it's worth it. 
  
  Overall, if you love fighters you will love Soul Caliber IV. Even if you are just warm to the genre 
 this one is a definite buy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV has just taken the series up a notch, and since it was already great that in itself 
 is no small feat. All your favorite characters are here (Mitsurugi, Ivy) , plus oodles of others! 
 The addition of Yoda, and the Apprentice just push SCIV way over the top. Every character, and 
 environments are just simply gorgeous, best i've ever seen. The representation of Star Wars is 
 truly unbelievable, the models, music, and level design left me awestruck. If somebody walked by 
 as stopped to watch as I was playing "The Apprentice vs Yoda" on the Star Wars stage they would 
 mistake this for a Star Wars game the design is that great. I cannot wait to get my hands on Darth 
 Vader because "Yoda", and "The Apprentice" are just sick. Game play is as tight as it ever was, 
 you can jump in and have fun right away, but it's gonna take you a long while to master the characters. 
 Soul Calibur IV is definitely a masterpiece, a must own game, that looks amazing, and nothing but 
 fun to play. My only gripe was when I went online, now I am not mad that I got my arse handed to 
 me, it was finding a "Quick match" that put me off, it wasn't so quick, and you just had to keep 
 trying it over and over. Most games will keep seeking a match until they find one. All things considered 
 I love this game, and will have a blast playing, and unlocking everything. I AM GIRLYMAN!!! tEE 
 hEE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMarks06
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  If you love fighting games soul calibur IV is perfect for you. The Game has tons of likeable features 
 such as; the huge variety of customization options; the ability to create 50 characters to your 
 liking with different heights, color etc. etc; the solid fighting system; next gen graphics; lots 
 of people to choose from (besides your custom characters) ; online play, and more.
  
  All of these make the game great, but is held back from being perfect because of a couple of things 
 in my opinion.
  
  1) They took out the little rpg mode from the last soul calibur title (I personally loved that)
 
  
  2) XBOX 360 has Yoda, who extremely short and hard to hit.
  
  3) When using Yoda he jumps with all of his attacks so he gets knocked out the ring easily.
  
 
  4) People who use the nunchuks are allowed to button mash, while the other fighting styles won't 
 stand for it
  
  5) Story mode could have used a little more work
  
  6) Don't know why but Soul Calibur refuses to bring back team battles.
  
  Aside from these 
 issues Soul Calibur IV is a great game and highly recommended by those who love fighting games.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyborg9
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  If you like fighting games then you'll like this. This game offers alot more features alot more 
 levels and character customization! you can make your own character and pick his fighting style 
 his armor type you name it! you also get an achievement point ^.^ did i mention the armor falls 
 of as you beat your opponent not to mention the destructible environments the online is great to, Im 
 usually not a fighting type of guy i stick with shooter games such as gears of war rainbow six 
 las vagas 2 halo 3 ghost recon but dam this is a really good fighting its a must pick it up now!
 
  
  
  I hope you liked my review I tried to explain everything i could I didn't really hate anything 
 bad about this game it was a great experence for me 10/10 here
  
  
  
  ^.~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kumarab
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so this is my first foray into the Soul Calibur world. I haven't devoted too much time 
 into the game as of now; but it just feels as if the combat could have been a bit faster than what 
 it is. But hey, maybe I've been just spoiled by the hyper pace of NG2. The game is pretty fun to 
 mess around with, esp if you have a friend sitting next to you with the other controller. I had 
 to manage with my wife :) , I love it when she yells at me when I beat her to pulp. The character 
 creation in the game is very expansive. I messed around with Mitsurgi for a bit and had myself 
 a gladiator like sleek fighter in no time. The game has a story mode, which takes you through the 
 journey of all playable characters in the game. After finishing that part, an arcade mode unlocks 
 as well. I still have to try it though. The game has three difficulty modes, and the normal one 
 is just too easy. I was button mashing my way through the story modes without even bothering to 
 look at the moves list. I'll have to try and see if the higher difficulties place a challenge or 
 not. The graphics look good and the cutscenes are also choreographed quite nicely. From what I've 
 seen till now, I can honestly say for myself that I won't be enjoying playing the game so much 
 on my own. With a human opponent, it just gets a lot more engaging and fun. Online play is built 
 into it, so I guess that takes care of this part for all the XBL Gold members. To sum up, if you're 
 one of those who're still trying to achieve 1000/1000 on NG2 or who keep coming back to master 
 a certain aspect, prepare to not be thrilled. For all others... this game might very well be the 
 refreshing air you were waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVIL5150
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Seems like the average IQ of the intended audience has dropped another 10 points as Namco stupidifies 
 yet another addition of the once venerated Soul Calibur series. Looks like I'll be downloading 
 SC2 on PS3 as soon as possible.
  
  JEDI? Come on.
  
  Seems like the marketing execs are vying harder for the casual dollar than the game designers are 
 vying for the hearts and minds of real fighting game enthusiasts.
  
  That said I'm sure I'll play this game inside and out, but so far it's been wildly disappointing.
 
  
  It's just too bad that Namco thought it'd be smart to take basic bread and butter moves out of 
 the game in favor of new moves that don't really add much in the way of utility and are redundant 
 considering other moves that serve the same function.
  
  Astaroth's B, B is gone in favor of a new shorter range move that can no longer chain from B to 
 A. What's the point of a delayable B, B if there's no mix up? I'll just sidestep around Astaroth's 
 already one dimensional offense and light him up while he sits there wide open. Foolishness.
  
  Mitsurugi's 6B stabs? All gone. Now he has a short pommel strike that could just as easily 
 be his 3A. Hey I know Let's take a stabby character with a katana and force him to use the non-pointy 
 end because we're Namco and we're morons! What a heart breaker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjo513
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  So to get down to it this game is the best fighter of the year. sorry smash brothers but you have 
 some HUGE competition in my oppinion. So lets start with what i found to be fantastic. The fighting 
 is superb. end of story. Each fighting style is unique causing a wide range of diverse fighting 
 and the movement is next to flawless. I LOVE that the lighting is ten times more realistic than 
 anything ive seen in a fighter and i also love the background detail which makes the battles all 
 the more epic. Suprizingly i found the whole starwars thing to work out in the gameplay. It is 
 a little weird that lightsabers are dueling against metal swords but hey as long as it looks good. 
 I also found it great to see that you can complete story mode with any character and there are 
 different endings for each of them. Great stuff. Wireless multiplayer, expected to be good and 
 is good. 
  Things that i didn't like. The create a fighter is horrible only because there is a variety but 
 NOT NEARLY ENOUGH to satisfy the quench of a charecter creating addict. you can't give your charecter 
 individual move settings but instead you rather copy an entire move set from one of the fighters. 
 There isn't enough face or clothing features and THERE ARE NO LIGHTSABERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!! that really 
 made me mad when i found that out! hopefully it will be downloadible content or something because 
 its something that most (at least all of my friends) people want to create. The only other thing 
 that i wasn't a huge fan of was the lack of skill needed to unlock all the characters. it took 
 me an hour and a half to unlock every character. not nearly enough effort is needed to feel like 
 you achieved an unlockable. 
  over all this game, for a fighter, is a solid 9 because it looks amazing, plays amazing and had 
 everything i wanted in the fighting sequences. It did lack a lot of customization and playing story 
 mode hours but it made up for it with stunning visuals and excellent fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  My thumbs are sore from playing for the last few hours. I played the story mode through for two 
 characters, Fought through the 8 battle arcade with Cassandra twice. Created my own Cassandra .
 
  (I am such a dog! She's cute!)
  I did versus mode a couple of times and earned myself over 300,000 .. enough to buy Soul Calibur 
 for Cassandra to play with.
  Jedi Knights are tough customers... watch out for them... tricky things!
  How I would rate this 
 game..... Hmmm
  Fun Factor = 10
  Graphics = 10 (they need a Mature version though..;-)
  Fighting Style...9.0
  Sounds =8.0
  Replay Value =10
  
  I could see someone playing this 
 for days to build up their characters! This is the best in the series. IF you liked the other Soul 
 Caliburs then this is a no brainer. IT is worth the full price of admission!
  Great Job Namco Bandai!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: porterwarren
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV is a great fighting game and by far the best fighting game in the series and in 
 the genre to date. The graphics are very solid. There is a lot of detail in the backgrounds and 
 the character models look great. The gameplay is pretty much the same as previous SC's, with exception 
 of the addition of damaging the body armor (which is done beautifully) and the critical finisher 
 (which I have yet to pull off) . Of course it requires a bit of expertise and timing if you plan 
 on being competive and playing online, which is the best added feature by the way; but for the 
 most part, the controls are still easily accessible. Not that it goes without saying, but its great 
 to be able to play with the star wars characters (be warned the apprentice is hard to beat) , and 
 it seems like vader and yoda will be able to be downloaded on the 360 PS3 in the near future, so 
 that will be another added bonus. My only complaint is that the bonus characters are too easy to 
 attain, so a little bit of challenge is taken away from the game, but there are tons of other things 
 to get which are mainly used in the character creation/customization mode, so that more than makes 
 up for it. Overall, a great fighting game and a no brainer for fighting game fans to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mykeran
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the side scrolling fighters, whether they be virtua fighter, tekken or Soul Caliber. 
 For some reason I just love dumb button mashing. The games are fun, short and purposeful, and though 
 I feel incredibly frustrated with more sophisticated shooters (Rainbow Six etc.) these make me 
 feel good!
  Soul Caliber IV to me, promised all the things I loved about not only the series but the genre. 
 And for a good measure it delivered. Great graphics, great gameplay and a fantastic character creation 
 system (to my mind, its strongest point and a reason why I still have SC3 on my PS2!) . However 
 given the power of the 360... why didn't the game capitalize on it? There is for example very little 
 in the way of team based fighting (a la Tekken Tag) which I really enjoy and would be fun specifically 
 with the xbox live.
  Also the story mode... four stages only?!!! Now there is some variety and randomness with it which 
 I like but there isn't much depth.
  So all in all a good game, and in fact perhaps a very good game. But to me it could have done much 
 much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_am_Kairace
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Alright I'm gonna make this short, but clear.
  
  Summary:
  
  Buy this game if you like competitive games. It's only for fighting fans and it shows.
  
  The 
 one thing I've always loved about soul cal is it has a clear Rock, paper, scissors fighting system.
 
  
  The way you win is learning your opponent. 
  
  Graphically the game wins all. The graphics are slick and are really attractive.
  
  
  But, 
 lets just get into the bad things shall we?
  
  
  The bad: The game seems really slow compared to other soul caliburs. You can unlock all the characters 
 in about 15 mins. The game is really only for multiplayer. And going online is really what it's 
 all for. The difficulty is.... wait? Is there difficulty?
  
  The good: Greatest fighting game thus far. Great multiplayer. Nonstop fun
  
  
  Honestly the 
 game is really only for competitive players.
  
  But it really is worth 60 bucks.
  
  The people that say the game is crap don't like fighting games.
  
  
  But don't believe all 
 the hype as well.
  
  Have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ray4594
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  The game is just simply amazing. The graphics are good and the cut scene graphics are even better. 
 The extra characters from Star Wars series which includes Yoda for the 360, darth vader for the 
 ps3 and the apprentice for both is great. I had a great time playing this game. This is simply 
 one of the best fighting games that the 360 will have. Though is your not a very good player you 
 might have some trouble defeating certain characters but when you get used to the game you are 
 a wrecking machine. And for the players that are even too good to fight the AI's, no worry. Its 
 360 live compatable. You can go online and find someone who is as good as you, maybe even better. 
 And the character creation is just great. Although not as much armors nad different things that 
 you can choose from in the beginning, you will unlock more as you go through the game. So even 
 if your not a fan of the series you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Having played every game in this series since I imported Souledge from Japan. Soulcalibur IV really 
 takes the series to the next level. Graphics, sound, moves, control its got it all. One of the 
 best if not the best fighting games you will play this year. Truly one of the best fighting games 
 the 360 has seen. If you are big fan of the series then you will fall head over hills for this 
 one. Online play is a welcomed addition to this title. The game play is in line with the previous 
 versions of the game. The new addition to the blocking system and finishing moves add just the 
 right touch to make this game work oh so well. During a time when good games are typically few 
 and far between SoulCalibur IV really fills that void and I mean in spades. One of those you just 
 can not put down. I give this a 9.0 out of 10. Well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mnkysflingpoo
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I've been SC since it came out on dreamcast way back in the day. I'm not what you would call a 
 "hardcore fighter" type of person, but I know a good game when I see it. So when I heard about 
 this coming out for 360, I was rather excited. 
  
  The gameplay is clean and crisp. Online is fun and can get Addictive trying to get that next online 
 level. I know I spent a good hour saying "this is my last match" only to jump right back in again. 
 The Single player modes are fun, and getting new unlocks almost every time keeps the replay value 
 high.
  
  Now for Yoda, Who everyone prob wants to know about. Some say he's "broken" because you can't throw 
 the lil guy. The counter to this is pretty much all of his attack Req that he jump in the air and 
 do crazy summersaults and the like. People can easly knock him out of the air and have there way 
 with him. He's fun to use once you get used to him. 
  
  I have not played the game enough yet to give any other insights too, so in closing, if your just 
 a fan of good games, give this one a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalMan300
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  I was VERY lucky to have a copy of Soulcalibur 4 sold to me early at the local videogame store. 
 So I was able to play the game around a week before it was even released. And now that gamespot 
 will finally let me review it, I can tell you that this is the best fighting game Ive ever played. 
 The gameplay is somewhat similar to the previous entries in the series, but the addition of destroyable 
 armor and critical finishes make the game much more strategic than its predecessors. You can no 
 longer block forever without consequence like the other SC games. Now, excessive blocking lets 
 your opponet destroy you with character specific finishing moves, most of which are amazing to 
 watch (Taki's and Yodas are notable highlights) . The character creator has also been greatly improved 
 from SC3. Now, equpping certain armor and weapons will alter your HP, attack, defense and five 
 other statistics. These other stats allow you to add special abilities to your character, like 
 HP drain, auto counters, increased guard breaks, and many, many more. You can also unlock many 
 more clothes, armor and weapons by gaining achievements and playing through the single player modes. 
 I do wish that it was possible to give a character a lightsaber, but its the only flaw in a character 
 creation system that is this robust. Singleplayer is actually entertaining this time around, but 
 there are still some flaws. I expected story mode to be much deeper and longer than what I got, 
 but instead its a series of only 5 stages (arcade has 8!) with 3 cutscenes. The first is basically 
 the same no matter what story you play, the second shows the final boss, and the third cutscene 
 shows you your characters ending, which is the only consistantly varied cutscene. Arcade Mode is 
 exactly what I expected. And the Tower of Lost Souls Mode? Brutal. Its a series of 60 floors (aka 
 challenges) that get increasingly more difficult. The problem here is that the challenges seem 
 to become too difficult early on. I have managed to reach floor 35, but only by making custom characters 
 with beefy weapons and armor. This isnt necessarily bad, but it is time consuming if you somehow 
 dont want to make more characters. Multiplayer for me has been tough to review. Offline, the game 
 is stellar, and playing in standard or special versus will always give you a good time. But online 
 is the problem. The gameplay is still great and the ranking system is very well done, fair, and 
 balanced. But in all the games that I played, I was only able to play against people in Asia. Almost 
 everyone on the leaderboard (it was 600 people at this time) lives outside america. And for me, 
 this meant game killing lag. The game took around 2-3 seconds to even acknowledge my button presses 
 at the worst moments. Other times, the game ran like a slideshow. The best connection I played 
 against still had around a one second delay between button presses. I do believe that once I play 
 against more people locally, the game will run much better, but I cant judge at the moment. The 
 only other flaw I could come up with was with Yoda. Playing as him is extremely entertaining, but 
 playing against him will usually limit you to low attacks. Also, I was never able to grapple Yoda 
 in any of the games I played. More annoying is the fact that Yoda cant grapple Yoda in Yoda-v-Yoda 
 fights. Thakfully, these flaws dont detract from the excellence of this game. It is very well made 
 and extremely entertaining to play. If the online lag gets fixed, this may well be a classic in 
 the genre.
  
  
  
  
  Positives:
  +Outstanding graaphics
  +A new strategic depth to the gameplay
  +Deep character creator
  +Amazing multiplayer
  +Easy 
 to learn, but hard to master
  
  Negatives:
  -Unplayable online lag at times
  -Brutally tough Tower of Lost Souls Mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: young_doe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  To sum this up in words, Soul Calibur IV has taken the series to an all new high. First thing that 
 you'll notice is the high detailed graphics, this game is pure eye candy, and can stand tall or 
 side by side to any of the current graphic kings of the current generation. The fighting engine 
 runs very smooth, so far I haven't noticed any kind of slow down, though only playing about 5 matches 
 online I wasn't able to notice any type of lag whatsoever which is a plus when it comes to a fighter 
 online.
  
  My only concerns with the game is how easy and fast the Arcade and Single player modes are. You 
 can literally beat both modes within 10 minutes. But don't be too worried about that.. SC IV has 
 implemented the Tower of Lost Souls mode which replaces the Chronicles of the Sword mode. This 
 new mode has your character reach the top of the tower with treasure chests to collected on each 
 level with over 100 floors, here you can customize your charter in order to successfully reach 
 your destination. This is where your skills will definitely be tested.
  
  New character additions also come to mind with stand outs such as Yoda and the Apprentice who will 
 be the lead charcter from the up coming release of Star Wars Unleashed video game. Both charcters 
 play very well and are both equipt with so many interesting moves and manuvers to satisfy a typical 
 SC fan.
  
  I recommend to all gamers who love the SC series to go out and get your copy. Even the ones who 
 are not followers of the series including myself should at least give this one a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteFang94
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  This game both fun and addicting. It is by far the best game in the series. I could play it every 
 day and not get bored of it. In Soulcalibur 3 I loved using the soul creator. The soul creator 
 in this game is a lot better and has more items and things to choose from. This game will give 
 me something to do definitely until Fable 2, Far Cry 2, and Fallout 3 come out. I will make so 
 many characters every time I play it. This game completely beats DBZ: Burst Limit. If you like 
 fighting games you will love this game. I give it a 10 because its the best game in the series, 
 the character creator rocks, and the game modes are both fun and addicting. I don't really have 
 anything else to say but its my favorite fighting game I've ever played. And yes its worth getting 
 more than Burst Limit. Thanks for reading.
  
  
  
  
  
  Trevor Hespell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woo122389
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  It's been nearly three years since the last release of the Soul series and I've got to say, the 
 wait has been killing me. I was somewhat disappointed with the last Soul Calibur. So I was hoping 
 that Soul Calibur 4 would satisfy my desires. And for the most part I can honestly say that that 
 this game is good, pretty darn good.
  
  This game brings many new and exciting additions to the Soul series, such as:
  
  Online Multiplayer 
 ( an excellent but rather expected addition)
  
  Enhanced Character Creation and Customization ( A very cool upgrade to the previous Character Creation, 
 possibilities are limitless (almost) )
  
  New Characters ( Algol, Hilde, Shura, Angol Fear... others)
  
  Star Wars! (Yoda for the XBOX360 
 and Darth Vader for the PS3. The "Apprentice" on both versions. It's a nice addition but it's not 
 as fun as you'd think)
  
  Tower of Souls ( A single player mode which is really cool, in my opinion. I guess this replaces 
 the "Chronicles of the Sword" mode from the previous game.)
  
  Stat Modifier ( In certain modes you can equip customized characters (even characters from the 
 original roster) certain clothes and armor to improve their stats (Health, Attack, Defense) . It's 
 cool, no doubt about that. But one flaw I and I'm sure others have noticed is that if you want 
 to be competitive (high stat) , you're characters are going to be ugly ( big, hulking armor) .
  
  Tag battles (You can play with 2 or more character on one side and tag each other in and out. 
 I guess SC4 is taking a page out of Tekken's book. I like it and I welcome this new feature)
  
  
  For the most part, I was impressed and happy about the "NEW" of this game . I kind of hoped 
 that there would have been more new features, but I guess I'm wanting too much.
  
  Soul Calibur 4 retains much from its previous predecessors. 
  
  The Story Mode still exists 
 but I've got to say, I'm not liking it too much. The Story Mode for each characters are very short 
 ( 5 fights each characters) . And in each go on the Story Mode, the same cutscenes are used for 
 every characters. However the everyone's ending is different from each other (thank god) . The endings 
 are short, unexplained and kind of disappointing. I was really waiting to see what was going to 
 happen to each fighter in great detail. oh well...
  
  SC4 also has a media section included. It includes illustrations, CG models and videos. However 
 I felt that it was lacking as the CG models are only available to several characters. (Why Namco 
 why?)
  
  Soul Calibur 4 brings a lot to the table. It improves on many of the things in Soul Calibur 3 however 
 I found a few faults in the game that devalued the quality of the product. All in all, I'm happy 
 with this game. It should keep me busy for quite a while. But i'm still a little sour about the 
 Story Mode.
  
  In conclusion, fans of this series should definitely buy this game (It's a must) . Enthusiasts, 
 Casuals, others be sure to at least check this out because it deserves some recognition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Lets get it out in the open, Soul Calibur IV is a straight up, awesome fighting game. It has lots 
 of modes, lots of characters, and lots of customization. There's not a whole lot left to want. 
 Though while it's not perfect, any problem with it more or less be over looked. 
  
  Project Soul does nothing but Soul Calibur games and I missed the apparent lack luster Soul Calibur 
 III and completely ignored Soul Calibur Legends, so my memories of the series are nothing but good 
 with the likes of Soul Calibur and SCII. And after playing IV for a good bit of time, I'm nowhere 
 near disappointed. SCIV is just a total package fighting game.
  
  One of the main selling points of fighting games are the characters, and SCIV's roster is large 
 and varied. Among the fighters there are 24 returning characters and ten new characters to play. 
 Sadly, only two of the new characters Hilde and Algol are 100% intertwined with the Soul Calibur 
 mythos. Five characters are bonus characters designed by mangaka such as Oh! Great the creator 
 of Tenjho Tenge and Air Gear. These characters are merely clones of regular characters so they'll 
 have the same moves as others basically. The last three new characters are Star Wars characters. 
 You get Yoda on the 360, Vader on the PS3, and The Apprentice (of the Force Unleashed fame.) When 
 you unlock all the characters there will be a spot between Yoda/Vader and the Apprentice, which 
 you'll think is open for another character that needs to be found. I say this being 99.9% sure 
 that Vader/Yoda will be released for DLC later down the line and I'm willing to bet that they're 
 already on the disc you'll just have to pay for a key. A Star Wars character going in between Star 
 Wars characters makes sense doesn't it? Oh but that's not where the characters stop, you have create 
 a character to play around with!
  
  Like in previous Soul Calibur games, there is "Create a Soul" or create a character. Here you can 
 spend hours and hours tweaking your custom characters armor, stats, look, clothing, physique, weapon, 
 and move sets. The combinations are endless and you'll never see the same character twice. You 
 are also able to customize the existing characters as well. It's a welcome feature to see in a 
 fighting game, and where Dead or Alive Ultimate created the standard for online fighters, Soul 
 Calibur has created the standard for customization in fighters. 
  
  There are plenty modes to keep you busy for quite a while. You have your standard arcade and VS. 
 modes as well as a story and a new mode called Tower of Lost Souls that gives you multiple special 
 stipulation battles which will award you with money to buy characters and clothing. And for the 
 first time in a Soul Calibur game there is online play. There are only two modes though, Stardard 
 VS which you use regular un altered characters and Special VS which allows you to use your CAS 
 characters and customized main characters. Lobbies aren't very big though, where a game like DOA4 
 could have 16 players in a lobby, SCIV only has 4. It's a bit lame, but oh well. 
  
  There are a few new gameplay mechanics that you'll find while playing. One is the armor breaking 
 during battle. This is fairly comparable to some Japan only fighting games which involve clothing 
 being shed and then some, adult situations lets say. But in SCIV, it isn't merely fan service 
 (which there is a lot of here.) As armor is broken not only will your character look more beaten 
 up, your defense will lower in the process, giving your opponent an advantage in the fact that 
 you take damage heavily. Armor is broken when a gem on the HUD is turned to pure red while guarding 
 and you'll hear a big crack during gameplay, if you land enough damage in the same area you'll 
 be given a short chance to do your characters critical finish by pressing all four face buttons 
 (or one of the shoulder buttons.) These moves are over the top, flash, and are instant kills, and 
 each character (aside from Astaroth and Rock) have their own, so its fun to try and get a match 
 to this point and just destroy your opponent. 
  
  Technically, this is just a sharp looking game. Character models and costumes are crisp, colorful, 
 and just fun to watch. The game moves constantly and fluidly like all fighters should. Levels a 
 varied, colorful, somewhat destructible, and highly detailed. Soul Calibur IV is by far the best 
 looking fighter on the market. 
  
  Soul Calibur IV shouldn't disappoint any fans of the series, and it should be played by anyone 
 who is a fan of fighters. If you find fault with the game, then quite possibly, you're nuts. The 
 game is amazingly polished, fun, and just a delight to play. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
