-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spectral Force 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/spectralforce3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tried-and-true turn-based gameplay.
 Geomancy lines and team attacks provide some interesting strategic options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story is practically nonexistent.
 Technically unimpressive visuals and bland art style.
 Awful sound effects and music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.0, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 190 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Idea Factory
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Jul 29, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Spectral Force 3 is a functional and predictable strategy RPG without a lick of personality. 
 

  Given such a ghostly title, you'd expect squads of shimmering spirits and imposing armies of the 
 undead to loom ominously over Spectral Force 3. It's true that this strategic role-playing game 
 features fluttering birdmen, bony grave escapees, and magic-wielding vampires -- not to mention purring 
 catwomen, ninjas, and matronly goblins hungry for an afternoon snack. But rather than go hog wild 
 with this campy crowd, developer Idea Factory has created an immediately forgettable experience. 
 Spectral Force 3 plays decently enough -- as it should, given that it cribs from decades-old games 
 that have already perfected and reperfected the turn-based formula. But for a game featuring a 
 sasquatch militia, it has no personality, and the practically nonexistent story and weak character 
 development will disappoint even the most stalwart genre enthusiasts.  

           This looks much more dramatic than it actually is.      

  This lack of character means 
 that the game relies purely on its gameplay for entertainment value, and it partially succeeds, 
 thanks to battles that last just the right length, and an eclectic assortment of units you can 
 recruit to your posse of ragtag mercenaries. As you progress through the game, you will add more 
 and more characters to your list of available party members. In turn, you gain some strategic flexibility, 
 thanks to an assortment of gladiators and gunners you can mess around with on the battlefields. 
 The constants are main character Begina and the cowardly healer Diaz, and several missions require 
 you to protect one or both of these party members to achieve victory. In fact, you'll spend a lot 
 of time protecting Diaz in most scenarios, not just because he is your main healer, but because 
 he can utilize magic squares on the gameplay grid called geomancy lines. When he stands in these 
 squares, the party receives a particular enhancement (say, a hit point boost after every turn) , 
 and Diaz can unleash a helpful area attack.  

  Regardless of the mission objectives, most battles play out in more or less the same way. You plant 
 your selected party on the gameplay grid and take turns moving about and bashing on your AI-controlled 
 enemies. Granted, there are some variants on the usual recipe. By landing successful standard attacks 
 (of which there are light, medium, and heavy variants) , you fill the friend gauge. As this gauge 
 fills, you can then string attacks together in one of two ways. With an assist attack, you can 
 land additional blows using nearby party members; with the teamwork command, you can grant an entire 
 additional turn to another character. These mechanics aren't groundbreaking, but they're the key 
 to surviving the hardest missions, some of which can feel incredibly difficult. That isn't to say 
 that Spectral Force 3 is, overall, a punishing game. However, in the midst of the easier tasks, 
 you will encounter some difficult story missions that may have you reexamining your strategies 
 and equipping your characters in a variety of ways.  

  There are other considerations as well, such as Diaz's healing ability, which is freely usable 
 without depleting any kind of mana gauge. On the other hand, he cannot heal himself with his standard 
 spell, so you need to equip him and other characters accordingly. There are no potions in Spectral 
 Force 3, so you'll rely on a number of equipped items to enhance your party's built-in skills. 
 These run the gamut from additional spells to stat buffs, though you must first create and equip 
 the necessary items to use these abilities. This means a visit to a smith (easily done via the 
 game menus) , who will then form the items you find on the battlefield into the necessary object. 

  Unfortunately, there's no real context for any of this gameplay. The setup sounds like a neat idea: 
 Your group of hirelings seeks work for any of a number of warring factions, which in turn affects 
 the tide of the gameworld's political direction. In practice, this just means you take on any given 
 mission for the faction of your choice while taking on story and recruitment missions. It all feels 
 very random, and there's nothing to draw you into the struggle. Your own mercenary squad will squabble 
 and sass, and there some nice tidbits of dialogue, but there is no standout character, no compelling 
 drama, no unpredictable surprise. Without a real story to pull you through, Spectral Force 3 becomes 
 a series of stand-alone battles in which choice is an illusion and you must create your own sense 
 of forward progress.  

           A little pizzazz could have gone a long way towards dramatizing the generic gameplay. 

  Like the gameplay, the visual and sound presentation is simply old. Not only will you probably 
 mute the awful, monotonous MIDI score, but you'll be surprised at just how bad the sound effects 
 are. There is a limited selection of lifeless thumps and swishes, and some of the effects don't 
 even match the accompanying attack. Why would a sword against flesh sound like a club pounding 
 an empty bucket? Spells sound unspectacular as well, which is at least consistent with their visuals, 
 which lack drama and pizzazz. Spectral Force 3 does not look like a current-generation game. Animations 
 are limited, environments are utilitarian, and the overall impression is that of a PlayStation 
 2 title with a slight high-definition boost. The aging technology powering the game could have 
 been mitigated by an outstanding art design, but like its story and character progression, the 
 game's style is depressingly generic.  

  There's also a sense of overall sloppiness, from text that spills over the sides of its background, 
 to misspellings, to bee noises that were obviously created by a guy going "bzzz" into a microphone. 
 These things might not bother you if you're a diehard SRPG fan looking for a fix, but Spectral 
 Force 3 projects no sparkle or enthusiasm, and doesn't offer anything to get excited about.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  Where do I start with Spectral Force 3? I'm not familiar with the series at all, since this is 
 the first one to be released here. I'm not entirely impressed with this one though. The storyline 
 is almost non-existant, which means, I really didn't care for the characters at all. Especially 
 the optional ones.
  
  The graphics are completely outdated, and unstylish. There is no reason why this is on the 360, 
 as it takes no advantage of his horsepower at all. The controls are clunky as hell. This is not 
 a game I would suggest SRPG newbies to jump into. While it's not hard at all, the complex controls 
 can be a total turn off. They don't explain ANYTHING with the tutorial missions. You basically 
 figure everyone out on your own. I didn't learn about the "fast foward" button, which speeds up 
 enemy attacks for you, until 45 hours into the game. 
  
  However, the battle system was kinda fun. There was really nothing BAD about it, but then again, 
 there was nothing NEW about it either. It was just there. The battle system was this games only 
 saving grace, but it's a shame the controls were just so crappy about it. 
  
  I enjoyed the freedom of the game though. The first couple hours you're forced through a linear 
 mission to mission system, but once you get over that hump, the whole world opens up to you. This 
 means you can tackle any mission you want in any order. You eventually unlock the storyline mission, 
 which you are require to do, but between then, you can go along at your own pace. Even fighting 
 older missions if you want to grind.
  
  I'm having a hard time rating this game, because I wasn't entirely bored of it, but at the same 
 thing, I know it has MANY faults and it's only for hardcore fans of SRPGs. 
  
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Spectral Force 3 is a turn-based strategy RPG. The turns are 
 determined by the character or enemy with the highest speed or agility. After you accept a battle, 
 you can bring 6 characters into battle with you. However, you are almost always locked with the 
 two main characters, Diaz (healer) and Begina (warrior) . That leaves pretty slim pickings after 
 all.
  
  Each character is assigned a job class, and they have to stick with it. The game does a good job 
 at introducing these type of classes with the main characters. There's a healer, standard fighter, 
 a heavy attacker, a spearman, magic user and archer/gunner. The enemies you fight usually follow 
 these sort of lines too. All the optional characters you recruit follow suit aswell.
  
  You don't gain experience by each successful move you make, like you would in Final Fantasy Tactics 
 and it's clones. Rather, you gain experience after each enemy you kill or each time you Heal someone 
 (since Healers can't kill things, typically) . This sounds stupid, but your characters do level 
 pretty fast this way. You only need a flat 500 experience to gain a level, and the experience runs 
 over, so if you gain 1,000 experience for killing a boss, then you'll gain 2 levels. If you are 
 a lower level character and fight a higher level monster, then you'll gain a ton of experience. 
 If you are higher level, and kill a lower level monster, then you'll gain less experience.
  
  After you gain a level, you get to distribute 1 point towards your stats for bonus stat boosts. 
 After you complete a mission, you gain bonus experience. You can distribute that among your characters 
 after on the menus screen. This is alot like the Fire Emblem games.
  
  On the menu, you can buy armor, accessories, skills and emblems by a blacksmith. You can also improve 
 your weapons abilities too. This is alot like the Suikoden games, you stick with one weapon but 
 improve it over and over again.
  
  The combat system is where it gets kinda confusing. While they use the typical grib battle system, 
 and certain characters can attack in a variety of grid attacks. For example, a fighter like Begina 
 can only attack in close range, but a magic user can attack in 4 grids out. A gunner has long range 
 attacks, but can only attack in straight lines. A Spearman can attack in 2 grids, but they can 
 only attack on flat surfaces. 
  
  Ok, that's not the confusing part, that actually makes sense. The confusing part are all the small 
 little factors they throw into the game. The most annoying thing about them is they don't really 
 explain them at all. I learned most of this stuff on my own, which is kinda satisfying in a way, 
 but I felt really gimped at the beginning of the game until I learned by way through it. I'm going 
 to have a heck of a time explaining this. 
  
  Basically, each character has 7 AP points. Each time you attack, you lose an AP point. So you can 
 walk up to an enemy, and hit it with combos. You can attack it with a low attack (1 AP) , medium 
 attack (2 AP) or a hard attack (3 AP) . Think Xenogears. There's also Skills you can use and up 
 to 6 special moves you can pull off. You can equip 3 skills, all which heal your character or boost 
 your stats within a mission. You can also equip characters with 3 Special abilities the same way. 
 Each character will gain 3 unique special abilities though out their span though.
  
  To use Special abilities or Skills, you need SP, I'll assume that means Special Points. You gain 
 SP by attacking monsters. The more time you attack, the more SP you build up, and this means you 
 can start pulling off good moves. So the start of battles are usually slow paced, unless you equip 
 special SP boost accessories. 
  
  
  Also, each time you attack, you not only gain SP but you also gain FG. FG stands for Friend Gauge. 
 When you build up enough Friend Gauge points, you can click on an "assist" button, and have a near 
 character toss in an extra attack during one of your turns that doesn't cost any AP. If you have 
 2 FG points filled up, then you can give a character an extra turn. Each time you use Assist or 
 when you give a character an extra turn, you gain points in ANOTHER meter. 
  
  When you have atleast 25 points meter, and all 6 of your characters are still alive, then you can 
 pull off a special move where all your characters attack a single enemy at once, creating a huge 
 attack. This is very important for boss fights. You can boost that meter to 4 levels (100 points) 
 for a MASSIVE attack too.
  
  They also toss special colored spots on the map. If a character stands on one of these things, 
 then they get bonus stats boosts after a turn is up. 
  
  There are no healing items in the game, so you mostly have to rely on healing just by your healing 
 character's magics. If a character dies, then they retreat. You can't revive them, but they do 
 come back to your party after a battle. 
  
  
  ----------Characters / Story ----------
  You play as a rookie Mercenary, Begina. While on a routine mission, your Mercenary group is attacked, 
 and your leader is murdered in the battle. Before he passes, he assigns Begina as the new leader. 
 Untrusted as leader by his teammates, they decide to disband his group. The only person that stands 
 by him is fellow greenhorn, Diaz. Begina and Diaz try to reform the mercenaries group to make money 
 and survive.
  
  That's basically the jist of them. I enjoyed the opening of the game. It starts off pretty strong, 
 but the storyline pretty much stops there. Most of the game is just doing odd jobs for random Kingdoms. 
 You take no sides and there isn't a greater evil that you must stop to save the world. There is 
 barely a story to this game at all. 
  
  You might get a dialog scene before you recruit a character, but they have nothing to do with the 
 plot. There is only one small, reoccurring plotline in the game, and it felt more like a sidequest 
 you would find in a generic JRPG than the backbone of a game. 
  
  
  ----------Graphics ----------
  Oh god. The graphics are awful. It's not so much the aesthetics. 
 I love the main menu, I love the anime celled characters during dialog scenes. I just hate the 
 battle system. All the characters remind me of the squatty 3D characters from Final Fantasy III 
 DS. They have giant exagrated heads, and short bodies. It just looks really dumb. The maps are 
 generic, with little flair at all. 
  
  The game starts off with a cool anime cutscene, but that's the only one in the game. When characters 
 use special moves, a nice looking anime cell will show up, and they'll try to flair it up with 
 CGI around it, but it's still a weak looking cutscene for a special move. 
  
  While I did enjoy the anime cells they used for dialog, I just wish they would add more animation 
 to them. The dialog scenes are alot like Fire Emblem, they'll have one character on the left and 
 right talk at all times. They just use the same cells for a single character. They don't change 
 them up at all, and there is no animation either. So the dialog scenes are kinda boring to watch.
 
  
  
  ----------Sound ----------
  I enjoyed the music quite a bit. It was very simple, keyboard driven JRPG music. Basically the 
 same quality music you would find in PS1 RPGs. The songs are catchy and rememberable. I found myself 
 humming the battle theme even after the game was over. So that's a plus. 
  
  They only include voice acting to important storyline sections. The voice acting wasn't terrible 
 but very typical with JRPGs. All characters have battle cries when doing special moves, so that's 
 a plus in my book. 
  
  
  ----------World Map ----------
  The world map, in a lot of ways, reminds me of the map in Final Fantasy X-2. Basically, they give 
 you 10 or so locations to visit. Each location is a rival kingdom, and it's your job as mercenaries 
 to take on their jobs. Most of the jobs require you to fight other kingdoms. You can also eventually 
 destroy Kingdoms aswell. 
  
  Each Kingdom has a set of seemingly random missions for you. Some missions are identical though, 
 but you're basically taking the same mission (like to Raid the Overlord Army) from various Kingdoms. 
 Each mission has a skill level set for you, for example, the earlier missions are Level 1, and 
 the later, harder missions are level 9. 
  
  You will fight on the same maps through out most of them game though, all they do is just tweak 
 the monster level and mission tasks. They will start you on different parts of a map, so it gives 
 an illusion that it's a different map. This is kind of like Final Fantasy Tactics Advance in a 
 way.
  
  
  
  
  ----------Time to Complete Game ---------
  52:51
  
  The ending is quite possibly the worst ending to a game I've seen in a long time. You beat the 
 final boss, and they say two lines, and BAM, credits. After the credits roll, there is another 
 small and short scene. After that, you can save your game for a New Game+ mode. 
  
  I didn't bother loading the New Game+ mode up, but from what I read online, it just carries over 
 your items and money. You can also unlock another character too. Big deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anofalye
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  First, I agree with Kevin of Gamespot. However, name me the TBS games on the 360... and soon you 
 realize, there is a huge shortage.
  
  For players avidly starving for some TBS games, what is Spectral Force3 exactly? It is a filler, 
 and it fill you just well, just like potatoes/rice/bread.
  
  Is the game original? Hardly. Is the game challenging? Hardly. Is the game bringing something new? 
 Not really. Will you play it a lot? Maybe. Will you finish it? Most likely if you are a fan of 
 the genre, cause there is nothing else and, it is not a failure. The battlemap is kinda unclear, 
 due to 3D focus.
  
  GO READ KEVIN review, but try to be positive and you will see many things which may be okay. The 
 game will entertain you. I usually complete such a game in 2 weeks at most. I am on it since forever 
 and I don't know when I will finish it... but eventually, I will. I try other games and I am not 
 even finished here, I feel no rush, no 1 more turn feeling.
  
  This is essentially why I gave this game a 7.0 instead of Kevin 5.5... as a game with 5.5 is a chore 
 to play to me, while 7.0, I will play it, yet not be that enthusiast. But again, what other games 
 do we have? Enjoy it with your free time and be sure that you won't been too drawn in it to consider 
 your sweety half needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEinOC
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Tough game to love but there are some addictive elements. Character variety is good. Graphics are 
 below average but game play is varied enough and there are some clever buff/equipment combos that 
 make you plan before the tougher battles. Character development is simplistic so don't expect a 
 ton of depth if that is what you are into. You need probably need to read the manual as there is 
 no tutorial and I found some of the controls non-intuitive. The story can (should) be skipped as 
 it is of no value overall and the entertainment value is all in the actual battles as the text 
 doesn't have much that you need to (or are lead to) care about. I say should be skipped on the 
 cut-scenes because if you try to watch the cut-scenes it will lock your X-box. 5 times so far in 
 the first 25 hours of play and the forums indicate this is not an uncommon problem. Hopefully they 
 will release a fix. If you are patient I imagine this game will be in the bargain bin soon and 
 given the opportunity to go back in time that's what I'd do. Good for 20-30 bucks but it stings 
 a bit to pay $60 for a game that is broken out of the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drgon1288
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  I was a little skeptical at first, but it seems to me that all the negative reviewers played for 
 about an hour or two.
  
  Spectral Force 3 is a very addictive turn based stratedgy game with a mind numbing difficulty at 
 times. There's tons of characters that you can get, and tons of missions you can do.
  
  The gameplay is pretty standard. The maps are grid based and each character takes their turn. If 
 you've played any turn-based stratedgy game you know what I'm talking about.
  
  But Spectral Force 3 adds a bit of a twist. This game makes you care about your characters. Unlike 
 in Disgaea where you can blast through the level with one guy, you can't do that here. Every character 
 in your team is essential to your success. So you won't have one really powerful character but 
 all your characters will be around the same level.
  
  They do this by giving you a special attack that can ONLY be preformed if ALL your characters are 
 still on the field. Even if you're losing, this attack when powered up completely could wipe out 
 a the strongest enemy officer on the map.
  
  Turning the battle to your favor.
  
  There's also a grading system that's not completely unique but interesting none the less.
  
 
  It's a fun game and I highly reccommend it. I'm really dissapointed by how many people are giving 
 it such low scores because of the graphics (It was originally a PS2 game) , and not understanding 
 how to use your characters effectively. There is no in-game tutorial, the game ASSUMES you have 
 the game manual. But it's not completely neccessary. The game isn't hard to understand IF you put 
 in the effort to TRY and understand it.
  
  Now I will agree that the game is hardly worth a 60 dollar purchase, but if you're renting it on 
 here, or willing to spend the 45 dollars here on gamefly to buy it, Which it's totally worth. Please 
 do so, If you're willing to give it the effort, it will hook you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmodeus_z
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  Spectral Force 3 takes place in fantasy world of Neverland, detailing the First Neverland War. 
 You play as a young soldier in a mercenary group that's not affiliated with any particular government, 
 instead opting to take on jobs from any of the 10 countries that divide Neverland. Image quality 
 is nice and clean, but there's just nothing impressive about the visuals. Music in SF3 is fine. 
 Although it's not one of the most amazing soundtracks out there, it gets the job done.
  
  Game play is sort of a cross between Dragon Force, Suikoden, and Final Fantasy Tactics. The game 
 takes place on a continent at war with many kingdoms constantly fighting back and forth for domination 
 of all the other kingdoms. As the leader of a group of mercenaries, players watch the conflicts 
 progress on a 2d world map and in the meantime take on jobs from kingdoms or people.
  
  The jobs from the kingdoms tend to advance the main plot and feature voiced story scenes consisting 
 of 2d art stills with dialogue boxes back and forth. The jobs from people are just side-quests 
 to get money, equipment, exp, or recruit new characters. In sort of a Suikoden way, the game starts 
 the player off with only two party members and throughout the game theyll have to build up their 
 mercenary army themselves. The game boasts 150 recruits able characters that can all be used in 
 battle. Also similar to Suikoden weapons can be upgraded to the next level by the blacksmith and 
 characters in ones party can be talked to (sometimes leading to new quests) while at the main base.
 
  
  After choosing a quest, players enter a battle. Attacks are based off an AP bar that recharges 
 each turn. When attacking, players can choose to mix up between weak/medium/strong attacks (all 
 costing different AP) and special attacks. Once the attacks are started, the character keeps going 
 until they run out of AP and then they wait until the next turn. Adding some depth to the system 
 there is also a combo situation that lets other characters in the party act out of turn to create 
 combos, various skills, and all powerful rage attacks. Overall its a solid system, but its also 
 a bit slow and uninteresting.
  
  Maps in the game tend to be boring with the focus being on the enemies having large numbers and 
 large HP. The AI isnt very good, as it just goes for the nearest character with the lowest amount 
 of life. So what youre left with are battles that are slow and take a while but are also shallow 
 and repetitive. Its not a bad game, and its certainly not a horrible game like some of their other 
 titles, but Spectral Force 3 is a tough game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
