-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man: Web of Shadows
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/spidermanwebofshadows/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great original story.
 Fun, accessible combat system.
 Swinging around the city is a delight.
 Good variety of enemies and mission objectives.
 Some memorable boss fights.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasional technical issues with graphics and sound.
 Camera occasionally comes unstuck.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 6.9, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 819 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Shaba Games
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Web of Shadows is a fast-paced, soaring superhero adventure that delivers just about everything 
 a Spider-Man game should. 

  There have been a number of Spider-Man games in recent years, and they have often been as frustrating 
 as they have been fun. In this latest outing, however, developers Treyarch and Shaba Games have 
 gotten it right. Freed from the confines of a movie license, Web of Shadows is a game that, while 
 not free of blemishes, is a superpowered blast from start to finish.  

           Using your webstrike to quickly close the distance on enemies and pummel them never gets 
 old.      

  The terrific introduction throws you right into the midst of a crisis. The forces of SHIELD have 
 occupied New York and are fighting a losing battle against a massive symbiote invasion. Amid the 
 chaos, Spider-Man is desperate to find Mary Jane. After a quick tutorial that has you swinging 
 across the city pummeling symbiotes, you encounter MJ, and it's clear that all is not well between 
 Peter and her. As she chastises him for using his black symbiote suit, a mysterious figure emerges 
 from a nearby explosion, extends its symbiotic tendrils to envelop Spider-Man, and everything goes 
 dark. Then the game flashes back to four days prior, when Venom assaulted Spider-Man and part of 
 the symbiote that gives Venom his power attached itself to our hero, giving him greater, more destructive 
 strength. This lets you pick up cars and hurl them at Venom, which is as spectacular and satisfying 
 as it sounds. With Venom defeated, everything seems normal again in New York, and Spidey has more 
 run-of-the-mill problems to deal with, like full-scale gang wars. But we know the crisis that looms 
 on the horizon. It's a great setup that pulls you in and makes you eager to keep playing to find 
 out how things get so bad and how it all ends.  

  The game slows down a bit at this point as Luke Cage takes Spider-Man under his wing to show him 
 some swell moves that will come in handy when dealing with those gangs and everything else Spidey 
 will face. The combat system is simple and accessible enough to let you pull off gorgeous, powerful 
 moves just by button mashing, but it has enough depth that skillful players who familiarize themselves 
 with the countering system and the variety of attacks at Spidey's disposal will get more out of 
 it. Particularly fun is the webstrike, which has you zip up to an opponent and kick off of him 
 into the air, from where you can webstrike the next opponent, chaining together a series of attacks. 
 Some situations make especially good use of this move; at one point, for instance, Spidey must 
 clear a series of snipers on rooftops surrounding a city block in a roof-hopping, webstriking tour 
 de force. As you progress, you earn experience points that you can spend on useful new combos. 
 You can also switch between the red suit and the black suit at any time, but the differences between 
 them, aside from the aforementioned car-throwing ability of the black suit, are relatively minor. 

  Swinging and zipping your way across Manhattan is easy and tremendously liberating, and Spidey 
 leaps, soars, and dives through the air with a preternatural grace. It's such a joy that you may 
 want to spend some time swinging high above the city enjoying the sense of freedom and ignoring 
 the crimes happening far below, of which there's never any shortage, should you feel like breaking 
 some skulls. A few of the game's more thrilling moments have you putting your webswinging skills 
 to good use as you pursue villains across the city; though the chase sequences aren't especially 
 challenging, the breathless sense of speed (and, in one case, the wake of destruction the villain 
 you're pursuing leaves behind him) makes them a lot of fun.  

           You know things are bad in your town when SHIELD has to come to the rescue.      

 
  While Treyarch's movie-based Spider-Man games tried to shoehorn a lot of content into the game 
 using side missions that made much of the action seem peripheral, here, everything ties in to the 
 game's excellent story, resulting in a cohesive, compelling experience from start to finish. As 
 in past games, you'll swing around the city to take on various missions, which are given here by 
 a selection of characters from the Marvel universe. Whether you deal primarily with heroes or with 
 villains depends on some choices you make. From time to time, you'll have to decide whether to 
 do the moral thing or to give in to the temptations of Peter's dark side. These choices don't have 
 much impact, though, because the missions you undertake are largely the same regardless of whom 
 you're undertaking them for, though there are a few different endings to the game that vary based 
 on whether you're more aligned with the red suit or with the black. You can also call on an ally 
 for support at almost any time, and whether you're joined by a hero or a villain will also depend 
 on the decisions you make, but you probably won't feel the need to use this feature much.  

  There's an excellent variety to the missions and to the enemies you fight that keeps things from 
 growing stale. You'll take on easily dispatched thugs, hulking mechs, and enemies who fly around 
 on Green Goblin-esque gliders. Combat against airborne enemies is especially thrilling, because 
 the camera generally does a terrific job of circling around to stay focused on the action, creating 
 a dizzying sense of altitude as you see the city spinning below. There are also a number of great 
 boss fights, including a fight with Vulture that has you swinging from flying enemy to flying enemy 
 to reach him, and a knock-down, drag-out brawl against Wolverine, who doubts your identity and 
 so will periodically quiz you on obscure bits of Spider-Man lore to determine if you're the real 
 Peter Parker, which is a nice bit of fan service for hardcore Spider-Man fans.  

  It's in the game's final act, though -- when New York is once again the symbiote-infested, SHIELD-occupied 
 city glimpsed in the game's introduction -- that the missions become outstanding. Pockets of humans 
 need to be rescued from buildings and rooftops throughout the city, and there's a real sense of 
 desperation as you accompany SHIELD APCs and hovercraft and fight to protect the civilians from 
 oncoming swarms of symbiotes that you can see approaching even through walls, thanks to your handy 
 spider sense. The symbiotes are relentless and a bit creepy, and the feeling of dread is enhanced 
 by the gloomy red sky and the desperate skirmishes taking place all over the city between SHIELD 
 troops and symbiotes.  

  Red skies or blue, the city looks beautiful, especially when you're swinging high above it. You 
 can see the skyscrapers of Manhattan stretching far off into the distance, with light reflecting 
 convincingly off their surfaces. The city still looks sharp when you're on the ground, though it's 
 not especially detailed and doesn't have the amount of activity you'd expect. You'll occasionally 
 see odd things, like people walking up against walls or vehicles with their front wheels on top 
 of the car in front of them, which can be distracting, but they don't happen often enough to severely 
 impact the experience. The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions look nearly identical, though we 
 did encounter a few instances of screen tearing on the PS3, which seemed to be absent on the 360. 

           Yes, there's a good reason that Spider-Man is riding Rhino at the Rikers Island prison. 

  The sound is generally good, with some strong performances from the voice cast. Spider-Man delivers 
 his so-bad-they're-funny (sometimes) one-liners with great geeky charm, while also giving a sense 
 of the inner conflict he's experiencing in his struggle with the black suit. The music is sweeping 
 and cinematic, but the best accompaniment to Spidey's swinging is the whistling of the wind you 
 hear when there's no music at all. The sound has its technical issues, though; music and dialogue 
 will sometimes cut out for a moment, and dialogue during cutscenes occasionally gets out of sync 
 with the action.  

  Web of Shadows doesn't break the mold of earlier Spider-Man games, but its cohesive, engaging story, 
 varied missions, and consistently thrilling action sure make it a big improvement for the series. 
 The campaign is a good 12 hours long, and the gameplay is solid enough to hold up to a second play-through 
 if you want to find out how it ends when you choose a different path. There are a number of minor 
 technical issues, but they're far outweighed by the sheer enjoyment of the gameplay. Web of Shadows 
 delivers nearly everything you could want in a Spider-Man game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: venomblood369
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The game is an example of what Spider-Man games are supposed to be. Spider-Man games don't have 
 a good reputation, but in this game it has the amazing visuals you expect, phenomenal graphics 
 is always good for a game. But unfortunately, there is no difficulty to select. The moves are great, 
 as they are the type of devastating, you know he can do. The camera is good, and is easy to use. 
 But it still is a game where button mashing is used, which makes it easy, in my opinion I like 
 the multiple choice parts, but some people may feel differently about it. The game is enjoyable, 
 stunning and also a bit repetitive, it's potentially the best Spider-Man game up to date. The Black 
 suit have each a set of combos, powers, and skills. Each one has a unique fighting skill, it is 
 the players choice of which suit to pick, the Symbiote or the original, classic suit. For each 
 choice you make, every action, it will all decide if the city is saved, or doomed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariadarabi
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:36 pm PT
Review:  They've done well with the free roam feature, but the city still feels dead. Unlike games like 
 GTA 4 where you feel as if you're not alone, this game makes you feel extremely lonely. When you 
 launch into a crowd of people, they either boo you, if you're the black spiderman, or they will 
 cheer you on, if you're the red spiderman. The game itself as in gameplay was okay. The missions 
 were fun in the beginning, but then it started getting repetetive. There was always a pattern of 
 "Find, Kill, Chase". You would have to find your mission, kill a person and then the next mission 
 there would be a chase. It's fun for children, but if you're 12 or above, stay away from this game. 
 It's no fun for those who are old enough to think for themselves. GIving this as a gift to a younger 
 one would be more suitable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akram112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:06 am PT
Review:  This review is an original and carefully analysed piece of work. I would like all readers to know 
 that I am a true fan of the wallcrawler and he remains my favorite superhero to date.
  
  Spider-Man: Web of Shadows is an action adventure sandbox-style game featuring arguably the most 
 popular superhero in the world. I have played every Spider-Man game to date and I was disappointed 
 by most of them, save for notable exceptions such as Spider-Man 2 and Ultimate Spider-Man. Those 
 who enjoyed the realism of these games will be very satisfied with Shadows, even more if you are 
 also a comic book fan. Shadows puts you in the role of the titular character and gives you almost 
 unlimited access to New York City. I will now list the pros and cons.
  
  PROS:
  - The perfected web-swinging mechanic in any Spider-Man game.
  - Story that feels like the great 
 comic book plots we find the webslinger often in.
  - Fun combat system that puts you into the feel of having spider-strength.
  - The new web-strike 
 mechanic is stylish.
  - Amazing technical graphics.
  - Great boss fights with favorite villains such as Venom, Electro and Vulture.
  - Ability to 
 switch between red and symbiote suits.
  - Spidey can run up buildings like Naruto and slides down them with amazing ease and finesse.
 
  
  CONS:
  - Might feel a little too easy.
  - A little on the short side.
  - Camera might irritate at times.
  
  VERDICT:
  If you are a fan of the wallcrawler, and if, 
 like me, you were disappointed with the previous games, then Web of Shadows will satisfy you and 
 make you glad that there is atleast one godd Spider-Man game. Even if you are not interested in 
 Spidey, this is one of the best made superhero games ever and definitely the best Spider-Man game 
 of all time. My verdict is: GO FOR IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALazyMonkey
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man: Web of Shadows is, as you probably guessed, is a game about Spider-Man. I am not sure, 
 but I am pretty sure that this is based off the comic book.
  
  Story: 7
  This game has followed the trend that most games are doing lately, either choose the good path, 
 or the bad path. Each path has a separate ending, which then makes you play the game over because 
 you want to see the other ending and get the achievement for it. This is a good strategy for replay 
 ability but it is annoying to redo everything just to see the new ending, it doesn't seem worth 
 it. The story has you either stopping venom from destroying the town and infecting everybody or 
 you can kill venom and control the town yourself. The story is okay I guess but the voice over 
 is terrible... people are talking over each other which I guess is a glitch? This really brings 
 the story down because you can't really get into it without hearing two people talk over each other 
 when they shouldn't.
  
  Gameplay: 5.5
  This game has A LOT of combos and attacks to choose from. You have to unlock them first, but it 
 is really easy to unlock things. This game has the black suit and red suit, which you can change 
 into each suit at anytime anywhere in the game. Each suit has their own combos and abilities. This 
 makes fighting more fun because you can combine black suit combos and red suit combos, making one 
 huge powerful combo. There is something that makes the gameplay lame though... After a while, you 
 give up on trying to make exciting combos because it is to much work or it isn't worth it because 
 you can just use smaller combos that have the same power. This makes the gameplay less fun and 
 more repetitive. It gets worse as you get farther into the game. When the city is being destroyed 
 the game is very choppy because of all the things going on. This will even freeze your Xbox 360 
 when you least want it to. I am not saying the gameplay is terrible but it isn't great, it is full 
 of bugs, but with lots of things to do. You can help people that need you, at first this is fun 
 and it is great to save somebody, but this seems more like a chore then a part of the game. People 
 are always in trouble so it seems like you don't even need to try and stop the crimes.
  
  Characters: 6.5
  All the characters are unique in their own way and interact with each other 
 in the game nicely. Some of the characters in the game don't really have to be there, they really 
 shouldn't actually. Most of the characters are fine but it seems that most of them are there just 
 so the game will last longer. Everyone is there though; Spider-Man, MJ, Black Cat, Kingpin, Wolverine, 
 Moonight, and a few other characters.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics are actually pretty good. The characters in this game look okay, but not great. There 
 will always be flaws with the characters but I try not to notice them. The town looks good and 
 some of the places in this game look fantastic under the sunlight. The graphics aren't phenomenal 
 but they aren't terrible.
  
  Sound: 3
  The sound in this game is not very good at all. The sound affects were good, don't get me wrong, 
 they all sound great, but there is a glitch bringing it down. Sometimes when you shoot a web, it 
 doesn't make a noise. When an air strike is about to happen, you can't here the explosion sometimes, 
 even when you are right next to it! Mostly the games sound is bad because it doesn't happen when 
 it should. Make a patch for that soon please.
  
  Multiplayer: 0
  No multiplayer
  
  Fun Factor: 6.5
  This game, if you can deal with all the glitches and problems with the game, 
 is very fun. There is lots to do and there is lots to see. Of course everything is brought down 
 by a glitch somewhere, the fighting, sound, people, town, etc. always has something wrong with 
 it. The game is fun but all of the glitches are unacceptable. PATCH.
  
  This game is very good with a great idea to it. Too bad it is ruined by the glitches. If you like 
 Spider-Man games like me then you should buy this game, it is really fun. I looked passed all the 
 bad things but when I decided to review it I actually had to see everything, even the bad, but 
 you don't notice that much if you are into Spider-Man. If you aren't then I suggest you rent this 
 game. It isn't for everyone but it is a game you should play when you get the chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsboyX360
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Spider Man Web of Shadows is fun because of it's features and gameplay, the upgrade makes spiderman 
 better with combat skills, such as in fighting, web strikes, air attacks and all that. You have 
 different moves when u are playing as Normal Spidey or Symbiote Spidey. The player can choose between 
 the good path and the bad one, it's his/her's choice.
  
  The characters are just right, not too much not too little. My fav characters in the game are Spidey, 
 Venom, Wolverine and Luke Cage, each character has their own side of the story. Luke Cage has some 
 trouble with gang wars, gang trouble, etc. Wolverine just hates symbiotes while Venom likes them.
 
  
  The story is that there is an invasion in New York City, an infection of symbiotes. It's also fun 
 because u can shoot out webs and swing like it's real life, and it is realistic. In my opinion, 
 I prefer being the Symbiote Spidey (Black Spidey)
  
  But top of all that, the game is still kick ass and enjoyable, I would recommend not only Spider-Man 
 fans but also people who enjoy role-playing games and action animated video games. It is worth 
 buying because it's SPIDER-MAN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeWerePirates
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I would normally stay away from attacking a point in other reviews but I think there has been something 
 of an injustice regarding the reception of Web Of Shadows. A common criticism is that while the 
 web spinning mechanics are good we've seen it before, multiple times in fact. It is easy to put 
 too much stock in scores, which is part of the problem and praising a game for offering a unique 
 experience is one thing but criticising a game for being derivative is another.
  
  Suppose we have two games, Game A and Game B. Game A comes out and does something new and original. 
 Game B follows and does the same thing, perhaps copying Game A. I have not played either but when 
 I play Game B my experience is not diminished because it copied the idea and conversely my experience 
 of Game A is not enhanced compared to Game B because it did it first.
  
  Sequels and slow, careful, derivation of gameplay elements are a reality of video games and are 
 important to games improving. Raging against that seems, not just futile but short sited.
  
  And so it is with Web Of Shadows. From the game Spider-man (2000) to Web Of Shadows the mechanic 
 of traversing the world by web spinning has been a staple of Spiddy sims. In fact perhaps the reason 
 we've seen so many Spiddy games is because the experience of being Spiddy has been so well captured 
 while we have yet see, for example a really convincing simulation of being Superman or a neat encapsulation 
 of the Batman experience despite multiple efforts of both.
  
  The bottom line is being Spider-man is fun. Ziping around the city is still enjoyable but while 
 I managed to while away an hour so at such ease there is little to really keep you going in terms 
 of the free roaming. There are exploration tokens to collect and that's something I'll come back 
 to. The problem is not that the web spinning becomes old it is that doing it without goals quickly 
 becomes unrewarding.
  
  On the web spinning front a quirk of the system is that web lines can attach themselves to midair. 
 The camera fights to not let you see that and except for some special cases there has to be something 
 around it could attach itself to, for example if you are above the buildings around you it won't 
 attach to a non existent higher building. This makes the web spinning experience much slicker and 
 easier but also robs it of some satisfaction, it is too forgiving so you can take little pride 
 in a well executed manoeuvre ad there is minimal need or the freedom to fail to make honing your 
 skills on this front meaningful.
  
  The thing is the game isn't that focused on the free roaming swinging around aspect, it's all about 
 the combat. The combat can look fantastic and be extremely satisfying as you take out a group of 
 enemies without touching the ground with a wide array of aerial moves. However it's patchy, targeting 
 is flakey leaving you flailing at air or attacking the wrong enemy and later enemies tendency to 
 counter or block your web strike opener leaves you primarily using a couple of reliable moves or 
 the less satisfying but safer ground combat. In the later stages of the game the mass attacks disrupting 
 your attacks can be frustratingly frequent or very rarely happen, seemingly at random. Overall 
 some of the ideas of the combat are great but in practice it feels sloppy, random and repetitive.
 
  
  The story is actually fairly poor. Despite the odd trappings that try and link this to the Spiddy 
 of the comic books (including an impromptu trivia quiz with a couple of fairly hard questions and 
 one of such extreme obscurity even as a long time reader I had no idea what it referred to) it 
 really doesn't sit well with the comics and some of the portrayals of characters really grated 
 on me. Even ignoring my fanboy continuity gripes it's not great and the bad Spider-Man we see here 
 is only a little less embarrassing than Toby Maguire jigging down the street. The story is enough 
 to keep the game ticking along though.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is the sheer volume of repetition it expects from the player. 
 While the tasks required to advance the game are fairly repetitious it's the side tasks that are 
 the real stinkers. Early on it is pretty bad with task being for example to save 3 civilians, having 
 done that you will gain a new task, save 6. Early missions only go into 3 stages but later ones 
 go into 5 for example a later one requiring you to save civilians requires, 20, 25, 30, and 40 
 for the first four stage respectively. The final stage requires 100. When I played I made my experience 
 some what worse not knowing how many tasks I could skip and get the "Obsessive Spider-Man" achievement 
 and being paranoid with tasks being removed due to story progression where as later tasks can sometimes 
 be done in conjunction with earlier tasks, sometimes making them much easier. (also for reference 
 you can skip 7 tasks, you don't actually have to do any of the 5th tasks in a series) This is also 
 mirrored by the ongoing collection quest, with your final goal being 2,000. Finding the spider 
 tokens never becomes difficult but scale of the task makes it ultimately intensely boring. You 
 don't have to do these tasks but then again strictly speaking you don't have to play the game at 
 all. In the end I was nostalgic for the level based approach of Neversoft's Spider-Man game.
  
  There is a reason I laboured the point of repeating mechanics from previous games not being 
 a bad thing. Despite what by what I wrote above, Web Of Shadows is still pretty good game, largely 
 based on its inherited elements and impressive if patchy combat. Through slow fine tuning rather 
 than any stunning jump this is in my opinion the best Spider-Man game to date.
  
  However, at the risk of contradicting myself, it is disappointing that there is no leap forwards 
 here. The base for making a Spiddy game is so solid that some improvement of the free roaming, 
 the authenticity to the character and story, to be a better Spiddy sim on those fronts doesn't 
 seem too much to ask after 8 years. Web Of Shadows isn't the overdue bolt of lightning in that 
 respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgx_speed
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:56 am PT
Review:  I've been a Spider-Man fan for so long and loved the video-game from the 2nd movie.
  
  This game started off great. The visuals were outstanding, the environment, the characters and 
 everything that happened in front of me were pretty good. But that was short lived...
  
  After several missions, the next missions required to fight a lot of enemies, and I mean A LOT. 
 And the problem with that was that the frame rate was awful, it felt like playing SOCOM Confrontation 
 (which I hated personally) with the HUGE lag issue, but Spider-Man WOS isn't even an online game. 
 I understand that building a huge NYC with such detail requires a lot of data to be loaded, but 
 why make the game if it's not gonna be playable at a 100%? Even the controls don't respond in time, 
 and my combos (especially in the air) almost always end up being interrupted by the lags... pfff
 
  I've even encountered many situations where the enemies were totally invisible or stuck inside 
 a building (which I think is very odd) , and even the civilians disappeared and only the blue dots 
 on the map were visible, and WORST OF ALL, there are a lot of times when everything on the screen 
 disappears, no symbiotes, no civilians, nothing except the city and Spider-Man...
  And talking about civilians... dear god... I'm pretty sure I'm not the only one complaining about 
 the whole "saving the civilians". In every game I played, I always wanted to play in the good side 
 (when there's the choice) , but unfortunately, WOS pushed me on being the complete A** H*** that 
 is the black-suited Spider-Man and leave almost every civilian to die. The controls were so bad 
 that saving them was almost impossible.
  
  Another problem in this game would be the camera... I've heard of "smart cams" but I'm pretty sure 
 that this is a "dumb cam" (crash cymbal lol... just kiddin) . Spider-Man swings, jumps and crawls 
 from every direction, but the camera doesn't even follow him, what's up with that? And the lousy 
 targeting system doesn't even help, and what's with the RANDOM ENNEMIES?!? You're fighting against 
 a bunch of "Vulturelings" and you're using the "lame targeting system" to kick their butts and 
 remain in the air, and then the game decides to put one useless symbiote right below on the ground 
 in order to mess with your whole bashing sequences, you end up on the ground, disappointed, and 
 also, YOUR CAMERA GOES NUTS!!!! I've played a lot of games since I was born and a lot of them didn't 
 have a camera smart enough to follow you around, but at least the player is able to control it. 
 But here, controlling the camera is hell, when you flick the RS analog just a bit to see what's 
 in front of you, the camera goes nuts (but thankfully, it doesn't happen too enough, otherwise 
 I'll be the one going nucking futs...) .
  
  Now, the auto-save, oh the auto-save. Normally in every game, you need it, isn't that right? YES! 
 But in this game, you would wish there wasn't. Sure, you can switch it off, but that's not the 
 point here. What's really a major problem is that when you first think the auto-save (in this game) 
 is necessary, you start depending on it and you let it save your whole game without making any 
 or few manual saves... and that's when it bites you in the a**... It manages to save right in the 
 moment I die, well, when Spider-Man dies (duhh) , and what I don't get isn't why it saved at that 
 moment (cause I wasn't surprised that something else in this game wouldn't work properly) , but 
 it's why I just stayed DEAD. Nothing else was happening, Spider-Man was dead right in front of 
 me and no black screen would appear in order to ask me to load a saved game. And every time I restart 
 the game (bad sign for a game) , and I load the auto-saved game, I'M STILL DEAD! Solution? Start 
 a new game?  EPIC FAIL...
  
  And the last problem I'm gonna talk about will be the map. The little map on the left corner of 
 the screen when you play is not too bad, I don't even look at it too often. But the map on the 
 start menu is so useless! There's no zoom, no details or legend to understand what the heck is 
 going on on your screen, you're basically looking at a huge blue platform which you can scroll 
 through it and rotate it, and that's it.
  Sometimes during a mission, there are no indications of where you should be going, the mini-map 
 is blanked (the map also obviously) , no dots to lead me to the objective, so when I swing to see 
 where to go, a text says that I should go back to the fight or something, and that is just complete 
 bull s***...
  
  
  There you go, my review of the game. Overall, I think it's a pretty good game, I liked the visuals 
 and the variety in Spider-Man's moves, but that's the minimum the game developers could have given 
 us, and that's not acceptable. Plus, that's not the game developers' fault, but when I rented the 
 game (no I didn't buy it, thank god...) , the disc was a little dirty, but it didn't matter at first 
 cause the tiny smudge and scratch were barely visible... but I was wrong, just the slightest sign 
 of imperfection on the disc and the GAME LAGS LIKE HELL.
  
  VERDICT: Don't buy, but rent it, it's an okay game, and if so, make sure the disc is clean or else... you 
 know...
  
  PS: What's with Spider-Man's voice?... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onyx79
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok, am late with this one. When the game came out, a good friend of mine, who happens to be a great 
 fan of the Marvel universe, highly recommended this game. Never got around to finding the time 
 for it at the time though. 
  Saw this a few weeks ago in a bargain bin so I bought it, solely based on reviews I have read.
 
  Oh boy! I am torn, I absolutely love the gameplay which reminds me greatly of Crackdown (which 
 I LOVE) but at the same time I am disgusted by the "stuck" camera and other glitches found in this 
 game. Yet, I am absorbed in the story and I want to find out what happens next. And since the whole 
 story involves Venom (my favourite Marvel character) , I won't be putting this game down until I 
 have been through and through with it.
  I've got to admits that this game is far better than Friend or Foe and Spiderman 3 who were the 
 latest Spidey games, in terms of story, Web of Shadows is more engaging, in terms of gameplay, 
 web of shadows is better. But what about these glitches? This, to me, feels like an unfinished 
 product. The games developers probably did not run this game through a test team to dig the bugs 
 out, they probably were so proud of their products they deemed it perfect at the outset. But from 
 a gamer's point of view, when the camra suddenly becomes stuck inside a building obstructing your 
 view of attacking enemies, this clearly sucks! Very early in the game, whilst I was chasing "Alicia", 
 I found her running into the corner of a building!! I was just standing beside her, yawning whilst 
 she ran for her kitty life, in that corner, doing 0 Km/h. Other bug worth mentioning is the web 
 zipping when you're wall crawling, sometimes it works, sometimes it does not. When it works, Spiderman 
 gets his kneepads on and slides all the way up the building (on his knees which looks really daft) , 
 when it does not work, Spiderman just jumps off the building's face, which, whilst you're chasing 
 an enemy, is infuriating, as you have to get back onto the building and catch up with your lost 
 time.
  I am not going to go on and on about the technical issues that MANY critics have just overlooked, 
 like the official Xbox magazines for instance or even the mighty gamespot themselves. Apparently 
 the glitches are just "minor" (Damn, I would hate to play a game they deemed full of glitches) .
 
  Anyway, this game is nonetheless a very good Spidey game that should be tried. Obviously, if you're 
 not a fan of Spiderman, I suspect this game would do very little for you as you will probably be 
 put off by the many technical issues.
  As I always say, maybe you should try before you buy. I grabbed this game at a retail price of 
 GBP14.99, so if you are a Spidey fan that wants to own the game anyway, do yourselves a favour, 
 hunt online for the best price before committing yourselves, save your precious hard earned cash 
 for better games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaphod001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a spider-man game like this one. ever since spidy 2 (which was pretty good) 
 came out with the ability to swing around NYC it really changed the course of spider-man games, 
 I dont know what happend with spider-man 3 the only it had going for it was the ability to change 
 from the red suit to the black suit. Then friend or foe came out.... well not to much to say about 
 that one either.
  
  Now Web of Shadows has taken the best from all three of those games and took it a step further. 
 the ability swing around the city, to change your suit on command and to call in a friend or foe 
 for some back up and I am really glad to see Electro in this game instead of that pin-cushen Shocker
 
  
  Web of Shadows gives you a great story line, some really great boss fights, especially the finale 
 boss with a five headed venom is great, and the game its self is pretty lengthy.
  
  The best part in my opinion is when the city gets all symbioty and zombie symbiotes run amuck , 
 I love too just swing around and kick some symbiote butt. Plus seeing Wolfy get ripped in half 
 by bad-ass spidy well that right there makes the game worth playing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Even though there wasn't a new movie to base this game on, it is clear that this is a continuation 
 of the series. It takes place in the comic book universe and the story is not related to the movies, 
 but it plays very much like Spider-man 3. This is both good and bad, since the last game got mixed 
 reviews as well.
  
  The action is very straightforward, which many will like while others may get bored. The majority 
 of the battles will take place on the ground and can be won just by repeatedly pressing the attack 
 button. Anyone that plays this way will not be getting the most out of it, though. It's better 
 to try out all of the game's combos to see how many different ways you can dispatch your enemies. 
 This will actually make the game more difficult than simply button mashing, but it will also be 
 much more fun. The aerial fights take a bit more finesse, since you must keep using your web on 
 the enemies to stay in the air while also attacking them when you get close. Even these fights 
 can get repetitive once you get a good rhythm down, but there are always new moves to try out to 
 spice it up. Another area with it's own moves is the side of a building. There is a smaller move 
 set, the camera is too close, and judging distances between you and the enemy is difficult. It's 
 for these reasons that I avoided fighting on walls as much as possible, but it was rather annoying 
 in the cases where I had to do it. Web-swinging around the city that was made popular by the last 
 couple games is still as fun and seamless as ever.
  
  The mission breakdown is possibly the games weakest point. Most every mission chain follows the 
 same pattern. You start by having to either go defeat a enemy, destroy a target, or save a group 
 of people. Once you complete this objective and return to the person that gave you the mission, 
 they then basically tell you, "Good work. Now go do it three times." After you finish that, you 
 are then asked to do it again five times, then ten. Most of these missions are optional, but you 
 still must do a good number of them to progress through the game. Many boss battles follow this 
 same repetition. After doing a set amount of damage to them, many will flee through the city and 
 force you to follow them while they send enemies to attack you. Some will run away from you up 
 to five times and the battle can become quite tedious. This makes the game last a while longer 
 than many other action titles (I finished in around ten hours) but it was definitely artificially 
 extended by repetition.
  
  My absolute favorite aspect of the game is the way it handles the black suit. During the tutorial 
 sequence, you have a battle with Venom in which you gain the ability to use it whenever you want. 
 With a quick button press, you can switch to it. It is so seamless that you can even switch between 
 suits in the middle of a combo. Past games with the black suit balanced it with the regular suit 
 so that neither really had an advantage over the other. In this game, the black suit is devastating. 
 Since there are consequences to using it, you actually experience the same dilemma that Spider-man 
 goes through when deciding if he wants to keep it or not. There are multiple endings based both 
 on the moral choices you make and how much you used each suit. Since you can actually become a 
 very bad person if you let the suit take over, the game does an excellent job of showing what would 
 have happened to Spider-man in the movies or comics if he didn't eventually get rid of it.
  
  Regardless of which suit you choose, experience is earned from battles that can upgrade the 
 abilities of each (or both if you take the time to earn enough exp) . New combos are added, different 
 attacks can be unlocked, and damaging finishing moves are learned. I would have preferred if there 
 was either more to unlock, or it was harder to get each new upgrade because I had both suits maxed 
 out and I didn't even do all of the optional missions. In addition to spending experience on upgrades, 
 you also can search for hidden spider symbols to increase your health, special ability meter, and 
 web swing speed. Higher levels need so many symbols to increase and the difference is so minimal 
 that I didn't spend much time looking to level up after too long.
  
  Although the beginning of the game is a bit bland, once the story gets going, it is quite entertaining. 
 It can be a little confusing since it isn't clear at what point in Spider-man's history this game 
 takes place. His identity is still a secret, so it is not up to date with the comics. Only Mary 
 Jane and Venom know who he is. It also isn't clear if Spider-man is either dating or just friends 
 with MJ. The story begins during a typical fight with Venom. During the battle, pieces of Venom's 
 suit jump off and spread around the city. Part of it also fuses with Spider-man, giving him the 
 black suit (apparently again, since several people mention that he has had it before) . The symbiote 
 from the suit eventually takes over most of the city and it's people. It is a very epic tale that 
 brings in many Marvel regulars, like Moon Knight, Wolverine, Luke Cage, Kingpin, and many more. 
 The final of the three acts actually has a strong feel of a zombie movie around it and is fairly 
 impressive.
  
  The game looks mediocre. When standing on a building, it is impressive how far you can see across 
 the building, but nothing looks particularly detailed up close. At the beginning of the game, the 
 voice acting is terrible. Spiderman does nothing but whine and moan in the most pathetic fashion 
 (worse than in the movies, believe it or not) . As time goes on, it gets better and is even halfway 
 decent by the end of the game. There are a ton of graphical glitches and clipping problems. Enemies 
 can be knocked through buildings or the ground and will get stuck from time to time. Spider-man 
 will clip through buildings or the ground constantly as well. I normally am not bothered by low 
 frame-rates, but it gets a bit ridiculous when swinging through the city at high speeds. I would 
 say there are actually times when you see less than five frames per second, especially late in 
 the game. There were even four different occasions when the mission I was on completely broke; 
 either the next wave of enemies never appeared or a person I was supposed to save was stuck inside 
 of a wall. This forced me to reload the game and start the mission over. These kind of problems 
 were almost expected in the last Spider-man movie games since the were forced to stick with release 
 dates that were around the movie releases, but there is no reason that this game couldn't have 
 been pushed back a little to fix these issues.
  
  Web of Shadows is a good game. The repetitive missions will prevent it from being a classic, but 
 there is still some good fun to be had. If you go in expecting it's problems, you will be prepared 
 for a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayersdeath200
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 7:12 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game coming out i first thought it would be using the spiderman 3 
 engine and be exactly like it with mission objectives etc but looking at the images and the videos 
 i was pleased i was wrong.
  
  If you are a spidy fan you must im my opinion you have to own this game no questions. Apart form 
 spiderman 2 its the spidy game that makes you be proud that you are a fan and you feel like you 
 are controlling his powers.
  
  I was most pleased about Venom, THEY ACTUALLY got him right (not like spiderman 3 where they screwed 
 it up..... A lot) . From the voice to the actions of Venom it was cool to see and to fight him.
 
  
  The game smoothly comes together with the great story and atmosphere that you get from the game. 
 The fighting was amazing you wanted it to keep on going especially when you got a good combo going, 
 From ground to air with ease and kicking butt on the way.
  
  The only flaw i encountered with the game was the music it seemed to jump for a second then start 
 again but it doesn't spoil the game. Overall this is an awesome game if they keep this formula 
 for other spidy games then hopefully they will get better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenLiquid
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man has had a wealth of appearances in video games ever since the dawn of the industry, 
 and is arguably the most prolific outsourced character in the history of games. The latest in the 
 wall-crawler's adventures is Spider-Man: Web of Shadows. The game's single vision is this: to give 
 the closest possible representation of what it would feel like to have all of Spider-Man's powers 
 let loose across town. More often than not, it succeeds.
  
  Web of Shadows is a deceptive title, but nevertheless, the story is darker than your typical superhero 
 fare (save Batman) . The prologue begins with Spider-Man in the middle of a quarantined New York 
 infected by the symbiote, the same specimen found in his suit. After a brief period of fending 
 off the invasion, the game takes you to the beginnings of the story, where Spider-Man assumes relatively 
 normal duties and then begins to uncover one of his most unusual events. Treyarch and Shaba Games 
 have crafted a rather complex story, in that despite the event becoming a disaster that calls for 
 the more powerful heroes in the Marvelverse, the blame and responsibility -- the emotional weight 
 of the situation -- is placed almost solely on Spider-Man. Of course what makes the game more epic 
 is the inclusion of other heroes and the aid of familiar villains. Black Widow, Black Cat, Wolverine, 
 Luke Cage, and even Moon Knight makes an appearance worthy of his D-List adventures. Pop culture 
 references are aplenty (including a jab at Wikipedia and Facebook) , and comic book references are 
 at their all time high in Web of Shadows.
  
  It's good that the entire island of Manhattan is infested, because it's an excuse to test out what 
 is Web of Shadows biggest feature: the restrung combat (pun intended) . Unlike previous Spider-Man 
 games where combat, exploring, and even wall-crawling felt like separate aspects, Web of Shadows 
 ties everything together exceptionally (pun was not intended) . Spidey moves from air, to wall, 
 to ground like never before, and fighting opponents across all planes is slick and seamless. Well, 
 it would have been if the camera was not so bad. It seems that despite being a veteran in the game 
 industry, Spider-Man cannot hire a good cameraman. Treyarch/Shaba Games have no excuse when their 
 focus is the transition between the different planes in gameplay, and especially since they have 
 handled the franchise for a long time. Controls are fairly intuitive, though the lock-on function 
 has its own issues. When coupled with the camera problem, it makes for some irritating instances.
 
  
  Combat is surprisingly deep. Most moves find their niche in your arsenal, and both suits manage 
 to come in handy in different situations: the black suit is great for crowd control, and the iconic 
 red suit is better for one-on-one. It's a shame that the missions actually feel dull and uninspired. 
 Like old school RPGs, killing 20 bad guys before moving on and killing 20 other bad guys is the 
 bread and butter in Web of Shadows. It actually taunts you with the information on screen and it 
 won't be long before you anticipate that (12/20) symbiote pods means that you're actually 1/8th 
 of the way through pod bashing. It's good then that the combat is actually fun, and luckily the 
 game is blessed with fantastic boss battles.
  
  The bosses truly flex the combat engine to the limits: early on in the game, Vulture will put your 
 air combat abilities to the test with grace and absolute style, and later, Electro demands all 
 your combat skills at once. What I really liked about this game, is that unlike other action titles, 
 you can use your special moves to truly nail the bosses like you do to other minions. They are 
 not cheap, but they are not a breeze to take down either. I have to mention that despite the fun 
 I had with bosses, the camera/lock-on problem is still there.
  
  Presentation is a mixed bag. The game's graphics are not on the best on the 360 or PS3, but they 
 are very easy on the eye. Most of the symbiote enemies animate well, and of course Spider-Man moves 
 like never before. Most of the cut-scenes are handled well, and keep you engaged in the story. 
 There are a few visual hiccups and disappointingly random framerate issues, a big "no-no" in a 
 high flying, web swinging game. Audio-wise, it's all rather forgettable. I actually laughed when 
 I heard Beethoven's "Moonlight Sonata" during the game's introduction, then quickly cringed as 
 a down-trodden Spider-Man walked across the screen, reminding me of the very disappointing Spider-Man 
 3 film. The voice acting is generally good, though they are the interpretations of the characters 
 we all know and love. All and all, the audio-visual presentation is average.
  
  This is more of a problem with Activision's indifference with churning out sub-par games, but it 
 still needs to be said. This game has bugs. Ones of the game-breaking type. They are few and far 
 between, but when they come, they can screw up your progress. They are easy to remedy, but if Activision 
 wants to make a good name for itself again, quality control across all their titles is essential, 
 and Spider-Man: Web of Shadows is no exception.
  
  That being said, Spider-Man: Web of Shadows is essentially the best Spidey game yet. It is has 
 a fantastic story, references that would make a Marvel geek explode with delight, and an engine 
 which truly lets Spider-Man fly. Saying that it's the best Spider-Man game is not saying too much, 
 though. It has glaring bugs, camera issues, and full of sub-standard fillers. Despite this, if 
 you have any reverence for Marvel and its mythos, give this game a spin (pun not intended) . Your 
 weekend will soar by (pun not intended... Or was it?...) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrapejuiceGamer
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Loyal web-head admirers (such as myself) are likely to agree that Spider-Man has done relatively 
 well when it comes to video games. Unlike his fellows Batman and Superman, Spidey has benefited 
 from a long string of good or great console games ever since the classic 2000 release of "Spider-Man," 
 and I've beaten or at least played nearly all of them. So how does this newest installment compare? 
 Though it's certainly in the better half of Spidey's game library, Web of Shadows won't offer much 
 to attract non-fans.
  
  The game's big draw is its completely redesigned combat system, which is also its greatest success. 
 The game delivers an enormous move-set for players to explore, and it's possible to switch between 
 Peter's red and black suits at any time. This has a significant impact on gameplay, exactly as 
 you would expect. While red-suited Spidey is more agile and dynamic, the black suit is more unwieldy 
 but also more powerful. Upgrades become available as the player gains experience, and are very 
 worthwhile. By the time you have fully upgraded your black suit, it will be capable of turning 
 Spider-Man into a truly unstoppable ground combatant, while the red suit is much better suited 
 to air and wall battles.
  
  This is another radical change in Spider-Man's gameplay; unlike in previous games, many of your 
 battles will be fought either in the air or on the sides of walls. Now that Shaba has gone and 
 done it, this seems like a completely natural expansion of Spider-Man's combat capabilities. Two 
 of the game's most thrilling boss battles take place entirely in the air, as Spider-Man stylishly 
 disregards physical principles in order to stay airborne. Wall battles are somewhat less pleasant, 
 as wall-crawling itself is fairly unwieldy. Thankfully, it is usually possible to avoid battles 
 on vertical surfaces.
  
  It should come as no surprise that swinging through the city on webs is as thrilling as ever; this 
 is something that Spider-Man games have consistently gotten right. And even on long trips, things 
 never get boring because there's almost always some sort of trouble brewing on the streets below 
 for you to put a stop to.
  
  But even though the mechanics of the gameplay are the best in a Spider-Man game so far, Web of 
 Shadows doesn't give you much of interest to do with them. Simply put, the game is unbelievably 
 repetitive. Virtually every mission is "defeat X number of enemies" or "save X number of civilians." 
 Frequently, the repetitions are wrapped up in even longer cycles. Case in point: after infiltrating 
 Kingpin Tower by disabling three electrical generators. You must repeat the exact same process 
 immediately afterward in order to re-enable the generators. Some events are refreshingly different, 
 such as Spider-Man's visit to Ryker's Island and the game's many boss battles, almost all of which 
 are high points in the game. But the tedium of your missions will eventually get to you, so that 
 at times the game begins to feel like a chore rather than a thrill.
  
  To make things worse, the gameplay is riddled with bugs. None of them are serious enough to break 
 the game, but their sheer frequency is annoying. Enemies will become frozen in midair, cars will 
 get caught up on corners, and the frame rate later in the game often slows to a crawl. More seriously, 
 the game has twice frozen on me completely, forcing me to restart. The devastating lack of mission 
 variety as well as the overall unpolished nature of the game engine make the unique and fantastic 
 combat system a terrible wasted opportunity.
  
  Graphically, the game ranges from excellent to ordinary. The character models are bright and nicely 
 textured. A nice sheen covers the black suit, so that you can almost imagine its slimy surface. 
 Each of the other characters looks great, both in and out of combat. Of particular interest are 
 the new symbiote versions of classic characters such as Vulture and Electro, all of which are original 
 designs and all of which look great. Even the minor enemies are well-designed. The city itself, 
 however, isn't particularly interesting to look at, and many of the graphical effects, such as 
 explosions look like something you would expect to see on the PlayStation 2.
  
  One of the game's strong points is its sound. There isn't a grade variety to the sound effects, 
 but they contribute greatly to the sense of power which the player experiences in combat. The game's 
 great atmosphere is due in significant part to its sound design, and to its music, which has some 
 surprisingly impressive moments. Fans of the comics are always quick to judge the voices lent to 
 their favorite characters, and Web of Shadows does have a few standout performances. The first 
 time we hear Michael Vaughn's Spider-Man voice, it sounds terrible, but he quickly improves after 
 those first few lines, lending the character the necessary blend of sarcasm and humility, and also 
 providing a darker edge to the black-suited Spider-Man. Steve Blum, now the standard voice for 
 Wolverine, gives a great performance as usual. Also of note are Gregg Berger's Kingpin and Keith 
 Szarabajka's Venom - the best Venom voice so far. Unfortunately, the sound is not free from the 
 bugs which plague the rest of the game, and it sometimes cuts out both in and out of cutscenes.
 
  
  As you probably know, the game delivers an original story surrounding a massive symbiote invasion 
 of Manhattan. The game's story gets better as it goes along, with a symbiote apocalypse unlike 
 anything we've seen in the comics, and bringing in about a dozen heroes and villains from the Marvel 
 Universe, all of whom have an engaging and logical role in the narrative. It is possible to make 
 moral decisions at certain points in the game, which align you more with either the red or black 
 suit, but I've been disappointed to discover that these decisions have no effect on the gameplay, 
 other than determining which characters join you in battle. The events of the cutscenes differ 
 in genuinely interesting ways depending on the choices that you make, and the game includes no 
 less than four distinct endings, which certainly adds to its replay value. But even so, there's 
 not much motivation to play through the game more than twice.
  
  With its unique combat system and compelling storyline, Spider-Man: Web of Shadows could have been 
 the best Spider-Man game by far. But the shallow, repetitive missions and occasional glitches drag 
 the game far short of its true potential. Spider-Man fans will probably get enjoyment out of this 
 game, but not nearly as much as they should have.
  
  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 8
  Value: 7
  Tilt: 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  Opinion - I was a little hesistant in buying this game for fear of being burnt again. However, 
 after checking the reviews and a thumbs up from my nephew I went for it and wasn't disappointed. 
 The only disgruntled person was my wife since this game sucked me into its world and wouldn't release 
 me for hours untold!
  
  Positive - SpiderMan moves, swings, zips, and fights like he should. Simply awesome. I love the 
 idea of switching costumes on the fly to create a combo of moves familiar to each costume. 
  
  Negative - Sometimes the optional missions get rather repetitive. I only did them all to get 
 the achievement. Once in a while I had to fight with the camera to get it to look up the side of 
 a building I was crawling up. The game ocassionally freezes, stalls, and the framerate lags at 
 times when there is way too much action going on. Oh, and one more thing, there are way to many 
 collectibles littered around the city. I collected a little over 1000 and still didn't get the 
 half collectibles collected achievement. And before I forget, MaryJane would never call SpiderMan, 
 Peter, when he's surrounded by people. Yes, this actually happened in the beginning of the game.
 
  
  Overall - You would think that by looking at my negative section I didn't really like the game 
 ... nope, wrong. I'm just very picky when it comes to Marvel games. This game had some software 
 engine problems and could've fine tuned the optional missions and collectibles dumped throughout 
 the city ... but overall despite these problems you could easy over look it because this game captured 
 Spiderman perfectly. The addition of Venom, Wolverine, BlackCat, Vulture, Luke Cage, and the rest 
 were masterfully done. I Gave this game a B+ (8.5) . It should've been a 9.5 but still is an awesome 
 to play (own) . If you like SpiderMan this so far is the best one I've ever played. Go out and get 
 your copy today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:32 pm PT
Review:  YAYS
  - classic fun
  - liberating sense of freedom
  - awesome music and graphics
  
  NAYS
  - some graphics and sound issues
  
  Playing Spiderman Friend-or-Foe demo didn't make 
 the cut and I only marginally played the other Spiderman games on older systems (except Genesis 
 in the yesteryears) . So I have to admit I was very surprised to have actually enjoy Web of Shadows 
 - a first for a "superhero" game.
  
  WoS takes Spidey on an interesting tale of symbiote infestation and - hopefully - eradication. 
 The game starts off explosively amidst burning rooftops, guilt, and the Mary-Jane-Complex we got 
 accustomed to (through films or comics) . Flashback to an earlier time and you'd experience first 
 hand how things got bad in the first place.
  
  While the actual details of the story isn't that fascinating or deep, it is fun to watch how enemies 
 and allies mix together in order to combat the symbiotes. In typical hero-fashion, you have to 
 settle some differences as well as make choices in the story on whether you want to follow the 
 Red or Black path, which could lead to multiple endings, with terrific boss fights (the aerial 
 ones are especially exhilarating) in between.
  
  The lightweight, fun story however creates for an immersive gameplay atmosphere. The further you 
 progress in the story, the crazier the town gets.
  
  WoS is broken up into main missions - given to you by other superheroes - ranging from stopping 
 certain crimes, fetch quests, saving civilians, protecting structures, etc, and side missions which 
 usually includes more of what you did in the main missions. There is almost never a shortage of 
 missions to complete, and, if you're tired of both missions and side quests, you can go and do 
 whatever you want in the city - fight enemies on the roads/sky (of which there is an overabundance) , 
 hunt down spider emblems or just swing and enjoy the scenery.
  
  Should you choose to attack enemies, WoS boats a nice collection of easy to pull of combos (most 
 of which could be achieved by button mashing) . Most interesting is the Web Shot which includes 
 a great cinematic camera angle and is the starting point to the more impressive combos. Ariel fights 
 are especially thrilling and spectacular, and no words are enough to describe how you feel unless 
 you play yourself.
  
  An interesting feature is your ability to switch between Black and Res suits. The differences between 
 them are relatively minor but significant in some situations. The Red suit is great for aerial 
 combos as well as web-based ones. The Black suit is mostly symbiotic and employs devastating melee 
 attacks, especially once upgraded. Killing enemies gives you XP (more XP from combos) which you 
 can use to purchase upgrade to your combos in the Black or Red category. You may also opt for auto-purchase 
 which is a nifty option if you want an even more streamlined gameplay. You can even switch mid 
 combo between suits to mix and match should you feel particularly creative.
  
  In fact it is this liberty that makes WoS a great game. With a terrific soundtrack and absolutely 
 gorgeous visuals, it more often than not feels - and plays - better than the Spiderman movies (and 
 their games) .
  
  The downsides to this game are mostly technical. The graphics will sometimes tear a bit while rendering 
 far-off buildings. Later in the game, the frame rate will drop for no reason, but is a relatively 
 minor issue. The camera in tight corners becomes problematic and cannot be controlled. And, most 
 annoying, is that sometimes a mission becomes glitched. I had an instance where a cut scene was 
 not rendered or an object could not be interacted with. Reloading did not work - only rebooting 
 fixed said issues.
  Technical issues aside, it's a highly recommended game if you're into old school beat-em-up with 
 a modern-age twist on things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdepaul
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I'm about 5 hours into this game and I must say it's very addictive. Much like Apostles Creed, 
 I'm finding that the game gets increasingly more fun as your skills increase. Just collecting tokens 
 is a blast once you hone in on your web shots. The realism is wonderful. Swinging through NYC is 
 fun fun fun. You can also easily crawl and run on walls. Shooting myself vertically from the side 
 of the highest buildings is one of my favorite moves. I still haven't become a strategic fighter. 
 I'm just a button masher for now, but it seems to be effective in sticky situations. Earlier today, 
 I spent an hour just throwning cars at civilians... what a blast. The camera can sometimes get 
 frustrating. I've found that whenever it gets stuck, I am locked on an enemy. Pulling the left 
 trigger fixes it just about every time. You can also summon allies for help in battles. This is 
 a great because they actually do help. The bottom line with this game is that it's great fun mastering 
 your swinging and fighting. So far, neither are remotely tired. I can still spend hours between 
 missions just looking for token and busting up the bad guys. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gearsman92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man: Web of Shadows is a game that gets bashed on for no reason since it's a comic book 
 game. I'll admit it has it's flaws, but a few of them aren't see. The story for web of shadows 
 is an orginal story that has New York being taken over by the sybiotes and Venom. The story starts 
 with you learning your abilities and is O. K and the end is actually pretty intresting. All the 
 review I'm seeing "the 1st part sucks since it's too convoluted and doesn't make sence" Yes it 
 does, it teaches you your abilities and makes sence. You can also choose the light and dark paths, 
 this changes the story and makes you want to be a hero or bad guy, this is cool. O. K is the gameplay 
 good? Yes, it is. The gameplay awesome and gets bashed on. The combat is actually awesome. You 
 can upgrade your ability and the moves are actually fun to use. Yes it's button mashing, but it's 
 intresting. I always see "the combat get repeative," No its not, you haven't even used these abilities, 
 there actually fun to use. Its also exsesible so causal games can do it to. It's fun and the bosses 
 are actually challenging and fun. Web Slinging is also back and as fun as hell. The game that does 
 have it's problems. Yes, the game does get repeative, but thanks to the combat, it not a big problem, 
 bit still a problem. Another thing is that the escort missions are boring, but it's a given. O. K 
 now the Graphics. The game isn't the best looking game on the next gen system, but I like the look 
 of the game, the gaphics look good. The character models look awesome and animate great, and the 
 city looks good, despite re-used buildings, but it's not a huge issue. I don't know why people 
 are bashing the looks like saying there's bad hit ditection, glitches and what not. Now there are 
 some glitches, 2 in fact. 1 is that there are street that you act like your still in the air, and 
 there's where the game freezes on you during cutscence. Other than those, that's it. I see no bad 
 hit ditection, some slow down, and what not. O. K now what about the sound. The music is good, and 
 the voice acting for the most part is good to decient, I have 1 exception, and that is Spider-Man. 
 Where are your ball Spidy? I know Peter Parker is a nerd, but not a 12 year going through puberty. 
 Spider-Man Web of Shadows is actually a good game. Don't say it sucks just because it's a comic 
 book game. The combat is tight, web swinging is awesome. The graphics are pretty good, and the 
 story is intresting. I say get. It's the best Spider-Man game I've played, and it's much better 
 than that piece of **** know as Spider-Man 3 the game. I liked the movie. It's a good game, if 
 you're a fan of Spider-Man, I say get it, If you're a fan of action games and Sand-box games, rent 
 it first and see if you like it. I give it a 4 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: summer_star17x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  this game is just so fun.
  swinging through new york city is just one of the highlights of this game. the story is amazing. 
 you can choose whether to be red spidey or black spidey and your choice will result in how the 
 game is played out. there are 4 endings but you can get them all with only 2 play throughs if you 
 save before the second last boss fight.
  the boss fights are really well done too. they are fun, challenging, but not too difficult.
  
 the missions are great too. some can be tedious and annoying but you feel accomplished once you've 
 finished them.
  you can also choose between black and red spider suits and both suits have different fighting styles. 
 you can upgrade them as well. there are many many different ways to impale your enemy or shoot 
 web strings at him. you will have a fun time just doing random battles and throwing enemies to 
 the ground.
  i was glad to see that they mixed up the characters in this spider man game. in other spider man 
 games they usually have green lanter, the octopus guy and some other unoriginal ones.
  in this one you get tinkerer, wolverine, black cat, the vulture dude and even wicked venom.
  
 i love this game. go buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  Spiderman : Web of Shadows is an original Spiderman action-adventure gameessentially what we're 
 getting in the absence of a Spiderman movie for Activision to try to cash in on. They even managed 
 to shoehorn Wolverine in the game (right on the front box) to squeeze out some extra dollars.
 
  
  Story : In what could very well be filed under the most typical form of fan-fiction, Venom is unleashing 
 an army of self-produced symbiotes. There's a really melodramatic sequence at the beginning of 
 the game where Spiderman walks in slow-motion all depressed-like while explosions, chaos and somber 
 piano music play in the background. The story isfar from spectacular, and serves more as a vehicle 
 to justify the numerous weird enemies that litter New York City. At least Spidery has a few clever 
 lines to brighten the mood but boy does this game fail at being serious. And if don't already have 
 some degree of familiarity with the Spiderman mythos (comics, cartoonsmore to go by than just 
 the movie) then you're going to be lost and confused.
  
  An aside: As a Spiderman fan, it strikes me as perplexing that a game about symbiotes lacks Carnage.
 
  
  Web of Shadows is some kind of butchering of what is otherwise the most popular aspect of the Spiderman 
 universe, the symbiotes and Venom. Once upon a time, it was considered a unique and exciting event 
 when we thought there was only one symbiote that made people powerful and corrupt, and it was special 
 because we either only saw it on Spiderman or somebody that wanted to kill Spiderman. And here 
 we have an entire army of symbiotes infecting normal people and running roughshod over New York. 
 I guess part of the reason for this symbiomadness, to continue the running theme of fan-fiction 
 gone bad, is to answer to the question of "what would Wolverine (among others) look like with a 
 symbiote?" (The answer is "like crap.")
  
  Also running with the black living ooze theme of the game, Spiderman has the famous black suit 
 (the straight black one from the comics, not the lame duck black suit from the movie) and the players 
 can switch between traditional red costume and the more emo attire with the press of a button. 
 Each one has their own slightly different moveset (which can be upgraded at your whim using points 
 earned fromdoing stuff) , and the suit you wear the most may as well be left up to personal preference. 
 Likewise, the different suits are connected to a Fable-like morality system where you can choose 
 to be good or badon paper. What actually happens in the game is that after a major battle, the 
 game asks you to choose between "red suit" and "black suit", often giving you no hint as to what 
 the repercussions of either option will yield. This all supposedly adds "red points" or "black 
 points" to some kind of score that isn't immediately visible and only affects which of two endings 
 the game gives you, and the moral compass doesn't quite stretch far enough in the actual game component; 
 more often than not, the only opportunity to do good and earn red points presents itself when a 
 civilian flies out of a car that exploded because you threw it at the bad guys.
  
  So the developers at Treyarch have been making Spiderman games for as long as people have been 
 making Spiderman movies, and it's finally starting to show here. Unlike superhero games that are 
 usually just generic beat-em-ups where whatever superhero you play as punches and kicks a lot of 
 bad guys regardless of what his or her superpowers actually are, this right here is definitely 
 a Spiderman game; it can only be a Spiderman game, and the main character model could be dressed 
 as a nun and you would still think you were playing a Spiderman game. You'll fight enemies on the 
 ground, fight enemies while web swinging and even fight enemies while climbing walls. And for the 
 first time, you'll be left with the impression that every single plane of existence that Spiderman 
 can navigate has been polished and fully realized. You are given more agility and options to beat 
 up on opponents that are also crawling on walls. You can kick enemies while swinging on webs (which 
 is hard for Spidey to nail, but action is his reward) , and in an ingenious coup from Devil May 
 Cry 4, Spidey can instantly pull himself towards an enemy and attack, provided the enemy doesn't 
 counter with an even more awesome attack animation. What otherwise seems like a small new ability 
 becomes a big deal in practice, as you can now leap from enemy to enemy without hitting the ground. 
 When you get down to it, the combat is far from deep (it's around God of War levels of shallowness) 
 but it's hard to not find the spectacle of some battles.
  
  Just brace yourself for a lot of battling.
  
  Like most recent web-swinging games, the bulk 
 of the gameplay in Spiderman: Web of Shadows takes place in a virtual New York City. This approach 
 has become popular in that it gives players the freedom to web-swing their little hearts out all 
 over New York. However, the challenge that so-called open world games face is to actually have 
 their open world filled with enough interesting content to keep the player captivated once they 
 grow tired of tinkering with their virtual city. Often, these kinds of games succumb to the pressure 
 and just fill most of the content with missions where you deal with respawning armies of minions, 
 and Web of Shadows not only does this, but it does this without shame.
  
  It feels like an understatement for me to say that the vast majority of missions in the game comprise 
 of you going to an area and clearing out all baddies. I'll try to give a few examples.
  
  In the opening missions, Spiderman is being taught the web pulling attack that I mentioned above. 
 So the game makes you do this move three times on a still target. The next mission will ask you 
 to use that move on ten criminals on the street. Then the game will ask you to defeat twenty more 
 criminals.
  
  This is not an isolated incident, either, the game will frequently force you repeat the same missions 
 back to back, and they'll almost always consist of the same idea of defeating lots and lots of 
 enemies. Even more baffling is that the game's idea of an optional side-quest is the same thing; 
 defeat 20 enemies50 enemies200 enemies.
  
  Another example, a later game mission asks me to escort a truck around the city and protect survivors. 
 No one really like escort missions in games but I'll deal with it, I thought. The truck will make 
 about 3-5 stops in which the civilians who need rescuing will take their sweet, sweet time making 
 their way to the van. After you finally complete this headache of a mission, the game forces you 
 to search the city for 3 more trucks that are looking for survivors.
  
  Every time the game introduces a new enemy type, you'll probably have to do two or three missions 
 that comprise of killing X number of that enemy. By the time I was nearing the game's end, I was 
 told I had just unlocked an Achievement stating that I had defeated 1000 enemies. That is not an 
 achievement I wear with pride. This is game-lengthening of the worst kind, a flagrant attempt to 
 stretch out the number of hours it takes to beat a game to avoid being labeled as "short" in game 
 reviews. The reality of the matter is that more people will wind up putting a lot more time into 
 a game a third the length of Web of Shadows, like Call of Duty 4, from said game being more replayable 
 because of the decided lack of filler.
  
  It's a shame, too, because the game does show the occasional flash of brilliance. Almost every 
 boss battle has a unique hook to it, whether it's Vulture forcing you to jump from one enemy to 
 another to reach him, or Wolverine stopping mid-fight toask you some Spiderman trivia. This game 
 does something monumental in that it presents the first ever instance where I thought Electro wasn't 
 lame. But these moments of bliss are brief, and lost in the hours and hours of tedium that is the 
 regular story quests.
  
  Web of Shadows is a game that players are going to try really hard to like, but the game will try 
 even harder to make you hate it. The core mechanics are great, and the makings of a potentially 
 great Spiderman game are here, but everything that surrounds Spiderman is dull and repetitive. 
 Perhaps the developers can now focus on creating interesting levels and set-pieces for the next 
 game and provide a more stimulating experience, but for now, you'd best pass.
  
  Pros : Swinging through a war-torn New York is at least a treat on the eyes. Depending on your 
 moral alignment and whether or not the game engine is in the right mood, you can sometimes summon 
 an ally to help battle.
  
  Cons : Camera occasionally buggers out of control. Some missions will start to glitch up should 
 you failwhich at best simply means that the marker indicating where to go will be slightly off-place, 
 and at worst, will prevent you from triggering a necessary quick-time event and force you to restart 
 the console.
  
  3 stars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burnout_toreach
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  
  HarryTipper86 giving this game a 10 is wrong and you know it!
  
  There's camera issues for one, Superman's web chain attack, if your successful to start and as 
 your in the air the camera's view faces the other way and you quickly have to maneuver around and 
 reface the enemies to continue it 
  
  While you have your spider senses on the camera doesn't allow you to rotate it in a full circle 
 you have to turn it off then it allows it, as i was climbing a building the camera angel was terrible 
 and i couldn't tell if i was going up or down it
  
  I jumped down a side of a building , got caught and only in the air i was able to move.
  
  
 Two people on the street, one was in a running motion in front of a concrete block ob the side 
 of a building and another was standing right in the middle of traffic, i bumped into her just to 
 see what would happen and she began a walking animation in a square formation still in the road
 
  
  A little thing i guess it; s just me is there were at least 3 or 4 people that i almost saved from 
 dieing only i couldn't get to the hospital or where i needed to bring them to in time cause of 
 the massive size of the city 
  
  The game is hell of a lot of fun though. It's in the same format as Spiderman2 but a little different 
 and on the 360 (don't even bother with the ps2 version unless your really naive) looks amazing, 
 I played for 3 or 4 hours last night and i didn't even realize it.
  
  The gamer offers a lot over variety in the missions as some are optional, although dome are just 
 too long when your doing the exact same thing 
  
  The combat really opens up when you purchase more upgrades and adding more moves to spidey's advantage, 
 and the voice acting work is very nice.
  
  The game has hits and misses, i don't know what Activision has any plans to do any updates as it 
 be possible now and it be nice to improve some of the issues.
  
  With the issue's I've encounter suggests a little to me that they rushed to get the game out.
 
  
  It's not terrible, it's not great but its a lot better than average. I'm hoping i can find it cheaper 
 cause $59.99 isn't all that worth it
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  Spider-man: Web of Shadows is a action game with RPG elements. The game starts in the future and 
 you play through the flashbacks. New York is in the middle of a symbiote invasion and Spider-man 
 remembers what happened 4 days ago. He was fighting Venom and aquires a piece of the black suit. 
 Now Spider-man can use the black suit at will. I don't want to spoil too much but there are multiple 
 (4) endings. The ending you get depends on how "far" you go to save New York. Throughout the game, 
 you can choose whether to do the right thing or choose the evil side. The graphics are great but 
 there are slowdowns. The gameplay is amazing. You can switch suits at anytime easily and there's 
 a different between the two. The red suit is faster and more agile while the black suit is more 
 powerful and stronger. There are four different types of attacks: ground, air, wall, and super. 
 There's a special meter and using super moves depletes the meter. You can also use the meter to 
 summon allies. Your allies depend whether your good or evil. The boss fights are very exiting. 
 This is a big improvement from any previous Spider-man game. I enjoyed this game alot because of 
 multiple endings, combat, and option to choose your path. In the beginning, New York was a normal 
 city. In the end, New York is taken over by symbiotes. You can see the ity slowly being invaded. 
 If you are a Spidey fan, you should get this and see how far will you go to save New York.
  
  Story- 8
  Graphics- 8
  Gameplay- 9
  Enjoyment- 9
  
  Final Score- 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalorian_81
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited when heard about this game and for the most part my excitement was justified.
 
  
  Spider-Man Web of Shadows, seems to be what other spidey games wanted to be but the developers 
 just didnt have the time to complete them due to meeting movie tie-in deadlines.
  
  The graphics are great, nothing too flash but its right for the game.
  The sounds are pretty 
 decent, again nothing fantastic but it works well.
  The gameplay is very samey but the interesting story goes some way to stopping you realising your 
 doing the same thing over and over again.
  The combat system is pretty good and the controls are responsive although the camera can sometimes 
 be a pain in the backside such as when you want to swing to a wall and run up it, the camera sometimes 
 just buggers up completely and your left wondering which way is up !
  The combos are pretty decent and the moves spidey pulls off are pretty impressive and fun to watch 
 but youl most likely find yourself sticking to the same ones because you just cant be bothered 
 learning new ones.
  The most fun is the black suit, although its speed and handling arnt as good as the red/blue suit 
 its power is pretty amazing, theres been many times ive been fighting in the red/blue suit and 
 ive just got bored, changed to the black suit and opened a huge can of spider-whoop-ass sending 
 several enemies to flying into the sky as i stand there looking all cool and mysterious.
  
  The relationship between the red/blue and black suit and their significance during your play was 
 not as involved as i first thought it was. It dosnt really matter which suit you use most because 
 in key situations you are presented with a choice of which path you want to choose in that particular 
 scenario which leads to its own cut scene which is great for making you want to play through the 
 game again just to see the cut scenes for the other choices but as far as changing the course of 
 game it dosnt do much, the only differences being the ending but you still fight the same end boss.
 
  
  One thing i found missing from this game was the open world ending where you just get to swing 
 around and do as you please, perhaps hunt down those pesky tokens while saving the odd citizen 
 from a mugging and so forth. in this game once its ended, thats it. theres nothing afterwards although 
 there is a way to start playing through again in game + mode which lets you keep all your skills 
 and advancements while playing through again from the begining but its not quite the same as wandering 
 through the city feeling all smug that another threat has been thwarted and now your just doing 
 your thing.
  
  One thing i feel i must mention is that i experienced dramatic frame rate slowdown !, as the game 
 progresses you find theres random crimes and calls for help on every corner of the city and perhaps 
 its just too much for the console to do process considdering the city is HUGE or perhaps theres 
 some other problem but it started to slow down and jerk to the point where i was scared i was about 
 to get the dreaded RRoD but alas none of my other games have any problems so i can only assume 
 its an issue with the spidey game.
  
  In conclusion, i recomend you buy this game because it is fun to play and its definitly the best 
 spidey game out to date, i wish you could play as wolverine and venom but its not a biggie. Just 
 watch out for the massive frame rate slow down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugohf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Sealando basicamente los puntos buenos de este juego con base a que ya lo he concluido
  En un pricipio las gracicas de la cidad lucen espectaculares como en ningun otro juego de spiderman 
 se han visto
  La historia de una ciudad apocaliptica infestada symbotics resulta ser muy atractiva ya que pudes 
 ver en un principio una ciudad con mucho movimiento hasta el punto de convertirse en una ciudad 
 donde practicamen no hay nadie 
  Por otra parte la imersion de superores como son la gta negara y wolverin hace a este juego resaltar 
 bastante sin hablar de la oportunidad de pelear con ellos en su estado natural y en sus versiones 
 symbiotic
  en lo que se refire al sistema de juego resulta ser muy fluido ya que a medida que vas avanzando 
 puedes desbloquear una serie de movimientos espectaculares que al comento de desencadenarlos resultan 
 en un debastador combo
  Por ultimo la posibilidad de tomar deciones y que estas alteren el desenlace de als ecenas resulta 
 ecepcional, al igula de la posibilidad de jugar con el black spiderman
  El unico defecto de est juego es que no tiene mucha musica y que aveces se puede volver repetivo, 
 sim embargo es el mejor juego de spiderman hasta ahora 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KlausRottingham
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  Everybody has a favourite superhero, regardless of how many, or few, comics they have read, movies 
 they have seen or games they have played, there is always one that you just really love. Mine has 
 always been Spider-Man. The thought of a man with all the abilities of a super-spider? Who wouldn't 
 want that? Which is why I was near heart broken when I played Spider-Man 3 and discovered that 
 maybe Spider-Man was not as great as I had once thought. I decided to give Friend or Foe a miss, 
 for hopefully apparent reasons, and was genuinely excited about Web of Shadows (all the while doing 
 my best to ignore Treyarch's involvement.) A game in which you can flit between the 'good' Red 
 and Blue Spidey and the 'evil' symbiote dark one instantly was exciting enough but with those choices 
 also came the much-used morality system.
  
  Everybody has a favourite superhero, regardless of how many comics they have read, movies they 
 have seen or games they have played, there is always one that you just really love. Mine has always 
 been Spider-Man. The thought of a man with all the abilities of asuper-spider? Who wouldn't want 
 that? Which is why I was near heartbroken when I played Spider-Man 3 and discovered that maybe 
 Spider-Man was not as great as I had once thought. I decided to give Friend or Foe a miss, for 
 hopefully apparent reasons, and was genuinely excited about Web of Shadows (all the while doing 
 my best to ignore Treyarch's involvement.) A game in which you can flit between the' good' Red 
 and Blue Spidey and the 'evil' symbiote dark one instantly was exciting enough but with those choices 
 also came the much-used morality system.
  
  The sad fact of the matter is that Spider-Man: Web of Shadows is disappointingly average. Sure 
 swinging around Manhattan Island is still fun to do and Spidey's swing animations look fantastic, 
 but it's been the same since Spider-Man 2 on the Playstation 2. It's nothing new and it certainly 
 cannot save the rest of the game from slipping into mediocrity yet again. The combat system is 
 greatfun for the first few hours, but after a while you have seen every move Spidey can pull off 
 and even web-zipping onto enemies from mid-air gets tiresome after a while. Spider-Man is a pretty 
 nimble guy and can sprint up vertical walls with seeming ease which can lead to some great looking 
 moves when leaping off. Swinging around Manhattan Island is still great fun to do and to watch 
 as Spidey's body momentum will change accordingly to the direction you are swinging into yet, swinging 
 around the city is somewhat rendered void about half way through the story anyway has a Venom-induced 
 symbiote plague infects the entire city so any swinging around you dowill inevitably end in being 
 constantly attacked by enemies. This is made even more annoying when after completion, the game 
 sends you back to the menu rather than giving you a 'back to normal' city to roam around in which 
 just adds another layer to the inevitable frustration this game will bring.
  
  Web of Shadows' story was anothe rone of the main selling points for me heading into the game, 
 it is completely original and seems somewhat out of touch with the Spider-Man canon, with Spidey 
 donning the black suit without too much hesitation despite his previous troubles with it. The story 
 comprises of Venom infecting the citizens of Manhattan and turning them into some strange symbiote 
 beasts, and Spider-Man must track Venom down and defeat him, with a little help from his friends 
 of course. Characters throughout the Spider-Man (and a few from outside it) universe make an appearance 
 and give the story something to focus on outside of Spider-Man. Characters wonder in and out of 
 the story at seemingly random intervals without any real reason other to show off the fact that 
 it's Wolverine. As cool as the characters could and should have been, none of them can be taken 
 seriously due to some hideously bad voice acting coupled with some bizarre dialogue, the most gut-wrenchingly 
 bad is that of Wolverine's supposed MySpace page.
  
  The Spider-Man universe has some pretty cool characters, and chances are you will end up fighting 
 them at some point throughout their story, and you will also be fighting their symbiote forms (which 
 are essentially just stronger, quicker fight.) The battles can be pretty intense... for the first 
 5-10 minutes that is. Bosses have too much health which diminishes so slowly that it is impossible 
 to find these battle entertaining, especially when the only way to win these battles quickly are 
 by using the same button mashing techniques that you will use throughout the entire game and it 
 becomes increasingly frustrating during the latter battles in which the boss will call in it's 
 grunts to distract you and just elongates the fight.
  
  
  The changing of the suits has been marketed to show of the game's very shallow morality-based gameplay 
 which more and more games are now starting to use, whereas the only real use of the different suits 
 is to execute almost customised combinations which can include several costume changes in just 
 a few seconds. As you would imagine, the Red and Blue suit makes Spidey slightly faster and more 
 agile with web-based attacks while the Black suit makes him more powerful and instead of web-based 
 moves, he grows a large, evil looking tendril from his arm which is used to drag enemies closer 
 and sweep the surrounding area. The suit changes do change up the story a bit after each boss fight 
 (and some major cut scenes) you will be asked to make a good or evil suit choice, which is strange 
 since you can always fight in the dark suit but still end up taking the good morality path.
  
  Web of Shadows utilizes a 'lock-on' mechanic that allows you to focus the camera on a specific 
 location even whilst you leap around the screen or flinging around on a web. However, this can 
 cause some pretty infuriating issues when up against any sort of object as the camera tends to 
 be a little erratic as it tries to swing around to a half-decent view but just ends up getting 
 stuck in some incredibly useless space in which you are forced to jump around blindly in order 
 to regain your bearings. This can get increasingly anger-inducing when trying to fight a group 
 of enemies when you cannot even see what it is that's attacking you.
  
  The graphics in Web of Shadows looks almost like a PS2 game, with poorly detailed characters and 
 incredibly blocky buildings that are impeccably straight. There is a distinct lack of diverse enemies 
 and fighting the same things over and over again will get repetitive quickly, especially when coupled 
 with the button mashing fighting system that the game employs. Most of the moves look the same 
 after a while and upon contact with an enemy a typical comic-book 'slash' effect that varies depending 
 on the move, which could really have done with a 'POW' or 'KA-SPLAT' here and there just to try 
 and rid of the monotony of gameplay.
  
  Spider-Man: Web of Shadows is a crotch-kickingly disappointing game that promises so much early 
 on before slipping into mediocrity and becoming another bad Spider-Man game that could have been 
 so much better. Almost everything entertaining will eventually become dull and uninteresting and 
 you will be wondering whether or not this game was worth the money with so many other games currently 
 being released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookmefoodnow
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Well I am not that far into it yet because I am trying to upgrade as much as possible. But the 
 game is pretty good. Takes about 20 min to get the controls down, and you do go through training 
 in the game. Switching seems to be annoying for me. When you are beating up bad guys I tend to 
 press down on the LS button on accident and switch characters. Also there doesnt seem to be a big 
 deal on who you choose. You get red or black points depending on what you do. Example is that when 
 you are spiderman just save some one for red points. The best thing in the game though is swinging 
 around new york. I played for about 3 hours today and half the time i just swung around and collected 
 things.
  I would really like to see some multiplayer. Perhaps some swing racing, or some co op with another 
 person. If they make another one I am sure it will be even better.
  A REALLY GOOD RENT BUT NO BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kev1000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Im a fan of spider-man since i was a children. Today, im just collecting the comic books and that 
 it. I also play his videogames but the problem is that most recent games from activision were disapointing. It 
 not the only franchise that have the same problem^tony hawk is a exemple^Spider-man 3 was bad at 
 worse and average at least while fof was a boring beat-em all with little innovation, considering 
 it was a game for children.
  When wos was announced, i was kind of interested because the game would feature many stuff that 
 fans asked and at the same time, i always wanted to see a game based on the classic continuty. By 
 doing something slighly different this time, they managed to do a good game at last. Thanks shaba 
 games.
  The game is a lot focused on desision based on witch suit and the fighting. And overall they did 
 well in this. The combat are fun and are more deep than previous game^in sm2, you could beat everyone 
 by dodging attack and doing counter, usm was more like spidey but still not enough, sm3 was button 
 mashing and seem to be a rip off of ninja gaiden, only you can`t block, and you dont have sword and 
 magic spell^The control are a lot simpler allowing to take the game in hands easily allowing to 
 do cool combo. When you upgrtade spidey, the fighting become better.
  It also more interesting than previous one because the city elvolve when you continue the story. So 
 the ennemies pass from little punk wich you beat by few punch, after it robots who are stronger 
 and then, it those symbiotes who are awesome. Just think about the variety.
  You can also change the outcome of the games by dessision who boost the playability of the game. It 
 like shaba games wanted to give people what they want to see in a good spider-man and they managed 
 to impress me.
  My big complaint his that except the marvelous boss fight, the game is not so hard to beat and most 
 of the advanced stuff like counter attack feel wortless and the ennemie and objective are easy 
 to beat. So the game is short, you can pass the game several time to see the different endings but 
 that it. Also when you finish the game, press continue again and again and you will restart the game 
 with all the uograde.
  I would love seeing combo video on youtube about this game.
  Rent it before you buy. This might become a forgoted game in this holidays but it still a enjoyable 
 game for spidey fans and those who want to play something else than gears of wars 2 and far cry 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grungeman91
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  Story - 9.0 - The first half of the story feels like one of Spider Man's random adventures and 
 as for the second half is definitely the best part of the game.
  
  Graphics - 7.8 - Models of the super heroes look really good and the effects look great also the 
 bugs are what really drags this game down, but anyway the environment is really bland and things 
 disappear too fast.
  
  Gameplay - 9.2 - For some people this game might get repetitive after some time playing it but 
 for some of us this has the best combat system I've ever seen in a Spider Man game thus far, plus 
 you have the ability to switch between the symbiote suit and the classic red and blue also the 
 boss battles are memorable and fun, it all works out too well.
  
  Enjoyment - 8.0 - So the main story is not that long, it took me ten hours to complete also you 
 have a lot of side missions and this time the collectibles actually do something this time around
 
  
  Final Score - 9.0 - This game is a must buy for comic fans and fans of the movies, But for everyone 
 else look into it
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Less than a year after the release date of Spider-Man 3, Treyarch has been working on a new Spider-Man 
 game, Web of Shadows. It's usually a bad sign when a game gets released this quickly, and unfortunately, 
 this happens to be the case with Spider-Man: Web of Shadows. I'm not going to say it's bad; it's 
 just a lot shallower than what I expected. There are several good things about the game, but it 
 falls short on what made Spider-Man 2 and Spider-Man 3 great games.
  
  Spider-Man 2 was one of my favorite Playstation 2 games of all time. Save for Spider-Man 3 for 
 the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3, Friend or Foe and Ultimate Spider-Man were the perfect examples 
 of lazy development. So if any new Spider-Man games were to come out, the expectations for them 
 must be pretty low at this point. For that reason, I was surprised to hear people praising Web 
 of Shadows as the greatest Spider-Man game since Spider-Man 2. While everyone else was excited 
 about this new title, I was sitting in a corner saying, "God, this game doesn't look that great." 
 Now that the game is finally out, I'd like to inform all of you I was right.
  
  The introduction puts you in the shoes of Spider-Man, who's desperately trying to save New York 
 from an invasion of symbiote creatures and none other than Venom himself. You start off fighting 
 against him, and this serves as a training level. I noticed some new gameplay additions right away, 
 but I just didn't become immersed into this game's combat system as much as SM3's. One neat thing 
 about the story, however, is that it's completely original-you won't find anything based off of 
 plots in the comics or movies as you progress through the game. It's too bad that the story isn't 
 particularly interesting in basically anyway. A dozen times throughout the story, you'll have the 
 option to choose between either Spidey's good or dark side, which will result in one of several 
 endings.
  
  Web of Shadows isn't filled entirely with flaws, though. First off, swinging through the city is 
 just as fun as it has been in the previous Spider-Man games. You push down on the Right Trigger 
 to shoot out a webline and attach it to any nearby building, and tapping it will make Spidey web-zip. 
 You'll be able to modify how fast his swing is, double jump in the air, and to run across building 
 walls. All of these elements blend into Web of Shadows' new combat system.
  
  If you tap the Left Trigger, Spidey will be able to automatically target the nearest enemy, which 
 is an upgrade from the previous games. However, it causes more problems than it fixes. Several 
 times throughout the game, dozens of enemy symbiote creatures will be flying off of walls to try 
 and kill you. If you're locked onto a certain enemy, how will you keep track of the other enemies? 
 Even if you aren't locked onto an enemy, the camera itself is very finicky in tight, enclosed areas, 
 making it frustratingly difficult to gain a good perspective on your foes. The core combat relies 
 on button mashing, whether you are on the ground or on a wall. Web of Shadows actually keeps track 
 of how many combo hits you pull off in succession. 
  
  Even though it may not sound like it, Spidey's moves are really cool to watch when you perform 
 them properly-it looks impressive to see Spider-Man surfing on an enemy or to attach a web to an 
 enemy and kick him in the face. But they do get old very quickly. There is an upgrade system to 
 improve your attacks for both the red and black suit, and it couldn't be easier to switch between 
 the two. The red suit is used primarily for more agile moves, where as the black suit is used for 
 strength. You'll be able to pick up a car and hurl it at your enemies using the black suit, but 
 the effects look dull and the move doesn't really do much.
  
  Your go-to move throughout the game is probably the hop-zip-kick attack, which haves you attack 
 a web to your enemy and kick them in the face with the proper timing. During combat, I found myself 
 pressing X-Y-X-Y-X-Y and not really caring what I hit, so long as I defeated all of the enemies. 
 As for the enemies themselves, they range from painfully easy to catastrophically annoying. The 
 mission design revolves going up to Luke Cage-your friend-have him teach you a new move and you 
 have to test this move on enemies. Other missions require you to protect X number of S. H. I. E. L. D 
 evac troops, destroy X number of symbiotes and destroy X number of this enemy. You'll be repeating 
 this process over, and over, and over, and over, at nausea. At one point, the game required me 
 to use the hop-zip-kick attack more than thirty times on a group of snipers trying to assassinate 
 gang leaders-that's not fun.
  
  As for the audiovisual presentation, there isn't really much to brag about. While Spidey's moves 
 look slick, Treyarch apparently hasn't discovered a way from making an exploding car disappear, 
 and the city isn't all that lively. The voice acting for Peter Parker is the worst I've ever seen 
 in a Spider-Man game. The effects don't stand out, though the soundtrack is nicely cinematic.
 
  
  In the end, Spider-Man: Web of Shadows brings forth a great idea that was presented in a mediocre 
 fashion. Hopefully the next Spider-Man game will be better. While it may be suitable for those 
 die-hard Spidey fans that can't get enough of their web-swinging superhero, Web of Shadows shouldn't 
 be recommended for a purchase by any casual fan of action games. 
  
  Score - 5.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  This game really leaves you lost for words if your a true Spiderman fan. But if your not, you might 
 not get the same sort of experience.
  
  I can be classified under non-Spiderman fan. I mean i watched all the movies, read all the comics, 
 but i feel no attachment to the series. You ask me anything about any Spiderman comic and I will 
 tell you that I don't know. So with that out of my mind, and with fresh eyes I jumped into this 
 game.
  
  First impressions were that the graphics and voice acting have definitely gone up a few notches. 
 Then, I tore myself away from that and focussed on the game play and story.
  
  The first impressions i got from the game play is that it has not changed all that much since Ultimate 
 Spiderman. So, since i had previously played that game, I kind of knew where this one was heading. 
 The story however has definitely changed and the new Venom mechanic definitely spices and mixes 
 things up. This ensures that you don't feel that this game is reminiscent of any other in the Spiderman 
 series.
  
  The only few glitches are that sometimes the people around you can be reduced to just their eyes 
 and mouths. That was kind of sad seeing as how this game did such a nice job of rendering most 
 things perfectly. The air combat sequences could have been slightly better but overall I'm not 
 complaining.
  
  So, to sum up, this game is definitely not going to convert anyone who is not a Spiderman fan. 
 But for those who already are, you'll find that this game has a lot in store that what the cover 
 suggests. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hredftghyujiko
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I'm just gonna cut to the chase and tell you what I think about everything.
  
  
  GRAPHICS. Great but not perfect, I have to say that everything looks better but the city does not 
 look as good as the city in Spiderman 3. But everything else does lol.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY. AMAZING! the combat has never been as fun. The swinging never get old like in other Spidey 
 games (Spiderman 2 & 3) and the new wall fighting is really fun. And its always fun to climb your 
 web lol.
  
  
  SOUND. Pretty much like ever other Spidey game. The guns dont sound very real, the punches/kickes 
 do sound real but the the web sounds perfect imo.
  
  
  VOICE ACTING. All is good.
  
  
  LENGTH. Is a little bit too short but is still good, you can always restart so thats good.
 
  
  
  OVERALL. This is the best Spidey game ever made and if you like the web head then I suggest you 
 buy this game.
  
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Sound: 8.5/10
  Voice Acting: 9/10
  Length: 9.5/10
  Overall: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladerunner666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Fans of Spiderman are really going to get into this one. The artwork is right out of the comics. 
 Best example would be his original suit. When you take a real good look at it, you can see the 
 devs when to great lengths to make the suit look like its made of cloth with a nice sheen to it.
 
  
  The animations are top notch. Spidey's animated swings are on the mark and authentic. It's like 
 they took all the famous swing poses right out of the books and animated them. Some of them were 
 already there from previous games but it looks even more refined now.
  
  Texture work for the city and characters are outstanding. I was really impressed with the level 
 of detail of the faces and costumes in general. Best city rendition yet for a spidey game.
  
  Electro was brought to life perfectly. Awesome light sourcing during the fights.
  
  The 
 city just oozes authenticity with the ad boards and posters reflecting the marvel universe perfectly. 
 They were even able to sneak in a couple of real-life ads without them being obnoxious.
  
  The really outstanding feature would be the fight engine. Very fluid, very intense and satisfying. 
 Just a ton of non-stop action with surprisingly very little frustration. Light years better than 
 past games. 
  
  CONS:
  more enemy variety would have been nice.
  some voice acting was off.
  Frame rate was solid about 95% of the time
  Needed a lot more marvel 
 characters to really spice things up.
  
  
  
  Overall this is the best spiderman game I have played to date. And I have played almost all of 
 them. If you love seeing the comic books come to life then get this game.
  
  I can't wait for what very cool marvel games will come out in the future with engine. Hopefully, 
 the ultimate alliance team will utilize this outstanding engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Spider man: Web of Shadows is an extremely well done super hero game. It lets you do everything 
 that you would want to do with Spider mans unique powers. There is a huge variety of characters 
 form the comics to interact with and fight, granted, they aren't playable, but it definitely adds 
 to the game to have those recognizable characters there. The story of the game is well thought 
 out and very well told. The boss battles are inventive and fun. The city that acts as the main 
 level is just incredible, allowing you to just web swing from building to building for hours and 
 not get bored. This is definitely the best Spider man game that I can ever remember playing. That 
 isn't so say that it doesn't have its flaws though. The control is a little difficult to get used 
 to, and even once you do, it seems like sometimes it is very hard to just go exactly where you 
 want to go, especially while web swinging. Many times I would end up bouncing off or running down 
 the buildings I was trying to get to. Also, the sound was extremely buggy, the music and dialog 
 would just cut out at random and often times. All in all, this is a great game full of fun that 
 I would recommend to any comic book fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saiyankakaroto
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is my first review of a game lol, i just thought i had to do it, because this game is really 
 awesome and some gaming sites are giving it unfair scores (coff, coff ign) ok so lets begin with 
 the review shall we
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are awesome, everything looks cool, specially the city, also character models 
 are very well done and the animations are fluid, its a beutiful game, some people say graphics in 
 this game are not very good cause they dont look totally realistic, well i see the game as a comic 
 come to life and i love spidey comics, so ill say the graphics in the game are somewhat realistic 
 combined with a stylish comic book feel.
  are the graphics the best ive seen? for a spiderman game they are, comparing them to other games 
 they are great, not the best out there but preety good
  
  Sound
  well ive havnt really paid any atention to the music in this game, so i will say its ok, nothing 
 outstanding or bad either, i think it fits 
  
  voice acting
  i think its great with one esxception, spiderman voice is anoying at first but you get use to it
 
  
  gameplay
  
  the gamplay its thye best in any spiderman game, you really are spiderman in this game, the combos 
 are great, i also love wallcralling here wich i didnt enjoy on the other spidey games
  
  overall
  BEST SPIDERMAN GAME EVEN BETTER THAN SPIDERMAN 2 FOR THE PS2, IF YOU LIKE SPIDERMAN BUY 
 IT, IF YOU LIKE SPIDEY GAMES BUY IT, IF YOU DONT LIKE SPIDEY GAMES OR SPIDEY AT ALL, Y ARE YOU READING 
 THIS?.. SEE YA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game because you actually feel like your spider-man. The other games were not 
 done as great as this one this game has some great fighting moves and combo attacks. The others 
 just felt to stiff for me not enough moves. But this one was great you can choose between the red 
 suit and black suit at any given time. Fight villians who get infected by the symboite. Which also 
 adds a great story to this game. You can cause destruction within the city by picking up cars and 
 throwing them watching them blow up, which is very cool. This is why i picked this game up considering 
 the other spidey games didnt do so well i looked at gameplay pf this and thought what the heck 
 i'll get it and im glad i did its great. So if you like spider-man or even if you dont this is something 
 to check out. So go check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbailey184
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I was really leery about picking up this game after reading some of the reviews online. Thankfully 
 I decided to trust good ole gamespot, who seems to be one of the few critics to come up with an 
 accurate score for this game.
  
  It seems to me that the title takes all the great aspects of gameplay from the spiderman 3 game, 
 removes all the frustrating stuff, and then ramps it all up with some excellent combat mechanics. 
 Plus, the storyline has just enough oomph to get you and keep you going. Throw in some cameos and 
 you're all set for a good time.
  
  Graphically, I am in heaven with this game, and love the sheen the black suit has, as well as the 
 detail on costumes like Wolverine's. Venom, a favorite of mine, looked sweet as well, and my only 
 complaint about him was he kept saying "me" instead of "we" in the beginning fight.
  
  I'm also a big fan "moral" choice elements in games. I'm not completely clear how that plays out 
 overall in this game, not having beaten in quite yet. Still, it does have some impact, after comparing 
 act 1 with my brother, who was good vs my evil run. 
  
  My only real complaint so far is length, as it seems I'm already nearing the end, and I just picked 
 it up yesterday afternoon. I'm guessing the total time to be around 10 hours, if you do a smattering 
 of the side quests, as I did. A more nit-picky complaint would be the fact that people infested 
 with symbiotes turn to goo when you defeat them. I know, this is a small thing, but makes me feel 
 like spiderman is murdering thousands in the city, hehe.
  
  Overall, this is a must have for those who enjoy the franchise, or just need a tweak of superhero 
 juice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkened_skys
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Web Of Shadows is so much fun just to play as you dont have to do the missions to carry on in the 
 game. You can just swing around the city admiring the beautiful city occasionly taking out some 
 symbiotes whenever you like. The missions are also good but in the beginning there are some training 
 missions which get a little repetitive. The storyline is easily the best out of all the spiderman 
 games simply because it isn't tied to a movie. This means that they have been able to think up 
 a totally new storyline where noting has to be crammed in to the game just because it is in the 
 movie. Switching between the more agile red and blue suit to the sronger more powerful black suit 
 is easy as you just have to click your joystick. This means you can create some amazing combos 
 while switching between the two suits. The boss battles can be challenging but are by no means 
 impossible and the missions are quite easy. If your a spiderman fan or just a casual gamer that 
 wants a some fun, I recommend Web Of Shadows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  Spiderman Web of Shadows is about Spiderman fighting off a simbiote alien invasion. Spiderman has 
 his hands full in this one. Venom is behind everything and they have done him right in this great 
 game. In this game Spiderman battles super villians and super heroes. Such as Wolverine and Vulture. 
 Fighting simbiote infected Wolverine is my favorite fight in this game. In this game you have to 
 fight regular thugs, Kingpins thugs and huge robots and simbiotes. There are 8 types of simbotes 
 running around in this game, including Venom the main simbote. Venom is really tough in the game. 
 Throwing cars at him works well. Being able to switch from black suit to red and blue suit at any 
 time is awesome. The web strike attack is great and the rest of the combat is superb. Using the 
 web strike attack on enemies means you don't even have to touch the ground during your attacks 
 on the enemies. Activision has finally got the combat down pat. The story in Web Of Shadows is 
 good and it helps move the game along nicely. There are tons of different characters in this game. 
 You can call in an ally when you want. Such as Luke Cage who has unbreakable skin. Wolverine is 
 your best ally when you choose the good path. In this game you get to choose from the good path 
 and the way of the villain. Red and blue choices and black suit path choices. I chose first the 
 red and blue path. I love being a superhero. Now I'm going to go the black path to see how the 
 game ends on that path. As far as I know there are four different endings in this game. THis makes 
 for some great replayability. This game is the best spiderman game so far. Its even better than 
 Spiderman 2 which was a great game too. 
  I give 8.5 out of 10 for the gameplay. 7.5 out of 10 for the graphics. The graphics are very good. 
 Spiderman looks and moves great in this game. 8.5 out of 10 for the sound. The sound effects are 
 great, the voice acting is good overall, and the music is very good. 8 out of 10 for value and 
 replay value. 9 out of 10 for the tilt. The controls work perfect in this game. 9 out of 10 for 
 the combat. 7 out of 10 for the story. Overall I give this great game 8.2 out of 10. Its simply 
 an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotdork70minus1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  So I've been playing the hell out of this game for over a week now and I have to say that over 
 all it is insanely fun. 
  
  I haven't finished the game yet because I tried to complete every single side mission for about 
 the first 10 or 12 hours. A few day's ago I decided I will just move along instead since I will 
 play this game over more then a few times.
  
  This game offers a ton of variety, interesting characters, enemies, boss's, combo's, upgrades, 
 story lines and gameplay. 
  
  The few frustrating parts for me didn't come close to outweighing the fun I have been having with 
 this game. 
  
  1. The Camera - Running up a building can make you so dizzy that you want to puke. One of the reasons 
 for this is the enemy lock on.
  
  2. Hmmm I wonder... Enemy Lock on - For the most part it works but there are plenty of times that 
 it works when you didn't ask it to. It can be difficult to track a main enemy because the lock 
 on has a mind of it's own.
  
  3. AI - For the most part, AI is ok, it's not awesome but it's ok. More then a few times though, 
 in key parts of the game where you count on AI, they tend to show why they would be better off 
 working at McDonald's then helping free earth from an alien entity. In scenarios where you need 
 to follow an AI, they can get get stuck in the geometry or just plain keep running into a wall, 
 backing up and running right back into it when 1 foot to the left would get them home free.
  
  4. The Map HUD - The HUD map works well for the most part but it would be nice if it distinguished 
 different tasks and enemies better.
  
  What is good about this game ?
  
  Everything you would want to do as Spiderman can be done. There is just too much to list and I 
 only have another minute here but it's well worth a rent for sure.
  
  Like I said, the fun more then out weighs the hiccups of the game. The story is easy to get into 
 and you decide how deep you want to get into it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Web of Shadows is similar to Ultimate Spiderman, in the fact that the main villian is Venom and 
 that there is a huge focus on the black suit. Anyway the game is really good, but not as good as 
 expected. The storyline follows Spiderman fighting off a symbiote invasion because Venom realized 
 he can use his suit to change people into symbiote zombies. The gameplay combat wise has improved 
 but everything else is the same so I won't explain the controls (sorry) . The graphics are alright 
 I guess, but there is frequent slow down which is really annoying. The music and sound effects 
 are good, but the voice acting is almost as bad as Shadow the Hedgehogs, and I'm not joking. Over-all 
 though I recommend you check this game out, it's a Spiderman fans wet dream, but for everybody 
 else rent it first see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlewnix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Forget the negative reviews you have heard thus far -- this game is great!! If you are a spidey fan, 
 buy it, and if not, definitely rent it, but either way, its worth it. This game was taken back 
 to the drawing board, and his moves and missions have been revamped, so forget what you played 
 in the movie games. This game has aerial combat, some sweet combos, non stop action, great sound 
 and his movements are straight out of the comics or cartoons. This is the first game in a long 
 time where they made his animations completely realistic. As far as bugs, the game froze on me 
 once and I had to restart, but I have yet to play a game without one bug, so don't let that deter 
 you. The only cons about this game is the voice work and the training missions, but I won't give 
 too much away about those; the actor for spiderman SUCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Pros ----
  
  --Great graphics
  --spiderman moves and feels like spidey should
  --non stop action
  
 --ground and aerial combat
  
  
  Cons --------
  
  --Voice acting
  --Spidey still can't spin a huge web between 2 buildings, but that is my own personal gripe.
 
  --training missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zutolor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the IGN review on Spider Man Web of Shadow I was sad : (, I mean a 5.7! I thought it 
 was going to be bad. Then my birthday came a few days ago and I got it from my brother. I was surprised 
 on how Great of a game it was.
  It has a good story. good voice acting for the most part (spidy's voice sucks) and you can choose 
 to be Evil or good, you can fight lot's of spider man's enemy, or team up with them, same with 
 the good guys, it's a fun game, you should get this game now. There are some flaws in the game 
 like the camera is suckish some times and some of the story is dull and you can't chose to team 
 up with Luke Cage or not but it's still a great game. it is worth 50$ so you should get it.
  
  Gameplay 8.5/10
  voice acting 7.5/10
  story 8/10
  Value 8.5/10
  graphics 8.0/10
  
 Venom is in it 10/10
  Awesomeness 8.5/10
  overall 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spideroman126
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  i just wish the people who make Marvel would at least give DC some tips cause i was 1 of the few 
 people that actually bought superman and wow what a HUGE! disappointment. but back to spiderman 
 im glad that there was no movie to go along with because the story is the best part and they put 
 just about everything that has been missing from the other sp games the controls are tight and 
 the action is pretty none stop. my only issue is the camera which can get stuck and be at weird 
 angles but a small annoys to pay 4 a great game EVERY SPIDERMAN FAN SHOULD OWN A COPY OF THIS ONE 
 ITS A KEEP!! did i mention there are some other pop in chacaters but they did take out my favorite 
 spidey move the hanging from the light pole but the give you so many more great movies and spidey 
 can finally pick put a car and the black spidey is a real badass not to say the red one doesn't 
 he is all stcik and move so thats a good change up the boss fight aren't cheap but that aint no 
 cake walk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man: Web of Shadows is nowhere near perfect, and where a lot of games nowadays focus more 
 on looking visually stunning, rather than having a well-written story, or enticing gameplay, this 
 game does just the opposite.
  
  The game itself looks mediocre at best, and there are a lot of very noticeable problems with the 
 animation and graphics, as well as some audio bugs. The gameplay is easy, aside from a few boss 
 battles that can get kind of difficult if you don't remember to heal yourself. Otherwise they are 
 still easy.
  
  Although the game has its fair share of bugs, it also has a great, original story that probably 
 would have made a better movie than Spider-Man 3. There are a lot of new characters to meet, and 
 a few surprises as well.
  
  The combat system is great and it makes for some really elaborate combos and cool moves to be pulled 
 off either in your red and blue suit or the black suit. Each suit has its own set of upgradable 
 moves and abilities, which can be unlocked by completing missions and other optional objectives, 
 or just beating up enemies around the city and stopping crime and saving civilians.
  
  The city is HUGE and swinging around it is a very, very fun experience. There are a ton of collectible 
 icons "hidden" around the city that can be used to level up Spidey. There are literally hundreds 
 and they are everywhere, so they should be fairly easy to find.
  
  Overall, this Spider-Man title is meant purely to entertain. It surely will not be remembered for 
 its looks, but for its well crafted story and ridiculously fun, yet simple gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulseek3r
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  They should have did more QA on this game. There were points when I had to restart because spiderman 
 was stuck mid-air and Rhino kept running into a wall stupidly (really bad AI) . There were other 
 occassions when I know something should be happening but it doesn't. When restarted, it worked 
 fine. 
  
  I also hated the camera angles which caused me to get my assed kicked when on walls.
  
  The 
 game has great game play but I don't think the story was as submersive as Gamespot made it out 
 to be.
  
  I definitely enjoyed the freedom when swinging and enjoyed that best about the game.
  
  Definitely 
 worth the buy but not as soon as it's released. I could have waited until the price dropped. It's 
 a great game but it was plagued with too many technical difficulties that obstructed game play.
 
  
  The first game I ever delayed finishing. It was that short! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Maybe i will overrate the game but i always have been a spider-man and comic fan, and this game 
 is probably the best one i ever see on the series. The history is very good , is based on the latest 
 comic history. The sounds are very fun like a spider man game should be with a lot of humor. The 
 visual are just great the best you can wish in a spider-man game with a full city to explore. The 
 controls are very good , it will take you some time to become a master spider xD, but it will worth 
 every second, because the battles are always so fun and dynamic. You will see a lot of new things 
 like things in the Marvel universe in this spider man game, you can explore the city and do whatever 
 you want , not like a GTA game of course lol -_-" , anything that the spider-man could do lol. 
 Like i said maybe i am overrating the game a bit (MAYBE) , because i really like spider-man games 
 but my advice here ***IF*** you are not a spider-man fan, rent it. If you are do yourself a big 
 favor and run not to a store to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknyarth
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Movie games tend to suffer ridicule and a bad reviews. I played both Spider Man 2 and 3 and enjoyed 
 them both quite a bit but even with that enjoyment, I felt that there was something missing; something 
 that could've been better. The folks who stepped into Web of Shadows brought that 'better' and 
 beat my ass with it.
  
  Spider Man Web of Shadows is an awesome game. I have never before felt so much like I was playing 
 a comic book as when I started beating down villains in this game. Aerial battles lasting several 
 minutes as I leap from baddy to baddy... vaulting up the side of a building to dive on an enemy 
 then swing off to the next... it's stunning and easy to control. A beautiful victory for this company 
 all the way around.
  
  The story is dark and deep. The Spider Man is sufficiently sarcastic and funny. The additional 
 characters were brilliant. Shifting from Red suit to Symbiote is killer. The achievements are great. 
 The leveling is awesome. Buying powers rocks. 
  
  The only reason I didn't give this game a 10 was because the missions can get a little repetative. 
 Yes, the villains are different but the general quests do not change. You basically start an act, 
 fight several bad guys with optioal quests galore then do a 'real' mission. These real missions 
 are kick ass and it might be tempting to just skip the optional stuff in lieu of them. However, 
 the bonus XP you get is -VERY- nice. Also, I'm a completionist so... that doesn't help.
  
  All in all, I think that people would love this game. Grab it, enjoy it and love it. This is the 
 sort of thing that comic fans have dreamt of. Don't let it fade into the dark without a solid play! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NbAlIvEr10000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  Well, what to say about this game... There's a good reason why I gave this game the classification 
 "Amazing", not only because its in the characters attributes (The Amazing Spider-Man) , but because 
 the game is actually amazing considering its usual predecessors from the movie trilogy.
  
  Even though this game has absolutely nothing to do with the movie series itself it does show a 
 similar retrospect. The synopsis of this game actually takes the plot of a very popular title in 
 the Spider-Man comic book series "Web of Shadows" where the actual city of New York becomes infested 
 with the symbiote alien invasion. Its one of the numerous times Spider-Man takes on the role of 
 the somewhat disoriented black-suited Spider-Man. During the game itself you actually take control 
 of both suites at will with just the click of a button. Although controlling both suits simultaneously 
 has no desired effect on game play it does however have an effect on the sub-plot where taking 
 the path of the symbiotic Spider-Man can open up missions that taking the "good" path do not.
 
  
  If you've played the previous Activision/Treyarch games associated with the movie trilogy (up to 
 this point) you'll probably see a similarity in the two different versions. This game most similarly 
 compares to the Spider-Man 3 game although it has a totally different feel to it. Right off the 
 back you'll notice that Web of Shadows (WOS) has a more definitive comic book feel and is very 
 vibrant in color. This makes the game stand out a lot more. At first glance of the cities landscape 
 you'll also notice how much more detailed this games city is compared to the Spidey 3 game. I think 
 this is highly contributed to the solid-tone mapping system whereas the Spidey 3 game used a fully 
 textured and interactive real-time map. There's no doubt that the game stands out graphically compared 
 to its predecessor. 
  
  The game play of WOS is, off the back, very different from the other Spidey games. Whereas the 
 other Spidey games where more adventurous and goal oriented (usually consisted of a single goal 
 to complete to pass) , WOS is more chaotic with action AND adventure around every corner. Although 
 this can be rather confusing at first, you'll start to notice how much destruction is actually 
 happening and that missing a few crimes won't hurt you too badly. Missions in WOS are similar to 
 that of the old Spidey games, but they work somewhat different in that they'll happen when you 
 want them too if you follow the structure given under the right circumstances. The game has a pretty 
 lenient upgrade system with very satisfying combos and special moves which only cost ups to 2000 
 XP points a piece. Of course when it comes to a Spidey game people want to know what exactly "web-swinging" 
 will be like. At first it looks as if WOS is no different from the other Spidey games, but you'll 
 notice some pretty detailed changes in its effect. Swinging is really initiated by one button and 
 another to pick up speed and jump. However, the geographic position of Spider-Man to any other 
 physical thing in the open world will cause a different animation depending on where he is so that 
 he won't run into something that would cause him to slow down. This has really been improved for 
 the better compared to the older games. The fighting system has really evolved as well and feels 
 less structured and more arcade-like. This allows for "stringed" combos and fast lightning speed 
 moves from enemy to enemy.
  
  This game really portrays to what a Spider-Man comic book adventure can actually feel like. It 
 has everything a comic book fan, even a Marvel fan for the fact that many other Marvel characters 
 not associated with Spider-Man series appear in the game; should enjoy and be addicted to till 
 the next installment. If you even for the slightest flick enjoyed the previous "movie" Spider-Man 
 games then you'll love this game 10X more than ever! In my opinion best super hero game I've played 
 ever!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awakendjay
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I must admit, I was skeptical about this game. I also wanted to get this for the PC so i can 
 use trainers and cheat codes... LOL...... oh boy does this game not need cheat codes to be fun. 
 
  
  Now here i am in the middle of the review, with nothing to say, because I am still overwhelmed 
 with words on how great this game is. Maybe I am deceived, But i usually know when a game is good. 
 
  
  I give this game a 10 out of 10, because honestly, its feels perfect.... It is one of those games 
 that "force" you to like it. That is a good thing, because i have been playing so many games lately, 
 in which i have to MAKE myself like the game. 
  
  Why is this game so good you ask? Because you really feel like freaking spider-man... NUFF said......
 
  Who is this game for? People who want to really feel like spider-man! 
  
  I am sorry if this review is vague, but gamespot. com rated this game an 8.0 for a reason, and i 
 think it was an excellent review.. But remember, they review games based off the general populace.... However, 
 true die hard spiderman comic book fans MUST NOT MISS THIS..... This game is easily a 9.0 out of 
 10.... Reason I gave it a 10/10 was because how infamous this game is.... especially when far cry 
 2 and fallout3 and dead space is out, which are great games.... But this game MUST NOT BE OVER-LOOKED........ It 
 reminds me of the game kingdom hearts... not too many people knew about it... But as time went on 
 it blew up... i am here to help initiate the blowing up and conversion of something that is infamous... to 
 being FAMOUS........
  
  Xbox 360 version is superb..... but the PC version is broken and unplayable due to poor optimization...
 
  
  If you like spiderman comics? like marvel games..... and if you dont have this game yet... You are 
 doing yourself a serious negative..... GET THIS GAME if you want to feel like spiderman!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reillybubba
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  THEY DID IT WOO HOO ALL YOU SPIDEY FANS OUT THERE BUY THIS GAME RIGHT NOW THAT GOES FOR ACTION 
 GAMERS AND COMIC BOOK GAMERS BUY IT NOW. They FINNALY got the combat right, spidey fights like 
 he fights in the comics and tv shows. He's jumping around on gang members to symbiotes to super 
 villains he's also doing stuff like webing a guy yanking himself towards them bounce/kicking off 
 the guy and sending him flyng there's also still ground combat to which is more powerful then the 
 web kicking spidey fights on the ground too you know You can switch between red and black suit 
 at any time by clicking the left thumbstick in there's the agile and speed of the red and blue 
 suit and the powerful and surprisingly brutal more dark version of Peter Parker the black suit. 
 You can now fight on a wall now and it's surprisingly fun. The swinging around New York and soon 
 to be Symbiote infected New york is still a blast. The story is so immersive you'll be thinking 
 you're watching a Spider-Man movie. It starts off in New york already invaded by symbiotes and 
 Our favorite symbiote Venom.
  You're swinging around beating symbiotes to a pulp and when spidey gets to a cutscene and starts 
 freaking out about MJ his girl and once you get to another cutscene she flips out on you and are 
 attacked by a symbiote.
  It flashes back 4 days before the invasion and you fight Venom and get the parts of the black suit 
 from him and now you both have one you fight and then go do missions for other Super Heros like 
 Luke Cage and Wolverine and eventually the city is invaded symbiotes and Venom and with S. H. I. E. L. D. S. 
 help you combat the invasion Overall Spider-Man Web Of Shadows is a great game and is a must buy 
 I give it a 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmasterrof
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  So i finally got through Spider-man: Web of Shadows.
  
  I was not disappointed at all! I admit it has it's flaws but lets get to that later. Basically 
 the game starts out with a battle in NYC, where you are attacked by these symbiote infected creatures, 
 and S. H. I. E. L. D. is at your side fighting. Anyways, narrating the game is spidey himself, telling 
 the whole story, after the minor prologue you get into the game from the "actual start" meeting 
 Luke Cage who is taking you through some trials, learning you the basics of the game.
  
  The story line is (quickly told) : New York gets invaded by the symbiote, in the beginning you are 
 informed that Venom is making these creatures, but later on you get to know that it is not an infection, 
 but invasion. Anyways, not it's up to spidey and his allies to help you.
  
  By allies i mean: In the game you got two specific options; bad or good decisions, you take the 
 "good" ones, you can get aid from: Moon Knight, Luke Cage, and my favorite: Wolverine :)
  
  On the evil side you can get aid by: Black Cat (she is of course totally "porn" looking, i mean 
 it's obviously men who made the game...) Rhino, Electro, and Vulture.
  
  They are actually a big help sometime, but mostly you can do without em.
  
  Now what is the 
 real deal about this game is deffo the battles. The new battle system is very nice, awesome looking 
 combos, and when tabbing your "Y" button he will jump into the air making this almost cinematic 
 looking web slinging into the enemy in which you can press "X", "Y" to complete with an attack, 
 or "A" to abort, and "B" to throw, you can of course upgrade this attack making it able to continue 
 with more attacks, it is very cool, and will hold you off the ground all the time (which is exactly 
 what i been waiting for, a spidey game where he fights in the air actually having a nice web ability)
 
  
  But, even though it looks cool, battling gets very very very... very repetitive, and that's one 
 of the many flaws that the spider-man games continue to do bad, too repetitive battles, and way 
 too many of em!
  
  But i don't want to complain to much, cause i don't have better ideas! :D
  
  Graphics are awesome, 
 and sound is classic spidey with Violin, base, and exciting percussion, you got to love it!
  
  I'm amazed by Shabas result, and really love the fact that you can choose both Symbiote and 
 the Classic suit at all time. Of course they have different battling styles. The Classic suit is 
 quicker, and in my opinion the best to use in the last missions of the game, but the Symbiote suit 
 is just awesome doing a lot of "area effect" damage.
  
  Plus the Symbiote suit is not a retarded looking one like in the Spider-man 3 movie, it is the 
 original one, with the giant black spider on the suit, and the white squares on his hands - very 
 nice!
  
  I can't complain too much about Spider-man: Web of Shadows but i do miss some stuff such as: Extras, 
 and more suits, i remember Spider-man the game 2 (not the spider-man 2 movie game, but an old one 
 for PS1 system)
  you could choose about 40-50 different suit from the cartoon, that would be really awesome, i miss 
 the Scarlet Spidey suit :P 
  
  But over all, it is a solid game, a lot like the movie ones with improvements such as in battle, 
 a good original story, good upgrades, but i do think i am a bit generous to give it 8.0, even though 
 i had fun with it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0oJazZMano0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I've only just started playing this game but already it's made a positive impression on me. If 
 you love spiderman then you'll love this game!!!!
  New York looks very realistic and the way spidey moves is so graceful and beautiful to behold. 
 If you've played spiderman 2 on x-box and spiderman 3 on x-box 360, you may find the controls partially 
 unfamiliar as there have been some tweaks and revamps. this can be frustrating at first. the upgrade 
 system feels a little alien, (excuse the symbiote pun) too.
  
  The camera can 'very rarely' go haywire, but most of the time is smooth and very intuitive. The 
 games choice of allies for the wall crawler is a little bizarre considering the ample wealth of 
 characters the marvel universe has to offer. Although to veteran marvel fans the characters will 
 be familiar and maybe welcome in an alternative, underground kind off way.
  
  A good addition to the free roaming aspect of the game is the ability to smash up the city. Air 
 vents and cars etc can be pummeled and although this may sound irrelevant, adds extra realism to 
 the experience that the previous incarnations of spidey games didn't have.
  
  This may sound odd, but as far as i can tell spiderman can't walk in this game. the slowest he 
 can move is a jog which to me is geekily disappointing as i liked casually strolling over the rooftops 
 at times in the previous games.
  
  The addition of the black suite and the quick change control is a clever idea, and the inclusion 
 of allies to fight along side is nice. lets hope an update comes out where you can play a co-op 
 mode as spidey and.... black cat or daredevil for example. Wishful thinking me thinks....
  
  All in all a great looking and feeling game. Game programmers take note... the best comic book 
 games are the ones bereft of a movie tie-in. They end up sucking for the most part due to the movie 
 plot restrictions and rushed coding. Bring on the Marvel MMORPG!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game yesterday and tore through it no problem but I enjoyed every moment of it, even 
 though there were some frustrations. Now its time to bullet point the pros, the cons, and the ones 
 that i cant really decide if its a good thing or bad.
  
  Pro:
  - Combat is fast and intense
  - Changing between the suits adds a refreshing spin on the combat
 
  - Faithful representation of the spiderman universe
  - Frame rate manages to keep up with the action
  - Good graphics
  - Voice acting is on par 
 for the most part
  - Great cast from Spidey's rogues gallery
  - Interesting story
  - Venom done right
  
  
  Cons:
  - Spiderman's voice (you'll know it when you hear it)
 
  - You'll find yourself getting stuck in walls time to time along with the enemies
  - The camera occasionally goes insane
  - Good and evil dont really have much inpact, a little 
 time in either suit will easily change your alignment if you want it to
  - Lame cast of good heroes to aid you (with marvels large cast of heroes that actually aided spiderman, 
 we get moon knight and cage?)
  - Not much replay value
  - Main story is roughly 10 hours long
  
  Shades of Grey:
  - A one point if you dont know 
 much about some serious spiderman lore, youre in some trouble.
  
  With a relatively short campaign and next to no replay value, this game is definitely a rental 
 but that shouldn't stop you from playing it. Its Pro's outweigh the cons and if you're a spiderman 
 fan, then do yourself a favor and give this one a spin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The story starts out as you, Spiderman, are in the middle of a battle with S. H. I. E. L. D. vs the 
 Symbiotes, and S. H. I. E. L. D. is losing. After you find MJ, you are sucked up by a symbiote. 4 days 
 BEFORE, we find Spidey fighting Venom, and gets his black duds. The story goes through the 4 days 
 of the invasion.
  The story is pretty good, and it will keep you hooked through out.
  This game is a free-roaming game, just like Spiderman 2 and 3. You can go anywhere you want, anytime. 
 The combat boils down to the X, Y, and B buttons. With some combinations of those buttons, you 
 can preform some powerful and sweet combos.
  The 2 suits give Spidey different combos, but the Symbiote costume is more powerful. You'll probably 
 just use that through out the course of the game.
  During some parts of the game, you'll have 2 choices. You can take the good side (Red Suit) or 
 the evil side (Black Suit) . Depending on the choices you make, there will be different endings. 
 This is pretty cool, and gives this game some replay value.
  The graphics are pretty good. The characters look realistic and the animations are pretty good. 
 When you change into the Red Suit, little pieces of the Black Suit will come off. Realistic. A 
 little bit.
  The AI is ok. You can beat them down by just button-mashing and throwing cars at them. Overall, 
 the AI is pretty easy to beat, and you can just regenerate life after not getting hurt for a few 
 seconds.
  Now, the bugs and problems. First, the game froze on me during a mission. Then, Rhino got stuck 
 in a corner, still in Rsge Mode. The only problem with that was I had to restart my mission, but 
 I did get 200 combos and an acheivement out of that.
  Another problem was that when I throw cars at people, they go through building walls. Bad collision-dection 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troyxx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  this game has to be the best spider-man game to date period the game us just too much fun you can 
 swing from any place to another not alot of games give you the open world feel but this game really 
 dose !
  the boss battels are great as well there is alot of combos as well and each combo is rewarding 
 you can also be the good guy or bad guy in the game the classic spiderman red suit is good and 
 the blue suit is the bad guy this could make some gamers or harcore fans come back for a second 
 time to see how the story could turn out the voice acting is suprisngly good you will also fund 
 alot of the known spiderman superheros such as the cat girl and that big black wich i can't remember 
 his name and alot more
  the only annoying thing about the game that the camra can get tricky some times when your hanging 
 on a building
  anyhow the game is must have game for spiderman fans or action games fans if not buy atleast a 
 rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JP_Dubs05
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  In Spiderman: WoS, you control Spiderman whom is infected by the symbiote again (black suit) , during 
 his last encounter with Venom. But soon after Spidey gets the suit, Venom disapears. Edventually 
 though Spidey will notice that the people of New York have been infected by symbiotes with results 
 in an invasion.
  
  Depending on your throughout the game will give you a different ending. For example if I wanted 
 Spidey to be bad, at times where I had the choice to be bad or good, I would choose the Black Spiderman 
 because he is bad. The cutscenes are also affected by your decisions.
  
  Learning how to play: When you first start playing you will not know what button does what. But 
 dont worry your buddy Luke Cage will help you out and teach you how to do cool and powerfull moves. 
 Overall it takes about 30 minutes in to get a feel for the controls.
  
  Gameplay: The combat system in this game is great. Spidey's combat style has been completely redone. 
 Webbing and melee are a 1 - 2 punch now. Before in previous spiderman games webbing was practicly 
 useless, but they are about even now because of all the things you can do with web. Switching back 
 and forth between Red and Black suited Spiderman is as simple as a button. Black suit can throw 
 cars at enemies, even if the cars have people in them. Last, swinging is also great in this game. 
 Although your webs do not "attach" themselves to buildings, but instead to the open sky..
  
  AI: The AI in SM: WoS isn't the best AI but deffinetly isnt the worst. There are so many enemies 
 to fight at once that you wont notice how the AI isnt very smart. The civilians AI is pretty smart 
 though. If you have been acting like a villain, then they will boo you and run away. If your'e 
 acting like a hero then they will chear and wave at you. Also civilians are smart enough to run 
 away from an explosion instead of just watching it and getting killed.
  
  Graphics: Whoa... I think the game makers of Spiderman games just realized that the Xbox 360 system 
 is a next-gen system. Unlike in SM3, the graphics are very good. All characters including most 
 civilians are detailed greatly. Spidey also looks great in both his costumes.
  
  Sound: Sound in this game is great. The one bad part is the annoyance of Peter Parkers voice. It 
 just doesnt seem to sound like a Peter Parker voice. Its to happy for someone who has as many problems 
 as Parker.
  
  Graphics - 8.5/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Learn Time - 9/10
  Sound - 8/10
  AI - 8-10
  Storyline - 9.5/10
  
  Overall - 9/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiggyHaloX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  Whether It's just swinging around the city exploring, or going through the storyline, or whatever 
 you're doing, you'll really feel like you're a superhero. As if you yourself is Spiderman. Spiderman's 
 finally getting the action and agility he deserves, I'd HIGHLY recommend this game to anyone. It's 
 extremely appealing just jumping and swinging around the city in itself, but even more so when 
 you're throwing an opponent in the air and leaping up catapulting him into a wall, doing a punch 
 kick punch kick combo then sticking him against the empire states building. It's really good. Only 
 to add to it is the nice visual style, and the choice of being a badass evil necromantic spiderman 
 who just wants to cause suffering, or saving innocent pedestrians as a do gooder. And don't be 
 expecting to leave the streets of new york for a long time because of an impressive amount of what 
 you can do. Also, fans of the series will recognize villains in the movies and more, so there won't 
 be any disappointment if people were worried about Marvel just lobbing in 60 new characters and 
 leaving it at that. It's fun, exiting, fast paced and addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nny3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Alright, well, this is going to be my first real review. 
  
  Spider-Man: Web of Shadows may just be the best Spider-Man video game to date, if not the best 
 super hero game. It gives you the most fluid moment for Spidey ever, with the ability to string 
 up web-attacks, and even attack just like he would in the comics! Now, most complain about how 
 hard it is to get used to the controls, but if you're like me and have been waiting for a Spidey 
 game like this, you'll be VERY pleased in how they work. I won't get into the detail of how the 
 attacks work (sometimes, it's best to figure them out on your own) and I won't go into the story 
 too much (I'm only on the second Act so far) but I can tell the story in this game is going somewhere. 
 It has the real feel of the Marvel Comics world, and has cameo appearances from Moon Knight, Wolverine, 
 Luke Cage, and many more. The combat in this game is near-flawless. You'll definitely feel like 
 Spider-Man jumping around, using your webbing, and even swinging around the city.
  
  Even while in possession of the Symbiote, you'll feel all badass because of how much lower and 
 more powerful the attacks are. Hell, you can even throw cars at the enemy, while people are inside 
 them! It really brings Spider-Man to his darkest roots in years. Now, that's not to say he doesn't 
 have that cocky attitude we all love, still. He does, believe me, and he'll be cracking jokes left 
 and right. A lot of people complain about the voice acting. I, for one, like it. Now, I grew up 
 on games like Resident Evil, so I have a VERY low expectation for voice acting in video games. 
 The only bad points I can make so far is that sometimes, it's hard to balance good and evil. Like, 
 for me, I'm constantly doing good, and when I'm wearing the Symbiote, I get on a roll and do a 
 few bad things. Supposedly, there are 4 endings for this game, so it'll keep me playing to get 
 all of these possibilities. But right now, it looks like I may get the in-between ending. If it 
 exists. Alright, well, this is about all I can say so far between the two acts I've played, but 
 what I know is that it is the best super hero game I've ever played. I don't care if you trust 
 me or not. You can always just rent the game and test it out for yourself. But for a big time Spidey 
 fan like me, this is the Spider-Man game we've been waiting for. Final Score: 9.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimsammy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome, just plain fun with great replay value, either just zooming around the streets 
 or replaying it once you've beaten it why ign and hopefully not gamespot gave it a bad review is 
 unknown... ign:5.5/10 me:9.0/10
  
  zooming around the streets is my personal favorite, and swicthing through the costume in mid air 
 combat is great, artwork of the game is beautifull, and it offers some replay value, as in you can 
 (again) zoom around the streets, battle random thugs, repeat the game with a fresh new experence 
 every time you play, and to me its the best spiderman game to date, venom is just kick-ass in it... black 
 suit is for srong attacks while red is for more movement, just buy it, and trust me, a fan of spiderman 
 (not really him, but the games) that this is a great game....
  
  (this part is just so can post this danm thing)
  bdfhjvbjbvhjbv uggjdwf fehgfjg fhugf 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
