-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man: Friend or Foe
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/spidermanfriendorfoe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Action is stylish, easy to pick up.
 Great cast of characters supported by some solid voice acting.
 Doesn't take itself so seriously.
 Lets you play as some of Spidey's greatest enemies.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not much enemy variety.
 Sidekicks not as much fun to play as Spidey.
 Incredibly easy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.1, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 444 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Next Level Games
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 2, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Some flashy action, a playful sense of humor, and a clean visual style bring this otherwise straightforward 
 beat-'em-up to life. 

  Although the Spider-Man movies have been credited with helping comic-book movies mature and take 
 a more sophisticated turn, the problem with all of these complex, serious heroes and villains is, 
 well, that they're all so complex and serious. They lose sight of the fact that Spider-Man is far 
 more entertaining when he's wheelin' free and crackin' wise rather than stressing out about the 
 whole "with great power" thing and generally being riddled with angst. The webslinger is in loose, 
 smart-aleck form in Spider-Man: Friend or Foe, a beat-'em-up that doesn't get bogged down in character 
 development. Instead, the game puts the focus on the kind of combat that's simple but showy, with 
 an art style that reminds you that comic books shouldn't necessarily be so somber.  

           The team-up premise of Friend or Foe feels like it was ripped straight from the pages 
 of What If?      

  The big concept twist that Friend or Foe offers up revolves around Spider-Man teaming up with some 
 of his most memorable foes. In a reference to Venom's origin story from Spider-Man 3, some unknown 
 mastermind is using shards from the meteor that spawned the symbiotic suit to brainwash villains 
 such as Doc Ock and the Green Goblin to do his bidding, as well as to power an army of holographic 
 monsters called phantoms. With the help of S. H. I. E. L. D. director Nick Fury, you trot the globe, 
 recover the shards, and free the brainwashed villains, which turns enemies into allies. As thin 
 as the premise is, the game's jokey, playful tone makes it seem less far-fetched, and it ultimately 
 serves its purpose of letting you fight alongside some of Spidey's greatest villains, a concept 
 that manages to stay novel throughout. You'll also team up with other heroes along the way, including 
 Spidey regulars such as Prowler, Black Cat, and Silver Sable, as well as b-team favorites such 
 as Iron Fist and Blade. A big part of what carries the humor in Friend or Foe is the quality of 
 the voice work, which is consistently great.  

  The basic structure of Friend or Foe isn't terribly interesting by itself. You'll travel to some 
 exotic location, such as Tokyo, Transylvania, or Nepal, where you'll beat the holographic snot 
 out of the phantoms before facing off with a brainwashed villain. The phantoms come in just a few 
 different varieties, and though they get stronger over time and change appearance between locations, 
 the same tactics seem to work pretty well from start to finish. Although the boss fights are presented 
 differently, they all rely on the same basic strategy of throwing objects at the villains from 
 afar. They can occasionally be a little time-consuming, but they're never particularly challenging. 

  There's really not much else to the game beyond the fighting, either. There's a little bit of exploration, 
 in that there are DNA samples and secret arenas scattered throughout the game, but more often than 
 not you'll just stumble over them in the course of playing the game. Spidey can double-jump and 
 use his webbing to swing over small gaps, but platforming is minimal. When you do die, be it at 
 the hands of an enemy or from falling off a platform, the only penalty is that you'll lose a couple 
 of tech tokens, a type of in-game currency that falls out of defeated enemies and smashed objects. 
 You use the tech tokens to upgrade the abilities of Spider-Man and friends.  

  It's pretty much all fighting, all the time, against the same handful of enemies, with no consequences 
 for dying. The whole thing can be wrapped up with a bow in less than six hours. So what makes the 
 action in Friend or Foe interesting? A lot of it rests on the combat, which manages to be both 
 accessible and somewhat dynamic. There's a single attack button that you can use to tap out some 
 simple combos, but it's Spider-Man's web-based abilities that bring a lot of panache to the game. 
 The webslinging abilities let him grab enemies from afar and launch them into one another, into 
 the ground, or right off the edge of a platform.  

  You'll earn additional web talents over time, including the ability to shoot projectiles and wrap 
 enemies up, but your starting abilities seem to be the most useful. They're also the most visually 
 interesting, though admittedly some of the actions look more exciting than they might otherwise 
 due to exaggerated physics that cause everyone to linger in the air before gravity pulls them back 
 down. It's very easy to string these moves together, and even though it's not much of a challenge, 
 fending off a dozen enemies at once with a constant flurry of attacks can be pretty satisfying. 

  It can be a real kick in the pants to fight alongside some of Spider-Man's greatest villains as 
 well, and you can switch back and forth on the fly between controlling Spidey and his sidekick. 
 When controlled by the artificial intelligence, your sidekick can take care of itself pretty well. 
 As awesome as it might sound to finally get to play as these villains, the sidekicks simply don't 
 have as many abilities as Spidey, which makes them inherently less interesting. This ends up limiting 
 the appeal of the game's two-player support, although it's consequently less disappointing that 
 there's no online play.  

           What it lacks in challenge, it makes up for with style.      

  The experience of playing 
 Spider-Man: Friend or Foe on the Xbox 360, PC, and Wii was pretty consistent across platforms, 
 though there were some predictable discrepancies. The PC version demands a good gamepad, and we 
 found that the game provided seamless support for the Xbox 360 controller. The game plays it pretty 
 safe on the Wii, in that it relies on motion controls only for secondary stuff such as switching 
 characters and performing grab modifiers. All three versions feature the same clean art style, 
 which isn't technically demanding, but it looks sharp. The environments favor clean textures over 
 complex geometry, and each location features a distinct look while keeping with the overall cartoony 
 feel. The character models are nicely embellished, and some of the animations -- Spider-Man's in 
 particular -- look terrific. The PC and Xbox 360 versions look pretty comparable, though on the Wii 
 there's some pretty jagged edges, some minor frame-rate issues, and a little fuzziness that diminishes 
 the look of the game, if only somewhat. It seems worth noting that the achievements in the Xbox 
 360 version are pretty fabulously easy, and they require only a little extra effort beyond finishing 
 the game to earn the full 1000 points.  

  The low level of challenge, the cartoon-inspired look, and a tone that favors humor over pathos 
 certainly make it seem as if Spider-Man: Friend or Foe was designed with a younger, less sophisticated 
 audience in mind, but for what it is, this is a well-crafted game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This one's great if you have a buddy hanging around that wants to help you snag an easy (ridiculously 
 easy) 1000 GamerScore points. This title blends elements from the three Spider Man movies, along 
 with the new animated Spectacular Spider Man series to create a beat-'em-up platform game with 
 a rather shaky plot. Apparently when Venom crashed to Earth, a bunch of other meteorites with symbionts 
 crashed along with him. A mysterious player captures these things and turns them loose upon the 
 world, and then somehow manages to take control of all of Spider Man's enemies and ... gets them 
 to want to take over the world too, along with fight Spider Man. Wait ... that's what they do anyway, 
 right?
  
  Anyway, Nick Fury and SHIELD get involved, enlist Spider Man to figure out where all the meteorites 
 shards are, as well as to beat up his foes and save the world. Added bonus: Once Spider Man stops 
 his old foes (again) , they decide to join his side to stop whoever made them want to fight Spider 
 Man in the first place. Because they don't want to fight Spider Man. Or something. Weird.
  
  Anyway, it's a fun little title to play, and the achievements are not terribly difficult to 
 achieve, especially with an ally by your side. Fun for a playthrough, but not really worth a hefty 
 price to add to your collection, unless you're a serious Spider Man fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrclortho
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for my son and it turned out to be more fun that I expected at first, but it 
 really never got much better. The graphics and 3D style world in which you play is well drawn and 
 there really are some beautiful scenes. The drawback is that you are forced down a specific path 
 all of the time and can only deviate from it slightly. Also, it is very predictable after a short 
 amount of time. My 5 year old figured out all of the simplistic puzzles in minutes. On the other 
 hand, there are quite a few neat characters and they do have some fun moves. You can also play 
 as a team or can battle each other in one on one combat. It is a fun game but takes very little 
 time to figure out and quickly becomes repetitious. When you are fighting, you find yourself performing 
 the same moves over and over and over again. I believe that it must have been created for a very 
 young crowd. Like I said, my 5 year old beat the entire game in a matter of weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Friend or Foe reminded me of a Pixar movie. It is definitely geared toward kids, but also has the 
 jokes to keep the adults entertained, too. It is also only slightly longer than the average feature 
 length film.
  
  The game is very easy to play but has enough different moves to keep you entertained. Much like 
 Lego Star Wars, you are unable to die. This makes the game lack any challenge and can turn off 
 many players. If your health runs out or you fall off a cliff, your character respawns in the same 
 location and you lose a few coins that you have collected. The coins can be used to unlock new 
 moves and upgrade Spider-man's statistics or the stats of his fourteen possible sidekicks. Most 
 of the upgrades cost between a couple of hundred to about 1400, so the twenty coins you lose for 
 dying doesn't really hamper your progress toward the next purchase; especially since most levels 
 can be completed with over a thousand coins. Each level also has hidden items scattered around 
 to search for. They aren't hidden too well; I only missed one on my first play through and I wasn't 
 looking too hard. There are really only four basic enemy types throughout the whole game. They 
 change looks, but are definitely the same guys. The game consists of five countries split up into 
 four levels each. This may sound like a lot at first, but each country can be completed in well 
 under an hour. The setup of each level is also poorly handled. Each area has a door that blocks 
 your path but magically opens when a set number of enemies are killed. At least the game tries 
 to explain why the enemies are able to appear out of thin air. Something about holographic projections 
 and meteor shards. Something that would only work in the comic book world, but it fits in the game.
 
  
  Spider-man starts with a few basic moves. A few more can be be purchased, but most of your coins 
 will be spent upgrading existing moves. Spider-man also has three different fighting styles, though 
 begins the game with only one. The first contains grab moves, the second is ranged attacks, and 
 the third consists of stun maneuvers. For the most part, each move set can be used in any situation. 
 You can pick you favorite and stick with it or switch up as often as you like to keep things interesting. 
 The sidekicks can also be upgraded, but they only have one special move and one fighting style. 
 This means playing as them can get old fairly quickly, but there are enough different characters 
 to choose from that the game stays fresh. For the most part, though, I stuck with playing Spider-man. 
 A second player can jump in at any time and take over for the sidekick.
  
  The cast of sidekicks is impressive. There are a few lesser known heroes, but the real drawn is 
 the chance to team up with Spidey's most well know enemies. I was a bit disappointed when I realized 
 that after each sidekick's initial cut scene, they didn't have anything more to do with the story. 
 The circumstances with which they join up with you are a bit lame, too. Each conversation followed 
 the same basic reasoning. 'You want me to join you? OK.' Forget the fact that many of these people 
 have been Spider-man's enemies for over fifty years. Only Green Goblin made a remark about how 
 he was better off teaming up than going to jail. I was also disappointed with the final boss. The 
 game makes you feel like it is a new threat, but the mastermind behind it is another long time 
 Marvel veteran. Most Marvel fans will probably figure out who it is long before the game tells 
 you. There is a return of another 'friend' in the second to last level. I won't ruin it for you. 
 I'll just say that not only was this unexpected, but was also quite nice to see. I would have liked 
 to see some better known heroes, but I would guess that they couldn't be put in the game because 
 the rights are owned by different companies. Also, the game never forgets to remind you that it 
 is official movie merchandise every time you turn it on. Don't get your hopes up. This game has 
 absolutely nothing to do with the movies, other than a few pictures during the end credits. Many 
 of the characters that die in the movies are in the game, so it can't be considered a sequel or 
 even the same continuity.
  
  The graphics are borderline terrible. The developers were trying to go for a cartoon look, but 
 I have yet to play a game that tries this and looks good doing it (no, it's not cell-shaded; I 
 really like that style) . The environments are very bland and consist of only a few different colors. 
 There is a horrendous amount of clipping problems. Even when just walking around, your character's 
 feet go into the ground and will completely disappear if going up stairs or hills. When fighting 
 enemies near a cliff, it seems like blind luck if they fly off or not. There is also a ridiculous 
 amount of invisible walls that impede your path. Most of these problems haven't been in games for 
 years (at least not all together) and it is incredibly disappointing to see them all here. The 
 graphics during the cutscenes are equally disappointing, but the dialogue saves them. Most of these 
 scenes are quite funny, even though they all consist of conversations between Spider-man, Nick 
 Fury, and a computer. Much of the in game dialogue is equally entertaining, but can get repetitive. 
 I recommend switching sidekicks regularly, even if only to hear different remarks during the levels. 
 On a side note, sometime during a level, put the controller down and stop playing. The characters 
 have some pretty funny things to say after a bit.
  
  This is a very basic game that still remains fun throughout. Although the lack of a challenge may 
 make it get boring, upgrading all your characters can be enough to drive the game forward. Kids 
 that are Spider-man fans will love this game and there is enough that any adults that want to play 
 with them will find some enjoyment. The short length and lack of different difficulty levels makes 
 this easy to pass up for anyone who isn't a Spidey fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Hello and Thanks for reading my review.
  
  This game is Spider Man Friend or Foe.
  
  Its a pretty decent game it don't get to hard its great for kids a very clean game.
  
  Alright 
 lets do this :)
  
  Graphics 6/10 (looks more like a Regular Xbox Game Graphics wise)
  Sound 6/10 ( Eh Its sound but it could have been better sounding :)
  Controls 8/10 (Not very 
 bad for controlling characters and great if you have a brother or friend that wants to get on with 
 you for some 2 player campaign)
  Achievements 9/10 (Upgrading all characters at the end is what knocked it down 1)
  Story 5/10 
 ( there really ain't a story line in this one its pretty much a goose chase)
  
  again this game is a very clean games great for kids or adults that want to have some fun with 
 their kids or those adults who are achievement hunting.
  
  Decent Game 6.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting much from this game and I wasn't dissapointed. The game is way too short and 
 for the story mode, first player must be spiderman for the whole game even though 2nd player can 
 switch characters.
  The story goes that Spiderman is recruited by SHIELD to solve the mystery on why these enemies 
 have been appearing all over the world, who is behind it and what do the meteor shards have to 
 do with it. Simple enough.
  
  The game is simple... beat up the appearing enemies, find your foes being controlled and turn them 
 into teammates. You can collect energy and yellow gems from fallen enemies in order to boost your 
 character but its very limited. The enemies are the same in every level just different costumes 
 or colors so it gets very repetative and kinda boring s your constantly beating up the same enemy 
 over and over. Plus, it takes multiple hits to kill each enemy and I mean multiple, multiple hits. 
 Can be frustrating at times. 
  
  The Co-op mode is basically the same just with 2 players and 2nd player can switch to different 
 characters throughout the game. The Versus mode is pointless because anyone who picks spiderman 
 cannot lose. 
  
  This game can be fun the first time through and maybe once more but then it gets old. Good for 
 younger players in the bargin bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man has a lot of friends. He also has a lot of foes. It's obvious that he'd be fighting 
 along side his friends, but it's rather unusual for him to call a truce and work with his enemies. 
 It's also highly unusual that he's working with so many of his enemies in one game, but that is 
 just such the case with Spider-Man: Friend or Foe.
  
  Our friendly neighborhood Spider-Man was having a perfectly normal day, swinging from building 
 to building, stopping the occasional bad guy, and doing all the sorts of things that a man bitten 
 by a radioactive spider does. All of a sudden, his perfectly normal day becomes strangely bizarre 
 as mysterious enemies known as phantoms appear, along with a few of Spider-Man's most nefarious 
 enemies. Suddenly, everyone is whisked away to the Hellacarrier, the mobile base of S. H. I. E. L. D., 
 and Nick Fury advises them that there's a new force that's become a danger to everyone. Now, everyone 
 needs to fight together, or everyone will lose.
  
  Spider-Man: Friend or Foe isn't like the previous free roaming open-ended city Spider-Man games. 
 Rather, it's a more traditional arcade style beat 'em up. There are five locales that you'll visit 
 from Japan to Nepal. Each locale is divided up into four segments, and they're all accessed at 
 the game's hub, the Hellacarrier. Each segment is structured the same. You'll enter an area, and 
 then gates will be closed ahead and behind you, trapping you. Enemies will appear, and you'll whale 
 away on them with your combos, special moves and and thrown objects until they're all defeated. 
 The gates open up, you press on, and you encounter more enemies, and the doors close yet again 
 ad nauseum.
  
  The levels aren't that big, and although there are "hidden" collectibles, they're usually in plain 
 sight, so there's not much incentive for exploration. The enemies are just about the same in each 
 world. You have small phantoms, which are your basic grunts that fling projectiles at you. You've 
 got medium phantoms, which are tougher and really need to be tripped up to be given a good beating. 
 Lastly, you've got your large phantoms which are generally a pain, because they carry big shields 
 and require being hit by thrown objects from a distance to be taken down effectively. In every 
 locale, these same tiers of phantoms exist. They are only different by appearance, nothing more 
 than a quick swap of a skin. Once you experience all the enemies in the first world, there is nothing 
 new to encounter.
  
  It's rather a big disppointment, because soon afterwards, the combat becomes a bore. There are 
 a few moves that Spider-Man and his allies have in their arsenal, and Spider-Man does have a couple 
 of extra abilities that he can unlock, but you'll most likely find out that Spider-Man and his 
 web lines are all you really need to play the game, because the other characters and their abilities 
 don't get the job done as effectively. The game does have a combo meter that fills up as you pummel 
 your enemies, and each time you fill up the meter, it ranks up. It also fills up faster the more 
 varied you are with your techniques. Once you rank up, you'll get more tech tokens from the phantoms 
 you defeat.
  
  Tech tokens are a necessity in the game. These are mostly gathered by defeating phantoms and destorying 
 objects. They are also awarded to you for defeating bosses and finding DNA helixes (which unlock 
 goodies such as artwork) and arenas (which are used in two-player versus mode) . You can use tech 
 tokens to increase your characters' vital stats, such as health and strength, as well as by upgrading 
 Spider-Man's web abilities. What is a shame istthat all of your allies - friend and foe alike - 
 don't have their own abilties that you can upgrade. 
  
  There are also power ups in the game. You have orange power ups, which grant you an attack bonus 
 and green power ups, which grant you invulnerability for a short period of time. You'll also find 
 blue power ups that when used execute a tag team special move called a Hero Strike that obliterates 
 every enemy and smashable object on the screen. You can also use your tech tokens when you're at 
 the Hellacarrier to buy health power ups for use later.
  
  Graphics wise, there is nothing in this game that says "Xbox 360". Sure, there are nice colors 
 and smooth textures befitting a cartoon-like artstyle with very nice animation, but other than 
 that, it's just dull. The game looks its worst when it goes to a cutscene. For instance, Nick Fury's 
 character is modeled with such a low polygon count that you'd almost swear that this game ported 
 over from the PSP. There's really no excuse for the game looking as bad as it does considering 
 other Spider-Man titles look considerably better, even on older systems.
  
  Audibly, it fares better. The sound effects aren't anything special to write about, just your basic 
 "wham bap pow". The voice acting, though, is what saves the game in this department. It really 
 sounds like a game built out of a Spider-Man TV cartoon show. The music also has that comicy appeal 
 to it that you'd expect from a comic-based video game geared towards younger audiences.
  
  And that pretty much wraps up Spider-Man: Friend or Foe in a nutshell: a Spider-Man game geared 
 towards the younger crowd. The game barely has any difficulty. You don't even die. If you get beat 
 down, or fall off the edge, you're respawned and docked a few tech points, and you just keep going. 
 You don't restart the level or anything. Even the boss battles pose little to no threat and most 
 go down very quickly. Although it's evident it's meant for younger gamers to play, a difficulty 
 option would have been appreciated for the rest of us.
  
  Perhaps the biggest drawback of this title is the lack of online co-op. This would have been the 
 perfect monotonous mindless beat 'em up game to suffer through with a friend, but as it stands, 
 the only co-op is local. If you have no one to play with, you can always hit the Y button to switch 
 to your ally at any time. Still, the lack of online in this game is rather disgraceful, especially 
 since there is a versus mode.
  
  Spider-Man: Friend or Foe isn't all bad. If you play it in short bursts, you might get a little 
 fun out of beating wave after wave of the same cut and paste enemies, but if you plan on playing 
 it for more than an hour or two, it could induce a headache. If you're expecting an interesting 
 story, you're also going to be disappointed, as the story's about as fleshed out as a skeleton 
 stashed in the corner of a science room. Even though there is an impressive roster of 14 characters, 
 you probably won't even bother with them unless you have a friend over who wants to play as Spider-Man. 
 There's just something sad about Spider-Man: Friend or Foe, because it's so shallow yet could have 
 been much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalorian_81
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Spider-man FoF is one of those games that at first looked like great gun. A simple 3D scrolling 
 beat em up to pass the time on a sunday afternoon playing along with your kids perhaps.
  But WAIT.... STOP...... Its PANTS !!
  Once youv played it for any more than 3 levels you will 
 likely find yourself wondering why you are wasting you time on this repetetive lackluster bucket 
 of boredom.
  The graphics are pretty lame compared to other spidey games which isnt saying much but still, it 
 looks more like crash bandicoot than spider-man.
  The game play is dull and the only variation i could find was that the enemies were dressed a little 
 different depending on which location you are battling in.
  Kids howerver will LOVE this game ! by kids i mean ages 4 to 10 perhaps. My 4 year old son cant 
 get enough of this game, the only reason i can think of is that 1. he is a massive spidey fan anyway, 
 and 2. the game is simple and very hard to go wrong on so its just a bit of a laugh for him.
  In conclusion, if your an Adult and want a spidey game then get Web of Shadows, if you have kids 
 who are into spidey then yes, do get this game because they will probably love it to death while 
 you sit there wondering what the bloody point of it all is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  This Spider Man Friend Or Foe game is, from my point of view, a different version of Marvel Ultimate 
 Alliance with a younger target group of gamers in mind. If you compare the two straight out then 
 you will find Spider Man Friend Or Foe doesn't match up as well.
  
  Content:
  The storyline seems to stem mainly from the Spider Man 3 movie but also from various comic book 
 sources for the other playable characters. I believe you have over 16 companions to unlock and 
 play. What is nice is some of them are bad guys like Venom and Dr Octopus.
  
  Game play:
  The game can be played single player or two player co-op in battle areas. As with most side scrolling 
 adventures you have your basic attacks and special moves. This game is no different. Along the 
 way you collect credits to unlock more powers per super hero. While most of them sound and looks 
 different they are basically do the same damage. There are five major chapters with four levels 
 in each one to complete.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are decent. Interaction with different objects is clearly visible. With various stages 
 are the world, you do get a slight feeling of the locale. The character doesn't look realistic 
 but more kids cartoon like. The cut scenes are cartoon clips.
  
  Sound and Music:
  Action sounds can be heard from the Super Heroes and their enemies. Time to time each blurbs out 
 classic lines when walking around or when fighting. The music is nothing special, just provides 
 a little ambiance.
  
  Difficulty:
  This is a very easy game. If you fail you lose credits you already gained for the level and continue 
 on. If you get stuck just replay a level you already passed to get stronger. The enemies are distinct 
 patterns to be easily defeated.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  If you take a look at this gamer seriously you will find a lot of flaws or weaknesses. If you look 
 at this game for a younger audience then the difficulty and fun level should keep their attention 
 for the entire length of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1max
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  How could they make such a bad game out of such a Great superhero, 
  
  this is basically an old fashioned beat em up game, repetetive is the key word, if you like doing 
 the same moves over and over again, go ahead rate this game a 10, and if you like Stupid A. I too...
 
  
  Any baby can pick up the contoller and easily get used to it, which can be a plus side of this 
 game, it's so easy to learn
  
  Graphics are just half a decade past it's sell date, animations are horrible, and the special effects 
 remind me of the playstation 1 sometimes...
  
  and the sound... wow amazing (sarcastic) , well I've heard better sounds in the game boy advance 
 sometimes.... (joking)
  
  and story is horrible, and the only thing good about this game is all the characters you can play 
 with, there are quite a few, but every single one of them play similiar to each other,
  and you feel like the same guy is dressing up in different super hero costumes...
  
  Go ahead 
 kids, you'll love this game... (strictly for kids) Rated "B" for babies....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge Spider-Man fan, so I thought I'd pick this one up. This game was just what I expected 
 it to be -- a very expected kids game that isn't really entertaining for very long.
  Story -- the story is really basic. Spider-Man gets kidnapped by Nick Fury in a helcarrier to try 
 to save the world. Meteor shards have landed all around the Eastern Hemisphere, and it's Spider-Man's 
 job to get them back. Along the way villains show up throughout different levels, along with other 
 heroes. They'll join sides with you to complete the adventure. During combat, Spider-Man will make 
 some sarcastic and humorous comments, but the humor is based for a younger gaming audience. The 
 story fails to get you really interested in it.
  Graphics -- the graphics are surprisingly good, considering it's a cartoon-based kids game. Spider-Man 
 and his comrades have detail, along with (surprisingly) the environments, which the developers 
 usually don't pay too much attention to, as it is a kids-based game. Enemies look alright, though 
 there isn't much variety. Overall, the graphics are a bit better than I expected.
  Gameplay -- the gameplay is fun for a while, but gets frustrating and boring after a while. This 
 is a two-player game, which adds more fun to the game, as you can play with a friend throughout 
 the missions. There are 5 different missions, with 4 levels in each. The game takes about 10-12 
 hours if you want to collect everything. The combat is like a button masher. The buttons consist 
 of punching and a variety of web attacks. Defeating enemies will earn you money, which can then 
 be spent on upgrades in the helcarrier. You can upgrade Spider-Man's web attacks or upgrade the 
 other character's you discover along the way. Unfortunately, the combat wears off, becoming repetitive, 
 along with the levels. Boss fights aren't that fun either, being too simplistic. I usually like 
 easy games with a bit of challenge, but this game is far too easy. To take a break from the story 
 missions, there's a multiplayer versus mode, where you and a partner choose characters and a level 
 and battle each other. It seems like this was just put in for some extra playing time, and it becomes 
 dull very quickly, just like the rest of the game.
  Story: 5.3/10 -- even though this is a kids-game, they could've put a bit more effort into the story, 
 as it doesn't provide any twists, though there are some humorous scenes.
  Graphics: 6.7/10 -- the graphics are surprisingly good for this type of game, with good-looking character 
 models and environments, though the enemies have almost no variety and 
  Gameplay: 5.7/10 -- alright for a while but grows dull after a few hours into the game.
  Final 
 Thoughts: For any young Spider-Man fans, go rent this game, since it doesn't have any replay value. 
 For anyone who isn't a Spider-Man fan, but is young, it's worth a rent, as you probably will enjoy 
 it. The game is worth a rent for the easy achievements, if you like those. The game has its humorous 
 moments, but the dull combat and boring story will prevent you from enjoying this game much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 7, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  After a night on the town, Spider-man's favorite villains decide to team up and attack him. After 
 a while, the villains get abducted by Phantoms. It's your job to save them. Any saved enemies are 
 now part of your team. 
  
  This is a really great idea, and it is pulled off nicely. The story is something different from 
 other games and the character moves are unique and fun. I loved the way the game was designed graphically. 
 It's not too realistic. It looks more like the game was based on a cartoon series than the movies. 
 
  
  The locations are fun and colorful, and the enemies are extremely detailed. 
  
  The game can sometimes get a little repetitive. Always winning all your fights is a bit of a bore. 
 There really isn't a big challenge in this game. Even the last boss was very easy.
  
  Although this game must have been one of the easiest I've played, I really enjoyed it. It was fun, 
 relaxing and seriously funny. 
  
  If you are a Spider-man fan, Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LTKgamer3113
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  
  I'm going to review the game: Spider-man: friend or foe. So when i first got the game, i was like,"is 
 this going to be any good." well i was kinda right, and kinda wrong. Ok so when you are starting 
 the game, the first thing you'll notice is how bad the animation looks, how horrible the graphics 
 were. I don't know if they even tried to do anything with graphics, well to me it seems they cared 
 less.
  
  The really weird part about this game was the storyline, it's pretty much venom's relatives taking 
 over.
  Another weird part is how easy it was to beat the game. It wasn't hard at all, it was way too easy.
 
  They should've made it a little more difficult, but i guess that's why it's a kid's game, not 
 a teen game. lol
  
  Now the characters they give you in the game, are a little random, like: Silver sable, Iron fist, 
 and Blade. It was just so weird... couldn't they have put in daredevil, or captain america, or even 
 iron man??? not even wolverine??
  
  that's is the only thing i don't like about the game, well the graphics too!!
  
  well overall 
 it is alright, but after a few weeks or so, you'll get bored. well that's what happened to me, 
 so i traded it in for a different game.
  
  ---
  
  Luke 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ensabehnur
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  WOW, thats all i can say, its surprisingly fun but also very easy and a bit repetitive but worth 
 the time and effort.
  
  The game was very easy to say the least but it was worth the effort of getting the 1000 achievement 
 points. I have to say that i never expected to like it but i did and im glad i played it. I would 
 even consider a second play through of the game if need be. 
  
  The games story was pretty straight forward, nothing to deep, but then again for a game that took 
 less than 6 or 7 hours and only because of the achievement known as FURYS FOURTEEN, the whole thing 
 would only take about 4 hours of your time. 
  
  I wouldnt mind a series revolving around a story like this especially getting to use all the villians, 
 that was a first and made it that much more fun (IM SURE ITS BEEN DONE BEFORE.)
  
  Worth a rent at least, a buy if you are a fan of spiderman.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7
Date: May 24, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man: Friend of Foe is a simple beat'm-up game. You play as Spider-Man of course, and can 
 switch between him or your sidekick of which there are 14. I've only played SM because he was the 
 most interesting, I just chose my favorite villains to fill in as side-kick. The story doesn't 
 matter, as we all know. All you have to understand is that there are 6 worlds, each world featuring 
 4 levels, and the same enemies over and over.
  
  The reason my tagline was kid-friendly fun is because that's all it is. I picked up this game for 
 gamerscore, but found it surprisingly fun. It offered easy to pick-up and play combat, a fair amount 
 of variety as far as moves go, and the option for a second player to join in at any time. Add in 
 upgradeable moves and memorable bosses from the comics/movies/etc. and you have a 6-7 hour game. 
 If you crunch the game in a small amount of time, you'll find it very repetitious. That's why I 
 recommend playing a world or so each day so you don't get too bored of it.
  
  The real downer is the enemy variety. Your enemies are Phantoms. You have small, medium, and large 
 Phantoms; all of which are easy to defeat. Occasionally you might confront a Phantom with an actual 
 life-bar, who I just avoid all his moves and kill him just as easy. And lastly you have your bosses, 
 who are each different in their own way and simple to understand.
  
  So to cover the same base one more time, it's a simple, easy, kid-friendly game that you CAN play 
 alongside with a child. Whenever you die, it's also very rewarding. All you lose is a bit of coin 
 (the same coin used for upgrading called Tech Tokens) , and it's a very very small amount. Add in 
 the fact that every level of every world is pretty much the same, and someone as young as 6 years 
 old can play this competently. That's all I really CAN say, it has nothing else going for it.
 
  
  The graphics and sound is okay, nothing spectacular. The replay value is nil, offering nothing 
 except a versus mode. And the achievements challenge you only to your patience of dealing with 
 repeating the same activity over and over.
  
  I recommend a rent if you don't have a kid, and a possible buy if you do have one. What it DOES 
 do with the Spider-Man universe it does well enough not to hurt the reputation, but not amazingly 
 well to make this game more memorable than a one-night stand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mizasterj
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Like a bad cartoon that just wont end this game tires itself out faster than grandpa climbing up 
 a flight of stairs. 
  
  A basic old school beatem up action in 3d.
  
  Gameplay is extremly limited and frustratingly repetitive.
  
  Challenge is almost non existant, 
 due to incredibly poor AI unlimited deaths, and a ridiculous supply of power ups .
  
  Graphics are nothing more than a smoothed over flat and shiny cartoon look. Animations are so simple 
 but not bad to look at. Special effects the likes of which you've seen countless times before. 
 
  
  Sound FX that are poor and uninspired clicks and buzzes. 
  
  On the plus side, controls are very easy to learn and master, There is a large variety of characters 
 available ( but only once you unlock them 1 by 1 ) although they all bascialy play the same.
  
  2 ply Co op bot on and offline is a rare treat but doesnt really serve a purpose. Voice overs 
 sound great and wont become repetative.
  
  The game takes about 7 - 8 hours to complete, which is about 4 hours too long. The story is extremly 
 basic good guys vs bad guys. No surprises.
  
  Rent if your really bored or get it for a kid to play to keep him out of trouble.
  Otherwise 
 its not worth your time or money. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  By Patrick Hickey Jr.
  
  Ever since the days when games like "Ninja Turtles II" and "Double Dragon" hit the shelves in the 
 mid-80s, beat-em-ups have always been a popular choice among gamers. However, over the past decade, 
 games of this genre have been severely reduced in quality, thanks in part to greedy developers 
 rushing their games or trying to make a quick buck by using licensed material, such as a movie 
 or comic book character and making a crappy beat-em-up game off of it.
  
  With that being said, a game like "Spider-Man: Friend or Foe" shouldn't even have a chance to win 
 over fans, but in the end, the game is a tribute to the games it shares so much in common in that 
 are over 20 years old that not only works well on a next generation system like the X-Box 360, 
 it actually thrives at times.
  
  Not to be confused with the free-roaming "Spider-Man 3" game that was released last summer, "Spider-Man: 
 Friend or Foe" centers around a mysterious development on Earth that has left the planet in dire 
 peril. As a matter of fact, the situation is so bad that Nick Fury, the head of SHIELD, has asked 
 Spider-Man to personally travel the globe and destroy the powerful enemies and enlist the services 
 of both his old sidekicks and friends, as well as some of his most notorious enemies. What proceeds 
 after that is a barrage of missions where you first save your confidants and then use them to help 
 you take down the enemy.
  
  While the story itself isn't amazing, the dialogue in between missions and in cut scenes is oozing 
 with references and jokes that real fans of the series will eat up. Helping matters even more are 
 the cartoon-graphics that will remind many of the original Spider-Man game on the Playstation in 
 the late-90s. Full of color and good-looking backgrounds, this game's graphic are definitely not 
 going to stop you from giving this game a shot. 
  
  However despite that, the frame rate isn't the cleanest, as there are instances of slow down with 
 multiple enemies on screen that can make fighting a chore at times, it doesn't ruin or hamper the 
 experience nearly enough not to enjoy the game. The fixed camera as well takes a bit of time to 
 get used to, but again it's nothing so bad that will make you stop playing.
  
  On the gameplay side, while being a tad on the easy side, "Spider-Man: Friend or Foe" plays well 
 with others [as it features a well-designed and enjoyable two-player mode as well] and has plenty 
 of things to unlock along the way, such as weapon upgrades, characters and arenas to fight in while 
 playing in the other game modes. Again, the depth of the gameplay is far from something you'd see 
 in a game like "Oblivion" or "God of War II," but it is a fun 6-10 hour ride through the Marvel 
 Universe that you won't have to drive yourself crazy over. 
  
  Simply put, "Spider-Man: Friend or Foe" is a tribute to the beat-em-up's of yesteryear that will 
 provide plenty of smiles your first play through. After that, much like the games it gets its inspiration 
 from, it becomes a title that is played in company with friends looking to just relax, rather than 
 be immersed in a hardcore game. Any fan of the series owes it to themselves to try the game, while 
 anyone looking to reclaim some of their youth needs to look no further. 
  
  Those looking for a deeper gameplay experience may be disappointed at the length of the game, but 
 those looking for something fun to just pick up and play will be pleasantly surprised.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man FoF is one of those games your six year cousin will tirelessly enjoy playing, to the 
 point of annoyance. That isn't to say it is not fun. While playing through your first time, you're 
 bound to have at least a few hours of entertainment. However, after a while the repetitive enemies 
 and levels will wear down even the most dedicated gamers.
  
  The game consists of several stages where your characters are blocked by a door and you have to 
 defeat all the enemies to open the door. Repeat that about a hundred times and you have the entirety 
 of the game. To break up the monotony there are boss fights which are usually fun and some "secrets" 
 to collect. These secrets are usually placed right in the open and can be picked up in your first 
 run through without any dedicated searching. 
  
  There is also some character leveling. In each stage you'll earn points that can be used to make 
 your characters stronger or buy new moves. As you progress in the game, Spider-Man will unlock 
 access to helper characters. Some are fellow heroes and some a villains, but either way they don't 
 have many complaints about joining your team. In a single player game you can switch to the helper 
 with the Y button. In two player mode the second player always controls the helper. The helpers 
 each have their own move set and some are more useful than others, but none of them get the variety 
 of abilities that Spider-Man has, so in single player they're not that useful.
  
  There are some things I really like about this game. The graphics are surprisingly likable. The 
 backgrounds and characters are all quite colorful and that keeps the game's atmosphere fun. The 
 character attacks are also animated quite well. The game is also set up for an arcade style join-in/drop-out 
 system for the second player. Since the game is most enjoyable with two people this is pretty helpful. 
 The games narration in the story is also quite enjoyable, even though it is a little childish at 
 times.
  
  The bad parts of the game mostly consist of the repetitive nature and the extremely easy difficulty. 
 It is only possible to die in a boss fight. In the game's stages if you run out of health or jump 
 off the stage you just respawn with a little less cash. If you run out of cash you just respawn, 
 no penalty. Fighting in the game can be reduced down to simple button mashing. Also, there is no 
 online support for second player and surprisingly this game is limited to only two people at a 
 time (no local 4 player) .
  
  Overall, the game is a good rental and a simple way to spend a weekend. Easy Achievements might 
 be enough to draw some people, and I had fun getting them. I had a friend play though with me though. 
 If you're looking for younger kids this might be just what they're looking for. Don't blame me 
 if you get bored watching them kill the same enemies over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man: Friend or Foe throws you into the shoes... or leggings of Spider-Man in this far-fetched 
 adventure.
  
  Spider-Man must set out to rescue villains such as Venom and Doc Ock who have been hypnotised by 
 a mysterious mastermind who is using shards from a meteor crash to brainwash an array of Spider-Man's 
 greatest enemies. While you journey through each level, you will encounter enemies called Phantoms 
 who vary in size from the small minions to huge, bulking beasts. These enemies are just a barrier 
 to the occasional boss fight, ranging from Green Goblin to Sandman. Every villain you defeat will 
 reluctantly join you as an ally which makes the game so intriguingly enjoyable to play.
  
  As you play each level, you will choose out of your conquered villains who you want to help you 
 fight through the level as a side-kick. Each villain has individual attributes and moves but you 
 will soon find that they all have similar fighting styles. The AI of your side-kicks is also pretty 
 good. Occasionally they may fall of a cliff face but they will hold their own in a fight and be 
 quite useful when distracting a group of Phantoms while you sort out the large one's. While your 
 side-kick offers some help in fighting Phantoms, in the boss fights you are entirely on your own.
 
  
  The game's level structure is nothing spectacular, unfortunately. You will arrive at a foreign 
 location like Nepal, where you'll fight Phantoms coded to appear in obviously planned out locations, 
 then face a boss at the end. All levels are incredibly linear where the only differences are the 
 environmental changes of each place. Phantoms will become stronger as you progress through the 
 story and their appearance will change between each location offering some variety to each level.
 
  
  The game also has some extras to find throughout each level. Each level has DNA Helixes and Keystones 
 to find. DNA helixes offer unlockables and must be collected to obtain the achievements, the Keystones 
 can be used to open a locked door where you fight more Phantoms that will also contribute to getting 
 the achievements, and also unlock further unlockable things. While these unlockable games offer 
 some variety, you will probably find them pretty boring. They are not difficult to find, and you 
 will most likely stumble across them in-game but it does offer a small distraction to the main 
 game.
  
  Contrary to other Spider-Man games, Friend or Foe offers very little in terms of scaling walls 
 and web swinging - you will most likely be on your feet most of the time using your fists, instead 
 of performing the usual high octane stunts. Dying in the game is pretty flawed, too, the only penalty 
 that is received is a small reduction of your tech tokens, which you find from beating enemies 
 or destroying crates. These tokens can be used to upgrade Spider-Man's abilities and your side-kicks'.
 
  
  The game can be easily wrapped up in around six hours. While the game is short, the combat in the 
 game is pretty fun. A single button can be pressed in quick succession to allow Spider-Man to perform 
 devastating combos with his fists. However, it is Spider-Man's web-based abilities that are the 
 most interesting. His webs allow him to latch on to enemies from afar then spin them round and 
 throw them into other enemies, bury them into the ground, or throw them against cliffs. Eventually, 
 you will be granted the abilities to shoot projectile webs at enemies and wrap enemies in webbing 
 to render them immobile as you progress through the game.
  
  The sound quality in Friend or Foe is also great, particularly the voice acting which does a great 
 job at emphasising the game's playful humour. The graphics in the game is also pretty good. The 
 cartoonish character design is great to look at and each character is made their own by their excellent 
 design and voice work. The developers have also completely cut out any gore or blood for obvious 
 reasons - it's aimed at kids. While this may cut down on the excitement of the game, it makes it 
 safe for children to play it knowing they will not be seeing that kind of thing.
  
  What is most disappointing about the game is its lack of online multiplayer. The game does allow 
 two player co-op during missions so a friend can jump in at a press of a button. While this is 
 a good feature to have, the lack of a solid mulitplayer experience really cuts down on the game's 
 replay value.
  
  If you are looking for a lengthy challenge, your time and money would be better spent elsewhere, 
 but if you are looking for a suitable game for your children or younger siblings, then Spider-Man: 
 Friend or Foe is a suitable alternative if you can get it in at bargain bin price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fraserbaker
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 30, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  WOW what a bad game. Seriously I hired this one out with a mate thinking gee a new spiderman game 
 and it kinda looks like "ultimate alliance" so this should be cool, how wrong were we, this game 
 stunk real bad.
  
  This is the kinda platform game i would have expected to see on the SNES or N64 back in their day 
 not on a next gen console. 
  
  instead of it being a challenge beating the bad guys you cold just keep using the same move over 
 and over again until they were dead and you could move on to the next one and repeat, do this for 
 the first 1/2 hour and your on the 3 or 4 stage realizing mmm this game doesn't seem to be going 
 anywhere and i'm getting a bit bored of doing the same stuff, but alas the next 1/2 half hour is 
 exactly the same and i turn it off and return it to the shop very disappointed.
  
  Don't even rent this one it will be $10 badly spent.
  
  FB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 22, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man: Friend or Foe puts Spider-Man against some of his most famous villains. It does good 
 on many points but unfortunately its lasting value isn't much because of how easy and short the 
 title is.
  
  This is certainly something you'll probably enjoy for a while and I think its co-op is ideal for 
 playing with a younger one. There are various locations that Spider-Man visits to defeat these 
 demons and you'll come across a few bosses too.
  
  The locations look nice and have a good graphical art style applied to them to make them feel more 
 "comic" and lively. Throughout each location you'll have control of Spider-Man primarily but you 
 will also have the choice to select your partner at most times. If you've got a second controller, 
 then another player can come join in the fun at most parts of the game too. Upon getting to boss 
 fights, you will only have the chance to use Spider-Man mostly and so this seems to be the only 
 part where you do not have co-op.
  
  Co-op is present also in the main lobby where you select levels to play. There are also arenas 
 you can unlock which put you and a friend against each other. There are a good amount of sidekicks 
 to choose from once you've unlocked them - each one having something unique about them. However, 
 it's not necessary to plan who you should take on a particular level. It is very straightforward 
 and easy to get through on one playthrough.
  
  Even if you die, you'll respawn and the only visible punishment seems to be that your tech tokens 
 have been decreased slightly. These tokens are collected by doing tasks (such as defeating bosses) 
 and by attacking enemies, crates and so on. The more combos you seem to do, then the more rewarding 
 it is. The tokens can then be used to purchase new abilities and upgrades for your characters.
 
  
  Now, as the title suggests, Friend or Foe has you going through levels and defeating many enemies 
 and a few bosses such as Venom. As you progress, you'll have these foe as sidekicks (so really, 
 now they are your friends) for use. The characters have very good voice work attached to them. 
 There's quite some variety in the voice work between Spider-Man and different sidekicks. It can 
 be quite funny to hear dialogue between them as they progress their way through the level. It certainly 
 isn't dull and this is certainly a high point.
  
  Enemies too have some good voice work. There are various enemies but most just require you to keep 
 tapping X or web spinning them to defeat. There are some harder, meaner enemies that take just 
 a little more time to defeat and they can use different attacks. Throwing rocks, using the character's 
 special move and teaming up to defeat an enemy usually works. A few bosses have you finding some 
 sort of weakness around them before you can take them out.
  
  There are various power-ups. One gives you greater strength for a short time and another gives 
 you invincibility for a short time too. Using these at a suitable time is the key if you want to 
 get through some enemies quick. There's also an ability where you team up and it has Spider-Man 
 and his sidekick jumping into the air and then doing a co-operative move that takes out all nearby 
 enemies.
  
  One annoyance though is the lack of variety in this game. Pretty much, whether you are in Nepal 
 or Tokyo, it's just trying to make it to the end of the level by taking out the same enemies with 
 the same string of attacks. Towards the last few levels, it kind-of feels like a chore to do. There's 
 a few switches you'll need to step on/punch to activate a door opening or bridge raising but there's 
 nothing too complicated to make it even seem a little challenging later for kids. From start to 
 finish this is a very simple game to get through.
  
  Levels do have their collectables and you'll need all of these to unlock rewards and achievements. 
 Most of them you'll just "come across" but some can be easily missed. The arenas can be unlocked 
 by finding these cards and then finding the door to insert them into.
  
  Spider-Man: Friend or Foe is a title that's probably not going to take you very long to complete. 
 It probably isn't even a title that would at least be a bit challenging in later levels. It would 
 have been nice to have a little bit more variety and maybe even an online co-op mode that you can 
 go through with a friend. Upon completing, there's really not much replay value unless you need 
 to collect more tech tokens to upgrade characters (for achievement) or simply have to go back and 
 find some collectables that you have missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzz86
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Spiderman for a while now. I grew up with Spiderman and used to watch his 
 cartoon in the morning. So I have played, just about, every Spiderman game made. This game has 
 to be one of the worst I have played. This game has decent graphics and good Spiderman characters 
 but that is all the good things it has going for it. Let me list some of the bad things:
  
  - Stupid story line 
  
  - Very very repetitive game play 
  
  - Button mashing 
  
  - 
 The life span of about 20 mins before you get bored 
  
  - A multi player that has a life span of about 21 mins before you get bored
  
  If I wanted 
 to play a stupid and pointless button smashing game, I would have bought Dynasty Warriors or something. 
 
  
  Shame on you Marvel putting my friendly neighborhood Spiderman in a game as poor as this one. This 
 one isn't even worth the price of the disk it is on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigastormz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man Friend or Foe is a 1-2 player beat em up similar to Marvel Ultimate Alliance only you 
 play as characters from the Spider-Man universe. That is an easy way to describe this game. It's 
 a lot like Marvel Ultimate Alliance only you play as two characters at a time (instead of 4) , and 
 it's a sort of dumbed down version of the game made for a younger audience. You can play as Spidey, 
 or several allies and villains in the Spideyverse. Venom, Blade, Iron Fist, Silver Sable, Prowler, 
 Black Cat, Sandman, Lizard, Doctor Octopus, Rhino, Scorpion and others are all playable in this 
 game.
  
  The story involves a meteor that has landed on earth and symbiotic beings from the meteor known 
 as Phantoms are wreaking havoc around the world. Nick Fuy enlists Spider-Man's help to find all 
 the meteor shards and figure out who is behind the Phantoms. The story is extremely basic but it 
 doesn't matter much, the combat and beat em up action are why you're playing the game right?
  
  There are 5 different locations, with 4 levels in each. Every couple levels you'll get a new 
 ally to join your team. The cool thing about the allies, besides the fact that you can play as 
 some of the great villains in Spidey's rogues gallery is that you can upgrade them. You can improve 
 their speed, strength and health as well as unlock a super attack for each ally.
  While the game is fun, it is very repetative and this is extremely apparant in the enemy design 
 and level design. There are only 4 different enemies in the entire game. That's it. Each level 
 they have different "costumes" and maybe slightly different attacks, but they are really the same 
 enemies as the first time you encounter them. It gets really boring after the first couple levels 
 and your only reason for playing is unlocking all the playable characters and getting the achievements.
 
  
  The level design isn't quite as bad, but there's really nothing special about it either. It's just 
 there, and very bland. The most interesting level would be Transylvania with the unique buildings 
 and atmostphere but the rest are just plain, highly stylized cartoonly looking landscapes.
  
  I really like the cast of playable characters, although I really only played as a couple. I 
 used Prowler at first and then mostly the Scorpion. I didn't use them that much though, I played 
 as Spidey most of the time. He just has a better variety of attacks then any of your teammates 
 do. It kinda sucks too cause the idea of playing as villains is awesome, its just they only have 
 a few unique attacks. The best characters to use with Spidey are Iron Fist, the Scorpion, Venom 
 and maybe Doc Ock, Rhino and Sandman. The rest kinda suck. The biggest dissapointment is New Goblin. 
 He has the exact same attacks as Green Goblin. He doesn't get to use his sword or hoverboard at 
 all. (GG doesn't use his hoverboard either) .
  
  Spidey has many more upgradable things than the allies do. He has something called the "Web Lab." 
 This is where you upgrade his various web based attacks. During the game you can switch from the 
 "web sling" attacks, "web shoot" and "web stun." Web sling seems to be the most effective of all, 
 the various attacks consist of Spidey shooting out his webs to grab onto object (or enemies) and 
 swing them around in different ways and slam them into the ground or throw them across the screen. 
 One cool upgrade you can get is a toxin that is emitted whenever you use a certain web sling attack. 
 Your enemies will get poisoned and do damage over tim. The web shoot attacks consist of Spidey 
 shooting balls of webbing at enemies or objects, and a few upgrades let him create a bomb or a 
 huge blast of webbing. The last ability, web stun, has Spidey shoot webbing all around an enemy 
 to trap them in it and effectively stun them. There is a neat upgrade here that allows you to electrocute 
 the enemies while they are stunned. There are a lot of variations on Spidey's attacks that give 
 him a huge arsenal of combos to pull from. This is why you'll want to play as Spidey most of the 
 time and let the computer (or your friend) play as one of your allies.
  
  Aside from some minor problems the game is really fun and I highly recommend anyone play this game, 
 especially fans of comic books or even fans of easy achievements. You can get all 1,000 points 
 in 8 hours or less. Spidey's humor is intact and funny as ever and the voice acting for the other 
 characters is quite good as well. The game has a great sense of style that is sort of cartoony 
 with some flashy animations and humor all around. It is clear this game was intended for a younger 
 audience but that doesn't take anything away from it. So if you lied Marvel Ultimate Alliance, 
 X-Men Legends or if you're just a comic book fan in general give this one a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  its a really good game and even though it has disadvantages, it is still worth buying. the game 
 has about 15 long missions that is easy and able to finish in about a day. so far the hardest villain 
 is sandman. one disadvantage is that the enemies are all the same in each missions. after playing 
 a while it will get boring. But the boss battles are really interesting as it enables our brain 
 to think on how to defeat the bosses. There are many obstacles in the boss battles. But after surviving 
 the obstacles, you should be able to figure out on how to defeat the boss. For example, when you 
 challenge the green goblin, he will throw bombs at you. When the bombs touches the ground, it will 
 turn into big bombs.. Then you will have to quickly throw the bombs at him before it explodes. 
 That is how you defeat him. Of course there are other ways to defeat a boss. In the versus mode, 
 2 players can play against each other. I played against my brother and it is really fun. The strongest 
 character is spidey. Of course it depends on your ability to use a character and win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdega315
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  My son and I have really been enjoying this game. The same things others have criticized are what 
 makes this a great family game. Graphics are great. Dialog is fun and a bit campy. We love powering 
 up the characters and learning new moves. The moves are easy to master and very stylish.
  
  And versus mode is awesome. My sons loves to be Scorpion and blast me with his plasma.
  
  Not 
 every gamer is hard-core. This game fills an important niche in the market, so don't put too much 
 weight in the reviews of more serious gamers. When you are ready to step away from Bioshock and 
 Halo and need a fun game to play with a 9-year old, Spider-man: Friend or Foe fits the bill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hundeltm
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  I just finished Spiderman: Friend or Foe and I am reminded of a cry of anguish from a friend that 
 was.. "Man I'm really tired of searching through boxes" 
  
  The good: 
  The graphics are great and cartoony 
  You can play as villains if you so choose 
  The S. H. I. E. L. D. 
 computer says some funny stuff
  No jumping puzzles 
  Oh yeah and it's kid friendly 
  
  The bad: 
  Everything else 
  Repetitive, unchallenging game play 
  Uneven character development 
 
  Snoozy level design 
  
  I will say that you can get all but one of the achievements just by playing the game. If you're 
 into achievements and I know some of us are not, but hey its just and FYI. Saddly you can't play 
 as Venom until the last level and even then there's no real point because the sidekick development 
 is sooooo uneven. I forced myself to finish this game but if you really like Spiderman, have a 
 weekend to kill and don't mind a little carpel tunnel then it might be worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anamani
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Spiderman: Friend or Foe is a mindless, pointless, easy and boring game geared towards young kids 
 who may feel the characters of the Spiderman universe are fun and enjoyable but really dont care 
 about the story.... 
  
  Levels can be long... repetitive.. boring.... and all out easy.. though to get all of the achievements 
 you must find all of the secrets "dna helixes" and find the hidden rooms to be used on the vs aspect 
 of the game.
  
  The only thing that makes these items a "secret" is the bad camera angles that hide them above 
 your vision.. below your vision.. and sometimes blocking your vision.... 
  
  Leveling characters is appealing... though not really necessary... the upgraded web abilities allow 
 you to change up the game play momentarily but do not really add any additional replay-ability 
 to the game...
  
  I look at it as a really REALLY dumbed down version of Ultimate Alliance... and yes as i have said 
 before.. this is a kids game... and could be a lot of fun for two kids to play co-op together...
 
  
  not much else to really say.. boss battles are ridiculously easy.. you cant really die... 
  
 
  and spiderman can not climb on walls or really swing from his web.. only basic movements consist 
 of swinging that are really nothing more than glorified jump kicks and jumping in general...
  
  not worth $50 but worth a rental!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  The gameplay was great, spiderman get a lot of combos rather than his foes. Great to play with 
 your friends, family, son, daughter or anyone. The graphics is not great but enough to make you 
 satisfied. The weak is because of the short storyline and too easy to completed. I'll think after 
 playing this game some of you will never played this game anymore because the unlock features is 
 too easy to unlock but if you are truely fan of spiderman maybe you will like play versus mode 
 in this game. But enough said versus mode is not fair if you use spiderman because he got alot 
 of combos than his foes and his power are fast to executed rather than his foes. Comment from me 
 rent first if you are not fans and buy for fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  SPider man: Friend or foe, is another great example of games made for next-gen but result in extreme 
 last-gen. The paper thin plot of SPider man FoF is that some meteor crash landed on earth with, 
 I believe, had the same material on it that was part of what makes up venom. And someone's using 
 them all to make holographic monsters where all the shards ended up falling at. The greatest part 
 of this game are the briefing cutscenes, which are hilariously done. Once the game starts, however, 
 you'll realize it is more like the x-men legends layout gone horribly awry, dumbed down to the 
 very essentials.
  
  The graphics in this game are not necessarily ugly, but simply just boring, there's no life on 
 the beach levels (Which are somewhat reminiscent of Crash bandicoot) , and the monsters you'll be 
 fighting get extremely repetitive. It's the action of x-men legends but the RPG side of it, or 
 lack thereof, makes the gameplay extremely boring to play through.
  
  The sound isn't too bad, there's actually a little good voice acting here and there, mostly the 
 more important characters like spiderman. But a 6 hour game with almost ps1 level graphics and 
 horrendously boring gameplay doesn't make up for cute cutscenes. Getting this for $5 would be a 
 rip off. Avoid this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so since Activision released it's X-Men Legends game, and had some success, Marvel just keep 
 signing up for dungeon brawlers. This time it's Spiderman's turn, and it's not all it's cracked 
 up to be. The graphics are very basic, they look like they are cell shaded, but they aren't top 
 notch, in fact I have seen better animation and details in cell shading in the last generation 
 of consoles then what this game produces. The CG cut scenes aren't all that much to write home 
 about either. The controls are responsive enough, however they are poorly set up. Also the game 
 is very repedative, and really isn't that fun for multiplayers either. The music and sounds are 
 basic enough. Nothing new to this style of game. So basically you're Spiderman and you have to 
 team up with one of your enemies and play through hordes of bad guys in order to proceed to the 
 next portion of the level. There are very few characters (and even fewer that you wil want to be) . 
 Combat is very basic and the special powers have been dumbed down. I don't think even a young child 
 would enjoy this game for that long. In other words this is a broken genre of game that has to 
 be re-thought. You will kick yourself if you buy this. It's only for the most harty of Spidey fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game and its nice to have 2 player mode! Defeating some of the bosses is a bit obscure 
 as you may shoot at them a hundred times and accomplished nothing. Its strengh is in the 2 player 
 mode and getting to play a bad guy (venom)
  
  It looks nice but is old xbox for sure. It can become a bit troublesome deating some bosses as 
 sometimes they make it obscure on how to kill and you will do the same thing over and over which 
 will alienate some children...
  
  i would buy it on sale or rent it and if your a fan you will enjoy it.
  
  Garphics - 7
  Sound 
 - 7
  Gameplay - 9
  Iritation Factor - Medium 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cougar63
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. The sidekicks that you can upgrade and chose from make this game even 
 more fun. All though each area requires the same hack and slash, the ways that you inflict damage 
 is what is fun. The graphics are not all that bad, could have been better. For me it is about the 
 substance of the game and the fun that it brings, not about what it looks like. If you want a game 
 to just play without much thought process, then get this game. If you want a game with deep complex 
 missions, avoid it. The gameing community needs just a few more games to made like this for those 
 of us that just want a game to pop in and unwind with at night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman: Friend or Foe really shouldn't work. It's a fairly plain, highly simplistic brawler 
 and an almost admirably shameless attempt to beat yet more money out of the radioactive spider-bitten 
 cash cow that is Spiderman 3. Yet it's also an agreeable silly, hugely entertaining punch-em up 
 that works mostly because it makes using Spidey's super powers a lot of fun.
  
  Spiderman: Friend or Foe's big gimmick is that Spiderman is teamed up with some of his greatest 
 enemies to save the save the world from some unspeakable menace. The plot is fairly lightweight 
 stuff, involving symbiote laden asteroids crash landing on earth and super villains being villain-napped. 
 It's all very daft in a knowingly tongue in cheek kind of way but it does set up the games premise; 
 Spidey romping around the world with the likes of Doc Ock and the Green Goblin in tow.
  
  It's kind of strange that a character so readily associated with New York spends exactly none of 
 the game there. Spidey's world tour takes in a couple of videogame staple locations: there' a volcanic 
 island, complete with lava; the rooftops of Tokyo; a snowy Nepal; and everyone's favourite Rominian 
 spooky place, Transylvania. Spiderman: FoF's levels have quite clearly hired a room in Hotel Clich&eacute;, 
 but it's tough to guess whether this was intentional or not and, if it was, whether using clich&eacute; s 
 in a vaguely ironic manner neutralises the banality.
  
  Regardless of locale, the levels play out the same way. Spidey and whomever you've chosen as a 
 sidekick run along a linear path until the way forward is blocked in some way, some bad guys will 
 spawn, many punches are thrown, and the path opens up when the baddies have been taken out. Thrown 
 in regular fights with super villains yet to be turned to the cause, and you have Spiderman: FoF 
 in a nutshell.
  
  What stops the structure being brain numbingly tedious are Spidey's powers and the super villain 
 sidekicks. Spiderman: FoF eschews the normal web swingin' and wall crawlin' and focuses more on 
 using Spiderman's abilities to beat the crap out of things. There's something almost joyous about 
 the way Spidey will uppercut a baddie up into the air only to use a webline to drag them back down 
 for further beatings, or blinding the bigger enemies by wrapping their head in webbing before pulling 
 their feet out from under them. The problem is that Spiderman may be too powerful. None of the 
 enemies, including the bosses, really offer up much of a fight, to the point where you feel almost 
 guilty as you slam them repeatedly into the ground. Even if the baddies manage to chip away at 
 your health, dying isn't much of an inconvenience. Spidey respawns straight away, exactly where 
 you died and with no real penalty.
  
  Given how cool Spidey's abilities are, none of the other characters measure. Sure, watching Doc 
 Ock throw guys around with his robot arms is hilarious but actually playing as Octavius just isn't 
 as much fun. The super villains feel really underdeveloped compared to Spiderman. Obviously Spidey 
 is the main focus of the game and who most players will play as but not fleshing out the characters 
 feels like a wasted opportunity. It also means that the co-op is quite as fun as it should be. 
 A second player can jump in and out of the game locally at any point (insanely there's no co-op 
 over Live) but with none of the characters being as entertaining to play as Spidey, it can get 
 a bit dull just mashing away on the punch button.
  
  Beyond the main quest fisticuffs, there's not much to Spiderman: FoF. The levels are too linear 
 to offer much in the way of exploration and while the achievement descriptions mention hidden DNA 
 helixes and keystones, the vast majority are in plain sight and impossible to miss. There is a 
 two player versuses mode, allowing you to pit any of the 14 characters against one another, but 
 it's just too shallow to hold your attention for long. It's also woefully unbalanced, with a few 
 of the characters able to demolish an opponent with one throw.
  
  Despite being a fairly tenuous film tie in, Spiderman: FoF's presentation aims for a cartoony vibe 
 that's more like the animated series than the cinema releases. Both the characters and backdrops 
 are big, bold, and colourful with an emphasis on a simple, clean look than technically stunning 
 graphics fest. The audio carries on the game's light hearted vibe; Spidey constantly throws out 
 wise cracks, much to the audible annoyance of his sidekicks. The voice acting is suitably enthusiastic 
 and really brings the characters to life.
  
  Spiderman: Friend or Foe is an awkward game to score. It's short, it's easy, and it's a hugely 
 simplistic brawler at heart. But it manages to capture the exuberant side of Spiderman, the friendly 
 neighbourhood tongue in cheek version. Ultimately, your enjoyment of Spiderman: Friend or Foe will 
 vary with how big a fan you are of the character and how willing you are to turn off your brain 
 and let yourself enjoy the game. With the shallow learning curve, remarkable low difficulty, and 
 colourful graphics Spiderman: FoF is clearly aimed at younger players but older folks will be able 
 to get some enjoyment from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemerson00
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  this game was realy fun i liked it a lot there is a lot of fun combo and cool super hero or villians 
 to play. most people will like the game play becuase its very user friendly and it good for younger 
 gamers witch games like that usualy dont get my vote so pick it up. the bad, no xboxlive options 
 why not ?plus the game is short and it could space the enemys out more they just all jump out at 
 once its a big parade so to speak and this make it hard to focus an attack on one single bad guy. 
 but in all its cool pick it up its cheeper than most games any way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegame1980
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man: Friend or Foe, is a beat-'em-up game and one of the FEW beat'em up games on the Xbox 
 360. The game focuses on simple combat with an art style reminescent of the Saturday morning cartoon 
 series, but don't let that put you off. While you may only be tap tap tapping the attack button 
 over and over the game is a classic style beat'em up which is enjoyed more with a friend.................... or 
 foe.
  
  The big concept of Friend or Foe revolves around Spider-Man teaming up with some of his most memorable 
 foes to stop an unknown mastermind who is using shards from a fallen meteor that spawned NEW symbiotic 
 suit's similiar to Venom's (One of Spider-Man's GREATEST enemies) to brainwash villains such as 
 Doc Ock and the Green Goblin to do his bidding, as well as to power an army of holographic monsters 
 called Phantoms. With the help of S. H. I. E. L. D. director Nick Fury, you trot the globe in order 
 to recover the shards, and free the brainwashed villains, which in turn Spidey's enemies agree 
 to help him out to defeat a GREATER threat. The game has a playful tone and makes it more fun then 
 serious, and it ultimately serves its purpose of letting you fight alongside some of Spidey's greatest 
 villains, a concept that manages to stay novel throughout. You'll also team up with other heroes 
 along the way, including Prowler, Black Cat, and Silver Sable.
  
  One of the best parts of the game is the quality of the voice work, which is consistently great. 
 The basic structure of Friend or Foe itself is you travel to exotic locations, such as Tokyo, Transylvania, 
 or Nepal, where you must destroy a holographic spawning sphere in order to ensure the Phantoms 
 do not return, all the while in classic beat'em up action defeating tons of enemies along the way 
 until the end stage where you face off with a brainwashed villain. The phantoms come in just a 
 few different varieties, and though they get stronger over time and change appearance between locations, 
 the same tactics seem to work pretty well from start to finish. Although the boss fights are presented 
 differently, they all rely on the same basic strategy and are never really too hard. Spidey can 
 double-jump and use his webbing to swing over small gaps, but platforming is minimal. When you 
 do die, be it at the hands of an enemy or from falling off a platform, the only penalty is that 
 you'll lose a couple of tech tokens, a type of in-game currency that falls out of defeated enemies 
 and smashed objects. You use the tech tokens to upgrade the abilities of Spider-Man and friends. 
 It's pretty much all fighting, all the time, against the same handful of enemies, with no consequences 
 for dying. The whole thing can be wrapped up with a bow in less than six hours. So what makes the 
 action in Friend or Foe interesting? A lot of it rests on the combat, which manages to be both 
 accessible and somewhat dynamic. There's a single attack button that you use for simple combos, 
 but it's Spider-Man's web-based abilities that bring a lot more to the game. The webslinging abilities 
 let him grab enemies from afar and launch them into one another, the ground, or right off the edge 
 of a platform. You earn additional web talents over time, including the ability to shoot projectiles 
 and wrap enemies up, but your starting abilities seem to be the most useful. It's very easy to 
 string these moves together, and even though it's not much of a challenge, fending off a dozen 
 enemies at once with a constant flurry of attacks can be pretty satisfying. Friend or Foe brings 
 a fresh element to the game since you fight alongside some of Spider-Man's greatest villains as 
 well. Which is a first for this type of game and character. In single player mode you can switch 
 back and forth on the fly between controlling Spidey and his sidekick. When controlled by the artificial 
 intelligence, your sidekick takes care of itself pretty well, but it's with a freind where the 
 game REALLY shines and that holds true with just about any type of game in this genre. Although 
 it's disappointing that there's no online play. Just in case your friends live far away : (
  
  What it lacks in challenge, it makes up for with style.
  The environments favor clean textures 
 over complex geometry, and each location features a distinct look while keeping with the overall 
 cartoony feel. The character models are nicely done, and some of the animations look terrific. 
 The low level of challenge, the cartoon-inspired look, and the humorous tone makes it seem as if 
 Spider-Man: Friend or Foe was designed with a younger, less sophisticated audience in mind, but 
 for what it is, this is an exciting game for the short amount of time you spend with it. A rental 
 is suggested especially if you're looking for some quick two player action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is so underrated by the users, it's really not that bad at all. Gamespot's review was 
 actually spot-on.
  
  Graphics
  Biggest Dissapointment of the game, though they aren't bad, they certainly don't push the power 
 of the system at all. From an artistic standpoint this game looks great, but that's not the point 
 of view most people use when playing a video game.
  
  Gameplay
  Standard, Repetitve beat em up, but, alot of the combos with spider-man are really really fun to 
 use, his side-kicks on the other hand, aren't too fun, some of the best are blade and green goblin, 
 Venom disapointed me to no end, his player just isn't that fun to play as. Don't get me wrong, 
 it's fun to try out playing as the sidekicks, but not near as fun as spidey.
  
  Story
  Not a bad story, there are 5 shards that you need to get, and to get them, you'll need to visit 
 Japan, some islands, Egypt, My favorite Translvania, and Napal. The Levels are all very repetitive, 
 yet fun, my favorite boss was Venom in Translvania, you fight him in where you'd expect, a Church. 
 The Music and effects make it look and feel really epic, even though he is far too easy to defeat.
 
  
  When i first got the game i played it for about 3 hours with my freind, next day we played it for 
 about 4, then the last day for about 1. The Game comes in at about being just below 10 hours long.
 
  
  It's a great rental, but the hardcore spidey freinds will wanna buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doisemeio
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  Even though this game was clearly design for a younger crowed (3-12) it still a fun game. Here 
 is a few things to point out.
  
  1- This game is extremely short about 6-7 hours if you are going for all achievements and even 
 less if you just want to beat the game.
  
  2- Spider and his friends and foes do some chatting along the way that are kind of funny but repetitive 
 after a wile.
  
  3- Boss fights are far too easy. Actually the whole game is far too easy. 4- VS mode is lame.
 
  
  5- Unlockables arent so great. Some other minor things can be easily overlooked if you enjoy mindless 
 beat'em ups if occasionally jokes and some power ups. If you are going to buy this game do yourself 
 a favor and rent it first as you most likely beat it and never play it again. Achievements w*ores 
 like myself this game is a good way to raise some gp you can get 925 pts in one sitting and ship 
 back the game on the next day. lol thats what I did. good gaming to us all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayLeo08
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  This game wasnt made to get game of year, it was made to have fun with your friends, and enjoy 
 a little. If you cant have fun, get a life, and enjoy the smaller things in life. Overall this 
 game wasnt the best, but due to the fact me and my friend played all night, got my girlfriend involved, 
 and had fun. I said what hte hell, and gave it a 10. Its not 10 worthy, but it was in the fun area.
 
  If your looking to play this game, thinking oh sweet spider-man. Dont, its ment to be played with 
 friends. Its not a good single player game. The graphics arent next-gen. The controls are very 
 easy, the gameplay can get boring doing the same thing over and over. But give it a shot. Its not 
 a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I just finished my play through of Spider-man: Friend or Foe, the latest game to cash in on the 
 Spider-man craze. The games plot loosely ties into the story of the movies; by loosely I mean 
 its more of a spin off than anything else. Also the game comes with a trailer movie for a new 
 Saturday morning cartoon featuring the web head himself and the game clearly owes more to the cartoon 
 in style and substance than the blockbuster movies.
  
  In the graphics department, Friend or Foe is by no means photorealistic nor is it that blurry cel-shaded 
 mess that the X-Men legends were. In this game, all the characters are fluid, nicely rendered and 
 pretty good detailed caricatures of their movie/comic counterparts. There are about 15 well known 
 to lesser known heroes and villains in the game ranging from Green Goblin, Venom and the Rhino 
 to Silver Sable, the Prowler and Iron Fist.
  
  
  The levels arent the locales youd usually find Spider-man in which add a bit more variety to 
 the game but pretty much every level is constructed the same. Youll enter a large arena type area, 
 beat a few baddies and then trek off to the next area. Speaking of baddies, besides the Spider-man 
 foes, these Phantoms created for this game do look good but there arent enough variations of them 
 to spice things up by the end of the game. There are four general types and each one has numerous 
 skins (and powers) as the game progresses but still, you know youre fighting the same creatures 
 over and over again.
  
  This game isnt rated everyone for no reason either, F. o. F. offers a simple combat scheme that 
 works well in capturing the feats that Spidey pulls off in the comics or movies. Defeated foes 
 leave behind tech tokens and this in game money can be spent beefing up Spider-man and his sidekicks. 
 There are also a few different power-ups that you can use to become invincible, stronger or do 
 a tag team attack, but the game never gets difficult enough to make those items a necessity. Being 
 Spider-mans game, Spider-man has by far the largest move list making him the most fun to play 
 as, and unless youve been aching to play as a certain character, switching between the two in 
 single player mode isnt necessary.
  
  
  This brings me to my main complaint about Friend or Foe; its simply too simple. Sure the graphics 
 are more than adequate, the combat moves are easy to pick up but thats it. The sidekicks are pretty 
 much useless unless a friend decides to join you. Maybe if they threw in some puzzles and had characters 
 transport in and out of the game as needed, the game would have been a little more interesting, 
 but as it stands, this game is just a simple brawler from start to finish with nothing new added 
 to the mix. Another spot this game deserves a bit of praise in is the sound, more specifically 
 the voice acting. The dialogue is often times at least witty and the voices are well acted out. 
 Throughout the whole cast of the game, theres simply not a weak link. Everyone sounds like they 
 should and every character acts like their comic counterpart. Other than that, this section gets 
 my usual saying that if music doesnt make me punch the screen and in fact, if I dont actually 
 notice it, its good to me.
  
  To be honest, if I would have seen the rating or read some reviews before hand, I probably wouldnt 
 have bought this game. Its not that Spider-man: Friend or Foe is a bad game; its just aimed at 
 a specific audience. At its heart, this game is a childrens game. Im not saying it cant be enjoyed 
 by an adult, but for those older gamers, it leaves much to be desired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sigbjornj
Rating: 1.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Not so much more to say about this game than this: It sucks. To be more correct, it is almost unplayable. 
 I am not shure if good old spideys humour is going to be that bad as it is in the game or if it 
 is friendly to the kids who the game is made for. Spideys enemies, who is his friends in this game 
 isnt much better. Havent seen Venom bader since spiderman on PS1, no whait: he is even worse than 
 that. The story is awfull, the graphic is awfull, and the rest of the game is awfull. Never, ever 
 buy this crap. It is even worse than Two worlds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin449
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  first of all this game doesnt even deserve a 7.5 atleast a 6 i rate this 1 becuz 1 person rated 
 a 9 .. this game reall can easily be beaten by any game example mario even beat this this game 
 is sooooo childish its a rent not even its a waste of money my opiniun dont even try the game its 
 a waste of time,.... horible horible horible horible horible horiblehorible horible horible horible 
 horible horible horible ho horible horiblehorible horible horible horible horible horible horible 
 hohorible horible horible horible horible horible horible hohorible horible horible horible horible 
 horible horible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 4, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man: FoF is somehwat misleading in that it seems on the surface to be yet another spider 
 man game. In addition the reviews tend to emphasize that it's good for kids, rather than the reality 
 which is that it is only for kids. This is not some game which will charm young and old alike; 
 FoF is a short and simplistic game that presents NO challenge or meaningful gameplay. Because of 
 the characters and the bright graphics and ease of use, it's a fine game for a pre teen audience, 
 but it is utterly useless to anyone else. The game exists on two very simple levels: Basic fighting, 
 and cutscenes. It's very important to note that when I say BASIC fighting, it's very barebones. 
 This is simply not a game for anyone (other than a youngster) who has any experience with fighting 
 games or previous spider-man games. On the other hand, the cutscenes are well done, but the story 
 is terribly simple and contrived. Once again, this is not aimed at teen or adult audience. Normally 
 it isn't necessary to continually emphasize the fact that a game is for children, but FoF was really 
 marketed as a game where the hook is playing as foes like Venom and the Green Goblin... not that 
 it was actually just Spider-Man: Lite. Once again, unlike a Mario game, or even the Lego games 
 this isn't a game that has levels which appeal to multiple ages. there are no compelling puzzles 
 and the gameplay is just to damned easy to challenge anyone. On a technical level, the sound and 
 voice acting is terrific, and as a children's game it is actually well made. However, for ANY agegroup, 
 selling a game that even an 8 year old could finish in a single sitting for $60 is a pretty raw 
 deal. This is definitely a rental for ANYONE, and even for hardcore spidey fans, don't make the 
 mistake of thinking that this is a must own, as there is NO replay value at all. The Graphics are 
 fine, but not stunning... it lends itself to a somewhat polygonal and saturated look, but because 
 it IS based on a comic it works. Next gen this game is NOT.
  
  
  I find it difficult to rate this game above a 6.0 because even as a child's game it's value is 
 so low, and the experience so brief. Really, this game is just one that didn't need to be made. 
 Period. This is, by all accounts, a step back for the series. Ah well, such is life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylineboy33
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This game brings a lot of enemies from the movies and comics. But brings Spider-man and those enemies 
 together to face one enemy greater than themselves. I won't say here cause thats like giving a 
 very short summary of the interesting parts.
  
  Good Parts
  
  Graphics
  Storyline
  Fights
  Action
  Teamword
  etc.
  
  Bad Parts
  
  I couldnt find any really
  
  Game 
 could be longer thats about all i could think of lol.
  
  I suggest renting first because there is no real reason too buy it. You beat it in a week and then 
 it will sit there. Get your achievements and send it back saving you 40+ dollars. Still a good 
 game i think.
  
  ~Don't dream it... Live it...~ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
