-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/spiderman3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Swinging through NYC is a lot of fun.
 Lots of content to play through.
 City looks excellent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is either boring or frustrating, depending on who you're fighting.
 Camera constantly gets in the way.
 Technical glitches and frame-rate issues.
 Story is disjointed and doesn't tie itself to the film very well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.6, 72 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 3,065 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Treyarch
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: May 4, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is, at best, a step sideways for the Spider-Man movie games. 

  Spider-Man 3 marks the fourth game from developer Treyarch to feature Marvel's popular web-slinging 
 superhero. So with Spider-Man 3 being the first game in the series to hit the current generation 
 of consoles, you might expect something of a leap forward for the franchise -- something to really 
 wow Spider-Man fans and take the series in a new and exciting direction. No such luck, it seems. 
 Spider-Man 3 is a lot like the last couple of Spider-Man games. Sure, it throws in a few new wrinkles 
 to the combat system and adds some crazy God of War-esque contextual actions into the mix, but 
 the core game is functionally the same as previous Spider-Man games, and the changes are a mixture 
 of positive and problematic. Spider-Man 3 isn't altogether bad, but it has enough issues to prevent 
 it from being wholly recommendable.  

          Spidey's back, and this time, he's moody.     

  Spider-Man 3 ties itself into the new 
 Spidey film by including some of the key story arcs from the movie. You'll see Peter Parker get 
 his black suit as well as run into villains like Sandman, New Goblin, and Venom. But much like 
 Spider-Man 2, the roster of villains doesn't end there. Scorpion, Lizard, Kingpin, and others all 
 pop up in spots. While it makes sense for the developers to extend the scope of the story beyond 
 that of the film, trouble arises when you realize that the film's plot is practically glossed over. 
 There are 10 individual storylines to play through, but none of them are paced well, nor do they 
 ever build up or deliver enough of a story to pull it all together into one cohesive plot. It's 
 almost like a hastily cobbled together Spider-Man mixtape. You get all the villains, and none of 
 the story exposition. There's about as much character depth and story perspective here as is in 
 the film's trailer.  

  If you played any of the recent movie-licensed Spidey games, you'll feel right at home with Spider-Man 
 3 from the get-go. Like the previous games, Spider-Man 3 presents you with an open-world version 
 of New York City to swing around in to your heart's content. Swinging works much as it did in Spider-Man 
 2, letting you latch onto nearby buildings and launch quick webs to zip around as you please. Swinging 
 through the city is easily the best aspect of the entire game. The city isn't gigantic, but there's 
 enough familiar scenery around to make you want to explore, and that the city looks excellent is 
 a big plus. Buildings are nicely detailed, the streets are jam-packed with cars and pedestrians, 
 and the game uses some nice lighting effects to give the sky, as well as reflections of the sun 
 off buildings, a rather pretty glow.  

  As you swing around, you'll find open mission icons scattered throughout the city. Fortunately, 
 you don't have to go hunting for them, as there is a city map that lets you target any mission 
 icon available to you. Though Spider-Man 3 doesn't change its formula much from previous games, 
 the one big change for the better this time around is the game's structure. No longer are you forced 
 to complete random side missions to get new story missions to unlock. The story missions and side 
 missions are treated independently from one another, so you need only beat story missions to unlock 
 more story missions. The story itself is a good 10 to 12 hours long, even if you never engage in 
 any of the side missions, so you're not forced to sit through padded content that just makes the 
 game longer. Side missions are still worth doing if you need a change of pace from the story, and 
 there's still plenty of random crime floating about the city to take care of. The one bummer is 
 that few of these random crimes or side missions deviate very far from the ones found in earlier 
 Spider-Man games, and the few that do don't really fit terribly well. Even some of the new story 
 missions seem weirdly out of place. For example, why is Spider-Man now an expert at disarming bombs? 

          Swinging through New York is as thrilling as ever.     

  One other change to the game is the addition of contextual minigames. Clearly inspired by the gameplay 
 of God of War, Spider-Man will now engage in scripted events of acrobatic and combative heroism, 
 and all you have to do is press a few buttons in time with the icons that appear onscreen. One 
 example is Spider-Man having to leap through an impossibly complex series of lasers that will trigger 
 an alarm if hit. Just hit the buttons or analog stick movements that pop up, and you're good to 
 go. These new sequences aren't a bad addition, though they could have been implemented better. 
 There's often very little warning as to when one of these situations is about to pop up, so there 
 tends to be a trial-and-error aspect to them. The icons can occasionally be difficult to discern, 
 as well, specifically if the game is using analog-stick icons. If there's a lot of crazy action 
 happening onscreen, it can be tough to see exactly which direction the game wants you to go, let 
 alone act quickly enough to pull off the move. Fortunately, the game almost never starts you back 
 any further than the beginning of the minigame sequence you just started, so the punishment for 
 failure is minor.  

  Where Spider-Man 3 starts to lose its way is in combat. The basic combat engine doesn't feel markedly 
 different from earlier games, as it focuses on button-mashing combos that upgrade over time and 
 give you some unique special moves. The main problem stems from the game's overreliance on Spider-Man's 
 bullet-time equivalent. By holding down the left bumper on the Xbox 360, or the L1 button on the 
 PlayStation 3, Spidey goes into a slowed state that lets him automatically dodge incoming attacks. 
 In combat against basic thugs, you only need to use this every once in a while, though when you 
 do use it, you can clear an entire room in just a few seconds because the grunt enemies are so 
 inept at fighting back. But against most bosses, you have to keep this button held down at all 
 times to get much done. Some bosses can be whaled on sans the bullet time, but a few of the later 
 bosses pretty much require it, making those fights a plodding chore. It gets even worse when the 
 game tries to change things up on you. One of the more tedious, protracted boss fights pits you 
 against a giant version of the Lizard, where you first have to toss him into a series of power 
 generators using a clumsy spinning maneuver before you even get down to the dull business of beating 
 him up.  

  Spider-Man 3's camera system is an even bigger problem. The camera doesn't know how to snap behind 
 you if you have to run around in a circle to avoid enemy attacks, so you constantly have to readjust 
 it. If you happen to readjust it in a tightly enclosed area, the camera freaks out and you lose 
 all perspective of where you are or where the enemy went. It gets even worse during some of the 
 missions that require you to swing around the city. There are multiple missions where you have 
 to swing to a specific area in a certain amount of time, but getting the camera to line up so you 
 have a clear shot of where you next need to swing is an exercise in futility. You'll end up failing 
 far too many missions because of this. And if you're in a situation where you're crawling along 
 a wall or ceiling, make sure you're not easily nauseated. The quick snaps of the camera and constant 
 "Am I up or down?" perspective shifts make these parts vomit inducing.  

  Despite the fact that Spider-Man 3 is on the Xbox 360 and PS3, the game doesn't look like it's 
 built for this generation of consoles. The city features the most detail, though it also has a 
 few issues with texture popping. Most everything else looks slightly haggard in one way or another. 
 The Spider-Man character model looks great, but all the other people look bug-eyed and mildly deformed. 
 Some of the combat moves look neat, but the animations are jerky and stilted, as if transition 
 animations are missing. You'll also encounter a lot of weird physics glitches as you play, especially 
 during combat. Enemies will get hung up on walls or invisible pieces of the environment, objects 
 don't break properly, and even Spidey sometimes gets stuck in or clips through walls or set pieces. 
 The frame rate doesn't quite hold up, either. Neither version's frame rate is good, exactly, though 
 the PS3 version is a bit chunkier. On the flipside, the PS3 version's character models look a bit 
 smoother and less aliased than the 360's, so it's a matter of give and take.  

          As cool as some of Spider-Man's combat moves look, the fights are generally pretty lifeless, 
 and the camera tends to make things frustrating.     

  The game's audio is mostly predictable, though it's decent enough for what the game requires. The 
 biggest draw here is the involvement of the film's cast. Kirsten Dunst is nowhere to be found, 
 but Tobey Maguire, James Franco, Thomas Hayden Church, Topher Grace, and J. K. Simmons all make 
 appearances. Simmons seems to be the only one that's enthusiastic about reprising his role as J. 
 Jonah Jameson. Maguire gives an OK, but generally, sleepy performance as Spider-Man/Peter Parker, 
 and the remaining cast all seem like they'd rather be somewhere else. Bruce Campbell shows up yet 
 again to play the narrator, though he generally comes across as superfluous and out of place. Sound 
 effects and music are both solid, though once again, swinging through the city seems oddly silent. 
 You get some nice whooshes of wind as you swing about, but the soundtrack either cuts out entirely 
 or stays very quiet and understated as you swing. At least the music is good during fights.  

 
  In the end, Spider-Man 3 has its moments. Swinging through New York is as fun as it's ever been, 
 and some of the new contextual action sequences are pretty cool. But for everything Spider-Man 
 3 does well, it does something else poorly. The camera and presentation issues, as well as the 
 clumsy combat, all conspire to drag the experience down significantly. Spider-Man 3 isn't without 
 merit, but unless you're one of those diehard Spider-Man fans that can't get enough of the swinging 
 superhero, there's probably not enough to Spider-Man 3 to make it worth your time.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (297 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: venomblood369
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 7:17 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is another Movie game which adds on to the everlasting list of games which don't give 
 you the excitement you get in the films. Spider-Man 3 does'nt entirely focus on the films story, 
 example, in the film Harry Osborn/New Goblin/Hob Goblin was killed at the end of the movie, but 
 the ending cinematic was a huge letdown as Harry didn't die, ignoring the storyline, in fact all 
 the cinematics were bad, the characters looked graphically terrible, and they always wore the same 
 clothes through out the game. The camera, when climbing walls, is irritating and frustrating, as 
 it span out of control, but it wasn't all doom and gloom, as on the Grand Finale, you get you control 
 Harry Osborn/New Goblin/Hob Goblin which is a plus, but the Sandman battle was pretty boring. The 
 boss battles always relied on the LB to block and counter. But the game can entertain you mildly, 
 a new Spider-Man game, but still the same as the other games, fun, but a bit frustrating when the 
 camera goes bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huladog123
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2009 2:44 pm PT
Review:  There was a lot of anticipation for Spider-Man 3, both for the movie and for the game. The numerous 
 previews and trailers for this game made it look like the series was going to be well improved 
 upon, and in some ways it has. However, there are still some key issues that Spider-Man 3 misses 
 out on that prevent it from being the amazing game that it should be.
  
  One major thing that was fixed since Spider-Man 2 is how the story moves along. Instead of being 
 forced to stop the same petty crimes over and over again in order to advance to the next chapter 
 in the story, all you have to do is complete the numerous missions in any order you wish in order 
 for the plot to move along. This creates a lot more freedom for the player, but there's a catch. 
 There are about ten different storylines total, so the game doesn't follow the movie very well.
 
  
  The swinging system has been improved upon quite a bit since the last game, but this time around 
 you don't have as great of a sense of speed while swinging or falling. The combat system is a little 
 fun at first, filled with tons of spins and flips and kicks, but it gets a bit dull after a while. 
 Also, dodging is difficult and often doesn't work. However, some new additions to the game like 
 the ability to see through walls with your spider sense and the all-new "cinematics" moments are 
 pretty cool. The ability to play with the black suit for part of the game is very useful when it 
 comes to taking out a group of enemies or attacking a boss when you're in rage mode. Unfortunately, 
 most of the boss battles aren't all that thrilling.
  
  The graphics are amazing, and the city looks incredible. Skyscrapers tower above the ground and 
 sparkle in the sunlight, the streets are filled with a lot more traffic and people, and central 
 park looks a lot more realistic. However, some of the characters are a bit chunky and bug-eyed. 
 The sound is great, but both the background music and Manhattan itself are a little too quiet. 
 And occasionally, a sound effect (like punching or kicking) will skip a beat.
  
  Overall, Spider-Man 3 is worth playing and can be a lot of fun if you appreciate the small things 
 in life. It's definitely better than Spider-Man 2, so if you enjoyed that game you should certainly 
 purchase this one. Even though it doesn't live up to all our expectations, it still makes for a 
 fun, enjoyable, action-packed, web-slinging game.
  
  Score: 8.2
  Grade: A-
  Preference: Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 2 was a amazing game that made feel like spider-man. Ultimate spider-man was good but 
 way too short, now the 3rd game does the free open world but it fails in few areas. The game loosely 
 follows the films plot but some much is cramed into this that if u left out the new goblin and 
 re-placed the move cast with other voice actors there would be no reason to call this game spider-man 
 3. The gameplay is very much the same as before but annoying and hard puzzles and quick time events 
 were put into this mess. U have all of new york to swing around and u can do the horrible awful 
 story missions or do the greatest part of the game, swinging around the city and fighting random 
 bad guys. The controls feel lose and out of control and the camera can be a be crazy in close quarters. 
 The graphics do hold up nicely however. The music and sound is really good, but the game models 
 (except spidey) look average. Ok the story missions plain suck and the only reason u buy this game 
 is for swinging around new york and fighting bad guys but that is fun to do. Spider-man 3 could 
 have been a fantastic game but it fails in areas where it shouldnt.
  
  Story: 4.3
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Graphics: 7.4
  Controls: 6.9
  Re-play Value: 5.6
  Overall: 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberspider2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Movie games usually aren't that good but with the release of the spiderman, lord of the rings and 
 the chronicles of riddick: escape from butcher bay games, that all changed....
  .... until now, spiderman 3 has been called a game that won't dissapoint....
  ... and it does dissapoints. 
 spiderman 3 has a frustrating combat system that made me angry all the way, whenever I'm surrounded 
 by a bunch of enemies, even spider reflexes won't save you.
  
  there are some positives, a small list of positives. like web swinging that makes you feel "alive" 
 or the sense of humor but the positives end there.
  
  
  A step sideways? more like a step backwards.
  
  some of the missions are UNFORGIVING. having 
 you start back in the opening.
  
  the cars' music is always the same song!!
  
  don't trust the hype!
  GET ultimate spiderman instead of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bool_schitt
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:36 am PT
Review:  Having picked this up for about USD$13, i had some hopes for this game. Not GOTY material, just 
 some Spider-Fan Service and fun. In some way, it delivered. The villains, the swinging, the whole 
 spider-sense schtick. However, I did hope that it would hold my interest till the end, in which 
 it kinda failed.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well, the gameplay does have its merits. Not having played a Spider-Man game since the the PS ones, 
 I was impressed by the swinging mechanic. A little glitchy and annoying, but I ended up believing 
 the hype over why it seemed to be the game's selling point. Problem arises when you get bored of 
 webswinging. There is NOTHING TO DO. Maybe I'm spoiled by other sandboxes like GTA, but not being 
 able to take out frustrations on an innocent bystander or car, even in Black Suit, was a large 
 disappointment. Ok, so its Spider-Man, and that would be a brainless addition, but races and impossible 
 skydiving challenges just aren't fun.
  
  The fighting was pretty cool as well, what with the finishers and humorously-named combos (Roflcopter, 
 I kid you not) . Basically, the game seems to have pushed the limits for three combat buttons (X, 
 Y, B) , making them as interesting as possible, so no complaints about that. In fact, the combos 
 can be pretty helpful in given situations, so you won't find yourself wearing out your X button. 
 For example, there's a move where you web up a single enemy and lay the smackdown on him in mid-air 
 before shifting to another guy. In a situation with a roomful of enemies with no reliable projectiles 
 (Lizards, shall we say?) , its worth it to learn this trick. The quicktime events are interesting 
 yet annoying at the same time, but it supposedly adds to the spider reflexes effect, so i can roll 
 with that.
  
  However, the combat gets boring about 5 hours in. You'll get used to the combo-ing, and beating 
 up guys starts becoming a routine. Sure, each type of enemy has a somewhat different way of attacking, 
 but you'll have pretty much seen them all by then. Bossfights are just quicktime events strung 
 with button mashing, so satisfaction wears thin. One very annoying factor with the combo-ing is 
 that Spidey peppers his attacks with stupid little acrobatics, so don't count on following his 
 movements to combo, best count your button pressing (i. e. X, X, X, X, Y, Y)
  
  Hit detection is TERRIBLE. From the start, you'll be facing small enemies, no big deal. Then when 
 the minibosses come in, crap hits the fan. You'll find yourself missing your hits, mostly phasing 
 through the miniboss at hand. Only super moves and Black Suit rage seem to work on them (both of 
 which take time to charge) . By then you'll be screwed over (Especially in the Dragon Tail missions 
 and while fighting Kraven) . All in all for gameplay, I can't say its not innovative, but the constant 
 stream of repeated fights limit any further potential.
  
  Storyline
  
  WTF, is all i can say. Spider-Man has always been noted for its good writing, but this game was 
 a letdown in this facet. A good writer would have focused on the movie plot (It is a movie game) 
 with little bits that actually connect. What we have here is just a villain pile-up. They seem 
 to be in there for nothing more than to make the game more than 2 hours long. From the eyes of 
 a game, Spider-Man 3 was a movie focusing more on bossfights and a love story, as opposed to say, 
 the upcoming Wolverine where he beats the hell out of everything that moves. No prizes for guessing 
 which would make a better game. Anyway, the game throws in random villains just to extend gameplay. 
 The least they could have done was throw in other heroes as NPCs, would've made better fanservice. 
 All in all, the story bit is tripe, although I didn't expect much from a game based on a plot like 
 Spidey 3.
  
  Sound
  
  Pretty good, but forgettable. The music works well, but can never be a selling point. Ironically, 
 voice acting from non-movie characters shines through, while canon characters "epic phailz", especially 
 Toby "Ritalin" Maguire. Bruce Campbell seemed like a nice addition as the narrator, but as the 
 story wore on, he sounded more and more like a douchebag, not the chainsaw-handed badass we all 
 know and love.
  
  Graphics
  
  Better part of the game. Nice New York environment, good detail on the buildings and such. In HD, 
 you will enjoy how it makes the web-swinging more fun. However, when you take time to zoom in:
 
  http://www. gamespot. com/pages/image_viewer/frame_lead. php? pid=932030&img=12&popup=1
  Peter Parker = Martian. 'Nuff said
  
  Overall
  
  This game was pretty fun for a while. 
 Had some moments, some fun with it. Eventually though, I got so pissed off with the crappy hit-detection 
 and random plots that I just left the game and now its sitting on my shelf. The achievements are 
 a drag btw, so if you're a gamerscore-whore, go pick up like avatar, or fight night. Spider-Fans 
 can probably get Web of Shadows for their fix, but take this game as a bargain-bin deal that tighter 
 budgeted fans (like me) can amuse themselves with for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnd56
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:51 pm PT
Review:  So, a long time ago, I got Spiderman 3 for the PS2, and, TOTAL FAILURE! I then was eager for the 
 X360 version, thinking it would be better. I got it, and it was OK, I guess. The story is short, 
 the game can get buggy, and the only really cool mission was the new goblin, but everything else 
 was not as satisfying. It kind of sucks that,
  -----------------SPOILER ALERT! ---------- -----------------SPOILER ALERT! ---------------
  
 
  
  You can not play as Venom, you have to start over the story when you are done just to play in the 
 black suit, and you have to get an add-on to play as New Goblin. The graphics are pretty good, 
 but it will get very ugly and buggy soon, for example, as I was in the middle of a gang fight, 
 I saw that there was one last enemy on the mini-map, but I go everywhere, and, you know what? He 
 was inside of a building. Ticked off, I just started swinging away, and lost points for not stopping 
 them. The storyline is pretty much JUST like the movie, but adding 
  -----------------SPOILER ALERT! ------------- -----------------SPOILER ALERT! --------
  
  
 
  Kingpin, The Lizard, The Scorpion, and Kraven the Hunter. You can buy upgrades for Spiderman, 
 some of which are really cool combo finishers. Spiderman Web of Shadows, for me, is really cool, 
 and that is because it is not based on a movie. This game could have been good, but with a changed 
 title, and a story not based on the movie, so, basically, with everything changed. If you are a 
 seriously hardcore spidey fan, its worth a rental, but for everyone else, you might be better off 
 without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicide2005
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 the video game is obviously based on Spider-man 3 the movie but one thing that I was 
 really impressed with when it comes to the game is the addition of other stories from the comics. 
 The scorpion, the lizard, calypso, kingpin, etc...
  
  The games gameplay is very much like the game for Spider-man 2 but it is extended even more. There 
 are a lot more choices and missions in this game.
  
  The fight system is much better this time around, mainly on the PS3, 360, and PC. The PS2, PSP, 
 and Wii versions lack the new fight moves, there are a few news things but it is not as extended 
 the PS3, 360, or PC.
  
  One of the things that is really good about this game is that it doesn't take as long to progress 
 in the story as it did in Spider-man 2. Spider-man 2 relied on points to progress and the points 
 sometimes got so high that it would take forever to progress. That is no longer an issue. In this 
 game all you have to do is complete a couple of missions and another group of missions appear.
 
  
  The only problem with this game is pretty much the same problem that existed in Spider-man 2 and 
 that is some repetitive gameplay. Some missions repeat themselves and that gets annoying.
  
  Visually, the game looks great. The PS3, PC, and Xbox 360 look awesome. The city of New York 
 looks great, character models are nice too, they aren't great though when compared to other games 
 from this generation of games. The PS2, Wii and PSP are really shortened. There are parts of New 
 York and missions missing from those versions. The PS2 looks OK, it is not graphically great looking, 
 and in many ways doesn't even look as good as Spider-man 2, which is a surprise. The PSP is surprisingly 
 very good. Granted that it is the same gameplay as the PS2 but graphically it looks a little better. 
 This is mainly because the resolution of the PSP is better then the PS2 so it gives the game a 
 more polished look. Loading times on the PSP can get annoying but its still a good game.
  
  The Wii version could have been so much better. The fact that the Wii version is almost no different 
 then a less powerful system like the PS2 and a hand-held like the PSP is really sad. The Wii's 
 version is a graphical letdown compared to its other games and seems like a really unpolished version 
 of the game. The Nintendo DS also had a version, it doesn't have the graphical power of the PSP 
 but the way Nintendo set up the fight system for the DS is really fun and definitely worth the 
 experience.
  
  Overall, a fun game, there are some negatives to this game that do get annoying but all versions 
 are still fun and definitely worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 22, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  I borrowed Spiderman 3 off my mate and i played it for about 2 hours, and i found it pretty bad. 
 Its really disappointing compared to the other games on the PS2 before because they were actually 
 pretty good but this one just sucks.
  
  There are many problems with Spiderman 3 but the biggest is that it just doesn't feel like i'm 
 playing a xbox 360 game. It feels like a flawed PS2, there's nothing revolutionary or even that 
 good about the gameplay, in fact it seems pretty bad. The gameplay is dull and repetitive, all 
 there is to it is button mashing, i don't know when game developers will learn that button mashing 
 isn't fun at all, seriously i can't stand it. It was OK back on the PS2 and previous generation 
 consoles but now this is next gen and i don't expect to have to be mashing buttons over and over 
 again! The camera is terrible, I'm serious if your gonna play this game your gonna be pretty frustrated 
 due to the bad camera, its hard to see what your fighting because the camera just goes all over 
 the place for no reason and climbing walls is just a pain in the ass because most when your taking 
 turns on the wall or something like going onto another ledge the camera just goes all over the 
 place. The only redeeming thing to say about the gameplay is swinging across the city can be pretty 
 fun, but it certainly doesn't make up for the crippled control system, bad camera and dull combat.
 
  
  The presentation is a mess. The graphics for 360 are probably the worst ive seen. Character models 
 are ugly, and look like mutants I'm serious, the city doesn't look anything special and the texture 
 is pretty bad. The sound effects are cheesy and annoying and the voice acting, even though done 
 by most of the cast in the actual movie still manages to be terrible.
  
  This game should be avoided i was surprised at how much they messed this game up. It's not fun, 
 this game is horrible. OK at lest the game is playable but it's horrible. Gamespot completely overrated 
 this game its not "fair" it's a bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duvendor
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 was on my wishlist for so many time that ive almost gave up to buy it. But when it 
 came with the price of "greatest hits" Ive got it with the hope of gamespots score was mistaken 
 and the game deserves an better review than just "fair". But the game is a mixed of reactions: 
 sometimes youll get to anxious by web-sliding between buildings trying to reach the time in a 
 rushing-heart-pounding race that ends with a medal bronze, silver or gold. And sometimes you just 
 press a series of buttons in a fight, its just like to see an interactive movie. Is a decent effort 
 to revive the web slinging hero franchise around the time the third movie came out. The web slinging 
 is pretty better than the previous incarnations. Graphics are also better in most models. 
  
  The combat system has its good and bad. The good part is that meelee actions are more fluid. 
 The black suit allows you more brutal meelee attack. The bad is the web attacks are very limited. 
 All you can do is to shot web splats or pull enemy towards you. Other than that you can jump up 
 in the air and slingshot yourself at your enemy. 
  
  
  The game has its ups and downs. There are improvements over the previous games but at the same 
 time you find more of the same frustrations and limitations. Anyway, it's still a good effort and 
 deserves a rental at least.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DantesGhost76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  I don't know what I was expecting after the Spider-Man 2 game, what I do know is i expected it 
 to be a bit better than this. So Let's get the bad stuff out the way first. The storyline can be 
 hard to follow at odd times, the graphics are not fantastic and dont really look like the actors 
 from the films and the game gets a bit repetative in places. On the up side New York is bigger 
 and better than ever, with more of it to explore both above and below ground and plenty of space 
 to swing, and with the arrival of new gangs to beat the hell out of and random crimes still in 
 the mix it's hard to get bored , the combat is as good as it was in number 2, and "The Voice" is 
 as funny as ever, they really need to find a way to add more of his witty remarks in the games. 
 All in all this is a pretty damned good game , with wit, webbing and wonder, yes it could have 
 been better but it also could have been a hell of a lot worse, remember sequels are never easy 
 in film making, so imagine what it is for the game makers to come up with something we the players 
 will love, all considered, I think they did a pretty good job hence the high'ish score, keep up 
 the good work folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiderfan001
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 2 was arguably one of the best superhero games ever made so expectations were high when 
 Treyarch set out to make the sequel. The results were mixed at best. There is still fun to be had 
 in Spider-Man 3 but the game has some serious warts that put a damper on the experience.
  
  First the good; swinging through the city stopping random crimes is still a blast. New York City 
 is twice as big as it was in Spider-Man 2, allowing you to swing anywhere from skyscrapers to sewers. 
 The combat has also taken a step up, making it easier to deliver some good ol' fashioned justice 
 while dodging enemy attacks with well timed use of your spider-sense. When you find yourself not 
 knowing what to do next on a given mission, activating your spider-sense will usually point you 
 in the right direction. Spider-sense will cause the world around you to turn black and white except 
 your objective which will be highlighted. This will allow you to easily track down a giant lizard 
 loose in New York or find a bomb planted in the sewers (among other things) . This innovative use 
 of spider-sense really makes you feel like the webhead. The game also makes good use of Peter Parker's 
 job at the Daily Bugle allowing players to snap the photos themselves making the Daily Bugle missions 
 some of the most fun of the game.
  
  Sadly this is where most of the good points end. While the combat system makes moves easier to 
 pull off, Spider-Man is depowered to the point where the most common street thug is going to give 
 you a run for your money. And although your spider-sense allows you to dodge enemy attacks it does 
 not do you much good when you are surrounded. Prepare to get the crap beaten out of you by enemies 
 who have no business beating the crap out of you.
  
  Another problem is the boss battles, which are anti-climatic. Aside from your fight with a giant 
 lizard, none of the boss battles felt epic or more importantly, any fun. It never feels like you 
 are fighting Kraven the Hunter or the Sandman, just a supercharged thug. 
  
  The game's storyline is incoherent, sometimes following the movie's plot and sometimes going off 
 in its own direction. Unlike Spider-Man 2 which gave us a fun twist on the movie's plot by adding 
 the Black Cat, most of the new elements added to Spider-Man 3's story do not enhance it, they only 
 serve to make it confusing and less focused.
  
  The graphics for the game leave a lot to be desired. While Spider-Man and the city look good, everyone 
 else looks they were animated with clay. On top of that most of the characters do not look like 
 their film counterparts. Peter Parker does not look like Tobey Maguire, Mary Jane does not look 
 like Kirsten Dunst, etc. It's off putting.
  
  One of the game's main attractions is the ability to play in the black suit but aside from the 
 ability to go into rage mode it does not make much of a difference in terms of gameplay. Still, 
 rage mode is one of the best parts of the game. When you take enough hits the game will tell you 
 to start tapping the LB button repeatedly which will send Spidey into rage mode. You can then beat 
 on your opponents sending them flying across the room and they will not be able to dodge or block 
 your attacks. It's one of the finer parts of the game and one of the few times where you actually 
 feel like, you know, a superhero.
  
  Though it was cool that they were able to get most of the cast from the movie to do the voice work 
 in the game you can tell their heart was not in it as they all give flat performances. Given how 
 bad the story is followed it is not surprising. The game boasts some solid sound effects and music 
 but New York City is eerily silent. 
  
  Spider-Man fans may still have some fun with Spider-Man 3. Indeed, there are a number of Easter 
 eggs within the game that comic book fans (such as myself) will get a kick out of. But overall 
 the game feels like a missed opportunity, and a step backwards for the Spider-Man franchise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlewnix
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  If you played Spidey 2, then 3 is nothing new, so definitely don't waste alot of money on this; 
 check the bargin bin or get it on ebay. The only real differences between the 2 & 3 is that in 
 3, the camera system is frustrating at times, too many 'god of war' quicktime events become repetetive, 
 the story does not flow well together at all, and the minigames are rather silly. I do like the 
 new combat moves and the fact that they tried to really make black and red spidey completely different 
 in terms of how they move and act when you are playing the game. The jewel of this game were the 
 movements that spidey executed in those quicktime events and this would have been a better game 
 if they gave you control over those movements -- that is why he is called the amazing spiderman!! 
 Bottom line, this is not a terrible game and definitely is for the spidey fans, but nothing new 
 again.
  
  
  Pros ---
  
  great combat
  webswinging is as great as ever
  great graphics
  great sound, especially in true 5.1
  black spidey is great to play
  
  
 
  Cons ---
  
  frustrating camera
  repetitive missions
  too many quicktime events
  he still can't make huge webs to catch things
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKLink26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I've been really waiting to write this review.. my computer was on the verge of blowing up.
  
  Once again.. a spider-man 3 game, the first was a disgrace, the second was a big step forward, 
 but the third one? A big step backwards....
  
  Gameplay: 
  The Bad:
  The main thing about spider-man 3 is of course, the speedy travel of web slinging. Spider-man 3 
 actually manages to keep this part of the game interesting, but is not at all perfect. There are 
 times when web slinging gets awkward and annoying. Now, for the main part of the game, the fighting. 
 Fighting is the worst part of the game, the moves are random and the combos too annoying to try 
 and remember. Whenever in a fight, you button mass your way to victory... Now for the weirdest part 
 of it all. the bosses are IMMUNE to your WEB-SHOTS! Each boss fight you encounter will be fully 
 invulnerable to your webs!! Now, if i may ask. what is the point of being spider-man.. if you can't 
 use your webs against your arch-nemesis!!??
  The Good:
  Free-roaming definitely saves this game, if it weren't for that, the game would be utterly trash, 
 beyond this point. There are moments in the game that leave you in awe, and have you saying:"did 
 i just do that!?" There are moments when you have to mash buttons to complete the cinematic scenes, 
 which are absolutely stunning.
  
  Graphics: Nothing impressive, but OK.
  Sound FX: Some sound effects can be recognized for the second game, and they still aren't very 
 good.
  
  Overall: It's worth the current price of, $30. Nothing beyond that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is an action sandbox (free roaming) game. The story is many storylines and you can 
 choose which order to do them in. Unfortunately, each storyline is broken into chapters. After 
 you complete a chapter, you could do another chapter from a different storyline but that'll make 
 the whole story weird. You should just do chapters from the same storyline in order. Also, I didn't 
 like some of the story lines. The graphics are horrible. Cutscenes are bad but the gameplay graphics 
 are slightly better. Human models now don't react to you anymore and look terrible. Gameplay is 
 the best part of this game. You could free-roam and get to your mission and stop random crimes. 
 Fighting isn't that good to me because I don't really like the movelist and most people probably 
 cinsider this a button-masher game. However, I did like the action and boss fights of this game. 
 This game can be enjoyed easily if you forgive the graphics and the story system.
  
  Story- 4
  Graphics- 5
  Gameplay- 7
  Enjoyment- 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  First off, I loved Spider-Man 2. It had a great sandbox feel to it. 
  Graphics -- Right now, looking at this game, it looks good from far away. When you look at it closely, 
 you see clipping, a bad frame rate, and some weird looking human models. The model of Spider-Man 
 does look great for a game made in mid-2007 for a movie game. The city looks good, with some nice 
 but weird lighting effects, giving the whole atmosphere a dark feel to it. When on the street, 
 humans walk very weirdly and their eyes are popping out of their heads. Cutscenes look better, 
 with more detail and look like Flint Marko, Eddie Brock, Jonah Jameson, and Tobey McGuire. Once 
 in a while the frame rate slows down. Kirsten Dunst is barely even in it, but surprisingly looks 
 bad compared to the rest of them. 
  Sound -- The voice acting is decent, and it seemed like the actors wanted to be somewhere else. The 
 sound in the game is alot better. Spidey's webs have a great shwishing noise while swinging. The 
 sound during battles is alright, but not great, especially in slow motion
  Story -- see the movie if you want the real story. The story in this game relates somewhat with the 
 movie's, but adds alot more villains and storylines along for the ride. There's the lizard story, 
 where Dr. Connors turns into a giant lizard in an attempt to regrow his arm back, along with Kraven 
 and his girlfriend Calypso. Rhino and Scorpion are also in it, where they have a secret government 
 facility as Governors' Island. They also threw in Kingpin for a brief 2 missions. The mad bomber 
 is also in it, seeking revenge against Jonah and Manhattan for exposing his secret company. There's 
 the movie storyline, with Jonah Jameson, Flint Marko, Eddie Brock, Peter and a bit of Mary Jane 
 too.
  Gameplay -- like Spider-Man 2, Spider-Man 3 opens you up with a sandbox open world Manhattan to freely 
 roam around in and under. They took out the ability to web onto a helicopter and fly ro Ellis and 
 Liberty Island (for those of you who didn't know that and own Spider-Man 2, yes, you can go to 
 the Statue of Liberty) . Instead, you can go into the subways and part of the sewers (there's a glitch 
 where you can go into the sewers of the connor missions) . There's miles of subway to explore, and 
 swinging around the city is the best part of the game. Hold down x to jump in the air and press 
 R2 to swing a web while holding down x and L2 for a stronger swing. Pressing select will bring 
 up a map of Manhattan, where you'll find mission icons scattered throughout the city. You aren't 
 forced to complete side missions to unlock more story missions, though there are side missions 
 and plenty of random crimes around. There are gang story missions-the dragon tails, apocalypse, 
 and arscnic candy gangs-that are part of the story. The missions aren't hard and are very straightforward. 
 The controls are great but combat isn't exactly perfect. Holding down L1 will slow down time and 
 automatically dodge incoming attacks, which works fine one on one but with five or six people flying 
 at you, it's hard because there's a meter for it and it will eventually run out. There are some 
 harder enemies from the gangs, like the dragon tails one with the guy who has two swords with him. 
 Pressing square will start a combo attack and can be combined with triangle as well. To turn around 
 you have to roll the R3 (or right anolog stick) around. Pressing R3 will turn the world gray, spotting 
 enemies (red) , and important things (green, yellow) . The camera is bad in combat, because you can't 
 see who's behind you and can get very frustrating. Also in the mad bomber missions, to disable 
 a bomb is very frustrating-you have to press a button when this yellow liquid passes through tubes 
 to get to the power source, making the buttons face towards the power source defuses the bomb. 
 Another addition to the game are these God of War-like on screen button prompts that you'll have 
 to pull off in time. An example of this is when Spider-Man has to jump through a lot of lasers, 
 and if hit, the alarm will trigger. These aren't a bad addition, but they sometimes just pop out 
 of nowhere and you'll end up having to restart it a couple of times.
  
  
  Story: 8.7/10 -- it did tie into the film and the scorpion/rhino missions and the connor missions 
 had good, solid stories.
  
  Graphics: 8.9/10 -- solid graphics for a movie game. there's some clipping and a slow frame rate, 
 but the cutscenes have some detail and the buildings look fine.
  
  Gameplay: 9.6/10 -- swinging around Manhattan and exploring is always fun. the combat is alright 
 but the camera and the dodging don't always work well.
  
  Final thoughts: if you like Spider-Man 2, or are a Spider-Man fan, definitely pick this game up. 
 Not that this game doesn't have problems, but its still one of the best movie-games out there like 
 the Incredible Hulk. If you own a 360, buy this game. It has easy achievements and has a good frame 
 rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USS-Voyager
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is basically exactly what you have come to expect from a spider man game, which is 
 a short lived experience with stupid combat. There are quite a few of storlines, but none of them 
 are unique they mostly all feel, and play, the same. Go here, kill them... chase her... kill them... 
 save hostages. That is the basic mission design for every mission. Which can get old really quick. 
 However the new New York city looks amazing and is gigantic. Too bad the people look blobby and 
 emotionless. Swinging around the city is by far the most fun part. You still can not swing on the 
 statue of liberty for some reason. The acheivements are not too dificult to get but some of the 
 acheivements only crazy aheivement hunters will take the time to try to get. So overall spider-man 
 is a good game but the lack of good character models, interesting missions, or good combat holds 
 it back from its true potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_t0rqc-1xd
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  Lots of fighting with fist, sticks, whips, bombs, guns, etc., but no expicit gore. That's actually 
 the bad part, that there is no bloody gore in this game. It is too much into the kids' corner. 
 Crudy bonus mission always interlude in the way. Not only is it a waste of time in the game, it 
 is also senseless. There is no point to it. Why you do it is unanswerable they just put it in your 
 face that, "DUH? You are Spiderman?" which is a big bunch of crap. I know, if I were looking for 
 a gory and less responsible type of game, write a review on the already perfect GTA series. I know 
 that! But still, it is TOO appropriate for kid levels. As in too much! I like the suit though. 
 the venom suit and the symbiote. But the storylines in Manhattan? Far fetched from the movie alot. 
 And what's with the pathetic gang wars always around in this game? Not worth it. It could get worse, 
 the PS2 version. yuck! Not only is Pete's face hideous, but the gameplay stinks. BEfore he could 
 throw a punch, he would pause for a really long while which matters to me. what's with that?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortality20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  As I sat down and played Spider Man 3, with no real hope at all, I was quickly surprised. The games 
 combat systems made you go "oh!" and point at the screen, simatouesly making you feeling proud 
 and stupid for pointing at the screen in an empty room. As I went into Spider Man 3 expecting no 
 more then a genreic movie cash-in, I was more then happyily shocked with tight controls, better 
 story then the movie (like thats hard!) , and awesome web slinging fun,. 
  
  The story loosley follows the movie, with Venom as the final boss, followed by the would-be villian, 
 the Sandman. I am also happy to find that Rhino is in yet another Spider Man game. For some reason 
 he never ceases to amuse me. Oh Rhino, whne will you stop being so generically stupid?
  
  Anyways, the tight controlls apply for web slinging and combat. You can spend alot of time just 
 slinging across the city, fighting meaningless thugs, and just enjoying the fun of slinging, dammit! 
 The combat is a combination of the ol' x, b, y combos, but my Lord, can you ever pull off some impressive 
 combos! You can easily finish non-boss baddies in the air, or twirl them around and see them fly. 
 When you are black suit Spidey, will they ever fly!
  
  The bottom line is this games is no AAAA, it is no Gears, no Metal Gear, no Mario, but take my 
 word, it is a must own for any Marvel fan. There is button timed cut scenes a-la Resident Evil/God 
 of War/Tomb Raider that will have you saying "damn!" and "dammit!" as you try to hit the correct 
 button sequences. My only real complaint is that the button combos stay the same every time you 
 die, giving you lots of time to memorize, instead of randomlly switching it up, which would of 
 been much better in my opinion. Anywho, buy this cheap game, have some fun, even if you're late 
 to the party like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicidal_T_H
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  You know at first I thought this game might be different than the other ones but as it turns out 
 it's just like the other ones. At first its kind of fun but the fun quickly wears off and it becomes 
 redundant. It has a couple of quick time moments which are fun but the combat is terrible. The 
 best part of the game is swinging around the city doing absolutly nothing. I ended up spending 
 more time just swinging up buildings and jumping off them rather than doing the actual missions. 
 The story is ok and the animations look but the voice acting is terrible. Overall this is just 
 another average Spider-Man game with nothing that great or new. If you liked the previous Spider-Man 
 games then you'll probably like this one too. But for most people this not a game worth buying. 
 This is at best worth a rent and even then that might be overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfir12
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome for players who like spiderman.
  the graphic are so good not like all the previous games of spiderman the fights are really great.
 
  in the game you play with spiderman in the city you can do missions like destroy bombs or take 
 mary jane to places she want.
  and the story is about you know the black suit-venom you will fight with venom and sandman
  the 
 fights are pretty good i recommend the game for all spiderman lovers.
  the actions look awesome like how you climb on walls and how you swing thats like the movie.
 
  after couple of hours the game can be really repetive and little boring mybe they can do more 
 stuff to the game but its not that bad the game is really fun to swing in the city and do missions 
 and the black suit is really great.
  the game is really good and for all the spiderman lovers GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadurwalla
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is truly an underated game. It is frequently praised for its swinging mechanics which 
 are great (much like spiderman 2 on ps2 was) but its beat em'up action is truly enjoyable as well. 
 There are not many beat'emup games on the 360 (besides dynasty warriors) . The 360's action games 
 tend to be shooters, spiderman3 fills this void with style. The moves can be as simple as the combos 
 from the ps1 spiderman games or as frantic as spiderman combos in the marvel vs capcom games.
 
  
  The good
  This game excels in combat (when the developers let you approach it freely and dont just enforce 
 the counter attack as your only option) The number of combos that can be performed is great as 
 well as the fact you can charge your puches. Some of the boss battles i have played so far are 
 truly good fun like swinging through the city as goblin chases or dodging the missiles of a helicopter 
 or catching a person in midair. The game also pays homage to the great spiderman games on ps1 (classics) . 
 The helicopter battle was reminescent of a great stage in the original game. Sewer stages, basing 
 the $hit out of lizards all renact great oment from the original.
  
  The bad
  Its short. No lockon feature. No changing the camera zoom like in other sandbox games. No black 
 cat or wall jump and no punching while on the wall so far. Also not so much costume variety like 
 the games on ps1 had. Some missions rely too heavily on minigames. Replay value is hurt due to 
 the lack of a wanted level system like in other sandbox games. Once all the mission are finished 
 the most intense action to experience is beating on a couple of thugs, or the arena battles.
  
  This game would have easily been a 10 if it had fixed some technical issues like lockon, camera 
 issues, added wall jump wall punching and had more cool boss battles like the goblin one. This 
 game excels when it lets you loose in the city with some formidable force after you (much like 
 assasin creed) . Or when you go into beatemup mode and smack lizards about. Overall though spiderman3 
 is a great game with that transforms itself seemlessly from an adventure game to a beatemup to 
 a puzzle game to whatever you feel like whenever you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  My past experience with movie based games has been rather poor which spurred me to avoid movie 
 tie-in titles like the plague. This was the first Spider-Man game I've played since the days of 
 Super Nintendo and despite my fears it turned out to be a fairly pleasant experience. As soon as 
 the game starts you have the freedom to explore any part of Manhattan. It's amazing how detailed 
 and vibrant the city looks in this game. The night and day cycle is also a nice touch. The city 
 is huge with many locations to explore, things to find, and events to uncover. From far away everything 
 looks amazing and lively, including the traffic and pedestrians. When you get up close though it's 
 not so pretty. Traffic stops on green light and moves on red, character models are blocky, and 
 surfaces lack any textures. However, since you spend most of the game web swinging at a fairly 
 good height and speed, all those things are barely noticeable until you stop moving and drop down 
 to the ground. Main storyline is extremely short, taking only a few hours to fully complete. It 
 primarily follows the main plot of the movie but does include some side missions not seen in the 
 film. You are tasked to pretty much explore all of Spider-Man's abilities throughout the brief 
 quest, everything from Spidey sense, to web swinging, and of course a lot of acrobatic fighting. 
 Some of the timed button pressing sequences and bomb defusing mini games are refreshing and fun 
 diversions that add variety. There are plenty of side missions to do including web swinging races, 
 crime sprees to foil, skydiving off the top of skyscrapers, and a series of bombs to defuse. However, 
 as you start completing these missions the difficulty starts escalating fairly quickly, requiring 
 a high degree of precision that unfortunately is not present in this game. The controls are decent 
 but not as precise and finely tuned as some of the missions require them to be. That resulted in 
 me giving up on those side missions and just playing through the main plot. Overall, Spider-Man 
 3 is a great and enjoyable game but it lacks in content and precision controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twiztid4evur
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Wow i can't believe Spider-Man 3 could be this bad, this..... bad, but i was wrong. The game took 
 me about two weeks to beat, and i immediately took it back to the game store with a "can i have 
 my money back"? You play as Peter Parker.... again. They're are quite a bit of side-missions but 
 the game will really piss you off, some of the bosses are so hard they take you like three hours 
 to beat. I remember this one big dude who you had to beat up with your fists took me forever.. 
 if you don't block like every hit he kills you in one hit or a couple, i finally beat him and then 
 my game froze. Spider-Man 3 is a really bad game because most of the gameplay comes from impossble 
 moments like fighting that boss and others and having to protect three things in a row with one 
 hundred lizards attacking it and you have to defend it three times and it doesn't save unless you 
 beat all three. The game freezes alot and after you beat the game you really don't ever want to 
 play it again, because it doesn't even have online. Yes, some of the side missions are fun but 
 the races are just stupid and its spider-man not racing, it really just looks like they threw the 
 game together and it turned out horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 9, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say about this. 1. garbage.
  
  2. bad acting
  
  3. bad graphics
  
  4. another lame attempt to make a game out of a movie.
  
  5. a waste of money that the creator 
 of this game should be shoved into a dark hole for quite some time.
  
  This game is probably one of the worst spiderman or any marvel game that has been created. It is 
 a waste of time and effort. Not even a fan of spiderman would enjoy this one. Its like they had 
 a 500 dollar budget and a one person create, testplay, and produce the game in about 24 hours and 
 try to pat themself on the back. Look point is if you get this then your wasting your time and 
 money and if you like it then you should consider your self a mutant from the xmen. this is a painful 
 attempt to even categorize it with the name of spiderman. This is like spider fiend on crack, or 
 the criminal from a bad cartoon show that should have never been released. E. T. stay here because 
 this game needs to go back home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ben399
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  The best part of all the spider man games has been exploring NY city (and despite the fact that 
 GTA has done a much better job with the city, it's still fun in spidey 3) . now for the bad part 
 of the game, or the rest of the game (whichever you want to call it) . Combat is slow and aggravating ( 
 all you do is repeatedly punch a button and hope that it does something) missions are all the same, 
 the upgrade system consists of you beating up a bunch of bad dudes until you level up, there is 
 no multiplayer, the graphics have not improved since the ps2 and xbox versions, and the soundtrack 
 is the same as the movies. so to sum it all up, if you like swinging around a city all day doing 
 nothing but saving a couple of people here and there (you don't even have the option of being a 
 bad guy) then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfatpandajim
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Before i bought spidermn 3 for the xbox 360 i did own the ps2 version. and i really disliked it! 
 it had shoddy visuals, a terrible plot and an abudance of annoying glitchs. So now i own a xbox 
 360 i thought i might give old spidey another go by buying the 360 version. this action paid off. 
 The xbox version has nice visuals, an awesome combat system and some the best CGE (cinematic gameplay 
 events) . not to mention the kwl black suit. here are my good and bad bits of spiderman 3
  
  good:
  lovely visuals with some excellent animation
  some great combos
  once your get the 
 black suit you can really feel the power of it!
  some really tense but rewarding CGEs
  really nice NYC to swing about in.
  
  Bad: while there is nice animation some of the combo chains 
 can look a jumpy and not linked well.
  some boss fights are incredibly annoying. (this annoys me most as some are pure genius)
  
  well 
 they are my thought on spiderman 3. i recomend it 4 anyone who enjoys an action game and any spidey 
 fans. go get it! just dont get the ps2 version! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 7
Date: May 18, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 was, in my opinion, a good game despite the lack of storyline and the narration of 
 Bruce Campbell. Let's face it. The only good thing to do in this game is web-slinging throughout 
 the big city of New York. WAIT!! Some of the archenemies actually look good in this game. Scorpion, 
 The Lizard, Rhino, Kraven the Hunter. The minigame thing where you press buttons in sequences was 
 cool too although it was taken from God of War. Another good thing about the game is that almost 
 all the actors voice their own characters which makes up for it. It's a shame that not all of them 
 did it. Of course you'll hear Tobey Maguire because it's his character, JK Simmons is in the game 
 too playing J Jonah Jameson, and James Franco plays his own character and so does Topher Grace 
 playing Eddie Brock. It's a shame that Venom looks like an overweight wrestling superstar. Oh and 
 Flint Marko or Sandman is voiced and played by Thomas Haden Church. The first game only had 2 actors; 
 Tobey Maguire and Willem Dafoe. Spider-Man 2 had 3; Tobey, Kirsten Dunst and Alfred Molina and 
 this one has almost all the cast except for her. It's weird how the game was inaccurate to the 
 movie. Seriously because in no time did they mention Uncle Ben's murder or Sandman having anything 
 to do with it. In the game, Sandman is just trying to save his daughter. Dialogue has changed a 
 lot here too. they say "ass" and stuff now. I liked the archenemy models though. Especially Scorpion. 
 He looked pretty cool. Black-suited Spider-Man was a lot stronger since he's stronger and faster. 
 Overall, This game was good but it could've been better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kumiteh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 1 and 2 were great games which were original and fun though the bad thing was not being 
 able to go down into the streets as if you tried you would die automatically. But fear not, this 
 worry is over with spiderman 3!
  One of the best things about the game is swinging freely through the streets of New York City which 
 is surprisingly satisfying and also crime fighting. (Helping the police) . You may run into robbers, attackers 
 troublemakers or even robots! Then comes the fun bit. You beat the hell out of them by using a variety 
 of combinations or single techniques. When you defeat them you get a small reward. You must be careful 
 though as some of them may have guns or sharp objects and they will put up a good fight. 
  You can use spider-sense to pick out the criminals which will be red. (Everything else will be in 
 black and white until the power expires or if you turn it off manually.) The enemy will be a yellow 
 dot on your mini-map and become bigger and red as you get closer. The other crime fighting opportunity 
 is car chasing. If you hear a police siren take a look around, find the car jump on it and beat the 
 criminals up then force the driver out and fight him. If you see an injured person pick them up 
 and take them to hospital for more points. This game is underrated and should be rated higher. Definitely 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killered3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Spider Man 3 is a prettty impressive piece. Not sure what critics were smoking when they wrote 
 that review! Graphicallyy this game is very good to look at, Spider Man has alot better animations, 
 and webswings more fluently. The story was ok, alittle worse than part two. The gameplay took a 
 great improvement, it looks like the creators took some pointers from God of War. There are sequences 
 were you have to press a certain button at a small amount of time just like God of War. Surprisingly 
 it was pulled off very well! It made moments seem more epic and true to the movie. 
  
  The voice acting was good, but I think that some people either just weren't trying or they weren't 
 getting paid enough, like guy who played as Eddie Brock, for example. Sometimes it looked like 
 the character model was acting better than him. The story, (which was pretty much the only thing 
 you could do) was satisfyingly long. The difficulty seemed way too much for a casual gamer! You'll 
 yell in frustration, you'll want to throw the controller down to the ground and cry for hours and 
 hours, yelling "Why?! WHY GOD WHY?!!! I know I did.
  
  To sum it all up, this game is worth the money, one of the most underrated games in this site. 
 I give Spider Man 3 the videogame a 9 out of 10. (If only the movie was this good.) :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Impossible
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 21, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Spider Man 3 the game doesn't follow the story from the actual film
  itself. but this is one of the worst games of 2007 since Spider Man 2
  came out. Why? because 
 this is so reppetitive for example the fighting you have to rely on the same fighting moves, swing 
 from one building 
  to another can make you feel frustrated espeacialy when your chasing 
  the enermy. They also copied some ideas from another game called
  Shenmue and oh boy they didn't 
 do a good job of it neither dreadfull.
  The buildings of New York city are excellent but some of it's graphic detail
  isn't that great. 
 Spider Man 3 does have some potential. I hope the sequel
  will do better than this it's just plain terrible espeacialy the boss fights.
  
  Graphics - 
 The buildings are great apart from the poor character models
  and the environment.
  
  Gameplay - Verry reppetitive and frustrating.
  
  How long the game lasts? - Once you have completed 
 the missions 
  there nothing much to do apart from a few extras but they are just 
  a nightmare. This will last for at least 30 hours of gameplay it's really
  short!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crzyplyr
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  
  Hmmm.... maybe swinging is okay.
  New York City is pretty accurate.
  
  The bad:
  
  Where do we start.....
  -Fighting is fun at first, but gets soooooo repetitive, 
 it will drive you crazy. 
  -Way to many moves..... cant memorize half of half of half of them.
  -Throughout game, glitches 
 get extremely annoying. 
  -No reason to fight unnecessary fights that give you nothing, except a good chance to die. 
  
 -Game branches off of the movie way to much..... (Giant robots and flying "bad guys") 
  
  The okay: 
  -graphics 
  -value 
  -tilt
  
  Overall:
  
  Spider-man 3 is a total let 
 down. In the beginning, the game seems fun and interesting. However, later on in the game, many 
 of the "fun" things seem to either be repetitive, boring, or annoying. Basically, rent the game, 
 have fun for a week, then return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Gamer_Dude
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 Xbox 360
  
  9.6/10 
  
  Graphics: 9.8/10
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9.6/10
  Replay value: 9.9/10 
  Tilt: 9.2/10
  Controls: 10/10 
  
  THE GOOD
  Swinging 
 through NYC is HEAPS OF FUN!
  Lots of content and levels
  Loads of achievements to get
  Very good design of the last level
  
  THE BAD
  Game doesn't focus that much on the film
 
  
  Spider-Man 3 marks the fourth game by Treyach and the third movie by Sam Rami and Marvel. So Spider-Man 
 3 is the first game in the series to hit next generation consoles such as Wii, Play Station 3 and 
 Xbox 360. Spider-Man 3 is a bit like all of the other previous Spider-Man games, yes it may throw 
 some wrinkle attacks and even a mix of smacks from god of war but that doesn't make it absolute 
 garbage dose it? I have been a fan of Spider-Man since I bought this toy with a video of it and 
 bang, that's when I grew respect for this fictional character and here I am today, all Spider-Man 
 games, heaps of Spidey toys and even a collectors edition Spider-Man 2 DVD.
  
  Ok now to focus on the game, it ties into the movie good like having all 3 famous villains, Sandman, 
 Venom and New Goblin but, like Spider-Man 2, it has other villains which sends the storyline in 
 a completely different direction these villains are, Lizard, Rhino and the well known Scorpion, 
 as well as 3 new gangs Arsenic Candy, The Apocalypse Gang and The Dragon Tails.
  
  The best thing about the game is having
  Spider-Man get a black suit which, when
  The suit 
 is on, forces Spidey into a sudden
  Rage form, as a result he gets very angry.
  In the games case, the more enemies you
  Defeat, the more rage builds up in our hero.
  Then 
 you push a button, and bam!!! You see
  A fire around Spidey, and he is very powerful. But this power thankfully, is very limited in out 
 Heros case, in both game and movie. He eventually takes of the black suit, which was not easy but 
 in a result a new enemy was born, Venom.
  
  If you have played all the other, Spider-Man games, you will relies the opened city is still there, 
 allowing freedom to go any where you want, from the empire state building, down to the deepest 
 sewer or subway. The map is also very neat which allows players to identify mission icons with 
 ease and recognize which mission they chose to do, once they have chosen select the mission and 
 go to the icon. As you can see in the diagram, once you select a mission on the map, the icon while 
 tell you where to go and how far. (To the right, image) The web swinging is all so another point 
 
  I want to bring up; unlike other Spider-Man games this one allows swing boost, dual swing and Swing 
 zip, which are all in the other games but not as enhanced. 
  
  The combat system in Spider-Man 3 is not best, but not the worst either. As you may know it's the 
 usual punch and kick until finished, but this game also has button sequence attacks, for example 
 once you got a main enemy like The Lizard or Sandmans health to zero, a button will appear on his 
 head. Once pressed a series of buttons will commence one after the other, stuff up once and the 
 boss has a quarter of his health back and you must repeat the progress.
  
  The Audio and Sound effects in this game are not perfect, you will encounter times when you will 
 here no music at all, which at times is supposed to happen. The dumb thing is, no music from the 
 movie is here once in the game it just uses in game music. Most of the games music matches the 
 moment your in, for example the official Spider-Man theme song when your swinging or guitar sounds 
 when your fighting. Also the voices of the characters from this game are the voices of the actual 
 actors from the Spider-Man 3 movie and that makes it good. So the sound is alright.
  
  
  Ok, so in the end Spider-Man 3 had its moments. Swinging through NYC is as fun as it has ever been, 
 and the new button sequences are just awesome. If you are a die hard fan, such as myself I would 
 recommend this for any fan or even just a person who likes games. This is truly the best in the 
 entire series.
  -Ajay
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenerhai
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  I would love to find something right with game. Save for the fun of swinging around the city as 
 everyones favorite wall-crawling web-slinger, there's nothing. It looks like crap, it plays like 
 crap, it is crap.
  
  Graphically, because this was a game that was milked out over multiple consoles, the 360 version 
 and PS3 version suffered. As far as PS2 goes, graphically it dosn't look bad.
  
  Sound effects and voice work is equally atrocious. The creators of the game even went so far as 
 to get some of the actors from the movie to lend their talents. Regretfully, all of it is lacking 
 because all of the actors sound distracted and disinterested.
  
  The game was supposed to be tied into the movie (which wasn't to hot to begin with) , but bears 
 little to no resemblence aside from the actors tied to the characters. The game does have numerous 
 baddies and odd job missions to keep you busy, but do to a unaccebtably shaky, unreliable camera, 
 you can hardly keep an eye on the action, who you're fighting, or where you're going.
  
  The combat is equally offensive. Combat is clunky and unbalanced. Missions are made even more difficult 
 by a context sensitive button mashing mini-game that takes a good idea and does it no justice. 
 The buttons come up with little to no warning and gives you microseconds to react. It's extremely 
 frustrating to execute and completely takes your attention off the action of what these button 
 pressing nightmares are supposed to be representing.
  
  All in all this is a bad game and I can't beleive I spent money on it. Thankfully I paid about 
 $17, but even that was a little bit for such a horrid game. Stay as far away from this crap as 
 humaly possible, you have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Randelavas
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  you know all the spiderman game are amazing, except this one. it's amazing that we can turn into 
 venom, but there's a limit time of it ,which it suck.
  maybe everyone right, all the game based on the movie are suck.
  i played the ps2 version and 
 when i played the xbox version at my cousin house it still suck , no difference . but thank god, 
 my friend wanna buy this game for $1,2 (the real price is 1,0 but i keep a secret (price on ps2) ) .
 
  i got stuck at the lizard, i have to photo the lizard and there's many people wanted some help, and 
 i didn't play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachicool
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  It's not all bad. I rented this game but when I played it, it got really boring. I did not finish 
 the game because I had something better to do. The graphics are okay though. The city is big and 
 there a lot of vilians but they all look the same especially those girl gang. It has many details 
 about the backround but not for the characters. There are a lot of combos but the camera is adjusted 
 that you see spider man small and like a stick person! The price dropped so far but it used to 
 be $60.00. Serious waste of money. This game is like a last resort; When you are really bored maybe 
 you should play this game but I would not recomend them to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stone1992
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 could have been a really good game if it hadnt have been so rushed, well it felt like 
 it was anyways. The missions throughout the game are basically the same. and then there's a really 
 annoying one in the sewers which is almost impossible, though i managed it in the end. :)
  when you start of playing the game is really good but a few goth girl battering, costumed thug 
 fights, and button mashing hours later you find yourself bored. 
  
  the thing i liked about the game was the swinging, it was as close to being spider-man as i am 
 going to get :P ,
  but thats not enough to like a game on.
  
  it just felt like Ultimate spider-man back on ps2, swapping the evil character of venom to the 
 black suit instead.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Hobbit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  i was a tad iffy about this game as the film ...... waaay too much for me (fill in the blank) . 
 but with that said this made for a much better game than the film was. all the extra content in 
 this game really turns the story into something interesting! has to be said though the best parts 
 of the game are when you don the dark suit and become evil and heartless, it does make for an annoying 
 end game as you want your extra power boost that the dark suit gave you, this does make it more 
 of a challenge i suppose. the side missions are the best in this game though as they vary so much. 
 you have three different gangs that fight in different styles, lots of spidermans comic enemies 
 such as scorpion, kingpin, rhino and a few others all in the mix. overall the game isnt much different 
 from the second game in that its just plain fun to web-swing around New York! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesonV
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is another in the sizable list of video games from Activision featuring our favorite 
 webslinger. While the series has seen some improvements, this installment manages to be disappointing 
 in some areas. And with flashes of brilliance throughout, Spider-Man 3 will probably leave many 
 longing for what could have been.
  
  One of the most redeeming qualities of the game is Spidey's swinging mechanic, which seems to get 
 better in each installment. Although not as fun in 2005's Ultimate Spider-Man, the swinging controls 
 certainly feel more intuitive than in Spider-Man 2. Add to this the fact that New York has never 
 looked better in a Spider-Man game and you have one entirely enjoyable experience. Even the combat 
 has seen some improvement with attack combos having more effect on enemy targets and the ever reliable 
 "Spider Sense" giving the player an entertaining advantage in slow motion antics. The ability basically 
 allows the player to move several steps ahead in most attacks and apprehend a target before they 
 even know what hit them. This isn't to say that the combat is without its flaws. A few issues arise 
 mainly during some of the boss battles where the player will be forced to fall into an attack pattern. 
 The pattern might seem kind of cool at first but as the fight goes on, it can become either boring 
 or frustrating. Luckily, most of the boss fights don't last too long.
  
  As the story in the game unfolds, players have the option of pursuing different story lines. Aside 
 from the main story, which ties itself to the film, Spider-Man can track down The Lizard or the 
 Kingpin, he'll even come across foes such as Rhino and the hunter, Kraven. This adds a nice mix 
 to the game and makes it feel like more than just some cash-in title. There are also a plethora 
 of side quests and minigames that take the form of stopping petty crime or breaking up smuggling 
 rings. The player can also test their webslinging skills in races spread throughout the city. These 
 activities can extend the playthrough by a few hours for anyone looking to stick around.
  
  Most of the elements that don't work very well in Spider-Man 3 are technical in nature or new to 
 the series. The popular contextual minigames as inspired by God of War and Resident Evil 4 have 
 made their way into the game. During certain battles, for instance, the player will be prompted 
 to tap a series of buttons. While some of the instances are well done, some can be really frustrating 
 or seem pointless ("Did I really have to do all that just to swing down one hall?") . The technical 
 issues pop up with the camera -- which gets in the way of the action quite often -- and some relatively 
 minor framerate issues. There can also be a few instances of Spidey getting stuck on objects, but 
 they seem to be few and far between
  
  The game looks very nice on the 360 in terms of environment. As previously mentioned, New York 
 has never looked better in these games and that's something that really does add to the overall 
 enjoyment of swinging through the city. The character models look better than in previous games, 
 but they still don't do their actor counterparts a lot of justice. Some of them even look downright 
 ugly. The cast from the film did partake in voicing the characters for the game, though, and that's 
 a definite plus. J. Jonah Jameson (J. K. Simmons) wasn't given as much of the great dialog his film 
 counterpart usually has, but his presence alone is gratifying.
  
  On the whole, Spider-Man 3 doesn't entirely gel. The story elements are there, some of the gameplay 
 is indeed intact, but those elements that don't fit drag down much of the potential this game had. 
 It's certainly worth a look for any webhead and makes a decent weekend playthrough. Those more 
 casually interested, however, will probably want to take a rain check. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The Spider-man franchise has been the highest selling of its kind in both the film and video game 
 industries and now that legacy continues with Spider-Man 3 The Game. Which is of course based on 
 the film. The Spider-man games started with spider-man the official game of the movie. which did 
 well in sales and reviews, followed by spider-man 2 which did even better and now spider-man 3 
 hits stores and has mixed reactions at best. Reviewed as Medicore by cridics and OK by players, 
 the franchise hit a obstacle with both the spider-man 3 game (averaged 5/10) and the movie that 
 sold well but the cridics bashed at every turn. The success of the movies however only hightened 
 the expectations for the game and many were unsatisfied with the game because of those expectations, 
 but for any real fan, its a game worth trying. Theirs nothing funner than betting up Venom with 
 your fists and feet as well as with construction material (hehe) . So the game is a must have in 
 my opinion and has an excellent tie in with the movie. You battle Venom Sandman and New Goblin 
 (at first) and classic villains such as Rhino and Scorpion. The game features the most wide-open 
 playground i have seen yet. Travel Central Park or swing your way to Manhattan Island in the entirety 
 of New York City, stopping on the way to stop gangs from overwhelming the police and taking back 
 the city one step at a time. My favorite part of the game is the Fights with the main Villains 
 were the developers intergrated on touch actions that give you amazing footage of spidey's awesome 
 moves. So if you liked the first two spider-man games you will most likely enjoy Spider-man 3. 
 And to those new to the Franchise, this is the game to sequay into. Oh yeah and spidey gets mauled 
 by street thugs. What! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  While Spandex-clad crimefighters have always been the bread and butter of video gaming, until recently 
 most heroes were simply shoehorned into generic brawlers, blasters and platformers. Developers 
 casually toyed with Marvel and DC licenses but never allowing players to really feel like their 
 inky heroes. Happily, all that changed with 2004's Spider-Man 2, where a beautifully realised virtual 
 Manhattan was Spidey's sprawling playground, giving gamers full control over his signature moves 
 and delirious web slinging. And with the release of Sam Raimi's new flick comes another chance 
 to slip into the web-head's taut pants, in a gripping adventure that deftly polishes the earlier 
 game's rough edges.
  
  This time, the most obvious change is the interactive cinematics that punctuate your swinging and 
 capture the film's most thrilling sequences; when Peter Parker first encounters the New Goblin, 
 for example, and the action cuts to a lightning-paced in-game film, players are challenged to hit 
 buttons in time with an on-screen indicator   la God Of War  letting you steer the cutscene 
 and play an active role in the game's most visually striking moments.
  
  Even better, the expansive digital city is almost three times bigger than before, giving players 
 more scope for exploration and even allowing you to chase The Lizard through Manhattan's subterranean 
 sewers. The random challenges you encounter while wall-crawling have also been tweaked, the last 
 instalment's tedious pizza-delivery minigames replaced by violent gang battles that allow players 
 to stray from the movie plot and pummel NYC's lowlife. And when it comes to battering the bad guys 
 Spidey's new black outfit adds depth to the traditional fisticuffs, providing a huge range of dark 
 moves to master that are more brutal than the webmaster's normal attacks and skilfully convey the 
 rage that comes from wearing his shadowy suit.
  
  If there's any criticism here it's that Spider-Man 3 is overly familiar, an incremental evolution 
 of the franchise rather than a revolutionary new approach. But for the chance to feel like the 
 super-powered guardian of a buzzing city, this is essential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-Ninja
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  There are several problems with the Spiderman 3 game, it glitches, it's ugly, its rubbish game 
 play, and it glitches AGAIN.
  
  I chose to ignore all the warnings, and buy it any way, I learned my lesson.
  
  Spiderman 3 
 is not a game that you should buy, instead you should rent it for a night, because one night is 
 all that it would take for you to get bored of it and realize all it's unrealized potential.
  
  The fighting system within the game is weak, you'll find yourself button bashing until you 
 need to go to hospital to fix the massive cramp in your thumb. And that's when you're not getting 
 your killed by three thugs with baseball bats.
  
  It's storyline is even weaker you spend your whole time either watching poor graphics of Peter 
 Parker getting bullied, chasing super villains, and even more button bashing when you take them 
 on (this is where the cramps and several swear words come in.) or taking photos.
  
  Even if you decide to ignore storylines and go web-slinging across New York, you'll find yourself 
 climbing thin air, or randomly falling off a building or being told to save a guy from falling 
 to his death, or taking a man to hospital, or helping a little old lady cross the street (not really 
 but that's how lame the rest of it is.)
  
  In short this is an Xbox original B class game at best. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Whats good about Spider-Man 3 is its graphics and sound. Swinging to in New York city is also fun 
 and what you'll be doing mostly in the game. The combat system though is bad and real boring. Sure, 
 theres a lot of decent moves you can do but doing them sometimes can be a pain. The button pressing 
 events (I don't know how they are called) similar to God of War or God of War II can be fun to 
 watch although at times, its quite difficult or frustrating although the good is that the buttons 
 you press are all fix so that means if you restart, the buttons your going to press are the same. 
 Boss battles in the game aren't fun and they can be certainly frustrating or take a long time to 
 finish. At times even, when you die and manage to deal a lot of damage to the certain boss, you 
 will have to restart at the begginning which is quite frustrating. The games graphics though aren't 
 that good but the draw distance is far enough to make the game better. What's best about the graphics 
 of Spider-Man 3 is its lighting which looks absolutely great. Other than that, all other things 
 in the game doesn't look that good. The sounds are better although you'll be probably hearing the 
 same music over and over again.
  
  You shouldn't buy Spider-Man 3 unless you really want it or your a die hard fan of the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Papp
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  the game was boring right from the start, most games based off of movies suck, and this game is 
 another reminder why. 
  
  baddies were too goofy, spiderman kept saying the same 5 insults in combat, the game is a breeze 
 but then some missions are insane (king pin) . Laziness on the part of the producers is clear, i 
 got stuck in a paradox where it wouldn't give me any new missions because it said i didn't complete 
 the old ones, and it wouldn't even let me do them again! 
  
  after that i put the game down and didn't play it again.
  
  i recommend playing spiderman 2 
 if you haven't already and you want a good spiderman game, I'm sure it is backwards compatible 
 with the 360 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 14, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  For the most part Spiderman games have been good. I enjoyed the Super Nintendo one and I really 
 enjoyed the last one on the PS2. So naturally I rented this one after watching it this with great 
 enthusiasm!
  
  What have they done?!? Behold the review... or really the list of problems with game followed by 
 a review of whats good... which isn't much!
  
  One of the funnest things about the Spideman game last time was web slinging all around town! What 
 a rush! Now its been nerfed! You can do some more fancy slinging but its not as fast or as "Free" 
 as it was before. It feels slower, harder to control and limited. Which is a major blow to the 
 game. I mean thats your travel! Unless you wanna take a bus.
  
  Another major problem I have is the story. Usually I could care about how off a story is. In games 
 and movies they separate themselves from things like comics so you the person watching/playing 
 benefit so you enjoy what your doing. But the story was so weird and off pace I was just like "OOOOK??? 
 Just tell me who to fight this is stupid!"
  
  And yet ANOTHER painful aspect depending on how you take it is the fighting system. More game haev 
 more complex fighting move.... "Hit X+Y+RB+Y then hold RT and tap X three time to do a spin kick! 
 ", ok thats not really a move but it could have been! I just want a fun fighting system. Not some 
 advanced martial arts class where I have to master remembering 400 moves.
  
  Finally the last thing that I don't get why developers mess up is the camera! If I am fighting 
 someone and the run behind me.... LET THE CAMERA TRACK THE ENEMY! I hate having to adjust the camera 
 while I am fighting someone, especially when this game makes fighting a pain! 
  
  So.... whats good about it you say? Well the game has lots of missions. Decent graphics (ignore 
 the drop in FPS) and its Spiderman! Thats about it. Want an honest opinion? Go buy Spiderman 2 
 in a Bargain Bin! Its much more worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:39 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is the second game I've played with regards to the franchise. This game at first will 
 entertain you because of great graphics such as the cutscenes and the tall towers in new york. 
 But it really gets boring later on because of its old and never dying concept of beat'em up which 
 is really disappointing since they did not even add something new to the gameplay. Although swinging 
 around buildings while doing neat stunts in the air is cool and pleasurable, it's still not enough 
 to cover all the bad points of the game.
  
  Graphics: In terms of graphics, all I can say is this is the best in its series. Although the map 
 is a little bit smaller compared to the earlier game; Ultimate Spiderman.
  
  Sounds: Great voice acting. The jokes never get old even with spidey always mentioning them.
 
  
  Gameplay: Very disappointing, end of the story.
  
  Overall: Not really worth it since it has only improve its graphics but is a nice game to get if 
 you are a true fan of our friendly neighborhood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 was a good movie, not the best follow up to Spiderman 2, but a good movie. But the 
 video game adaptation, like almost all movie based games, is pretty horrible. Gameplay: A free 
 roaming action adventure game like the SP2, Spiderman 3 doesn't do it's job very well. It follows 
 the story of the movie hardly at all and instead puts you against the most ridiculous clash of 
 supervillain storylines instead. The button mashing sequences are the worst, in my opinion. They 
 come without warning and grate on your nerves after a while. The combat is lame and repetitive. 
 Throughout my expierence, the controller wouldn't respond well in combat and really started to 
 screw me over. They put you up against dozens of thugs at certain points and want you to take them 
 all on at once. You're Not Superman! And the camera is nauseating and screwed up as well. Graphics: 
 Definitely not next gen. The character models look bad and the city doesn't have much detail. On 
 the up side, you'll get to vist landmarks from the film: Daily Bugel, Peter's Apartment, Church, 
 Finale Construction Site, and The Osborne Townhouse (Goblin Lair) . Sound: Okay, but a little repetitive. 
 Tobey Maguire's okay, so is James Franco. J. K. Simmons is terrific! Topher Grace is passable. What 
 was up with Grace anyway? He seemed like he didn't like recording for the game. I mean he did want 
 to play Venom (Even though SP3's Venom is that great) . I mean, it's not like they're going to make 
 a That 70's Show video game. Overall: Worth it for some of the achievements for the 360 version, 
 but is very repetitive. Treyarch and Activision should spent more time on it. Worth a rental, but 
 don't buy unless you really want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoB
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Like many, I like spiderman-movies, cartoons and some games. But I am not a spiderman fanatic. 
 This game was really fun for about 2 hours, then it got old and boring. I haven't picked it up 
 in a long time and could not tell you what I was supposed to do. Some people like games that are 
 not linear, I am not one of these people. I like to follow a story, have a main objective in a 
 game and follow it through. I don't like having like 50 side quests that aren't memorable. And 
 this game seems to have a lot of that. ALso the graphics are horrible. It looks the same as spiderman 
 2 on the PS2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeybladeHolder
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 looks like a cool game but in reality it does have some issues. First the positives. 
 The 360 version of Spider-man 3 has 10 story lines meaning that there is a lot to do. The graphics 
 are not crappy but the 360 is capable of better. NYC is a big open world in this game and web-slinging 
 through it all is amazing. This time around, the actors were able to lend their voices to the game. 
 Now the cons of the game. Spider-man 3 has some glitches. For example, during a mission I had to 
 beat a couple of thugs in a limited time. I had beaten them all except 1. The last one was stuck 
 in a building and time ran out. The camera can also start messing up your view especially when 
 you are wall crawling. All in all, Spider-man 3 is a good game but it could have been better. Try 
 before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackbelt53
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Probably the biggest mistake that the trey-arch people made was their time limit. They rushed this 
 game so badly that they put it on the shelves filled with bugs. Not enough care was put into this. 
 I played the ps2 version and they have just tossed this version aside with the mentality that people 
 will buy this anyways. Thank god i rented it or it would have been a huge waste of $60.00. Last 
 game i would ever reccomend to anyone. (unless i really disliked you) . A message to parents, may 
 traumatize children ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roc74
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Spider Man 3 game isnt the best action game but still fun for average gamer and alittle more fun 
 for Spidey fans. Dont go expecting great game innovation or 10 star game when gettin this, but 
 if you are Spiderman fan either from the movie or comics you can still find fun with this. Graphics 
 are good, and going through some of the story plot is fun, but once they are completed, you will 
 lose interest fast. Even though it is an open world game, punching the same guys over and over 
 gets boring once game is done. The new button pressing sequence during the cutscences is cool new 
 addition to SPidey franchise of games, but after you mis a few and keep repeating the sequence 
 over and over until you memorized the sequence, it can get a bit bland. Fighting is a bit simplistic 
 also, wish this gets improved in future release. Swinging through the city though, as always is 
 still very satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylineboy33
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Now.. I love video games and i will give any game a chance. This was my first xbox 360 game so 
 it is speical to me. It may be speical but it doesnt mean it was a good game lol
  
  I thought after first 2 games the storyline would be VERY close to the movie... It was way off... 
 Missed a main characters death, missed fights, added extras which were dumb, weird combo moves, 
 short storyline.
  
  The game did have some good points which give it the rating I myself chose for it.
  
  VERY 
 good graphics. The city work is great very very good you can tell they put a lot of emphasis on 
 that... and not on the storyline... sigh again
  Decent... -and its thin ice- Decent fight scenes. That is about it.. the web action is alright 
 nothing special. Dont buy it unless your a spider-man die hard fan.. even then id hesitate to buy 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaosjak93
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Spider-Man 3 it was so in between good and bad but mostly bad and a little 
 good, the good is very good textures and New York city looks very nice, even the Black Spider-Man 
 is awesome because hes more powerful and jumps higher but do you think he jumps too high because 
 if you try to get over where your supposed to go you won't be able to make it because to jump too 
 high, the combat is a little boring and more frustrating because when your fighting some of the 
 bosses their's so many enemies before you fight the boss, the graphics for the buildings are amazing 
 because you can see the textures but the people look creepy looking and the suit looks perfect, 
 you can see the cracks on the road and you can see the some of the good graphics, the cars feel 
 a little glitched because when your on one of them they stop and go, why can't play as New Goblin 
 on the 360 version but you can on the PS3 collectors edition, this game doesn't feel like a next-gen 
 because of short story-lines, sort of bad game-play, the cut-scenes don't feel that entertaining, 
 bad voice-acting and Venom didn't die by the real sharp pipes he died by the pumpkin bomb that 
 Peter took from Harry, when your climbing a building it's sort of hard because of the bad camera 
 and it gets annoying, sometimes when your chasing a thug vehicle you will notice that a thug will 
 get out of the car but when theirs a car next to the car that the thug will get out of will get 
 stuck in a glitch he'll be in between both cars by falling into nothing then you'll be like what 
 the heck? If these problems were fixed their would be a good sequel to the Spider-Man universe, 
 don't get the PS2 and Wii versions of this game because the publishers released it unfinished, 
 you can get the PC version of the game if you want, rent the Game Boy Advance version of the game 
 because it's a better from the PS3 and 360 version of the game, the DS version of the game is the 
 best of the game, you can rent this version of the game if you want to and it's overall in between 
 bad and good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is the game based on the recently released film Spiderman 3. It sucks just as much 
 as the movie did. Obviously you play as Spiderman, which isn't very much fun. The combat is mindless 
 button mashing mixed in with some time button press sequences. The only reason to actually fight 
 in the game is if you're remotley interested in the story. The games story is actually better than 
 the films. It features some movie sequences, but you'll have appearences made by The Lizard, Scorpion, 
 Kraven the Hunter, and various others. Of course, the New Green Goblin, Venom, and Sandman all 
 make appearences. Seeing some poorly written character development playout is worth the inane fighting 
 sequences the game pushes you through.
  
  The game also adds street gangs to the mix. Of course, this just means more fighting with the lame 
 combat system. By the end of a session, you'll feel like breaking your controller because of the 
 poor responses within the fight mechanics. Atleast the button press action seqeunces work well 
 enough to provide some form of entertainment within all the madness that is Spider Man 3. The good 
 thing about the game is web swinging. This is the absolute best part of the game. It's easy, fun, 
 and can be done for hours. The only drag to this sometimes is that you have to drag Mary Jane on 
 your back every now and then, and make sure she's pleased . She says jump, Spidey asks how high 
 . Perhaps the most dissapointing factor about all this, is that the game doesn't warrant being 
 called next gen . It looks about as good as it did on the original XBOX. Everything bland, lackluster, 
 and poorly detailed. The best thing about the graphics is the true HD you get when you return to 
 the XBOX 360 dashboard.
  
  Any real Spiderman fan can see this for what it realy is. It's just a bad cookie to go along with 
 the sour milk that was the movie. If Stan Lee continues to sell out his intellectual properties 
 like this, he might as well just shoot himself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  well one day I was renting games, I happen to be a comic book fan so I buy a spider-man game based 
 movie well wort you cash. I play it, and it was fun very fun, but after a few days I find some 
 huge problems, they were bigger than queen latifa. the game kind of screwed up on the fight with 
 kingpin the button tapping parts are extremely unfair, you haft to be almost perfect but if you 
 think thats bad, on the last level it worse you just haft to memorise every button, and when you 
 fight venom for the last time its just ... well its total suckness with a bit of blowage. Ok now 
 you beat the you go back in the game, and guess what . all of your proggress is gone. you have to 
 do all the stuff again just to get back where you were. What the hell thats not even remotely fair. 
 so id rent it for for the small fun and the achievements, but don't ever EVER buy this game. So 
 whats good about this game well the open city is fun but gets old fast. mainly because you haft 
 to do all of those street crimes all over again. the graphics are good I guess. the combat is fun 
 when the bosses don't constintly block you but sadly that not that many. so yeah so don't buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tda503
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  so i borrowed this game from a friend. i'm glad i did. First ill start by saying that i think the 
 game was a blast, there are tons of enemys the storys are some-what good and overall it was a good 
 experience. the bad things (like gamespot says) are that the camera isnt very good and if you are 
 battling people and you cant beat them it gets to the point where you want to throw your controller 
 at your xbox. this doesnt happen alot, but i have been in the situation a few times. yes there 
 are alot of people in this game that have nothing to do with the movie but i still thing it was 
 a fun and good game. the voice acting was ok, sometimes it seems like (an example) things like mary 
 jane isnt actually the mary jane from the movie just someone who sounds like her, either that or 
 she just winged* it. but i think that it was a game worth playing. if you dont get frustrated with 
 things like battling people over and over (only sometimes though) then look into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Spider Man games in the past have been pretty bad. But Treyarch has done well with Spider Man 3. 
 The game is much better than I thought. The graphics and sound are great, and so are the voice-overs. 
 There are several different storylines that you follow throughout the game, including the one from 
 the movie. There is also plenty of exploring to do, as the game's environment takes after New York 
 City. The combat can be fun, but is rather bland. The web slinging is easy to do and learn. You 
 can do challenges and fight crimes while you aren't completing missions, but these activities are 
 repetitive and die out quickly. Spider Man 3 is a very short game. After you beat it once, you 
 probably won't play it again for a while. Spider Man 3 was fun, but way too short, and could have 
 used more variety for the combat sequences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryeinkazamoto
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is the newest spidey title and is based off the MEGA-HIT movie. Its a pretty cool game 
 but it just feels a tad rushed at times and not very well put together in some parts. Spiderman 
 3 starts of thrusting you in action. Of course that wasnt exactly smart seeing that it shows off 
 its not so great face graphics and odd camera. (Which is a constant pain within the game) . From 
 the get go, the game basically shows you what you'll be doing for the rest of the game. Smashing 
 down the attack button and then web swinging. For most spidey fans and little kids this is cool. 
 But for the more hardcore gamer, the game gets pretty lame pretty quick. The Music in the game 
 is almost non-existant to the point were you get tired of hearing spidey shoot his webs and either 
 mute the game or put on your own music (Via xbox's ultra cool media center) . And the cg scenes 
 where the characters actually talk make the game feel even worse. While character do look like 
 who they are modeled after, they have a strange deformed quality about them, and they just sound 
 either bored or too Hyped. The web swining is what you see in every spidey game, Not much has changed 
 at all. And while producers promised to give the game a new make over in the combat system, they 
 didnt supply. The game's fighting system is much like a button masher in where spidey just seems 
 to go crazy on his foes. While sure it looks cool, you find yourself doing the same things over 
 and over again, just slightly varied. The black suit. This was supposed to be the highlight of 
 the game. To me it was a huge let down. I was shattered when i found that the black suit is just 
 spidey a little beefed up on steriods. The main thing that the black suit allows for is charging 
 so that way you can do an angry attack (That most people tend to spam) . The combos vary very little 
 combared to the orignal red and blue spidey. The boss fights are for the most part the worst. While 
 colorfull and done with brilliant motion capture, they are bland and tend to repeat themselves 
 over and over again. For instance. When fighting venom (The last boss) you hit pipes to make loud 
 noises, then when hes stunned you hit him over and over again until he shakes it off. You repeat 
 this process over and over again until you get the little mini game where he dies (And he dies 
 nothing like how he does in the movie) . These kind of boss battles plauge the game and make it 
 frustrating and bland. Spiderman does try to do good things, and it delivers on the graphical part 
 (With the expection of the character models) , but just doesnt have enough to hold the hungry gamer. 
 Do yourself a favor and rent it first. I recommend this for renting purposes only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  This game was probably one of the better spider man games but the fun doesnt really last long. 
 It gets really boring after a while of fighting the same crimes and everything... over and over 
 and over again.
  
  I give this game a 6/10.
  
  The good - the graphics look really good the buildings are great as you are swinging throughout 
 the city everything looks really cool. I like the whole Sandbox type of style of game that they 
 tried to pull off. You can go anywhere in the city and fight crime bank robbers and stuff like 
 that is fun. Go to different marked areas on the map for different missions.
  
  The bad - the missions get repetitive very quickly... no much replay value what so ever. controls 
 are set up weird so it may take a little bit to get use to. And the voice overs... Boo!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdc1394
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is the next installment in movie based spiderman games. It is a game that you will 
 enjoy all the way through. It combines the good elements from the first two games, but it is very 
 far from being flawless.
  Graphically, the game is decent. NYC looks very good and spidermans outfit looks the best i have 
 seen yet. But everone not in a costume has bug eyes and they look bland, even the main characters. 
 The indoor environments look bland as well.
  The gameplay has improved alot, but again is not perfect. They're more combos and now you can slow 
 down time to do counter attacks. We slinging through NYC is still fun. Climbing walls though, not 
 so much. The camera goes wild and it is even worse indoors. Spiderman will spaz out and go anyway 
 he wants. Also the enemies are pretty stupid.
  The sound is good. Most of the voice acting is done well, but some is flat, like Toby Maguire.
 
  The campaign is pretty long, and the fact that you can freely roam through NYC increase the value.
 
  Overall, this is probably the best Spiderman game, but rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Its fun to swing around New York, city looks great, lots of side missions to do after 
 you complete the main story, most of the actors from the movie make appearances in the game, new 
 contextual mini games, has all the villains from the movie plus some.
  
  The Bad:
  Combat is boring and sometimes frustrating, basic enemies seem to just stand there and get hit, 
 camera gets in the way, technical glitches and frame rate problems, character models look bad, 
 contextual mini games happen with little warning, doesn't tie itself to the film well, side missions 
 aren't that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knuckln_Futz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This is the third installment of the Spider Man series by Treyarch. Featuring a diverse cast of 
 characters, crisp graphics, and an intriguing combat system. Much more since the last game, more 
 bosses, wider Manhattan, and much much more. The graphics are superb with a very beautiful lighting 
 in the city that brings the experience to a whole new level. The swing controls are much more better 
 since the last Spider Man game with full control of your swing, a better web zip and a very helpful 
 web zip boost.
  
  Now I'm not familiar with the PS2/Wii versions by Vicarious Visions but I hear it's very glitchy. 
 Anyhow the sound in the PS2/Wii version is horrible
  I mean J. Jonah Jameson answer call in the opening cut scene of Subway Disaster: Mad Bomber part 
 2, and the Mad Bomber (Luke Carlyle) sounds like, well a speaker voice. In the PS2/Wii version 
 he sounds like he speaking in the games recording studio still doing voice overs, what's up with 
 that? The camera is pretty easy to handle but the constant spinning on the PS2/Wii version is a 
 bad factor.
  
  The entertainment is pretty addictive but nothing to brag about, although progressing through story 
 is long and Movie story bosses are more like a privilege, they sure do pack a punch. Also after 
 defeating Harry in the air if you die in phase two of the fight and retry is health will be at 
 full and since the phase two is harder, it will be impossible to win which is disappointing so 
 it's one try or die. Since it takes long to reach the main bosses and that there extra hard it 
 seems like there extra bosses (which they aren't) .
  
  Replay Value: Moderately High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 borrows elements from the motion picture and manages to put in some other cool things 
 too. You've got the enemies from the motion picture such as Venom and Sandman included. As well 
 as those, you've got other enemies notable to Spider-Man fans. The Kingpin is another boss present 
 in this game from the comics. Pretty much, it follows along the same formula of Spider-Man and 
 Spider-Man 2 video games. This is another dosage of Spider-Man - this time making it onto Xbox 
 360 too.
  
  When you first pop in the Spider-Man 3 disc, you'll be presented with a few opening videos and 
 then put right into gameplay. Having started this game for the first time, you will come to notice 
 the various messages popping up on the screen. These are helpful at getting you trained and having 
 a good feel on what this game is like. You'll learn to do some fighting, swinging, jumping and 
 dealing with these action sequences.
  
  Now, these action sequences are basically fairly simple to follow. All you do is press the corresponding 
 button that appears on-screen. This is present in other games too such Tomb Raider: Legend and 
 God of War. It seems fairly simple but these sequences pop up at the most surprising of times. 
 So, you may just be in a fight with a really annoying boss and then you think it's all over. No. 
 It's not. You realise this sequence has just occurred and the time you get to realise it - you've 
 failed. However, at times it can be generous and let you have another try at the sequence. It doesn't 
 always work like this though. During the last part of the Kingpin boss fight, you are faced with 
 one of the hardest sequences yet. If you fail it, you are put back into the fight and the Kingpin's 
 health meter is increased a bit. This can be incredibly annoying if you do not have enough health 
 left or just don't want to continue dodging and button mashing any longer.
  
  For the most part, you'll be swinging and trying to find your locations. It's set in a rather nice-looking 
 New York. As with the previous games, you are allowed to freeroam and choose what you want to do 
 first. So, if you get stuck on one mission, you can give another mission a try. Usually, you'll 
 have a few missions available to you. Being in such a big environment doesn't make it hard to find 
 missions and activities. Thankfully the game has a fair map system that lets you pinpoint your 
 destination. You can only plot down certain locations such as activities or missions. This is done 
 by pressing the back button. The effect from this is pretty neat too. From here, you can zoom in 
 and out, toggle a certain location on and move around the map. Once you've selected a location, 
 you can press back again to get back to the gameplay. This time, it gives you a point on your mini-map 
 and shows you your distance away from the designated location. It works well but not the best. 
 At times, you'll be wondering if the location is really where it says it is. Sometimes locations 
 can be inside buildings or high up somewhere.
  
  Controlling Spider-Man works good. Swinging from building to building feels great too. The left 
 and right triggers work well for the swinging aspect. You can swing pretty much anywhere so long 
 as he can swing onto something. Having a building or tree nearby would usually indicate you can 
 probably safely swing. However, if Spider-Man enters an open area he will fail to swing. This is 
 perfectly acceptable and you'll have to go on foot for a while. Running doesn't seem to get you 
 really far and the main emphasis is to swing. There are various achievements for swinging so many 
 miles too.
  
  During missions, you may find yourself having to swing to safety to avoid enemies attacking you. 
 Unfortunately, at times, various glitches can occur. During my play, I often found Spider-Man swinging 
 suddenly from an enemy and then falling under the map - like he was in some other dimension. When 
 you do fight enemies, you are basically sticking to the Y and X buttons. The Y button does more 
 powerful moves and the X button can be used to dodge moves. Sometimes though, when you want to 
 get away from an enemy, you find that you are stuck near them because it still thinks you want 
 to fight them. Most enemies don't take that long to get down. A simple variation between the Y 
 and X buttons usually does the job. You can build up some good combos by using a specific string 
 of button presses. These are unlocked as you progress and are viewable from the main menu. Combat 
 can feel great at first but soon becomes too repetitive and annoying.
  
  As well as using the Y and B buttons in combat, you can use the B button to web an enemy up. This 
 temporarily keeps them trapped in a web ready for you to attack them. Enemies can be left hanging 
 from a streetlight too which works great and is often quite funny to see. Some enemies can be a 
 right pain to deal with as you may need to involve a lot of button mashing or combos. Other enemies 
 will continuously block your moves at times which can get a little annoying. Usually, bosses do 
 this (or they will use some other technique) to make it feel more challenging. You may often find 
 yourself building up your rage (this is used from pressing the RB button) which does more powerful 
 damage to the enemy.
  
  If things become too much, you can slow down the action using the LB button. Slowing down the action 
 only works for a short time to prevent abuse. It soon builds up very quick, thankfully. This comes 
 into great effect when you want to dodge attacks and fire from enemies. For boss fights, it is 
 recommended that you remember to use these techniques. There are various bosses throughout the 
 game that you will remember from the comics and motion pictures. These include ones like Kingpin, 
 Sandman, Green Goblin, Venom and more. Some of these bosses look great during the cutscenes too. 
 The first few bosses are fairly simple to get through but at times you'll end up getting frustrated 
 from the constant button bashing on them. At times, it seems like they've been given far too much 
 health. Not that this makes it a challenge - it just makes this seem more repetitive and longer.
 
  
  Some cutscenes are done great and a few comedic moments are added. However, some seem a bit obvious 
 and could of been improved in some way or another. Also, some of the characters depicted (such 
 as Mary Jane) could of graphically been improved. You'll see her mainly on the Mary Jane Thrill 
 Ride activities (this is a real pain when you get to it) . However, when looking at our main character, 
 Spider-Man, you can tell he looks just like you would expect him to be. Even in the black suit, 
 he looks quite nice. This suit you'll soon see as you progress through missions. You'll also notice 
 his attitude change because of this. It would of been nice to have a few improvements done though. 
 When you jump into a lake and come out, you would expect Spider-Man to be wet but he still seems 
 dry.
  
  The animations from the characters look good at times. This is clearly noticeable when you perform 
 combos on them. At times, they do seem to clip into objects though. During my playtime, I found 
 a few times where enemies would still be right there but were somehow turned invisible. There are 
 quite some glitches present in Spider-Man 3 and it would be nice to see these possibly fixed through 
 an update. Voice-overs are present for the characters. This is done nicely and it was great to 
 see Tobey Maguire work on this project. Many of the times you hear him speak - you recognise that 
 he is being Spider-Man. Although at times, some of the dialogue doesn't seem to be well-planned. 
 Voice-overs are present in cutscenes but also in the main gameplay. During boss battles, you'll 
 hear Spider-Man speak there too. This often becomes repetitive at times depending on how long you 
 are in it. The characters are often heard repeating their lines over and over again which just 
 adds to the annoying aspect of Spider-Man 3.
  
  For some missions and activities, you may not have to do much fighting at all. At times you can 
 play as Peter Parker. Simply put - some missions require you to take good photos using the camera. 
 The camera lets you zoom in and out to get the best photo possible. This works quite good and is 
 fun trying to see how you can get more points from taking a single photo. Other missions make you 
 collect certain objects and often introduce time limits. You may find yourself having to repeat 
 these missions again because of the tight time limits.
  
  It's not usually the difficulty or the time limits present in missions that often makes it feel 
 hard. The main annoyance is the camera since it doesn't always adjust for you (so, you are having 
 to constantly move it) or it gets way out of control. This happens when climbing and at times you 
 can't understand if you are going left, right, up or down. The camera system is something that 
 can be a pain and can possibly cause you to fail a mission or activity. I found the camera the 
 most annoying during one of the bomb activities. I had to somehow climb up a bridge before it exploded 
 but I got so confused on what direction it was putting me. In some missions, enemies also attack 
 you with exploding objects. If too many of these go off and you are right in the smoke, the frame 
 rate drops dramatically for a while.
  
  Overall, the game's environments look nice. The buildings reflect well, the draw distance is quite 
 good and the various pedestrians and objects look fair. At times, it does feel a little cheap. 
 There was this one moving ball during a Kingpin mission that looked like it was reflecting the 
 windows in the distance. However, when the Kingpin covered these windows up, the reflection of 
 those were still showing. It just seemed like it was not actually reflected onto it but just painted 
 to make it seem like that. You may often find yourself finishing one mission and then thinking 
 I need a break because of the frustration or amount of tries it took you. The added glitches and 
 frame rate dropping doesn't help either. Sometimes things run just the way you want it to but just 
 when that happens, the game decides to play dirty on you. There's a lot of content in the game 
 but some of it requires you to repeatedly go from one point of the city to another. Beyond the 
 missions and activities, you can collect various tokens scattered across the city on skyscrapers, 
 in the subways and other specific areas. There's plenty to collect for those willing to put in 
 more time. It lasts but certainly Spider-Man 3 doesn't necessarily provoke you to come back to 
 it at any point in the future. Not unless you are aiming to get all the achievements from it of 
 course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prtofdacrowd
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 is visually stunning and horribly addictive, more in depth story than the actual movie 
 means that if you havent seen the movie buy the game its about a 100x better!
  
  The gameplay is easy and is very straight forward to be the friendly neighbourhood spider-man, 
 about half-way is when you don the Black Suit, its faster, cool and more responsive to movement 
 in swinging directions
  
  After the game is complete you should have around 800 with the last 200 points on activites like 
 Bombs and Races
  
  Now being a game thats based towards children the actual race gameplay aspect is EXTREMELY DIFFICULT 
 and once the games over thats it, no replaying after the 20hr mark!
  
  Good Game Rushed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfredo_Sauce
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 4, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun. I love super heroes. I was a fan ever since I was a little kid. Spider-Man 
 was my favorite it still is right now. I was wondering when they were going to make a game that 
 you can travel with Spider-Man through out New York then BAM Spider-Man 2 The game came out and 
 I loved it. Then Spider-Man 3 came out. At first I played it for the PS2 and it sucked so bad. 
 Then I played it for the 360. It was so good. Better than I thought it was going to be originally 
 going to be. The graphics are alright. The environment is awesome. There's so many buildings. What 
 I like to do is jump from building to building. The fight look pretty cool. It's sort of unrealistic. 
 For example I'll do a combo to send them in the air and beat the leaving pulp out of them then 
 slamming them to the ground even if Spider-Man was a real person theres no way he can do some of 
 the moves he can do. Being Black Suited Spider-Man is cool. My favorite part in the game is when 
 I was able to use him. The cool thing is when you beat the game you get to start the whole story 
 over and use the Black Suit because you can only use the Black Suit for a limited time till he 
 turns back to the Red Suit. Swinging is really fun. I have much enjoyment going around and just 
 swing. The bad thing about this game is sometimes the enemy's can get stuck behind walls it never 
 happened to me but it happen to other people I know. Another thing was it was sort of frustrating 
 when Spider-Man react to his environment and you have to press random buttons that appear on the 
 screen. This game is awesome. I'll rent this game if your not a fan or just plain interested about 
 the game but if you are a fan of Spider-Man you will love this game and I almost will guaranteed 
 that you will love this in your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisBoi17
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 is a great game in many aspects but does have those minor let downs that make you 
 wanna through the game away basically. Some of the crime fighting is really good because you have 
 some great combo's to use which are really effective while beating down the low lifes but i cant 
 help but think that some of the missions are really poinless and very dull to say the least and 
 it does now and then throw you off the rails when actually trying to use the movie plot. But Spider-man 
 3 does have some good quilities such as boss fights some can be a little boring but some are really 
 intense and very fun to play and the actually City looks absolutely amazing New York really does 
 look very very realistic to say the least and so do the civilians they look very detailed and come 
 off really great. But all in all Spider-man 3 is a game with mixed reactions but still worth playing 
 because if you get passed the boring missions there is a lot of good sides to it that keeps you 
 entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teammojo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is not just another sequel of web swinging, it offers more lengthy missions, other 
 story lines and more variety. But the movie plot takes away from the game instead of enhancing 
 it.
  
  Graphics: The characters have a plastic kind of look to them. The level of detail to the city you 
 play in is pretty deep and the lighting overall is well done.
  
  Sound: Overall the voice acting is done well though a bit cheesy at times. Having Bruce Campbell 
 as the voice behind the tutorial stuff is fun. The game soundtrack does a nice job of enhancing 
 the action.
  
  Playability: When web slinging around the city you get a good sense of being spider-man but at 
 times controls get a little overdone and complicated in spots. The combat can be fun or frustrating 
 based on how fast you pick up the controls. You have to dodge instead of block which is also controlled 
 by a gauge which runs out when you need it more often then I cared for. Being attacked by multiple 
 enemies is more frustrating than it should be and takes away from the fun of the game.
  
  Bottom Line: If your a Spider-Man fan you will not be disappointed. If your not a Spider-Man fan 
 it's still a fun game but I would rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown2114
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Spider Man is back in his thrid movie based game. As usual with movie based games the game falls 
 flat in the movie based section. There are huge plot pionts missing from the game. In other words 
 you wouldn't spoil the movie if you played the game first. The game adds other villians to the 
 mix and merges the movie story line around it. The fighting controls work out pretty well, if you 
 enjoyed Spider Man 2's fighting system, it works the same way with some tweaks. Swinging is amazing 
 and is the best thing the game has got going. New York is also a great sight to look at. The main 
 problem with the game is that your can't start a new game after beating it. When you have beaten 
 the story in both red and black suit you can't begin a new game. There are a few extra things to 
 do around the city, like races, bomb tours, and combat tours. There are some cool additions like 
 using Peter's camera and playing as Harry for a short period of time. There definatly is a lack 
 of replay value. Bottom Line: Spider Man 3 is a decent game but it should be rented first to see 
 if you will really like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is not a groundbreaking game at all. Countless times plays this game I've felt like 
 this has already been done plenty times in the last generation of gameplay. It feels like an out 
 of date game with nothing new being brought to the table.
  
  The gameplay gives gamers an overall meh experience. Like it's just button mashing enemies or swinging 
 around the city which gets a bit repetitive at times. There are also a bunch of scenes where you 
 have to press the buttons that appear on the screen and it's very hard and frusterating because 
 the buttons only appear on screen for a very short period of time. Overall, Spider-Man 3's gameplay 
 is nothing new and you will be sick of it by the time the game is over.
  
  Also, the graphics in the game are pretty dull. It doesn't look like a next-gen game. You can't 
 even compare Spider-Man to Gears of War or Mass Effect. It looks like the last generation Spider-Man 
 games. There are different opinions on the sound in my eyes. The voice acting is not well done 
 at all and it's very annoying at times. Bruce Campbell as the narriator just bores me to death. 
 Whoever voices Mary Jane should never get a job again because she annoys me. The sound though is 
 fine. Swinging noises, gun shots, etc.
  
  Spider-Man 3 has good value if your an achievement whore. You can easily spent 30-50 hours getting 
 the achievements. The original storyline though is not that long- maybe a 15 hour game maximum.
 
  
  Overall, Spider-Man 3 is a been there, done that experience for most gamers. I would recommend 
 it as a cheap buy or a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdriscool
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is a good game with top graphics and good gameplay but it has NO ONLINE PLAY which 
 puts a huge downer on the game.
  
  The way you can control spiderman is pritty fun swinging through the streets of new york city! 
 The moves are the same every time though but you can unlock new moves and new swinging styles.
 
  
  The missions on this game are a good but there are some which are just so boring and you can antisipate 
 what will happen.
  
  The game doesnt relate at all to the film which sucks and some missions arnt things that spidey 
 would do.
  
  You do have a big range to play around on your own and you have a lot of freedom when swinging 
 around.
  
  This game is worth getting if on offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoooovie-land
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Alright we all know that the movie was disappointing with all of the crying and such for 2 hours 
 but come on the action sequences were good. the game is pretty much the world of the second game 
 revised for the next-gen consoles the games levels are different all together. there are like less 
 than 10 stories to follow, including the story for the movie. yes there is allot of stories but 
 the levels are disappointingly short. each story has no more than 5 levels. the action is pretty 
 much the same though you don't buy fighting skills you just earn them after completing levels. 
 but playing as the black suit is fun and swinging around and exploring is also fun. so just buy 
 the second game for $12.00 insted of paying $60.00 for the third game since its exactly the same 
 as the second game with different graphics and stories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximusPaynicus
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Before I get to the actual review, let me say a couple of things. First, I have always been a huge 
 fan of the Spider-Man games, going back to the Playstation titles. When Activision started doing 
 titles based off the films rather than the comics, I was somewhat disappointed. I thought the first 
 Spider-Man movie tie-in game was a disaster, and the second game improved significantly with a 
 realistic-looking New York that was to scale. That, and nose-diving off the Chrysler Building is 
 just plain cool. So when I heard that Spider-Man 3 will have, in addition to the city, over twenty 
 miles of sewers and subways, I was naturally excited. But, the question remains  is Spider-Man 
 3 any damn good?
  
  The first thing youll notice about Spider-Man 3 IS, in fact, the massive scope of the game. The 
 sheer size of the world (or in this case, New York) is something to behold. You have New York City 
 painstakingly recreated street-by-street, as well as having miles upon miles of underground to 
 explore. The most impressive aspect of this is the fact that, throughout the whole game, whether 
 you go inside or down into the subways, there is absolutely zero environmental loading. In short 
  you could jump from the top of the Empire State Building into the subway, and not see a single 
 loading screen.
  
  Unfortunately, that same graphical polish wasnt applied to the character models. Spider-Man looks 
 impressive, no doubt. Some of the major enemies that are featured in the game who ARENT in the 
 movie (Kraven the Hunter, Scorpion, Rhino) are detailed and look impressive. This throws you off 
 when you see characters who DO appear in the film, such as Harry Osborne and Lyle Van der Grooer, 
 I mean, Flint Marko. For whatever reason, the character models based off the actors look rubbery, 
 almost like youre watching action figures moving around. Their facial expressions are awkward 
 and stiff, and the overall lack of detail on the character models make them look almost alien.
 
  
  There are a lot of stories going on in this game. Of course, you have the main storyline that loosely 
 (like size 42 jeans on a 120lb guy loose) follows that in the new Spider-Man 3 film (which owns) , 
 but in addition to the films storyline, you have several others. Out of the bunch, my personal 
 favorite involves Kraven the Hunter doing what he does best (Hunting, in case youre an idiot) 
 as he pursues Dr. Connors through the sewers. Others include Spidey taking part in three separate 
 gang wars between a bunch of Warrior knock offs (The Apocalypse) , the Yakuza (Dragon Tail) and 
 Goth chicks (Arsenic Candy) . Each gang has their own storyline that spans several chapters, and 
 the only way to progress in the actual storyline is to go through these side-stories. This artificially 
 inflates the length of the games story, because in order for you to play through all of it, you 
 have to play through every other damn side-quest.
  
  This wouldnt be such a chore if the game was any fun to play. The combat system is broken. Most 
 of your fights just boil down to you tapping the Y and X buttons randomly. This monotony is broken 
 up by the new Spider Reflexes system, which only winds up being a whole new monotony as you rapidly 
 tap LB to try and time your reversals just right. This, by the way, only seems to work when it 
 wants to. Every once in a while, when youre on a mission, youll enter into what the game calls 
 Agility Trials or Strength Trials. These basically take from God of War on the PS2, in that 
 a button will flash on the screen, and you hit the corresponding button. It adds a bit to the gameplay 
 mix, and the bomb defusal minigame is actually quite fun. But its not enough to make up for the 
 broken combat system, and the camera that seems to hate you. And did I mention the camera? After 
 about two hours, I was starting to think I had insulted the cameras honor, because it was doing 
 everything in its power to kill me.
  
  The sound is unremarkable, but serviceable. The citys ambiance is very good. The sounds of cars 
 honking and police car sirens howling in the distance both add a subtle sense of realism, and at 
 times provide little hints to you that theres some crime happening. The voice actors, on the other 
 hand, are awful as a whole. Now, no one is expecting that every cop or robbed store clerk is supposed 
 to have an award-worthy performance behind it, but the named stars should at least . The best performance 
 in the game, by far, is by J. K. Simmons as J. Jonah Jameson. Tobey McGuire also did an ok job as 
 Spider-Man, but outside of those two, everyone else seemed to just be reading off the script, without 
 any emotion whatsoever. This further adds to the feeling that youre watching dolls act.
  
  But thankfully, theres no Kirsten Dunst this time around, so were at least saved THAT abysmal 
 performance. Yeah, I remember you in Spider-Man 2, you wretch!
  
  Easily the most fun you will have with the game is swinging around New York City. The physics that 
 the game shows off when youre swinging from skyscraper to skyscraper is second to none. But sadly, 
 this third time around that isnt even as fun as it once was. Partially because this is almost 
 the only fun you will have with the game. But all the while, there IS a certain timeless quality 
 to being able to get to the highest point in the world and jumping, only to swing back upwards 
 mere inches from certain death. But thats the only guaranteed fun you will have.
  
  If you loved the movie (like I did) , or just love Spider-Man in general, its worth checking out. 
 But if youre not, youll probably get very frustrated with the broken combat and camera. Avoid 
 if you can, play if you must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: go0db0y
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  In Spider Man 3, you get to play as the normal Spider Man and the Black Suited Spider Man. This 
 game is very similar to the previous game, Spider Man 2.
  The graphics and the sound is okay, but the gameplay is not that great. You feel that you could 
 do more bad things to the villians, you feel like the Black Suite is not completely different from 
 the original. This game tried to give us freedom with Spider Man, but you cant do lots of things. 
 Most of the people wanted to hit people, but they keep moving forward, backwards, side to side, 
 when you were trying to hit them. This game is actually really easy, I beat it around 5 days. After 
 you beat the game, there nothing to do, expect doing a sky diving and a kind of racing type mini 
 game. The WII lets you play as the Green Goblin, but in Xbox 360, YOU CAN'T. And in PS3, i think 
 they let you play as the Venom!!!! now that's a crap. Most of the comic lovers love Venom, but 
 if they dont have PS3, they cant play as him! they have to buy PS3 to just play Venom.
  
  This game is a terrible game, you get a little bit excited at the beginning, but when you progress 
 through the game, you will realize that this game is just waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Ultimate Spiderman is the best Spiderman game Ive ever played (and one of my favorite games of 
 all times) , but this is still a great game that introduces some great gameplay elements that the 
 other Spiderman games were missing. First is that you can take pictures without a time limit and 
 that they are a nice distraction from the action. Second is that while the fighting gameplay (which 
 is made from the ground up) isn't as fun as the older gameplay, it sure looks a heck of alot cooler. 
 You can pull of dozens of wicked awesome moves. Third is the Spidey can swim! Forth is the interactive 
 cut-scenes which are action packed and are really cool. The death animations are funny (ragdoll 
 physics!) , and they are the best cutscenes Ive ever scene in a videogame because they are so neat. 
 Sixth is the indoor environments. Seventh are that there are alot of missions you can tackle at 
 any time. Spiderman 3 approves upon the older games in these ways. Unfortunately, it is not as 
 good as Ultimate Spiderman. First, New York City is way too big. I know it is supposed to be like 
 the real New York City, but if they made it smaller, and changed around the city a bit, it would 
 have been more fun to swing around in. Second, is the fact you can't interact with anyone. Before, 
 you can run into someone and they would react. Heck, if you played as Venom, you can suck the life 
 out of them. Not here. Even in the first New Goblin boss battle (which is one of my favorite boss 
 battles of all time) you are fighting in the city, and people walk by as if nothing is happening. 
 Third, fighting and swinging aren't as fun (i don't know why, it's just me) . Forth, you can only 
 play as Spidey. (Yes, the black suit is still Spidey) . Well, in the PS3 version, you could play 
 as the New Goblin, which counts, but not in the 360 version. Fifth, Peter Parker looks like a depressed 
 alien zombie, but the graphics are still pretty darn good. So, while this game accomplishes in 
 many ways, it also fails in many ways too, preventing it from reaching a superb status. Don't get 
 me wrong though, this is a great Spiderman game and worth a rent. Buy if you are obsessed with 
 Spidey, you may want to buy this (although I don't think it's worth a fill $60) . So, that concludes 
 my review, and Ill like to end saying that this game is much better than the movie it's based 
 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  While a lot of people think the game isn't that much good, I like it. New features, better graphics, 
 and the ability to play as the black-suited spider man makes the game enjoyable.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - Graphics 
  With its better graphics, the game looks better. I was impressed with the farther draw distance 
 and better lighting. Also, the characters look better and more life like than Spider-Man 2. While 
 the normal review of gamespot states that the frame-rate gets sometimes problematic, mine just 
 played smooth with no problem. Some objects though such as cars look a little bland but at least 
 those things look better.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - Gameplay 
  While pretty similar to the first and second game, the ability to play the black suited spiderman 
 makes the gameplay better. Off course, like what gamespot states, the web swinging is fun. The 
 added button sequence or when you have to like press a button or push the analog stick up or down 
 is fun although I can say that it can get sometimes frustrating. Missions look good although should 
 have better designs. Boss battles are fun although can be really frustrating since when you die, 
 you have to restart at the very beggining of the boss battle. The black suited spider man looks 
 nice, more powerfull, faster, and has more health although I should admit that the black spider 
 man doesn't have much new addition.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - Sound 
  I don't much have to say anything to the sound but the sound is better. While it is better, not 
 much improvements has been really done to the sounds of the game although its appreciatable. The 
 voice acting looks nice but when someone will say something, I noticed that it doesn't much come 
 frome that persons mouth although at least it's nice.
  
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - With the games new additions, it looks better despite a few problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A55kicka
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  When I started this game the first mission I did was the lizard man mission where you have to track 
 Lizard Man and take pictures of him. Well sad to say this mission was glitched and you can't follow 
 his footprints, so I was disappointed right off the bat. The graphics are ok compared to other 
 games, although spiderman does look kind of weird, His Legs are too big for his body it looks like. 
 The web slinging is average compared to the first and second game. It's terrible how you can't 
 attack civilians in this sandbox game where you can go anywhere. That couldve made this game more 
 appealing and it definently wouldve made more money. Atleast in the superman sandbox game you could 
 move civilians and cars, but in this game you cant even do that. Overall this game was very disappointing 
 and I traded back in the same day. Don't buy it, mabye rent it if you are REALLY bored, but besides 
 that, it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonslayer22
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  We've all had our share of problems with Treyarch's Spider-Man games. Ultimate Spider-Man somehow 
 managed to make playing as Venom very little fun. Spider-Man 1 needed some better web mechanics, and 
 running out of webbing should have been a last-gen problem. Spider-Man 2 had a boring combat system 
 to go with its boring side missions. But they were all great fun, and some of the very best examples 
 of how to do both a movie game and a super hero game. Spider-Man 3 fixes all these problems. The 
 secondary character is fun to play for the short time you get him. The webbing mechanics are spot 
 on and slightly better than Spidey 2. The side-missions serve a real purpose this time around, 
 and they're all fun. The combat system is even better than Spidey 1's. In fact, I only have a few 
 minor problems with this game. The graphics mostly look next-gen, but suffer during cutscenes and 
 on some character models. In contrast, these are the best interiors we've seen in a sandbox game. 
 The camera is still an issue, but it's manageable, and rarely causes you to take damage as a result 
 of its missteps. Does anybody really enjoy the races scattered about the city. Getting a gold on 
 even the easy ones is quite a challenge, and they serve no purpose other than a minor achievement 
 or two. Overall, Spidey 3 is a fine game, and as most people have said, if you liked Spider-Man 
 2, you'll enjoy this one even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  If you read my other Spiderman reviews you would think oh it's just another easy and short game 
 well they changed that in this version of Spiderman 3 making the best Spiderman game to have came 
 out so far. The story follows the plot of movie better than the Wii version and adds other interesting 
 villians like the Scorpion, Kingpin, Rhino, the Lizard, and Kraven the hunter. Gameplay is really 
 good, but some the interactive cutscenes can be a little frustrating. Graphics look really good 
 too a lot better than any Spiderman game. It sounds good too with great music and not bad voice 
 acting, but they should get into it better (even though they've inproved their acting a lot) . I'm 
 not so sure if you would wanna go back through the story mode again, but you're gonna wanna do 
 all the extra side missions that are pretty fun. Anyway my final thoughts are that this is the 
 best spiderman game out and for once it's difficult and isn't short (it took me 11 hours to finish 
 it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 10, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  As i stated above, Spiderman 3 is like a parody of Spiderman 2. As in any good parody, all of the 
 core elements of the original are there, but with some hilariously out of place elements. SM3 is 
 plauged by glitches. One time, I was wall crawling when I realized that i had started to climb 
 the wrong building, so i pressed down on the control stick. Instead of turning around and heading 
 back down the building, the camera started to flip out and when it settled, Spidey was upside down 
 and had his back facing the wall, his arms outstretched into the void. When i pressed down again, 
 he started to wiggle around and climb down the building upside down and backwards. Another time 
 I was in a race against the clock. I'm finally going to get the gold, I thought. Not so! Suddenly, 
 for no reason at all, Spider Man stopped walking across the rooftop and fell onto his side, where 
 he put his hands and feet out in the air as if he was attempting to wall crall on air. He then 
 proceeded to gyrate about for 5-10 seconds before standing back up, causing me to get a bronze 
 medal. Still another time, I was web-swinging across a large bridge when suddenly Spider Man flew 
 from the bridge, flipped upside down, and started to float around the city. Yeah. He was suspended 
 approximately 3 or 4 stories in the air, upside down, and floating... until I tentatively hit the 
 right trigger, causing him to fall and splash into a lake. There are more glitches, but I think 
 you get the idea. By the way, all of those glitches mentioned have happened during the first day 
 that I played the game. The rest of the game is almost as unpolished. The graphics look good from 
 a distance, but when you see character models up close they turn out to look like hideous mutated 
 versions of their real world counterparts. This brings Mary Jane down to a 7/10 on the hotness 
 scale. But seriously, every character looks like absolute butt. Cars all look pretty good no matter 
 how close you get to them, but there is an overwhelming number of taxi cabs in the city. One time 
 I counted the number of taxis in the next 15 cars that drove by me. 11 of the cars were taxis, 
 4 were trucks. There isn't much sound in the game, but it really goes from good to bad. Peter and 
 MJ sound good, and Jameson has some good and some bad moments. The pedestrians are either silent 
 or voiced terribly. Even more baffling, though, is why nobody reacts to the things that Spidey 
 does. I just finished beating the crap out of a giant mutant lizard army, and all you do is stare 
 for a second before slowly walking away? Additionally, some of the achievements are really stupid. 
 There is actually an achievement for falling off of a building 25 times. Why is falling off a building 
 25 times a good thing? It hurts you! Plus, all of your spider powers make it pretty tough to fall 
 off of buildings. A mentally retarded baby could play this game through to completion without falling 
 off of 25 buildings. Finally, combat boils down to nothing more than button mashing. So, with all 
 of these flaws, how did the game manage to get a 6.7/10? Well for one thing, web swinging is still 
 quite fun, collision problems or not. Photo taking missions are usually pretty fun, although some 
 of them seem kind of impossible.. not sure if this is due to glitches, or just bad game design. 
 But the best, best, BEST thing about this game is the hilarity that ensues after the glitches. 
 Of course, I'm only laughing at the glitches because I rented this game for a week. If you payed 
 $60 and own this crap... well, the joke's on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrydandan
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Okay, now before i go into the negative points, i have to say that the Spiderman 3 has got good 
 things, you can web around New York (Amusing for only a few hours unfortunately) . And you get to 
 play as Spiderman.
  Thats about all the good things i could think of really for the game, unfortunately. Now for the 
 bad:
  Firstly the story is hardly in par with that of the movie, the animation from the characters (Including 
 with peter parker) are very... Plastic and alien-like, it's a little hard to explain. And finally 
 the story and side missions are nothing but annoying, having to press all kinds of buttons when 
 propted, sometimes when you wouldn't expect it (But this might be because of my own personal hatred 
 for games that involve these kinds of annoyances) But not only that, the story missions seem more 
 like a chore, than enjoyment. And finally, the achievements that you have to get are just stupid 
 sometimes, and just annoying.
  In conclusion, i would say that buying this game would be indeed a waste of money and time. But 
 that would be my own opinion, in all honesty, if i would only buy this game if i were a devoted 
 spider-man fan. (Which i regret buying, and is the worst game i have ever bought for &pound;40! 
 ($80!) indeed the worst thing i think i have ever bought and advise not to buy!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manosteel292
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best I have played all year. I played on the 360, and the graphics were 
 crisp, the game-play was fluid (if a touch repetitive) , and the story was well told (even being 
 that I have not yet seen the movie) .
  I really don't see why so many people had so many complaints about the game. What exactly were 
 people looking for? I think it does what it is supposed to: it allows you to play through the spiderman 
 story, while delivering on a well made game.
  I also loved the God of War type action sequences, I think they added a great element to the game-play. 
 My only complaint about the sequences is that when you are trying to hit the buttons in time and 
 in order, it makes it a little difficult to pay attention to what the actual move on the screen 
 is. Sometimes, I found myself hitting the sequence perfect the first time, and not having any idea 
 what I had done.
  But, all in all, I think the game was outstanding. I guess there will always be haters for every 
 game. I was just really surprised at the rating.
  To each his own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seancgn68
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  I was a fan of Spider-Man 2, despite so so ratings. The good news is that everything Spider-Man 
 2 did well, Spider-Man 3 also did well, and in some cases better. Graphics are are a step up, swinging 
 through the city is better than ever, and the amount of content will keep you playing for a while. 
 Unfortunately the bad things about Spider-Man 2 are back as well, not the least of which is the 
 jerky camera that seems to spaz out every time I get near a wall, and is practically useless inside 
 buildings. Although the graphics were of a different style in Ultimate Spider-Man, I actually enjoyed 
 that game more than this one. It is a shame they didn't incorporate more of that game's pluses... 
 the ability to real in on your web-line while swinging, and smooth camera action for example. Some 
 other minor complaints are the lack of much sound/music (almost silent while swinging through the 
 city) , and the inability to lock onto a target which were both present in Spider-Man 2. All in 
 all, I am enjoying the game, but it is more like Spider-Man 2.5. It is a little more polished with 
 some new plot lines, but basically is more of the same and nothing terribly innovative. If you 
 were a fan of either of the previous two Spider-Man games, you will probably like this one, but 
 just don't expect to be wowed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batmanfan2233
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  I was so excited when i heard of this game so i think you can imagine how i reacted when i actually 
 got it ;-) so i have to say this game is awesome you get to explore tons more than you got to do 
 in the last spiderman game old places from spiderman 1 the movie game are also in this game like 
 the subway where you have to fight shocker anyway playing with the black suit gives players a really 
 cool new experiance and now you can take photos of things whenever you like its quite awesome the 
 new fighting moves are superb especiallly the rodeo my personal favourite where you can spin your 
 opponent round and round and the boss battles are lots of fun too they have made changes to the 
 spider sense now which you can activate when ever you want it allows you to see through walls and 
 lets you see things you need to use to complete the objective so do buy this game coz its not a 
 total waste of money its WORTH IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleMan3
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Spideys back for his 3rd move outing and this time hes (kinda) givin it his all. Your back in cyber 
 NY city and its bigger than ever, which means now theres even more room for hours of web slinging, 
 that is if you didn't get tierd of it after SM2 and USM, which is one of the bad things about the 
 game. When SM2 came out back in 04, everyone was like OH MAN, i feel just like Spdiey !!, then 
 when USM came out a year later everyone was like, Oh.. cool i get to swing some more.. yea? , But 
 now that its the 3rd time doing the same thing it just feels like a choir geitting from place to 
 place. Now dont get me wrong i'm one of the biggest Spdiey fans ever and i still loved web slinging, 
 but the reason it was so great in SM2 was just be cause it was the first time you were able to 
 be Spider-Man in a free roaming city. But un like USM it uses SM2s swinging controlles which made 
 me happy. Now in this game the crimes feel alot more real, because you dont have to drop down to 
 someone and say, My name is Spider-Man and i'll be you'r super hero today to start a mission, they 
 just start as your swinging so you gata stay sharp. Also a new addition to the game is Gang turf 
 there are 3 different gangs in all of NY its about time which include an all goth girl gang known 
 as Arsenic Candy An all punk rock gang known simply as The Apocalypse and martial arts gang known 
 as Order of the Dragon Tail . Now whats different about these gang areas is every time you stop 
 a crime by any of the game there is an increse in that areas, as i like to put it, the Spidey Love 
 meter. As it goes up the people in the are react to seeing Spidey in different ways. like if the 
 meter is low people will run and scream away fom Spidey, but if its fillin up people will cheer 
 for him as he goes by, so its kinda of cool. The combat in SM3 is more suped up than ever. you 
 unlock dozens of different combos and attacks, But what sucks is that there are so many to remember 
 that you eventule just start tapping buttons... thats what i did... and as you do more combos your 
 Combo meter fills up, which once full lets you pull of a big attack. Now about 1/4 in to the game 
 you get the black symbiote, which in turn turns you into Black Spidey, (which brings up somthing 
 (just skip this cause i just rant about somthing off tipic) that always gits me, people always 
 call the black symbiote Venom, now i understand where there gitin at cause in Ultimate Spider-Man 
 the symbiote is called Venom when its made, And most just don't know that Spidey had the suite 
 First, so maby now the movie will help clear that up, Sorry) once your Black Spidey your stronger 
 and faster than good ol red and blue, but now your combo meter is replaced with your Rage meter, 
 and its kinda stupid how you use it, once it fills up you have to start tapping your sholder button 
 to turn it on, and sometimes it takes longer to activate it than other times, but of corse once 
 you activate your even stronger and faster than you already were. Now othere than random crime 
 missions you have Story mission and races you can do, And what was cool about this one is that 
 it has more Spidey villains in this game than theres ever been other than the old snes and sega 
 genesis game based on the cartoon) you Fight not only SandMan, Venom, and Green Goblin (i know 
 they call him New Goblin but in the comic he was still Green Goblin ;) , but also the Lizard, KingPin, 
 Rhino, Scorpion, and Kraven. But what sucks is that you spend more time playing the game based 
 missions, and it barley sticks to the movie, if you know what i mean. And on my finaly note, i 
 hated the Quick button push cut sceans, i dont know how many times i had to fight Venom over and 
 over again until i finaly got it right. Bottom line its another great Spidey game but the Game 
 play is gittin stale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitboxdude25
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This summer was full of big blockbusters. along with the oh so mediocre spiderman 3, there was shrek 
 3 and pirates of the carribean 3. I have to say, it was impressive.3 mediocre blockbuster games in 
 a row to go along with the movies.
  
  The day spiderman3 came out, i knew i had to see it. i traveled to theatres miles away, each one more 
 crowded than the other. I finally just told myself i would wait, and stoped at a theatre that was 
 in a mall. i walked in the mall, and saw the biggest line to the movies i had ever seen. boy i was 
 bumbed out. but there was a ebgames in the mall, and i thought about how good spiderman 2 the games 
 was, so I thought i was hold myself over with spiderman 3 the game.
  
  the first problem, no tutorial level. may not seem like a big deal, right? wrong. you are put in the 
 game not knowing any combat moves or web attacks. Im all up for some button mashing, but this was 
 just ridiculous. Then i started to notice more problems, like remember how treyarch said that you 
 would choose your own storyline well they lied. it may seem like you get to, but you only can choose 
 another storyline to play after you defeat a number of gang levels, or some other storyline.
  
  and remember how fun it was to web yourself on a helicopter, and fly all the way over to the 
 statue of liberty. well now you cant, neither can you go outside of manhattan. thats right, this game 
 is actually smaller than spiderman 2. although the buildings and visuals are much better, it doesnt 
 make up for pure lasyness. the fact that the statue of liberty is on the map yet you cant go to 
 it just grinds my gears.
  
  oh yah, and remember how they saud that the side quest werent as bland as finding some kids baloons 
 every 5 mintues? well they were only half true, the side missions are just as bland and booring after 
 doing them for a hour. see, the side mission clean out the city, and you try to reach 100% clean in 
 certain areas of manhattan. But i just couldnt make myself do it, i couldnt make myself do the same 
 3 or 4 short, annoying side missions to clean out the city. its that bad.
  
  the game gos from easy as pie to hard as hell. one minute fight a bad guy and they go down like 
 a rock, next minute the bastard just wont die.
  
  anyone expecting to feel how the changes of the black suit affect their character will be sorley 
 dissapointed. the only difference is your a little stronger, and you can turn red. big woop. in the 
 comics (and even the movie) peter parker is affected by the suit, in the game its just a black suited 
 spidey.
  
  the graphics are on par though. it looks alot better than spiderman 2, everything from building to 
 shrubbery to citizens are highly detailed.
  
  gameplay is 50/50. swinging around is much more glitchy and difficult if you ask me, still fun and 
 all but why change a good thing? combats completely lame. I thought spiderman could do moves better 
 than a gymnist, but he cant do anything like that in this one exept jump high.
  
  the sound is terrible. the voice actors sounded like they recorded theyre voices in under a minute. no 
 emotion, not even changes in theyre tone.
  
  value could be better, but could be worse. you can do those bland side mission if you want, or swinging 
 around the city is a time consumer
  
  this game desrves no more than a 5. maybee because im a fan of the comic book, and the movie and 
 the game butchered it, im over-reacting.
  
  dont buy this one, stick with spiderman 2 on the original xbox, trust me youll have just as much 
 fun playing that one over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud0830
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Well it kinda starts off like the movie accept not??? Anywayz this game is worth playing it dosen't 
 met up to spiderman 2 but it is still a fun game. Swinging around the city was pretty amazing the 
 town looks fantastic but the repetitive fighting commands were what really brought this game down 
 either kick punch or wait kick..... again, but yeah and the plastic looking characters were awesome 
 in a weird sort of rolie polie olie way, i don't know but this game brings a few new character 
 into the mix that the movie did not like the lizard, scorpion, and the kingpin so you can have 
 fun with that so overall this game is worth a play and you could get some easy gamerpoints from 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrgiggles92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Well, first off, this is the best spiderman game yet. I thought ultimate spiderman was good, but 
 this is better. When i rented it (sumer just started) , i also got prey. I expected to play that 
 and had somewhat lower expectations of this game. However, i was amazed. Combat is fluid, and quite 
 simply, the combos available are amazing. Almost as good as God Of War amazing. Yeah, they're that 
 good.
  
  The story missions, while not that well connected, are fun, and there's more combat (DEFINITELY 
 THE BEST PART&lt; EXCEPT FOR SWINGING) in side missions and random city missions. Also, if you 
 REALLY want the gamerscore, you can look up a map and find all the tokens, beat all the races, 
 and what not.
  
  What makes this game so great is that its just so much fun. When you become black suit spidey, 
 it just knocks your socks off. His combos are amazing, both to use and watch. He even has a move 
 known as the ROFL copter. Anyway, this game is great, and deserves more than Gamespot gave it. 
 I would have given the gameplay a 9, but this game totally deserves it's 8.5, not 8.2, so i bumped 
 it up a notch. If you have a week free, say during summer vacation or winter break, DEFINITELY 
 rent this game, you will not be disappointed. If you don't have that kind of uninterrupted time, 
 then wait for the game to become a greatest hit and go down in price, or pick it up in the bargain 
 bin/ used. It's definitely worth it. Just playing through the story and a few of the side missions 
 i've spent 17 and a half hours. Now that i'm going to look for the tokens and complete the races, 
 I can probably add another 3 hours to that. A 20 hour game for either a 9 buck rental for a week 
 or two, or for maybe bucks or less at your local game store (when it goes down in price) is a great 
 deal, when you consider how much content there is and how much fun this most recent spiderman game 
 is.
  
  P. S. - the interactive cutscenes a la God of War are also pretty cool. Whats cool is that in god 
 of war, it didnt matter what button the screen told you to press. The game will tell you to press 
 x (jump) , and when you did you would decapitate a monster. Jumping doesn't decapitate anything. 
 However, in spiderman 3, the buttons you press make spidey do what he would have done if you weren't 
 in a cut scene, he just does them cooler. For example, lets say you're fighting the lizard, and 
 you have to press LS to the left, A, RT, LS down, and B, the cut scene you watch would show spidey 
 dodge left, jump up, swing down under the lizards legs to behind him, and then web him. It's pretty 
 cool. (by the way, LS - left analog stick for movement, A is jump, RT - right trigger for swinging, 
 and B is for web attacks) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proskater40000
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is great. Believe me on this, you will not like it at first. When you play for maybe an 
 hour or so though, It gets really fun. Having the freeroam ability is a really important feature. 
 It kinda feels even a little based of the comic books a little. That is another good part is that 
 it is not overly faithful to the movie. I didn't really like the movie actually. It's good they're 
 actually thinking about the game and not just the profits. The downside to the gameplay is that 
 you don't get much reward for beating questlines and eliminating gangs or anything other than an 
 achievement maybe.
  
  Graphics:
  This is where it brings you in and spits you out at the same time. The environment graphics are 
 spectacular. It is clear that a lot of work was put into the city and level design but character 
 faces and hair were absolutely dreadful. Everyone looked like some kind of mutated gumbi. Every 
 character looks like they are made of clay and everyones hair looks like some kind of pixelated 
 bird's nest.
  
  Sound:
  Meh... sound was par I guess. Although voice acting was half hearted.
  
  Value:
  Ya know, 
 Spiderman 3 is still just another movie game. Big budget, but doesn't deliver and really, It's 
 just a way to make a buck on the side for the movie.
  
  Final Score: 7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The Spider-Man franchise is a beloved franchise amongst comic book and now moviegoers. The films 
 are nothing short of spectacular and the games based on the films have complimented them well. 
 The last installment, Spider-Man 3, is the best the series has to offer. The graphics are amazing 
 with a beautifully rendered New York City that almost seems like you're really there. The character 
 models and animations in both fighting and web swingin is spectacular. Now, the web swing has had 
 a major overhaul. The web swing feels more natural now and the camera zooms in for the ultimate 
 view of Spidey as he swings. The swinging animations look so life life and very much lieke the 
 movies. The story, as in all of the Spidey movie games, loosely follows the film. The entire film 
 is there but other missions are added. The Lizard, Scorpion, Rhino, King Pin and Kraven all return 
 in this game along with the different gangs of NY and the film's villains, Sandman, New Goblin 
 and Venom. Instead of citizens informing you of a crime, it's up to you to monitor your in game 
 compass and watch for random crimes. The gang missions can get challenging but they're easy to 
 overcome. One of the interesting aspects of the game is playing as the Black Suit Spidey. A whole 
 new different set of moves and combos are available with some hyper fast animations. Although, 
 it takes awhile until you get the Black Suit. The biggest challenge in the game is the finale. 
 Fighting Sandman playing as the New Goblin is a pain! It literally took me an enitre day to beat 
 him! Like the movie, Venom could've used more screen time. Also like the movie, there seems to 
 be alot going on but when it's over, it feels incomplete. All in all, the movie and the game are 
 both amazing and they complement each other greatly. But like all movie tie in games, there just 
 isn't enough to go around. Downloadable content would get this game going and some unlockables 
 would be nice (the only thing you unlock is the chance to replay the game as Black Suit Spidey while 
 keeping your completed game as Red and Blue Spidey) All Spidey fans will love this game and its 
 a great start for future next gen Spider-Man games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shismoov
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting months for this game and I must say I was very pleased when it finally came out. 
 This games graphics are awesome. So good to the point where I could literally count the bricks 
 on the buildings. The gameplay is not the best, as the camera can tend to jump around a lot, but 
 there are so many cool combos that you will shortly forget about how bad it is. There are lots 
 of race, bomb, and combat tours to keep you busy, but they tend to get a bit boring after a while. 
 The story is the best thing though. Although it doesn't flow as well as some may think it should, 
 It gives you the chance to go up against some of the more popular villains in the marvel universe. 
 If you like Spidey games, then you definitely wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtaatmiami
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the third game of the series and it is probably the best even though there hasn't been 
 much improvement from its predecessor. This new game brings hours of fun from just web slinging 
 to accomplishing the missions. The achievements are really fun to get and are not too hard or too 
 easy, they are just right. The graphics could definitely be better but it is the gameplay and the 
 fun factor that win you over in the end. The missions are relatively long and somewhat easy but 
 some may be a little puzzling and deceiving if you are not listening and scanning your environments. 
 The side missions are a little dull and a big problem that my friends and I have is that the disk 
 for some reason sometimes doesn't play. The storyline stays true mostly to the comic book contrary 
 to the movie. I believe spider-man fans will truly enjoy this and it would be better to rent the 
 game before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc_tkml
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  I recently rented this game for the sake of enjoying it because I am a fan of spiderman games &amp; 
 movie. I popped it in on my 360 and enjoyed every minute of playing after everything went down 
 the gameplay mechanics is bad you don't feel like you know what you're doing when controlling spiderman 
 especially when fighting bad dudes because it is pretty much mashing 2 buttons in conjunction with 
 the triggers.
  I suffered through annoying glitches swinging and had to turn off my console just to get it to 
 work and on the stage named PART TWO: CONNOR THE LIZARD glitch showed up I can't fight see any 
 alligators after the first five that I met when going through the tunnels I even tried deleting 
 the game and starting over but it just didn't work. I also rented another one just to make sure 
 that it's just not the cd that is the problem but to my disappointment -_- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmul82692
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Let's go by tackling each section:
  
  Gameplay: 8
  
  A button system that originally had me mashing, but proved to be uneffective. After i learned some 
 new moves, i found myself in almost all of my fights trying to but together specific combos and 
 ue specific attacks. Reviews said that the entire boss system is based on waiting for an enemy 
 to attack, and then dodging and counterattacking. you don't HAVE to do this. They bosses may block 
 many attacks, however, jumping and then attacking downwards and hitting them while they are getting 
 up is also very effective. Also, I found myself using spider reflexes in almost every fight regardless 
 of who i was against. The storyline is also relatively interesting. There are multiple storylines, 
 and each one ties in to the black suit's effect on Peter in many ways.
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  360 graphics are stunning, one of the highlights of the games. Not really a problem with the 
 graphics, but there are a few problems with the city. The lack of people creates an almost boring 
 New York. Also there is a lack of variety in cars. However the stunning building graphics and lights 
 at night give it a true NYC atmosphere.
  
  Sound: 8
  
  Soundtracks are interesting and battle music is very good. Not amazing music, yet not terrible. 
 The one main problem is that new york city, normally a city loud and full of life, is dead and 
 very boring, doesn't live up to the graphics that the atmosphere creates.
  
  Value: 7
  
  It's a good game, but at the standard $60, it's a little overpriced.
  
  Reviewers's tilt: 
 8
  
  The game is very good. Graphics will keep you interested while multiple storylines prevent it from 
 getting too boring. Essentially, it depends on how you play it. Button mashing gets old, while 
 putting together different move combos can be fun. A number of unlockable characters also makes 
 the game interesting. Web swinging is fun as always, almost making you feel like you are spiderman. 
 Essentially, the only REAL problem with the game is that new york city is dead, other than the 
 occasional music and police car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kurtisredden
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 is the game loosely (and I mean very loosely) based on the 2007 movie of the same 
 name. I'm sure you're aware of the story so I'm going to avoid that.
  
  Just like in Spider-Man 2 the web swinging is the best part. It seems like they spent alot of time 
 trying to get that just right because they knew that'd be one of the main drawing points to the 
 game..... and they're right. The city is much bigger than in Spider-Man 2 and when you get to the 
 very top of a building and look out at the city it looks really impressive.
  
  That being said it seems like they forgot about the gameplay.
  
  The mission set up is kinda 
 like in the Grand Theft Auto games, you have a few different choices of where you wanna go and 
 when you wanna do it. There are also random crimes happening all the time all over the city. To 
 progress in the main storyline you'll have to beat all of the other missions that have nothing 
 to do with the movie. The combat is really stupid. It's mainly a bunch of button mashing and from 
 time to time when you get a bunch of enemies around you it can become difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2243bearwallow
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman spiderman come to waste your 60 dollars spiderman.
  Everybody sing it now! AHAHA! :D Well, you want to know the truth about this game?
  Its actaully 
 not that bad. untill you turn your 360 on.
  First off. the good about this game. The games mechanics are enjoyable, and mite keep you occupied 
 for a little while. The missions are alright, and mite keep your console turned on just long enough 
 for you to fall asleep with your controller in your lap, And who am i kidding? This game looks 
 almost as good as spiderman 2! Its a start ;] Now let me tell you whats bad about this game.
  1. Graphics. Worst Graphics ive seen in a 360 game. On top of that, lag in some places. Ive played 
 the pc version to, and same thing. Graphics are terrobile and it lags like crazy. Thing is it was 
 played on a geforce 7950gt oced out and iced on 2 gb on ddr2 ram topped with a amd 64 prossesor. 
 Talk about rip off whenever a game that looks that crappy lags on a rig like that, but lagging 
 on 360?? COME ON.
  2. Gameplay is outwieghed by spidey 1 and 2. Come on.
  3. Graphics. Ugh. Just Ugh. Seeing emo spidey jumping off of a building has never looked so depressing.
 
  Thats all there is to talk about. do yourself a favor and make this one a rental.. just for the 
 coolness of saying that uve played it. Ohhh one last thing. There is one thing i enjoyed, and i 
 think that there was about 5 more minutes put into developing this feature then any other one. 
 Web slinging all over manhatten. Cept for the fact that you get cut off by invisible bridges and 
 walls. :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meto_360
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  i've w8ed 4 a long time 4 this game and movie 2 come out. I liked tha movie and tha game isn't 
 bad either. But in my opionion this game is could have been better.
  Tha games story is pretty losely based on tha movie. It has some influence from tha movie but things 
 have changed. And i don't have time 2 explain and i don't wanna be a spoiler. There r a lot of 
 missions up to 42. And tha more u progress through tha story u'll get more achivments. And tha 
 achivments r pretty easy and they r worth a good amount. But with 10 storyline's in tha game it 
 is hard 2 tie it in with tha main plot (2 see what mission's and cutscenes go in order) . And tha 
 game is long so it'll take u while 2 beat it.
  Tha graphics aren't bad. They're average rate. Now tha city has breathetaking views. But from some 
 distances tha city looks blurry. But tha character models during tha cutscenes r pretty ugly and 
 look half-finished and make u go eww.
  Now about tha gameplay... a lot has changed since spider-man 2. Now if u have 2 dodge u have 2 hold 
 tha spider-reflexes button and u'll dip tha attack automaticlly. But sometimes u have 2 move tha 
 movement button 2 move 2 a direct 2 dodge a certain attack. And swinging is fun. And ur able 2 
 go. Tha combat is just button mashing. But from that u can land all these hot combos and vicious 
 super moves. And i 4got 2 tell u there r 3 types of combat: regular, charged and super. And it's 
 pretty obvious what they r so i m not explaing. Now tha camrea... is **** up. It does a great job 
 wit tha swinging and that's tha only thing. But it does get pretty nausating climbing up or down 
 a building and ur trying 2 get a view of tha side, not only that it gets irratating, and it can 
 give u a headache. Now there r times when u'll see spidey do amazing things. Like jump and beat 
 tha life outta a boss. And it's cool 2 see. But it is os random. And u have 2 press different buttons 
 and u have 2 press it in time b4 u fall 2 tha ground or crash in2 a wall. So don't be lazy. When 
 u get tha black-suite it is awesome. U have a rage mode which is a 1 hit kill on goons. And it 
 is usefull against bosses.
  so overall tha game isn't bad. And if u like Spider-man get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HVPinc
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are really poor. At best its a good looking xbox game. It really just lacks 
 the next gen shine.
  
  Game Play: Not broken , as gamespot put it, but it is not revolutionary. Its really just organized 
 button mashing. You pound on the X and Y buttons for quick and strong attacks but they're really 
 the same, then you press B to either grab or web up a guy and then continue hammering on the X 
 and Y. The web swinging is rather boring if you've played the previous installments but its still 
 the same so for new comers it will be enjoyable.
  
  There is also the cinematic moments similar to God of War where you must press the proper buttons 
 to advance. Sometimes these can be fun but at times they are so randomly placed you'll die just 
 out of surprise.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is a little flat actually. Everything else is standard fair. The webs zip the 
 falls thud and etc.
  
  Value: Its a good follow up to to the previous spiderman's but unless you were ecstatic about the 
 first two this one doesn't offer much more. Although despite all these gripes the game is oddly 
 enjoyable for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -theking07-
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  At first i heard this game want very good, camera, fighting, yada, yada, yada! Then i bought the 
 game and played it for about 5 hours straight!!! I began the game with a lot of missions i could 
 do, so pick your own mission? THATS AWESOME!!! Its good because if you get tired of messing around 
 with the newspaper guys, or the cop, you can always go to another mission. Or just swing around 
 the gang areas and have a blast. The fighting system is great, not the best, but very good for 
 a spiderman game. All the combos you can do make it fun to beat the $hit out of bad guys. Then 
 the best part, the web swinging!!! Its just as good as spiderman 2, maybe even better!! Then the 
 upgrades, thank god you don't have to fight the same crime over and over again to get them. And 
 last but not least, the black suit. I think it was a mass improvement with how much faster he is 
 a running, an also how powerful. So all in all, this game is very good. PERIOD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:44 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is a game based on the movie of the same, and if you've played Spidey 2, you're pretty 
 much in for a modified version of that. THe graphics are cool, and you'll see many details in buildings, 
 which are really cool. You have a set of combos which you unlock through playing the game, which 
 is fairly broken, as it tries to go for the GTA do 'em when you wanna style of play. The missions 
 are all made up, seeing as the movie doesn't have much action. The stories are good, though the 
 fighting can become a little repetitive. Every so often you'll get an interactive cutscene, which 
 are fun, and these usually end a boos fight. The boss fights aren't hard, they are just tedious, 
 seeing as the AI is hopeless. The Black Suit doesn't really change the game much, and is just a 
 gimmick to make you play until the second half of the game.
  
  Basically, I suggest going and buying Spiderman 2 for your PS2 or Xbox, because it is loads more 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Developed by Treyarch and published by Activision Spider-man 3 was a pretty alright game. It didn't 
 really have the next-gen experience to it, the graphics still kind of looked like PlayStation2 
 graphics in this game. Now the pretty much only fun part is flying around town and fighting the 
 whimpy bad guys.
  
  I recommend renting it, if you'll like me and don't really know if the game is good or not. Or 
 have some Spider-man fan friends and they tell you to buy it and you're kind of iffy about it rent 
 it. I rented it and I didn't really like it and my Spidey fan friends thought it was awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HMFCJD
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  as i a huge spidey fan i was shocked to see that gamespot gave spiderman 3 a measly 6.6. But after 
 playing the game i can kinda see were they are coming from. The main problem gamespot had with 
 spidey 3 was the camera and i think just about everyine who played the game can agree the camera 
 sucks! It makes wall crawling no fun at all i mean whats the point if you cant see were you are. 
 Now the story, well what can we say about the story... it was poor they changed the story so much 
 venom capturing sandmans daughter etc. i didnt have a problem with adding game exclusive badies 
 though they just didnt do it well. the first spiderman movie game did a great job of adding new 
 bad guys and make it tie into the movie plot but treyarch went at it with the wrong angle. Next 
 the graphics, ive heared alot of people complaining about the graphics but personaly i dont see 
 why ok some of the character models are off but the one on spiderman is top class the new goblins 
 character model is equally impressive. Over all i enjoyed this game but i cant help thinking treyarch 
 were rushed slightly. I give this game a 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rildo_90
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I expected GS's qualms about this game to be entirely justified. I thought it would be 
 something easy for experienced gamers to find flaws in their games.
  
  I looked for everything that GS complained about, and could only find one thing wrong - The Kingpin 
 boss battle. I never found anything as ridiculously boring as this boss battle. It is, as they 
 described, a dodge-then-hit 10 minute slog. Thankfully I never have to do it again.
  
  While playing through S3, I looked for the framerate problem. I could not find it. I climbed the 
 empire state building, looking around all the while for a framerate problem. Could not find one, 
 at all. I went to times square at night just to see if the lighting caused a hitch. Nothing. Nothing 
 wrong either in the indoor levels.
  
  The combat, while you CAN button mash your way through, is quite satisfying if you want to do all 
 these cool spidey-typical moves (which I did) .
  
  One other thing that was embarassing about S3 was the voice acting. It was so lame I could not 
 help but laugh. His jokes still suck as well.
  
  I have to say as well, the graphics have improved significantly from Spiderman 2's (which is exactly 
 what you should expect) . It was a great relief to find Spidey's movements extremely fluid, and 
 the civilians weren't so excruciating to look at anymore.
  
  Overall my money was well spent providing an entertaining superhero flick fit to occupy me for 
 a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kantana_man85
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  So we have another movie tie in game. Unlike Superman: Returns this game actually uses the movie 
 pretty well. But like the second Spider-Man this game lacks finess. So now I got that crap out 
 of the way lets start to actually review it. Storyline is good, many villians (gangs, etc) , races, 
 combat tours, you name it your bound to find it some where. Controls are pretty smooth, camera 
 for the most part is functional except when your in a tight place and you decide to climb the wall 
 only to find that the camera turns and gives the enemies the advantage. You basicly have to finish 
 about half the missions to finally play with the black suit. The only difference is the suit feels 
 more powerfull, and theirs a rage mode. There are also alot of spidey villians, Scorpion, Kraven, 
 Venom (who knew) , and even Mr. Fisk. Some of these villians take a while to get through but others 
 you can defeat in the first mission (like Kraven but his battle is drawn out) . Graphics on the 
 360 are actually the best part of this game. The city is quite nice, you could spend 3-4 hours 
 just swinging around and beating up random thugs ( oh boy are there a lot of random thugs roaming 
 around) . So if your a spidey fan check this game out, this game may dissapoint some people ( but 
 who cares about them) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchPatriarch
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  With the 360's processing power and graphics engine, I would have hoped for something more than 
 was offered. Combat was poorly done as is in all Spider Man games on console to date, and plot 
 lines are numerous as are poorly thought up and pursued. Voice acting was terrible, with the exception 
 of some civilians and J. J. J. I wouldn't consider this to be a good addition to a Spider Man collector's 
 addition. Recommendation; wait for a Spider Man game that gets over an 8 on Gamespot. Ultimate 
 Hulk was better than this game. The only good portion of this game was really just the webslinging 
 and some of the bomb defusal missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XileLord
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  Roaming the city with your uber cool super powers, fighting off gangs who want to take control 
 of the city and killing off ten villains is a tuff job but at the end of the day this game is not 
 worth it. Ill be completely honest with you! no video game is worth spending your entire life over 
 but i do it anyways because my life sucks but that's a long story that I'm not about to tell. So 
 ill get to the point! If you don't like spiderman then don't buy this game and if you chose to 
 ignore this advice then when the week is over i expect a email saying that i am awesome and that 
 i was right about everything. Its fun roaming the city and fighting off crime but its not fun when 
 your done. I put 20 hours into this game and after that i went back to gears of war and super mario 
 world. If you choose to disagree with this review then that's fine because everybody has different 
 opinions but keep in mind that pretty much every major review site thinks this game is not worth 
 60 bucks. That's seven hours of minimum wage work. The graphics look nice but the textures suck, 
 the combat gets boring but the swinging stays fun. Get this game if you like spiderman and don't 
 get it if all you want to do is swing around the city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Sice the first two movie spider man games were a little under par, we all thought there would be 
 a big change in the series. That certinatley didn't happen. First of all the gameplay is hasn't 
 changed that much from spider -man 2. The fighting is the same button mashing system from last 
 year. They have added this new counter button that makes everything slow down and you can counter 
 attacks quicker. This gets real old real fast. Swinging is pretty much the same from the last game, 
 but thought it was a bit more sloppier. The graphics are the games strongest point in the game. 
 They are so crisp and clear and you can see every detail. The one improvement from last year was 
 the termination on of the hero points system. Those challenges in the old game got really repetitive, 
 it was a good thing that they didn't put that in the game. The voice acting is also great. all 
 of the characters sound like them selve in real life. Except for Kirsten Dunst. Over all the game 
 wasn't really good. It was a small improvement over Spider -Man 2. I don't think you should spend 
 $60.00 on this game unless you are a diehard Spider-Man fan that needs everything Spider-Man. If 
 you are looking for a somewhat fun action adventure platformer, spider man is a great game for 
 the weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links14
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This good is good because you have a lot of space to swing around and there is mini games while 
 you are doing a mission like you have a press the buttons the come on the screen. You get to do 
 a lot of side missions to like carry Mary Jane around New York, etc. There are a lot of new people 
 to fight and some of them are hard. I like the fighting in this game. I think it is the best fighting 
 of the three Spider-Man. Instead of buying combos you unlock them when you do missions. There are 
 plenty of combos in this game. The bad thing about this game is the camera. When you crawling or 
 running on a wall or building it goes kind of crazy. I think this game would be good for someone 
 that does not have xbox live because this game does not have xbox live. I think it would be pretty 
 cool if it did. I think this game gets a 7.1 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torgue21
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  If Youre a fan of the Spider-Man movies or games then you like this game. But for everyone else 
 this game does not have much to offer. Lets start off with what the game does right. The graphics 
 for the city are amazing and very detailed. You have a massive area to explore in the form of a 
 virtual Manhattan. From the top of the Empire State building to the sewers and subways below this 
 map is huge. It feels great to swing through this giant well-detailed city. But that is where the 
 good part of the game ends. -While the city is detailed and well done the character models look 
 like they are from the xbox and not 360 material. Especially the character eyes which bulge out 
 of their heads like an insect in some cut scenes.
  -Combat is fun for a while and there are many combo moves you can perform, but 95% of the time 
 you will just be button-mashing on the X, and Y buttons until your enemy is finished. -There are 
 also some God of War semi-cut scene moments when you will need to press a certain button or combination 
 of buttons at the right time to get Spider-man to dodge or attack. These tend to pop up without 
 warning and can get rather annoying.
  -The camera is worst part about this game. Seriously, the camera in this game is a bigger foe than 
 any of the villains in this game. You will be fighting it as much as any bad guys. The camera cannot 
 seem to decide between getting behind spiderman or allowing you to fully view a room youre in.
 
  -There is almost no real plot to this story. You fight one bad guy and then go fight another without 
 any real reason. This becomes apparent when you come to the movies storyline like Sandman and 
 Venom. In fact those two are only a small part of the game and only represent two missions.
  -In this game you will find a lot of choke-points or spots in the game that are extremely hard 
 to beat. These occur more often than one expects (you will notice this during the Kingpin fight 
 and the last Dr. Conner mission among others) Unfortunately there are no cheats so you are stuck 
 to having to bite the bullet and keep trying until you get it.
  -You will find there are lots of side missions including bomb disposal races, photo missions, etc. 
 In fact there are LOTS of side missions, but most of them get old after the twentieth time.
  
  Generally speaking this game is fun for a few hours. But once you have beaten it and completed 
 a few side missions this game grows old real fast. My advice would be to rent it because after 
 a week or so you will probably be bored sick of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomdogg
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Just in time for the movie release, Spiderman 3 finally hits the shelves. Due to the next-gen consoles 
 on the market, people were expecting a huge graphical and gameplay leap. What we got was pretty 
 much last-gen visuals with better lighting. Dont get me wrong, this game does have its moments, 
 but the disappointments greatly outweigh the fulfillments in many areas.
  
  The story of Spiderman 3 basically follows the storyline of the movie, but with many side plots, 
 some that are required to progress the main storyline. There are about 10 different storylines 
 that include classic villains like the scorpion, Rhino, the Lizard, and many others. Theres no 
 real plotline here, and the plotlines feel detached and as though they are trying to fit loosely 
 into the movie plot. Graphics- 6/10
  This is the biggest disappointment of the game. The graphics in this game are disappointing and 
 poor and dont stack up to the expectations very well. The character models look hideous, the special 
 effects are nothing special to look at, and the framerate dosent hold up very well on any version. 
 On a more positive note, the lighting is very good and makes the city look great, and gives off 
 a more realistic feel. Overall though, the graphics are all right but nothing special.
  
  Sound- 7/10
  The sound is ok but nothing special. Pretty much all the actors from the movie are 
 here except Kirsten Dunst. The acting is very lackluster as none of the actors sound like theyre 
 really into it. The only one who does is JK Simmons. His voice acting is very good. As for the 
 soundtrack, its ok but only has a few songs to it. Furthermore, the sound effects are ok, and 
 overall, the sound is just painfully average. Gameplay- 6/10
  Personally, Im not even sure what to make of this. The gameplay does have its moments but there 
 just arent enough of them. For the good elements, there are plenty of new combos to learn and 
 players no longer need to buy combos as they are gradually unlocked. Theres plenty of crime fighting 
 to do, and the huge amount of plotlines can keep players busy for quite a while. Theres a huge 
 city to explore and plenty of extras to find. Swinging through New York is just as much fun as 
 its always been and the swinging mechanics are very good. The end-game reward is also very cool. 
 On the other half though, the combat is very frustrating. Theres an option known as the dodge 
 move which involves holding down a button and pressing another button for a counter attack. Almost 
 all the combat relies very heavily on this, making the combat very frustrating. The camera also 
 gets in the way often and theres no way to rotate the camera either. At best, Spiderman 3 is an 
 OK fighting game with some issues. At worst, its just another cheap license knockoff that was 
 rushed out the door once again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman3 really held up the belief that movie spinoff games are horrible. It was nice to hear 
 Bruce Campbell as the narrator, and the first few missions were fun, but as the game progressed, 
 each mission got more and more repetitive. The free roaming around the city got old as well. No 
 interaction with pedestrians, or vehicles. I found myself just crawling around on stuff cause it 
 was creepy looking, although the camera angles on the crawling were lazy.
  
  Very tough in some parts, with no indication of why you were failing. I got lost a couple of times, 
 which was interesting in a linear landscape.
  
  Don't bother with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ele975
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  So, we have a perfectly good spider-man trilogy on the movies and 2 games! But wait? did i say 
 2?! yes in fact indeed i did! Because Treyarch were just selfish *cencured* who only sat down and 
 said Ok, WE can make Spider-man 3, so how are WE gonna make the game fun for US? They didn't care 
 about us first in the beginning! And here is the review for why so question
  
  First: The game itself and the gameplay is good, the combat ISN'T repetitive, if you mix it up 
 it's quite a good combat stuff. But the only problem in this game are the boss battles and the 
 incredible pain in the ass difficulty at some point in the game!
  
  The bosses aren't well thought through, it's like they just sat down and said Bosses are hard. 
 Let's make them hard HELLO! Bosses are supposed to be hard yes, BUT MAKE SURE THEY CAN'T BLOCK 
 SO MUCH OR HAVE INSANE AMOUNT OF HEALTH! They are meant to be fun AND challenging at the same time, 
 not block 97% of the time when you try to land a punch. What also is the pain in the ass when you're 
 gonna finish off a boss that special cinematic thing where you have to press buttons to make the 
 moves to finnish him off. I don't want that! It's to hard and you have to do it over and over again! 
 What also they shouldn't included are the RT LT RB LB buttons! For a strange reason i simply can't 
 remember them, taking me much longer to complete the boss. And if you die you have to do the whole 
 thing over again!
  
  Also, when you do the other stories there are some point where it's almost impossible to complete. 
 Like; Dr. Connors mission where you have to set the antidote to cure them all. The last dispenser 
 is the hive ITSELF, i tried over and over again to complete, but it's too hard! why? BECAUSE THEY 
 JUST KEEP COMING! To make it easier you can kill them off in one punch in Spider Sense mode, but 
 the major flaw there is, IT AUTOMATICALLY GOES OFF! what's the point of that!? When i want it off 
 I WILL TURN IT OFF MYSELF! Jesus, i mean. The problem there is when you do the first 2, they just 
 go on seconds. But on the third you have to hold on for 2 stinking minutes of hordes of lizards 
 trying to destroy a dispenser that has the crappiest quality of all. Just 5 or 7 punches from them 
 and it's broken. You can smash your hand with a brick and still functions better.
  
  So the review is, it's BROKEN! Treyarch, you destroyed a perfect hero game, get back to your Tony 
 Hawk game. WHERE YOU BELONG! And next time you wanna make a game, DON'T MAKE IT INTERESTING FOr 
 YOURSELF! That bomb diffusing was a great idea but here's the thing. I'm diagnosed (by a doctor) 
 as a Mild retard which made it VERY HARD to get all the info i needed to react in time. And i mess 
 up the buttons big time.
  
  So when next time (as i said) ASK YOURSELF how do we make a game fun for the players out there, 
 and easy for the Mild retards out there? Don't be selfish *censured* next time. Think through and 
 take your time. Or people start boycotting your games. Cuz I'm soon there to do it.
  
  PS: Just forget to complete For Connors Part 2, the last dispenser has a BUG THAT MAKES IT LOSE 
 IT'S HEALTH WITHOUT TAKING HITS! i carefully watched over it and it lost 15% of it's health without 
 taking a hit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venomous725
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The game is much like it's predecessor in the terms that you have the same moves for the most part 
 and little else has changed (except for the absence of shocker) the bosses are made hard enough 
 that it is fairly fun while some are more or less just an annoyance. You even find yourself fighting 
 lizard three times and it becomes repetitive, due to the fact he just repeats the same moves over 
 and over again. But in the games favor it does bring in some new functions, such as daily bugle 
 assignments where you take photos of crimes or other things and you then deal with the problem. 
 The black costume is also fairly enjoyable, though the rage mode feature makes little sense. One 
 thing that is annoying is fighting gangs. It's fun at first but then becomes rather dull and tiresome. 
 And one thing that makes me the maddest, you can't save at a point and go back, it autosaves and 
 saves on a single file and you can't create another. The storyline itself comes in after defeating 
 an insanely numerous amount of enemies. Most consisting of gangs. And the storyline levels are 
 by far the funnest. I'd personally like the game better without gangs and just bosses like Kingpin 
 and all of them, how often to you see spider-man fighting low class gangs? Anyways there are three 
 parts to the storyline, first one you fight harry, with your civilian clothes on. The battle starts 
 off a a push the buttons shown thing, where you fight on his glider, after knocking off a chunk 
 of his health the battle goes to the ground where you take him out the old fashioned way, and he's 
 no joke like he was in the film, one pumpkin bomb nearly kills you. So you have to heavily rely 
 on spidey sense. The funny thing is no one seems to notice you and if you don't watch out cars 
 will run you over, not helping your chances of dodging bombs. Next is the Sandman fight, you've 
 just gotten your black suit and it's possibly the funnest part of the game. He's not really hard 
 but fun, the only challenging thing is if he knocks you off the train tracks you have to get back 
 up before he escapes, and it's always fun to do like in the film and slam his head into a train. 
 After you beat him you get rid of the symbiote and the last part comes up called the grand finale. 
 Now this is where it doesn't really follow the film. Wanted fugitive Sandman is in the middle of 
 New York sitting on a park bench when Eddie Jr. comes up to him and says they should team up to 
 kill spider-man. Sandman is hesitant saying he doesn't want to kill anyone. But then brock says 
 it's an order and they begin to fight in the middle of the park yet no one notices. Anywho they 
 team up and you fight Venom. Unfortunately it's a simple fight, and like in the movie venom can 
 get wooped up on by a pole. So you hit a pole and he goes insane and vulnerable so you put a beat 
 down on him, if you don't hit the poles he goes into rage mode and you die. After you've knocked 
 off a bit of his health him and Sandman begin killing you until Harry comes. Now you're Harry and 
 race to save Peter. Sandman is simple yet again but fun, he's huge and you have to blow his arms 
 off with bombs. After awhile you get beaten up by venom and the last fight is at hand, Venom is 
 almost dead and you just have to finish the job the hardest part is punching the the button combinations 
 as ordered. Once done correctly he has a fatality death and is impaled by a pole. Anyways it's 
 a decent game and worth playing but has **** for replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorebashd
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Okay I was sceptical at first about this game. I have to tell you though it grows on you. It will 
 never be in the league with Gears of War, but i am having fun thats for sure. First off let me 
 say swinging around is pretty fun, especially when crime starts happening and you have to chase 
 after a car. The button pushes took a bit to get used to but laying out a deep dish of hurt is 
 always fun.
  
  The achievements are fun to try and get too if you are into that thing. Nothing super difficult, 
 yet nothing easy. The super splat master one was worth a few laughs, while trying to find a place 
 to splat on the pavement haha.
  
  The storyline was one of the weaker parts. I mean yeah it had parts that followed the movie but 
 I would have liked it to follow it a bit more closer. The battles with the bosses, some were extremely 
 fustrating due to the button pushes. If you were even a fraction of a second off, opps do it again. 
 maybe they should have invented block for this game.
  
  Anyways it was enjoyable, and you have the choice to just swing around and whop some butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscontrol489
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Yes this game is fun. Who doesn't like swinging around a city as Spidey... but this game is soo 
 much like SM 2 that it is at most a rental. Unless you are the most diehard of fans that much own 
 everything Spiderman, do not buy this game. You can get all you need in a weeks rental. The graphics 
 are sub-par. The camera is horrendous. When will the video game industry realize that when you 
 up the price for video games, they must also up the quality of said games. Look at upcoming titles 
 like Mass Effect or Bioshock. Those I'd gladly pay 60 dollars for. Those are next-gen games. This, 
 SM3 is an Xbox game with achievements that works on your 360. Fun, but RENT it. Buy buying it, 
 you only hurt the situation, and they will continue to make sub-par games at full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartcobra
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  activision and marvel presents spider man 3 and this game need very high level pc foe run this 
 game. Spider man 3 has great graphics and sound is like real sound this time spider man fight with 
 new enemies new green goblin , venom, sandman, black spider etc
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  and graphics is so good i give 10 out of 8
  
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  and sound 
 is really nice i give it 10 out of 10
  .
  .
  .
  .
  and story is too good i give it 9 out of 10
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  .
  and game play realy 
 good . i give 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamquah
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is the first Spidey game on next gen or is it current gen? anyway, it may not be the 
 perfect Spidey game or the best movie licensed game for that matter but it sure is a good effort 
 as this game is pretty good nonetheless.
  
  Gameplay - this game is like every other Spidey game released recently which is free roam. You 
 can swing around in New York. Perhaps the most obvious is the size of the city which is about 2.5 
 times larger they claimed. In this city are various missions thrown all over the place, some of 
 them are story missions while some of them are just there to waste your time. Like the previous 
 releases there are random missions only this time you don't have to talk to anyone as they are 
 activated on the go and there are more varieties to these missions. In all these missions there 
 are occasional God of War type of gameplay (those button pressing thing) . This is actually a good 
 addition as it creates variations in terms of gameplay. However, all these additions might sound 
 great but they also pose as setbacks. Many missions mean that interest is sacrificed. Most of them 
 feel like they are put there to make the game longer. They do not tell you which mission progresses 
 the story so you are forced to go through almost all of them. And because completing missions gives 
 you more upgrades so this forces you to complete even the most irrelevent ones. The AI is kinda 
 imbalanced, fighting street thugs can sometimes be harder than boss fights. You're Spider-man, 
 it doesn't feel right to hit human thugs five to six times and they still manage to get up. Some 
 of the boss fights are extremely tedious to past because you are only doing that much damage while 
 your opponent kills you in a matter of few hits. As many random missions as they may have, sooner 
 or later they are going to get repetitive. This is an inevitable phenomenon especially in superhero 
 games. Almost forgot, the improvement of spider sense that turns everything into black and white 
 is kind of cool but it will go off automatically after a while. This is very inconvenient especially 
 when you are chasing one particular vehicle amongst tens of other vehicles or trying to trace something 
 specific in the midst of being attacked by hordes of AIs.
  
  Visual - if you've seen the current gen versions perhaps you'll appreciate this version better. 
 It may not be top notched but it is not bad either although the Xbox 360 can do so much better. 
 The lighting effects is great with shadows and reflections everywhere. These effects give the game 
 a realistic feel to the overall environment. The characters are well rendered but they could have 
 been much better. Spidey is good looking with much detail. However, besides all the important characters 
 everything else just falls flat. Having lots of vehicles and straits all over the city is just 
 plain fun to be in because everything just feels more 'alive'. The animation is wonderful even 
 though a lot claimed that this version does not look as crisp as the PS3 version but they are not 
 noticeable.
  
  Audio - There's nothing fancy with the audio, just the usual stuff that you will find in a Spidey 
 game. Just for your information, most of the actors did the voiceovers for their counterparts. 
 Too bad Kirsten Dunst isn't in this one or the whole voiceover thing will be complete. Unlike Spider-man 
 2, all the actors just lack energy in their voices.
  
  Story - Storywise is not that good. As you progress along, you'll hardly notice a story is being 
 played. Perhaps it is because the developer is trying to avoid including spoilers but the story 
 is just too shallow and non emersive. The pace is just too broken because of all the additional 
 non-story missions. For example, one part you have Peter Parker making contact with the black stuff 
 but it takes dozens of missions before you finally get the symbiote costume.
  
  Overall - It's safe to say that this is an improvement over Spider-man 2 and maybe the best movie 
 tie-in superhero game out there. With plenty of distractions like races and tours you bet that 
 this game will keep you busy for a while. To think that they will be throwing in another Spider-man 
 game even though we haven't even digested this one yet. What's the world coming to? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryjameboy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  come on what did you guys expect??? it's spider man.... all you do is swing around and do missions 
 and help people.... just to let you guys know so everyone don't get disappointed if they make another 
 game. ITS GOING TO BE THE SAME THING!!!... come on who really didn't believe that this game wasn't 
 going to be like part 2 ?.... the only thing that was really different was the missions... and it 
 looked more polished then the previous one.... i don't know why everyone expected more from this 
 game?? what do you want him to do fly or be able to hijack cars or something ?just like the other 
 games ... its fun but after a while it gets boring just like superman, need for speed, kings row, crackdown, true 
 crimes, and any other game that copied gta gameplay style.... soo if they make another one dont 
 expect that much for change.... prolly a couple of side quest here and there or might add in a little 
 rpg element... but thats about it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manjo
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Sm2 was a good game filled with a good storyline, and cool fighting. What made SM2 so good was 
 it's replay value. SM2 had lots of things too do that were fun after you beat the game. Races, 
 Collecting tokens, fighting crime. Unlike in Spiderman 2, Spiderman 3 is a good game at first, 
 but after you beat the game there is nothing fun to do. The random crimes don't have as much variety 
 and uniqness. Finding tokens, and doing races can get quite frustrating. The storylines you get 
 to choose from in the game are a bunch a crap and there's no uniqness put into them. The game also 
 only relates to the movie about %5. Mainly the bad part of SM3 is there is no gameplay value after 
 you beat the game. Although, some things have been aproved apon since the previous game. Swinging 
 seems much more realistic and more fun, doing cool moves is much easier now, and graphics look 
 much better (duh, it's next-gen) . If you want a game just for achievment points though then this 
 is the game to get. There are 1000 points of achievments and about 750 points of those achievment 
 points are X-tremely easy to get. Most of them you get by just doing the story lines (which are 
 really easy) . A lot of them are just swing on 50 poles, slam into the ground 25 times, smash 25 
 items, and a bunch more that require no talent. Like gamespot said, SM3 is a step sideways 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  When Treyarch gave Spidey run of Manhattan in Spider-Man 2, it was a comic-book geeks' dream come 
 true. The only thing that could make it better is having a fully-realized Manhattan on next-gen 
 consoles. After all, with more horsepower, Treyarch could really stretch the limits of the Spider-Man 
 franchise. At least, that was the theory. In practice, Spider-Man 3 is a gigantic failure. While 
 Manhattan remains impressive, every other aspect of Spidey 3 is frustrating to the point of madness. 
 Having been raised in a proper household, I am loathe to curse. And yet Spider-Man 3 brought the 
 foulest language spewing out of my mouth. The camera is buggy, the combat is boring, and the mission 
 design is misguided. In searching for something nice to say about Spider-Man 3, I find myself a 
 little bit at a loss for words. At least words that don't get my mouth washed out with soap. Anyone 
 hoping that Spider-Man 3 the videogame somehow enhances the feature film will be sorely disappointed. 
 The storyline makes little sense in the game, with random clips and unexplained circumstances the 
 norm rather than the exception. After facing some of the seemingly impossible bosses, you may not 
 even want to keep following the story. It never gets easier and it never becomes fun. Aside from 
 swinging around the city, there's little else good that Spider-Man 3 has to offer. So, yeah, don't 
 get it. Take the advice of your friendly neighborhood editor and resist the temptation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hxc_jason
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I cannot stress how much Spiderman 3 has in store for you. It is truly a fun, addictive game, and 
 the immense free-roaming capabilities make this game highly entertaining. I am completely satisfied 
 with my purchase of this game, and I will be for time and time again when I replay the game. Of 
 course, there are several flaws to which this game has (i. e., bad camera, ridiculous bosses, continuous 
 repetitive play on enemies, etc) ; however, its playability and fun factor makes it all the worth 
 while. If you tend to go for games that gives you freedom with adventure-like aspects, this is 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is a really solid game, i think the gamespot reviews were pretty tough on it. The graphics 
 are definatly above average, swinging through new york is tons of fun. New York looks great and 
 is huge. Now for the combat system, the moves look really nice, and the spider sences are a nice 
 touch, but boss fights can be really difficult with all the dodging so, in that sence i agree completly 
 with the review. I like the RPG aspect, as you get upgrades as you progress through the game. If 
 the game was alittle bit easier, the sound was better and you diddnt have to dodge as much i would 
 say it would be a fantastic game, but as it stands, its prettygood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: For Spider-Man 3 you'll do a lot of button-mashing and having to mix it up with a few 
 combos, depending on your enemies. Besides that, you'll be fighting bosses (which boil down to 
 beat-em up) , avoiding cinematic problems via context clues (press A before it dissapears to avoid 
 something, and so on) , and disarming bombs (mashing even more buttons) ; among other unoriginal 
 ideas. The swinging mechanic is pretty great, but pressing and holding LT at the right time to 
 speed up seems too loose, and you never wanna hold A just to get a little bit higher, it just plays 
 awkward. The fighting itself, like I mentioned, consists mostly of hitting the right buttons against 
 particular opponents, and there's also a Spidey bullet-time which slows down time. The Spidey sense, 
 as they call it, is really no more than as stated, a bullet-time, and provides no sense of having 
 any attribute of a spider. Also, Spider-Man never moved in slow-mo in the movies when he sensed 
 something, he just SENSED it. Jesus. The fighting is forgiving, but the bosses become repetitive, 
 and very fast.
  
  Graphics: Spider-man looks great, Peter Parker and everyone else look buggy-eyed and it just seems 
 a little weird how it turns out. The city looks great, and vast, but why do the bridges just melt 
 into water on the mini-map? Seriously, look at it.
  
  Sound: The music is cinematic, just like in the movie, and really immerses you in that comic book 
 world. The constant remakrs made by Spidey and the grunting of all the enemies you'll kill gets 
 tiring fast. Finally, the acting is poorly done and seems like Tobey just wanted to make some lunch 
 money and get it done with.
  
  Value: The game adds in 42 story missions, a bunch of bomb missions, side quests, bank robberies, 
 stuff like that. None of the extra additions beside the main story missions add depth, and the 
 races are unbelievable, as well as the achievements requiring you to get gold on all the races; 
 simply impossible. The story itself is flawed and I hate how it doesn't follow the movie well enough. 
 You'll be tired of this game way before it's due back at Hollywood Video.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: It does do the Spider-Man franchise at least a little justice, the swinging is 
 great, but overall they really need to listen to the gamers and just make a side-game where they 
 don't follow a movie. Besides that, tighten up the graphics (anyone know where that's from? ;) 
 ) and pay Tobey and the other actors more for their time. I mean PotC: WE had imitation actors 
 and they did a better job than the real actors for this game; peculiar?
  
  Final Word: Rent it, don't buy, it unless the price drops to $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MurderB
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Fun swinging around the city.
  
  
  The Bad: Everything else you can think of. First of all, the camera angle is soooo bad, I got a 
 headache and had to take some medicine. What I mean is when your in tight areas (which is in alot 
 of missions) or climbing on a wall; the camera try's to follow spider-man and moves soo many times 
 you'd think your going into hyperspace. The game made my head hurt sooo bad I threw the disc in 
 the lake near my house. But that's not the only reason I threw it in the lake... I also did it 
 because of how confusing the game is. What i mean is there's tuns of mission marker's on your map 
 and none of them tell you what one progresses the main storyline. I mean, wtf? The main reason 
 i got this game was to get Venom (AKA Blacksuit) . It takes FOREVER to get blacksuit; and by the 
 time you do get it your head will be hurting soo bad because of the hours of gameplay you have 
 to do with the crap camera. Another thing, the missions are very boreing. Alot of the missions 
 you have to go though this long tunnel or place to either defuse a bomb (which is boreing and get's 
 annoying) , take pictures (boreing) , or just to fight people. I defused soo many bombs I thought 
 I was in the Police Force Bomb Squad. Also the amount of health the enimes take away from your 
 is pitiful.... I mean, your spider-man, your susposed to be this super-powerful super-hero! Although 
 that's not the case in Spider-man 3. When someone punches you once it takes away a good 1/3 of 
 your health; and it seems that your punches do less then theirs. What I mean is when you punch 
 them it takes about 30 seconds for you to kill them; and takes them about 10 seconds for them to 
 kill you i'm talking about a 1 vs 1 showdown. Yes you can counter but that's not the point. The 
 point is their punches do more then yours, which is messed up. Oh yeah, and about the countering.... 
 it's really worthless when 20 people are attacking you all at different times. I mean, whats the 
 point in countering when someone else is just gonna punch you and stop it? When you try to press 
 X to counter someone hits you, it's really worthless.
  
  Overall, this game sucks. It doesn't even deserve to be on store shelfs. It should be a health 
 hazard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayersdeath200
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  The game dose have some impressive parts to the game an example is you choose which scenario u 
 take and they implemented the real time robbery system in there. The gameplay is like the other 
 spider-man games. never gets old swinging around aimlessly then splatting to your death. the most 
 annoying thing of this game is the camera angle especially when you are on the celling and then 
 it goes weird other than that the camera is alright. There is another flaw in this game or it might 
 just be the copy that i have is where you are on the scorpion mission and it goes into a cut scene 
 but the short haired woman is in model mode and is being tested because her arms are out and her 
 hands are rotating and she is bending in both directions anyone else seen that glitch?
  
  The enemies do get quite tedious after a while but its still fun to bash them up with the new combat 
 moves available. the new combat system is better than number 2 because you have way more combos 
 and better moves and it looks cool. the city looks better and feels more like the spidy new york. 
 i was impressed by the draw distance on this because spider-man 2 draw distance wasn't great by 
 a long shot .
  
  The black spidy suit was cool it still looks better than the red and blue costume. overall a good 
 game but still needs work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Man154
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  this game has great spidey free roam mixed with boring or super frustrating throw your controller 
 (thank god its wireless) across the room frustrating. i know people say its easy but that means 
 its easy the 300th time!
  
  graphics: there pretty good but nothing special. every the only person thats not hard to look at 
 is spider man seems to be the only one they spent time working on every one else is... hideous!
 
  
  game play: i state this in my first statement, FREAKING FRUSTRATING. you will hit them 1 time and 
 the get bashed by like 50 attacks and have no health, or you will get them down to 1 hit left and 
 then they go a rampage and kill you! gah i want to break my controller in half!
  
  this is a huge spidey fan game, not a kinda spider man fan, or i liked the move fan, only for the 
 hardcore spidey fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_Smith343
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 31, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman has always been a sucker for games, He's been on practically every console, and evolving 
 as he progressed through his infinite lifetime.
  
  The biggest step of his evolution was Spiderman 2's game, where you could actually swing through 
 the entire city of New York, even though it wasn't nearly as big, obviously, it was still a hell 
 of a lot of fun. Not only that, but your web would actually have to grab on to a building for you 
 to swing, so no longer the swinging in nothing, making it feel more realistic.
  
  Spiderman 3 returns with this, some fixed things, and other things not so great. To begin with 
 the good, the swinging. It's not as big as an improvement as you'd hope from a sequel, but it feel 
 slightly different, giving it a more realistic feel while you're roaming through New York. Swinging 
 around pretending to be Spidey is a lot of fun, especially for Spiderman fans.
  
  Combat is better, dodging moves is easier with the spidey sense, but sometimes you'll feel like 
 Spidey does what he feels like doing. Beating the crap out of the people he feels like getting, 
 or sometimes just doing his own thing. It's about a fifty-fifty though, the cut scenes in which 
 you need to press button combinations, though simply, is extremely fun.
  
  Graphics are ok, but you'll barely get the feeling you're in a next gen game, and feel more of 
 a beefed up X-Box game. Kind of like saying, these graphics would've been fine on the Spiderman 
 2 game.
  
  The sound is allright, though no part of the movie soundtrack is shown. Voice acting is ok, Tobey 
 Maguire does allright, though his smart-ass comments make him feel more life like. Other characters 
 like New Goblin (Franco) , Venom (Grace) , and even narrators (Campbell) are kind of out of place, 
 the only one you'll sense trying is J. Jameson (Simmons) , as he brings great acting to his character.
 
  
  Playing through this game is rather short, it should take the average player no more than a good 
 couple of ten hours, considering that you'll get distracted by the web swinging, and the fact that 
 you'll replay quite a bit of missions due either to skill, but mostly game cheapness.
  
  As far as replay goes, the only reason one will feel compelled to play this more is either for 
 the X-Box 360 Achievements, or the PS3's New Goblin, even though you'll need to fork over ten bucks 
 for the latter, and isn't really worth it, considering that you'll get to give him a test ride 
 on the 360 version as well. even though short. What's surprising is that New Goblin is actually 
 in the non-limited edition versions of the game, including the 360, and even though short, his 
 code is still in the game, wouldn't it be possible to unlock him? Or does Sony want you to buy 
 it's products?
  
  All in all, Spiderman 3 is a decent games that could be fun for the average gamer, will appeal 
 to any fan, but isn't far off the one to two week rental, depending how much you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boobakra
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 31, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Spider man 3 has all the new things required for the newxt gen consoles.
  New missions like defusing bombs stoping the three gangs who take everey chance to finish you of. 
 You will fight villans like Kingpin, Scorpion, Rhino and the Lizard. Its a fight to finish even though 
 you will get stuck and it will be hard for you to carry on you must because its your job. Be a 
 good hero and the city loves you and give good remarks but not stoping random crimes will be bad 
 for your health.
  Even though the game has glithes it dose not fell that much when you are a die heart fan. get thhe 
 black suit kick into action. And forget the stupid remarks that the camera is really frustrating. play 
 through and you will see what a great game it is. At the end you will fight as new goblin and you 
 can replay all the missions as the black suited spider man, after you have finished the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: einarabelc5
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 30, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  If it wasn&acute; t for the crappy camera this would be an ok game. Not memorable, but fun to play, 
 but the camera makes it a nightmare. I&acute; m not surprised why studios like Blizzard take 3-6 
 years to develop a title but then it comes out right, yes with bugs, but damn this is like treyarch 
 4th title and the camera is even worse than the last one, WTF is the beta testing/QA department. 
 Probably because it couldn&acute; t be realeased much farther from the movie release the had to 
 rush it. No matter which way they go, waht I&acute; ve seen so far every time the movies and the 
 video game industries join forces the product sucks, no matter which way they go. In the end is 
 noticeable rushing what makes this game stink. Otherwise it would have been a FUN title. If they 
 can fix the camera, at least that would make it work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 30, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 is not the most anticipated game this year, but its anticipated movie strikes high 
 scores and its game.. well, lets say my spidersense is sensing a dissapointment.
  
  Gameplay:
  Swinging thru NY is extremely fun, if you played other Spider-man games for the PS2 
 etc you'll see that the controls haven't changed much when it comes to swinging thru buildings, 
 fighting opponents isn't rather fun tho, you have these basic indoor fighting which aren't really 
 new to the Spider-man game, I'd love to play on rooftops, punching down people off buildings.
 
  
  Also, there was a constant update on small minigames or sidequests you could do in other Spider-man 
 games, like getting a item a little girl lost, those aren't in here anymore, well, their here but 
 you don't do them alot.
  
  Also, the game manages to make a bad camera angle while crawling on buildings and such, and its 
 more annoying while fighting, this is costing you a point, Treyarch!
  
  Graphics:
  Stunning, the city looks great, all the reflections in the windows look great and Spider-man looks 
 awesome while swinging thin piece of spider-snot.
  
  Fighting looks less tho, the attacks you can perform aren't really stunning, and sometimes Spider-man 
 glitches out while in a battle, like he's standing still and is still able to move around, just 
 to name one glitch.
  
  Story:
  The story of Spider-man 3 doesn't come up alot in this game, nor does it try, it does have a couple 
 of cutscreens that try to resemble the movie (Sandman etc) and sometimes, older villains come by 
 to do some little plague's in the city.
  
  AI:
  People will let you punch them and stuff, they don't really resist or anything, they'll get stunned 
 when you punch them for a few good seconds, so combo's aren't hard at all, AI isn't really challenging 
 tho, I'd love to see more villains in the game besides a NPC Sandman or the girls in tutu's.
  
  Sound:
  I just have to say, Peter Parker sure knows how to pack out alot of lame one-liners 
 every now and then, I don't know why, if I was a spider I woudn't be as cocky as Peter Parker.
 
  
  Is it a good action game:
  It doesn't live up to the movie, but if you like the Spider-man series or liked the movie, I'd 
 say give the game a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espnrosters
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 29, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  If you can get past the bad camera system then you will enjoy Spider-man 3. It looks more realistic 
 than the past versions. Spider-man swings around the city just like see him in the movies. You 
 can even follow the police and EMS vehicles just like in the 3rd movie. The random crime is done 
 way better than the last version because you no longer have to go up to people and talk to them 
 all the time. The fighting system was upgraded some what but you still end up mashing your buttons. 
 If the camera wasn't so bad I would give this a 9 easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adriancostin83
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  This is not a bad game! I don't know why everybody says that it's bad and it's the same as Spider-Man 
 2. NO IT S NOT!!! Spider-Ma 3 is a great game and it's a fun experience. The camera is a little 
 off, so what? It's all about gameplay
  The game has 42 missions: some are very hard, some are very easy, so everybody can play it and 
 enjoy it, although it takes an above average gamer to beat it!
  The graphics are improved from Spider-Man 2 more than the experts say and the city is huge.
  
 Overall. it's got more pros than cons and if you are a Spider-Man fan, at least rent it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foller21
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 29, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  this game deceives you because when you see the movie first then buy tha game but because the movie 
 is so good you think is going to be good right. but no it is a bad game it was good graphics but 
 is very boring it's cover looks good very cool but it still deceives you it was good sound so on 
 a sale of 1 to 10 i would rate it a 6 so if you are a spider-man fanatic then buy it but if not 
 don't buy it. I have played the game at first it has really fun but then it starts getting harder 
 and more boring because they make the game too hard for new people plying spider-man games. But 
 all in all it's an average game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Church45
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 28, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is Treyach's latest attempt at Marvels web-slinging superhero icon. With Spider-Man 
 3 being on the shinny Xbox 360 you might expect a leap forward from the other Spider-Man games, 
 if so you will find disappointment instead of an impressive web filled adventure. This is pretty 
 much very similar to Spider-Man 2, you free roam around a giant recreation of New York City swinging 
 you way to the next mission. (Which is the best part of the game) You move from point A to point 
 B fighting baddies, which range from simple gangs to high powered super villains such as New Goblin, 
 Sand-Man, Venom, Scorpion, Kraven, Lizard, and KingPin. Sandman, Venom, and the New Goblin are 
 the only way this game ties to the movie. The story in Spider-Man 3 is a big let down. It almost 
 completely ignores theres a movie on the game. There are a total of 10 plot lines, one for each 
 villain and gang, The plots themselves are bland, boring, and random. They also seem to make no 
 attempt to tie together. It made perfect sense for the developers to extend the scope of the story 
 beyond they film, but they failed at all ends. The story seems to give you as much perception as 
 a trailer for the movie would.
  
  Visuals in Spider-Man 3 fall into what I like to call poor. The overall look of New York is beautiful 
 as you swing high above the city streets overviews the glare of the sun on building, or the living 
 lights of the city night, and the animation's of Spider-Man swinging are next to perfect. However, 
 everything else looks terrible. The environments are flat and bland, and the character models are 
 just down right abysmal. Every character in the game has next to no detail, and they all have huge 
 bug eyes. I was watching a cinematic in the game and Peter Parkers eyes made me think of The Simpsons. 
 Basically everyone just looks weird, and mildly deformed. This game just doesn't seem to be built 
 for the current generation of gaming. Strange texture pop up are constant, and unexcused combat 
 glitches Aunt May would never approve of. Enemies and even Spider-Man get stuck in weird invisible 
 walls or objects, which really take away from gameplay experience. The combat is just border line 
 broken, and Spider-Man just losses in all ways. As you swing your way around New York, you will 
 see little mission icons. Missions mainly include taking down a gang or super villain. It's a pretty 
 standard mission system, you complete more you unravel more and more missions to complete. Completing 
 mission gain you more abilities, we've all been there done that. So the whole game is pretty by 
 the numbers.
  
  As you progress through the games versatile villains you will soon discover the games greatest 
 menace, the camera. The camera is just not able to quickly snap behind you which is frustrating 
 enough, so you constantly have to manually adjust it. You have to mange your camera almost as much 
 as you do your foes. Maneuvering the camera around is distracting, and it freaks out if you movie 
 a lot in a tight space. The camera gets shaky and unmanageable. I can tell you I died almost a 
 dozen time all because of the near broken camera. Audio in Spider-Man is actually one of the only 
 mediocre quality's of the game, if you can forgive the New York streets for making less noise than 
 the DMV. Most of the films cast is here to replay there role. Kirsten Dunst is nowhere to be found, 
 but Tobey Maguire, James Franco, Thomas Hayden Church, Topher Grace, and J. K. Simmons all make 
 appearances. Simmons seems to be the only one that's enthusiastic about reprising his role as J. 
 Jonah Jameson. Maguire gives an OK, but generally, sleepy performance as Spider-Man/Peter Parker, 
 and the remaining cast all seem like they'd rather be somewhere else. Bruce Campbell shows up once 
 again as the witty and rude narrator but he's typically un-needed. The music during combat is often 
 exciting, and entertaining.
  
  Spider-Man 3's 12 hour adventure is just another addition to poor movie iterations. For every one 
 thing the game does well, it does about five other things poorly. Web slinging is the best its 
 ever been, but broken combat, horrible visuals, and cookie cutter AI forces this game down to poor 
 ranking. Spider-Man 3 does have its few moments, but falls to the ground and hits it hard. Steven 
 Beynon
  
  Gamertag: Church 45 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_loser15
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 28, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  The curse of the movie tie-in has finally latched onto the spider-man movie games and sucked away 
 some of the fun created by previous instalments.
  
  First of all, I feel that we have to scream at developers to stop using interactive cut scenes 
 I see too many games ruining cut scene's but making us interact with them with button and stick 
 combo's. It's plain annoying especially as spider-man 3 in particular gets it plain wrong by making 
 it difficult to tell when these moments will pop up so you end up dying and doing it again... great 
 you just ruined a cinematic moment by trying to make it more involving . Next time just let me 
 watch the dam scene!
  
  Now with that personal grip off my chest I can say that this game is not AWFUL, however it does 
 not help that a much better game is available on the previous generations system (spider-man 2) 
 The game does improve on the random crimes that generate through the city, the missions are more 
 varied and thank goodness they got rid of all those children who can't hold on to there dam balloons. 
 The solution to the crimes are a limited through, get back a ladies purse, disarm bombs, beat criminals 
 up, stop cars, help the police catch a criminal... and then beat them up. While there is more variety 
 in your objectives you end up doing the same things to solve them all the same.
  
  The main story involves the main story from the film weaved in with new story plot lines running 
 along side created for the movie featuring classic foes such as rhino to new gangs that activision 
 created. Nope of the plot lines (including the movies own story) are told well. Information is 
 missed out from the movies plot line and all the other story lines dont have much substance to 
 them. I also feel the voice-acting from the cast was lifeless however it never has been for these 
 games so I was never expecting it with this one.
  
  Spider-mans character model for the game looks fantastic. However the same can not be said for 
 the rest of the game. The xbox 360 and ps3 versions were made for next-gen platforms. This is not 
 a port from the previous generation so there is no real excuse for not polishing the game to a 
 standard that has been demonstrated with many games on both systems. I do agree with many reviewers 
 that the game was rushed for the movie release which is a shame.
  
  I would say to every spider enthusiast that you go check out spider-man 2 the game or ultimate 
 spider-man both available on xbox, ps2 and GC. Those games will give you a great sense of being 
 spider-man and both use better source material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonoyawns
Rating: 5.8
Date: May 27, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics in this game are probably the only thing the game does better than Spidey 
 2. Spiderman is nice and shiny, along with his environment, which is totally redone and extremely 
 detailed, adding a real world sense to the spiderman universe. The world is great, and Spiderman 
 looks better than ever.
  But the Cinematics.... absolutely horrendous. The animation is horrible. The faces look like blobs 
 moving. The attempt at facial emotions? Kills the feel. Peter Parker, and any other main characters 
 for that matter, are bug eyed, all with similar expressions (For some reason they move their heads 
 around, and there neck gets plump. I assume this is frustration?) I wouldnt say it is cartoony, 
 for it is just plain bad, but the characters are all overlarge, and their emotions poorly overdone.
 
  
  Sound: The Score from the Spiderman movie series, fits in great, but hardly ever plays. The Voice 
 Overs are great, and Spiderman's commentary is just as great as ever. Also, when the rare techno 
 kicks in, it suits the combat scenes well. Overall, the sound is good.
  
  Gameplay: Ok, so lets lay down some of the good points. Basically, every thing that was cool about 
 SM2 is here. That is good. It is still a lot of fun to swing all around new york, and climbing 
 and combat are still relatively ok. But the real error made in the way the game flows, is the utter 
 confusion of the entire process. The only way to attain new moves is to progress through the game, 
 a system hardly as well done as that seen in the GTA series. Basically, you check the map for any 
 quests, and hope they are there. The quests are, admittedly more exciting in essence than those 
 of SM2. But the thing that ruins them is the God-Awful camera. The camera is the worst enemy in 
 this game. You must single handedly attempt to manipulate it, WHILE going about normal playing. 
 It kills so much fun of the game, that it can make quests in small places disasters. Disasters 
 are not fun! However, the achievements are well placed.
  
  All in all, Spidey Fanboys will worship this game and do all in their power to ignore the horrible 
 animation and camera, and probably give this game a 9.9, however, coming from the standpoint of 
 a Spidey Fan with a sence of reality, this game is, in the end, just a mediocre action game that 
 gives you the option of web slinging as Spidey. This does great for the game, but by no means saves 
 it. Rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Wiifan
Rating: 4
Date: May 27, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I read the reviews. I ignored them. I've always enjoyed the Spider-Man games. They're just great. 
 So what if it's a basically the same. This can't stop it from being fun.... or can it? Well, I ignored 
 this pestering thoughts in my brain and bought the game. Now, all I can say is 'Wow I must be some 
 kind of idiot.'
  
  Gameplay: 4
  Spider-man 3's gameplay can be all summed up in one simple word 'sucks'. It's the just the same 
 formula over and over and over and over and over and over and over and yes.... over. Enemey comes 
 up, enter Spider-Sense, press the X button insanely. It's really kind of pointless the enemies 
 possess no challenge at all. Of course Spider-Man isn't all about the combat. There's also plenty 
 of other different aspects to the gameplay. Such, as your new Spider-Sense! It turns everything 
 around you black and white and highlights important objects. Non-Harming objects are colored green. 
 While enemies and other harming objects are red. How original! You cant forget the bombs! New to 
 this Spider-Man game is bombs. Lots and lots of bombs. As, Spider-Man you disarm these arms. All, 
 this disarming results in absoutly no fun what so ever. Really they're just hassling. Another new 
 edition to this Spider-Man game are whatever you call those things. Where your in the cutscene 
 pressing a single button to avoid ceartin things. This is actually probably one of the funnest 
 aspects the game. It's really entertaining to see Spider-Man fall to his death while performing 
 these feats. He crashes into cars, falls into fires, gets run over by a train. These things are 
 so much fun to watch that it actually brings up my Gameplay score by 1 point! Congrats Treyarch! 
 Finally, we come upon the swinging. What use to be a really fun addition has become something that 
 really isn't fun anymore. It's just not that amazing to swing across town anymore. I mean it's 
 been done in Spider-Man 2 and Ultimate. There's just nothing exciting about it anymore. In short 
 gameplay as stated earlier just simply 'sucks'.
  
  Graphics: 3
   
 kind of wondering why the heck developers keep on producing these types of graphics! The game looks 
 like a freaken PS2 game! This is just unacceptable. Look at Gears of War. Please.... make the game 
 look like that!
  
  Sound: 5
  The highlight of the game. It's that same great soundtrack from the movie. But, along with this 
 sound comes terrible voiceovers so yeah I got to give this a 5.
  
  Value: 4
  This game is really buggy. It feels buggy when I'm playing it, it feels buggy when I'm watching 
 it, it just feels buggy. This isn't exactly a great example. But, I'll actually give you one. Okay, 
 say Spider-Man just decides that it'd be a great idea to jump off the empire state building. He 
 jumps off and forgets to shoot a web. Woops. So, he hits the ground. Then, the game just sits there 
 for the longest time. I'm waiting for about 15 seconds until the words come up 'try again'? One 
 might argue that this isn't a very good example. But, this happens every time I die. It shouldn't 
 be happening either.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 4
  I've got to admit that i've always liked Spider-Man and I really really wanted to like this game. 
 But, when there are so much bugs, bad graphics, bad voiceovers, and bad gameplay dragging it down 
 the fun just isn't there. So yeah.... this get's a 4 for sure.
  
  Closing Statements
  Please, don't be stupid. Please don't think this guy has no idea what he's talking about. Please 
 don't I spent 20 hours on this game. Not, one second of that time resulted in any fun at all. But, 
 I guess if you don't like fun then you could definetly consider giving this game a purchase. Quick 
 Note: I know I misspelled a lot of words in this review. But, please don't let this misspelled 
 words make you determine that I really don't have any idea what I'm talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carbojnr14
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 26, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  Quite Good To Swing Around NY City As Your Superhero But The Camera Angles and The Stupidly Hard 
 Battles Make It Pointless, Wonder How Many Young Kids Will Actually Do The Story Mode? No Wonder 
 They're Starting To Put This Game Free With Console Bundles, In My Opinion It Isn't Worth Going 
 Out And Buying It, Unless It's Free Obviously
  Also The Stupid Nerdy Tobey Maguire Voice Over Is Just Plain Annoying, And In A Sense It Ruins 
 The Superhero Element, Especially With Some Of The Things That He Says In The Game, Which Are Totally 
 Unlike The Movie.
  
  Not Recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 420Braindead
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 25, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Its an okay game. Id say rent it instead of buying it even if you are die hard. Fun to roam around 
 NYC but after a while it all looks the same. Bosses are fun and can be challenging at first. Usually 
 it takes 2 or 3 tries to defeat a boss. Some pretty cool cut scenes with descent voice overs. The 
 only major flaw would be the camera; sometimes its just a pain in the @$$. Especially during the 
 ending bosses does this happen. Getting the achievements is pretty easy. You could put in about 
 15 hours of play or less and get the majority of the points. YOu know what, just play the game 
 to get the points. thats what I did. All in all, just keep playing gears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean0883
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 24, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Hard game to rate because at first I had soo much fun playing, it was all i did. But as the game 
 went on you realize you can do the same 3 moves to enemies and it works everytime, and the camera 
 just makes you more and more upset. At first you think that climbing the side of a building, while 
 going more than one direction, is hard because you just dont know how to use the camera correctly, 
 but it's just that the game doesn't know how to use the camera correctly. Gamespot's review pretty 
 much nailed it. If you want a review more well written and in better depth than mine, go read theirs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Master5151
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 24, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  After the critically acclaimed Spider-Man 3 movie, which was a huge success, we all knew that it 
 was inevitable that a game would follow sooner or later. But we thought, especially after Spider-Man 
 2s relative success, that Spider-Man 3 would have succeeded its predecessor and become even better 
  unfortunately, that wasnt meant to be.
  
  Ive always been a die-hard Spider-Man fan, even since the days of his comic book outings, and 
 have always enjoyed his adventures as Peter Parker and Spider-Man. The Spider-Man movies were always 
 going to be a risk as lets face it, most dont live up to their name nowadays and thus the Spider-Man 
 movies were either going to make or break  fortunately for us, they were a huge success. And so 
 we all rejoiced in the success and hoped for a sequel or two and, fortunately, we were granted 
 those sequelsSo whats the problem? The problem is that the games havent expanded upon the movies 
 all that much and, generally, have let Spider-Man fans down. The main thing that you would expect 
 from a Spider-Man game is bags and bags of fun. A game that lets you swing around a huge city, 
 being able to do whatever you wantand not follow some strict, laid out path. Spider-Man 3 loosely 
 does this, but is always pointing you in some direction. The game advertised that you could choose 
 from ten different story arcs but, in reality, you have to do an arc to trigger another arc  which 
 in turn triggers the main arc and certain points, so it doesnt really put the game in your hands. 
 The story arcs arent particularly large either. Youll generally find yourself completing 3-4 
 missions (with the odd exception) within an arc, and moving on to the next one within a couple 
 of hours  it really is that easy. Its initially appealing on how they introduce infamous villains, 
 like Kraven and The Lizard, though these characters are only encountered in boss battlesand arent 
 really all that difficult. The end-of-arc battles usually consist of linear fighting structures, 
 where theyll often throw the same fighting process  again with the odd exception, that requires 
 you to button bash to win. Simply slamming your hands across the buttons on your controller will 
 win you the fight, and leave you contemplating whether you can really be bothered to complete the 
 next arc. You dont really get anything out of it too; you might get the odd swing upgrade or a 
 new move, but nothing more. There isnt any level up structure which allows you to gain experience 
 from battles, and bonus exp. from boss battles, which then allows you to choose Spider-Mans stats 
  which I personally think would have been much more effective, and would have put much more value 
 and life into the game.
  
  From a graphic perspective, Spider-Man 3 isnt all the good. Youll generally find that Spider-Man 
 3 had a coat of paint splashed about on it, with the odd reflection and shiny surface, but once 
 you sit back and look around youll find it is rather shabby. The buildings look like they have 
 been rushed, the edges arent smoothed out for one, and the character models arent too good either. 
 The likes of Peter Parker and Mary Jane Watson dont even look like their counterparts, and they 
 look like they have been rushed. The only character model that stood out to me was Spider-Man himself; 
 an incredible amount of detail was put into his costume, and even little details were there  but, 
 unfortunately, this didnt apply for everyone else. The vehicles are also weak and the water effects 
 arent brilliant either, it is barely anything more than a basic Xbox 360 game. For a console of 
 its power goodness knows how they didnt make this game look brilliant, they could have made it 
 look much better than it does, but instead made it look like a polished Playstation 2 game  which 
 isnt good at all. The only silver lining to this cloud is that while playing the main storyline 
 you wont be outside all too much, which is good, and if you are youll only be swinging by at 
 fairly fast speeds  which causes everything to appear in a bit of a blur.
  
  The gameplay side of Spider-Man 3 is fairly repetitive and frustrating. Youll constantly find 
 yourself button bashing away, which will win you the day, a hordes of enemies try to bring you 
 down. Youll also be holding down the reflexes button constantly, which lets you dodge attacks 
 with ease  only occasionally prompting you to press the button, as you bash away at groups of 
 enemies. And you will find yourself doing this throughout the whole game, bashing buttons without 
 any strain of thought to get through every groupand it can get very, very tedious. They also introduced 
 button prompts in the cutscenes, much like God of War did  only this wasnt as successful, where 
 the game requires that you press a chain of buttons to get Spider-Man from one place to another. 
 For some reason though you dont even get a warning that this will happen, meaning that you will 
 never know when this will happen  often resulting in you pressing the buttons too late, resulting 
 in your demise. This happens at pivotal points in the game too meaning that if you fail, youll 
 have to activate the cutscene againwhich is incredibly frustrating.
  
  Spider-Man 3 is game that, at best, is a light-hearted experience even for the most die-hard of 
 Spidey fans. A game that fails on numerous aspects and, potentially, had so much promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knamelis
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 24, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  While the last few Spiderman games have been at least enjoyable, Spiderman 3 misses the mark and 
 ends up being a frustrating experience. Each element of the game is well polished on its own, but 
 the designers lacked the vision to pull all of the elements together into a concise product. The 
 graphics? good enough. Not breathtaking but enough to give a good representation of spidey. The 
 sound? Pretty good, with wicked voice over actors. The combat? Shaky at times, but with a bit more 
 polish it could have been much more enjoyable. There is far too many moves and not enough reason 
 to learn the difference between them. This means that players will ussually end up button mashing 
 and hoping for the best. Less moves with a bit more refinement would have gone a long way in this 
 category.
  The plotline is fairly standard comic book fare. It is acted out through in game cutscenes. It 
 tends to be cheesy at times, but few games are able to avoid doing so. But the problem with Spiderman 
 is none of the single elements on their own, but to lack of smooth integration of all of the elements 
 into an enjoyable package. Its like they spent all of their time working on making sure there were 
 enough attack moves, missions, and a large enough city but forgot to spend any time making the 
 game fun. .All in all.. if you a big fan of spidey you will get some enjoyment out of this game. 
 If you are looking for an open ended super hero adventure that plays like GTA after being bit by 
 a radioactive spider, your going to be dissapointed. First Superman, and now this... can someone 
 bring us an open ended superhero game that doesnt stink? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dewbackalackin
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 23, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  It seemed like this game was brought down by the its simplicity, since there was so much that could 
 have been improved by utilizing what the next gen systems have to offer. The graphics looked nice, 
 but when they tried to show emotions through facial expressions, the mood got awkward and tense. 
 The lines given by the actors seemed choppy, not unlike some parts of the movie. The cutscenes, 
 which could have made certain situations more exciting, seemed to just go along with the rest of 
 the game, and didn't add much at all. Also, the camera was glitchy, as always, and wall climbing 
 will make you dizzy. But, on the bright side, you get to swing through manhattan and see the sights; 
 but even that can only be entertaining for so long. But at least the missions, and sometimes the 
 fighting, can be pretty entertaining... Just read a book, at least you might learn something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffy912
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 23, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  I loved it. It was great, and the best part about it is that i love just cruising around the city 
 aside from the storyline so when the city ended up being so much bigger than in spiderman 2 i loved 
 automatically. The storyline is bad but again my favorite thing is to just cruise around the city. 
 The new tricks that you can do here are wicked, and being able to switch to the black suit whenever 
 you want was even better! I'd recommend this game to anyone. So to sum it all up i think this is 
 an awesome game, but don't take my word for it try it out yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ozman666
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 23, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  Why, oh why, must people bad mouth this game? I for one am very impressed with the game. The graphics 
 are great, detailed from the shadows to the buildings walls. Come on people! Yes its the first 
 one to hit the next gen console but what did you really expect. How could you get Spider-man to 
 a First person shooter or any other format for that? This is the 2nd game I have played with Spider-Man, 
 got to love to pretend to be Spider-Man even if its just a game. You have free roam ability through 
 out the city and things are amazingly detailed from the real thing. Not to mention you can go into 
 the subways and hop a train for a free ride. Just one problem with that you have to learn the subway 
 system and what trains go to what place (get a map) or youll end up some place unintended. As 
 for achievements easy to come by if you simply play through the game as it so seems no to forget 
 about the typical hunt for the tokens (another Map required) which is a pain in the arse. All in 
 all I like it, and I suggest it for any super hero lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10054254
Rating: 5
Date: May 23, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  A real shame, i wanted to like this one so much and its just not 'spidey'. city looks amazing tho 
 but not accurate.
  
  Swing about the city and get used to this being a slower paced version of *shudders* superman returns. 
 The black suit is a nice gimmic but dosnt even come close to the original comic book representation 
 of the dark side that its supposed to be... its used more like a cheat in this game to quickly get 
 past bits that are too hard.
  
  lets not go near the graphics that look like your little sister animated. by this stage we are 
 used to gear of war and this gives us rugrats on the ps1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dangerpig99
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 22, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  NOT GOOD! ASDFM dfadf dfasdf df f f fs as gasfgargas asga gagg asdfasg rgrgqgsfg gwtegwet rgqrgkgash 
 asf f asfh hfh lahsdv alh afghasfgh asghaslhas asfguh fghas lasghasfg afjg afgh asfugh sfh fg ag 
 hasg hfkg s sfg. asg as. gfa sd as as g fgasfgafg .sa asg asg asfg asf f, a gas fgjf jlg gsfgs lfg 
 f. agf ag aslgn asgasgsf g afgj asg g fg agaljgalag g . ag ag a g sgbalagl; asg g. g ag gnqrglnqwlrgq, 
 gwqr qrgqwrgmff f mg kqmg qrgrg gq qg r. g qwn qwlg qwg rg jngl e qrgl enrgleghl ngq gerg. q gr 
 rg qrg q re. rgq rgnqr lqrg rgf rlgmqr rg rg rlgm ge ergeer get rt t g egr rg gr grwljr ergerng 
 eg e qr e. er g gwergweg elmgqwregm egr eg .r gr rgl qre grk g rgl g lr glg eg gm; eg rg gemqwg 
 g. g ergl g glj lrgrlmg rg gg tg. rgrkm; kg; gm eg rglrgreg. grkng qrlg rg rqr. g rgk rqg e grg. er 
 rg rg jrgrg. r qr grg gle gl lg lg ;g h e. g rpg nrg erkg reg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pooladden
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  First i read the review for gamespot from and i was so dissapointed! I loved the second game and 
 thought the third would be great. So today i went to buy the game having a felling that i was wasting 
 my money. Started playing and man, i was having a BLAST! The grahics are rely good for a big free 
 rom city , there are some minor flaws but they are rely good. For gameplay , i give it a 10 because 
 its just so fun swing around, jump of bulidings and do PILE DRIVERS ( best move in history) ! The 
 sound in this game is good but some voice acting is ok but mainly the sound fx is great. You get 
 some much value in this game , its like gta . I have played for 3 hours now and im done 11.14 % 
 and only 6 of 42 missions !
  
  For the average gamers and the spidy fans ( such as myself) i highly recommend buying spider-man 
 3 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake610
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 20, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Spider man 3 is a good game that will make you want to keep playing. This game is very easy to 
 learn. The graphics aren't the best but the very creative gameplay makes up for it. Spider-Man 
 3 allows players to experience the actions of heroic red-suited Spider-Man and, for the first time 
 ever, his darker, more mysterious black-suited persona. Set in a larger, dynamic, free-roaming 
 New York City, the game gives players the freedom to choose their own gameplay experience through 
 multiple movie-based and original storylines, fully integrated city missions and performance rewards 
 including improved speed, combat maneuvers and agility. In Spider-Man 3, players draw upon Spider-Man's 
 completely revamped combat abilities as they protect the city and defeat nemeses using expanded 
 aerial fighting, finishing moves and dynamic webbing during missions and epic boss battles. This 
 game is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lghtsbr
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 20, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  This game is a true masterpiece. Anyone who loves Spider-man 3 the movie, 2 the game, Spider-man 
 himself, will find this game to be a great game. It has its flaws, but don't all games? The swinging 
 is the best, 2nd being the cinteractives. Sure you get them wrong sometimes, but when you get them 
 right, you see Spider-man doing things he would do, but can't do to game limitations. This is a 
 good thing in my opinion.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  I think the gameplay is a 9, firstly the great swinging system, the fun fighting system, and the 
 true uniqueness in the black suit. When you attain it things do change, not too much, but it's 
 definitely noticeable. The cinteractives don't come too often averages, but when they do it is 
 a fun thing to experience. Graphics: 8
  Spider-man's model sports a ton of polys. The webs are modeled rather than skinned on, giving him 
 his movie feel. All the main enemies look very pretty, sporting high polygons and great skinning 
 work as well. The city looks gorgeous, a bit of motion blur here, and some fancy lights there, 
 it is New York city. The other NPC's don't look nearly as good, but you can't fault them for it 
 because of the higher poly's on the main characters, and the cars. Plus routing for all the vehicles 
 and police cars.
  
  Sound: 9
  I love the sound. The voicing is great. J. J. is unforgettable. Giant Lizards! All the web sounds 
 are familiar, and the grunts sound realistic, rather than like he was pretending to strain himself. 
 The crashing of cars sounds funny, as do the sounds when you twack someone in the face! But the 
 police siren sounds get fairly repetitive, more so at a close distance.
  
  Value: 8
  Any Spider-man fan would want this game. Any true one would keep it, rather than rent for the achievements. 
 Its a great game, who's better qualities don't show immediately, but rather a bit later to tend 
 to the crowd who actually bought the game.
  
  Tilt: 8
  I give it an 8, because while not multiplayer, me and the guys enjoy to sit around the TV while 
 taking turns trying to beat some of the difficult bosses. The bosses are hard, but I see this as 
 a good thing, I'd rather think on a boss fight than just pummel my foes easily. It's a great game, 
 that eventually grows on you.
  
  I don't blame Treyarch for not changing too much. Why destroy a winning formula? A few new additions 
 to Spider-man 3 made it a great enough leap as to appeal to veterans, but not feel like Spider-man 
 2 a second time. It's a truly unique game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbgamefreak5
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 20, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  ok liosten, everyone else is wrong!!! and im going to give you teh straight up facts. first of 
 all, spiderman 2 got a 7.2 on gamespot. right? ok, well psiderman 3 is the same F****ing game just 
 different missions, storyline, better graphics, new cutscene button pressing stuff and etc. so 
 shouldnt this game at least get a 7.2 for ebing the samne game? it should. if halo 2 was the exact 
 same thing as halo just different maps and weapons, shouldnt halo 2 at least get the same rating. 
 yupp. well for eevryone comaplining about the action sequences where you press the buttons, shut 
 up and dont play, i layed through it an it was easy. you have all the time in the world to press 
 the button. if you cant press A within 3 seconds then dont play video games. the gam, es graphics 
 are awesome. sure minor details screw it up but all in all good. gameplay is evry repetitive, but 
 last time i checked, everyone has ad fun doing it! to be honest, i didnt get bored of the gameplay 
 until 9 hours into it. and thats only cuz the game got hard. in fact the game is pretty easy, theres 
 just a few hard missions thaty might take a while. the sound quality is good with real voiceovers 
 by toby macguire and bruce cambell. now the game does glitch alot (nothign major) like taking 30 
 seconds to say that the crime was adverted, or sound going away for like 10 seconds. but nothing 
 majjjoooorrr. so lets add this up. decent enough gameplay, good sound. awesome graphics. doesnt 
 that sound like a good game. yea, cuz it is. im a spidey fan but im not afraid to mention when 
 a game sucks, im also a big batman fan but all his games are worthless. this is not. so if you 
 liked spiderman 1 and 2 pick this game up, if your a 40 year old guy (lol, jusrt makin fun of one 
 of the reviewers) then dont buy this, or if your a person looking for every flaw dont buy it. its 
 a decent game that deserves at least a 8, but fro gamespots scroing ill give it a 7.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spider-Boy
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 was one of the best games I've played in a while. It does a great job capturing the 
 story line of Sandman along with Venom and Harry. It's not too complicated to play, the graphics 
 are great, and you feel like you're Spider-Man the entire game. As you all know, in Spider-Man 
 2, it was the first game where you got to swing around the city. In this game, you have more freedom 
 than ever before. The city is larger, the graphics are better, and the way they let you complete 
 the storyline is great. You have choices in this game, somewhat like the moral in the actual movie, 
 you could do whichever missions you want whenever you want to. Not only do you just do missions, 
 you could complete races, fight crime, or simply enjoy the view of the beautiful NYC. Along with 
 any game, there are glitches. Although, they are not noticable or negative in any way. I used many 
 of them to get me thought countless levels I could not beat. Nothing's perfect... I highly advise 
 you buy this game for PS3, X-Box 360, and/or Nintendo Wii. If you are a big Spidey fan, and have 
 fantasies about swinging through NYC and fighting crime. This game will satisfy you. Overall, amazing 
 game. I give it a 9.3 because of it's amazing storyline and superb graphics. Spider-Man 3 is availiable 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 20, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is a step in the right direction from Treyarch as the game is , in my mind a success 
 as they even added cinematics like that of resident evil 4 . Also there are new powers for spiderman 
 such as slow motion and your spider senses are important in various missions like trying to find 
 an enemy . The story of the movie is in more detail here and there are more bosses to defeat like 
 Rhino , Sandman , Kraven the Hunter etc . There is a lot of replay value to the game as there are 
 many races to do , bomb tours and skydiving plus there are many tokens to collect .
  This game reminds me of Crackdown in some ways but the town is more realistic and of course , you 
 have superpowers in the sense of a spider . The storyline is not difficult to complete as i did 
 in 10 hours . I think that if they use cinematics in other games then there would be more success 
 especially in the whole spiderman franchise . In a nutshell , this is the closest to success in 
 the form of a spiderman game since the ps1 days and The amazing Spiderman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake4eva_92
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 4, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is a game that all comes down to taste. As you may have noticed the 'proffesional' 
 reviews for this game arent perse, spectacular, and some player reviews may tell you to avoid this.
 
  
  But you may run into a fair few players like myself who found this a joy to play. It lives up to 
 the greatness of Spiderman 2 while still adding its own features. The only thing I would like to 
 see back from Spiderman 2 is 'normal' swinging and the jump charge meter, although the swinging 
 grows on you and you'll be flying above the streets in no time.
  
  So, why have I given this game a 9 in graphics you may ask? Well if you think about it it deserves 
 it. If you play Spiderman 2 and then change to Spiderman 3 you will see that the graphical improvement 
 is breathtaking, whereas SM2 looked grainy and fuzzy, yet SM3 is smooth colourful and holds a steady 
 frame rate. The shadows follow Spideys every move perfectly and Spiderman truly looks like an incredible 
 acrobat. Spidermans character model is also credible, he has those superhero muscles yet in proportion 
 to the rest of his body making him look like a natural acrobat. In addition the light effects are 
 fairly reallistic, it really immerses you into a living breathing New York City.
  
  So now onto gameplay, fighting looks good but can at times be a chore to pull off. Some times it 
 just becomes a matter of waiting for the enemy to attack, dodge then counter attack. The most annoying 
 thing is that a simple thug can somehow block Spidermans punches, Spiderman is a superhero capable 
 of lifting about 15 tonnes on a normal day, so why can an average thug block my punches without 
 a scratch of damage!?
  Aside from that, the swinging is just as epic as ever, while your swinging 70 ft above the city 
 with ease and style, you think to yourself, I am Spiderman, it lives up to Spideys name what with 
 all the somersaults and complex airial tricks. In conclusion, aside from a few annoying hitches 
 gameplay is credible.
  
  As for sound, this lands a 8, the 'thwip' sound made as Spiderman uses his web is perfect, the 
 voice acting displays the emotion of the scene in most cases (J. Jonah Jameson is perfect for his 
 role) , and the hustle and bustle sounds make NYC even more immersive.
  
  In conclusion, Spiderman 3 may only be for true Spiderman fans but I whole heartedly recommend 
 this game to anyone ready for something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sneepydeepy
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 19, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  the graphics were less tan satisfying and the swing controls felt uncomfortable on the 360. i was 
 playing and the game feels a bit sluggish. the controls were easy to get used to. but i had a feeling 
 that it should be better. when i played Spiderman three for example it felt as if i were really 
 swinging. the map was good though. but for the 360 i expected better graphics. it delivered a chunk 
 not the whole thing. dissipointing but not a game i regret trying out. what did bug me though was 
 that instead of being led to the crime you had to keep switching to spider sense. not a regret 
 but sad all the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fReSh805baLLa
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 19, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 is basically just a game you want to play when you have nothing else to do. Swinging 
 around the large city as fun at first, but gets repetitive and sometimes boring. The missions can 
 also be fun, but some can be too long and confusing. I purchased this game the day it came out. 
 I was excited to play it, because Spider-man 2 on Xbox was a joy. This game is fun in game play 
 but disappointing with the rest. I recommend this to people who likes the series or just wants 
 to have a little fun. Spider-man 3 is overall a good game at its best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealth89
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 18, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Fun at times, but other than that either boring and repetitive or extremely frustrating. 
 I'll admit, swinging through the city is actually pretty fun, as are the fights... for about half 
 an hour. The combat is ok, but gets old after a while. Occasionally in cut-scenes, you will have 
 on screen cues to push a button to make Spiderman perform some daring move or throw a punch, and 
 while this is pretty cool sometimes, most of the time it is either pointless or down right infuriating 
 (if you fail to push the right button in time, you start the cut-scene over) .
  
  Graphics: Wait... I thought this was supposed to be next-gen...? Seriously, this looks like an 
 Xbox game, and some of the character's faces look like they have down syndrome. The only thing 
 slightly impressive graphics wise is how much of the city is shown at once.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are decent, and the music is decent, but like most of the game, repetitive.
 
  
  As a Spiderman fan, I thought this was a pretty cool game. As a gamer, I thought it was slightly 
 above mediocre. I defiantly recommend you rent this game before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 16, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  Spider man 3: The Game is about equivalent to S3 the movie - it's ok, but I expected more bang 
 for my buck. I've spent close to fifteen hours with this game, and unfortunately, 3/4 of the time 
 was spent repeating missions that I stupidly failed because of the games clunky and, often, glitchy 
 gameplay. This game storyline does not even closely resemble the movie (which can be construed 
 as a good thing) , and pits you against a feast of villains from the movie and also from the marvel 
 universe. This is a nice touch because it makes the game stand on its own rather than being a video-port; 
 however, several of the missions, as well as a slew of the side missions, feel as though they were 
 thrown in at the last minute to make the game seem longer (who knew Spider man was actually a bomb 
 diffuser) .
  
  The best aspect of the game itself is webbing through the city, which looks stunning on the Xbox360. 
 I actually spent a good 3-4 hours just flying through the city, finding all of the little easter 
 eggs Activision put in the game. Unfortunately the crime rate in New York is out of this world, 
 and I could barely go three blocks without having to stop a speeding car, defeat a goon, etc.
 
  
  I have said that it is always a nice touch when the actual actors from the movie lend their voices 
 to the video game. Toby, Kirsten, Topher, and all the others are present in the movie, however 
 some of the dialogue is uber-cheesy and often aggravatingly repetitive.
  
  Spider man 3 is an interesting game. Similar to the movie, I feel it is a baby step forward in 
 the series, but I am hoping that they really do their homework and make the next entry a groundbreaking 
 leap in Spider man universe. Buy this one, only for the fact that there is a free S3 movie ticket 
 inside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionheartssj1
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 16, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Fun enough for a Spiderman game.... but fighting the camera is tiresome, especially when you're 
 doing bomb tours... the city looks amazing, but negotiating it is a different story. Also, the movie 
 plot line in the game is quite different from the movie itself. Lets just say, I'm glad they didn't 
 use the game's movie plot line for the real thing. Overall, the game has its moments but cannot 
 really outshine its shortcomings. The real high points are swinging through a very detailed New 
 Yorkand probably .yea, thats about it. This is probably a title you want to wait to buy used 
 or discounted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mach1daddy
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 15, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  swing management seemed easier, and after ten minutes you are a pro. many activities and things 
 to do. the crime fighting is tied into the overall story of defeating the gangs. I still hate the 
 mini games, swing timing races and skydiving games, could have gotten rid of this and offered more 
 content in the story. overall a safe game and the reason most critics rated it so low. fighting 
 in the game to me was better then before, even though the button mashing can get the joints sore. 
 the tutorial was funny and a great way of teaching you want you have and need to remember for the 
 fight seens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTRIGGER092x
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 15, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  After seeing all the hype made by IGN, GameSpot, and Gamestop, I decided to rent a copy of the 
 game. As soon as I started it, I saw the huge, awesome city of New York. As large as it looked, 
 it didn't look entirely pretty. Buildings are average looking, meaning not too much extra details, 
 civilians look much alike, cars were similar, and not detailed much, and many other things in the 
 city just didn't look great. I must admit though, Spidey looked quite detailed, but that's about 
 it. Overall, you can say the graphics are average.
  
  The controls are simple, I mean, are you really gonna do anything except punch and swing around 
 the city? It's good I guess, but sometimes simple means too simple.
  
  The sound is good, I guess. A narration by good ol' Bruce Campbell, and the voiceovers from just 
 about all of the actors in the movie is a nice touch, but where's the noises of the REAL NYC? As 
 in, complaining Taxi Drivers in traffic, and homeless people asking for change?!?
  
  The gameplay is fair. I mean, you'll have fun for a while just swinging around the city for a while. 
 The fights are quite boring, considering all you do is press X endlessly. Just keep on doing that, 
 and most of the enemies will be down quickly. Some enemies take a bit more than that, such as slowing 
 down time, then dodging their attack, and finally making your move. But what is sad, is that the 
 boss fights are really easy. For example, after chasing down that wimp of a reptile, Lizard, through 
 the sewers, you'll have to knock him against crushers on a conveyer belt. This is fun at first, 
 but gets repetitive. But, this is not my main point. After doing that several times, you have to 
 brawl with him, and just punch him in the face endlessly, while jumping every 15 seconds before 
 he does is special attack. After pwning him in the face for about 2 minutes, he'll start retreating 
 again, and then you are presented to a pretty little interactive cinematic, where you press the 
 buttons/triggers that show up on-screen, to finally defeat him. These cineratives are just repetitive 
 and cluttered, making this part of gameplay just plain boring. Another thing about it is that it 
 is too easy, unlike some games where the cineractives are made challenging. I must say, the amount 
 of missions and challenges save the game incredibly.
  
  Fnally, another problem of the game is the framerate. This drops from time to time, lagging it 
 quite a bit.
  
  Overall, Spider-Man 3 is an average game. The game does not deserve the hype it got, and is a rental 
 at most. Nice try Treyarch, hope you have better luck with Spider-Man 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tenacious_Dn
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 15, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 the game was just as disappoiting as the movie. They could have done so much more 
 with the movie and it is the same with the game. Those stupid bosses and crime that has nothing 
 to do with the movie is annoying but better than the last game. For the most part I found that 
 the best part of the game is just messing around in the city. Also they really need to do a better 
 job with the camera. The fighting is alright but yet again could have been better. Over all this 
 was the best Spider-Man game yet. Plus I will give the game developers credit it takes a lot to 
 make a game after a movie. Keep trying you are almost there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgabrielson
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 14, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  REALLY FUN GAME, they caputed the feeling of being spiderman perfectly, while there are many different 
 types of missions for you to involve yourself in, you can be distracted for hours just swinging 
 around the perfectly reproduced New York city sandbox. Its truly surprising just how big and accurate 
 this sandbox is, which really adds to the enjoyment of the game. The missions range from varous 
 crime fighting of gangs, skill missions like skydiving and swing racing, to story driven, cinematic 
 filled quests against various villains and threats. the game is also rife with great mini games 
 that allow you to interact with the game in beautifully rendered spider-sense super agility bullet 
 time cinematics. Truly fun. I thought it was just going to be a rental ,... cuz lets face it movie 
 games particularily spiderman games have usually .... sucked. But this one Shines! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dchispirtle
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 14, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: It's a heck of a lot of fun swinging around New York City, which looks beautiful. There 
 are a good easy 650 achievement points to be found just by playing through main story.
  
  THE BAD: Frustrating camera angles, poorly designed boss fights, last gen visuals, getting 1000 
 points only for fanatic completionists.
  
  Spider-Man 3 The Game is the latest 
 efort from Activision and developer Treyarch. The open world aspect of the previous movie-licensed 
 game returns bigger and prettier than before, but other problems create enough frustration that 
 you want to throw your controller down and use the game disc as a clay pigeon.
  
  When I say that the game is loosely based on the story from the movie, I mean that in the most 
 exaggerated way possible. The three villains from the movie are in it, but you won't learn anything 
 to supplement what you can see in the movie. Story elements are revealed rather poorly through 
 several cutscenes that if you chose to skip through them, you would miss nothing. Perhaps I've 
 just been spoiled by some of the rare exceptions to the movie-based game formula, but if I don't 
 learn anything new about the film's world, I really don't care to put any vested interest in the 
 game's story.
  
  The gameplay of Spider-Man 3 has many aspects that you would expect from a game starring the titular 
 web-slinger. A very large and mostly well-designed New York City serves as the backdrop for your 
 swinging antics. New locations like Roosevelt Island and the underground subway system add to the 
 size of the previous game's playground. Swinging around the city is easily the highlight of this 
 game and you'll like to spend the first hour or so just taking in the sights or climbing up to 
 the top of the Empire State Building and looking down at the sights below.
  
  The second aspect of gameplay naturally involves you using your heightened senses and strengh to 
 take the fight to numerous supervillains and 3 stereotypical gangs that are terrorizing parts of 
 the city. Villains like Rhino, Kraven, Kingpin, Lizard, and the trio of movie villains are just 
 some of the foes that you'll face throughout the roughly 8-10 hour main campaign.
  The three gangs previously mentioned are the Apocalypse (a group of tatooed and spiky haired punks) , 
 Arsenic Candy (a female gang that use giant hammers and exploding teddy bears. Yes, you read that 
 right) , and the Dragon Tail (the requisite Asian martial arts experts) . Each gang has its own campaign 
 of roughly four missions each. The missions are pretty bland and are funny for the wrong reasons. 
 Beating up on a group of chicks with hammers and exploding teddy bears is a joke.
  
  In combat sections, Spidey has the ability to use his Spider Reflexes to slow down the action and 
 give him the advantage in a fight by allowing you to dodge enemy attacks. The problem with this 
 is you pretty much have to use it or face annihlation at the hands of each group of enemies you 
 fight. Yes, even the Arsenic Candies...
  
  Once you complete several of the storyline missions, you'll be tasked with a boss battle against 
 either a supervillain or a gang leader. Some of these are fairly easy, but several of them will 
 have you cursing at the game and retrying many times. Kraven and Kingpin are the two most annoying 
 fights in the game.
  
  The game's graphics are something to be desired and look like a late entry in the previous generation 
 of consoles. The detail on Spidey is pretty good, but the rest of the character models are sloppy. 
 Facial features are terrible and misshapen. Considering that the 360 version of the game was designed 
 exclusively for the two current generation powerhouses, you would expect the graphics to be a lot 
 better than this. Draw distance is laughable and you'll see buildings pop in right as you reach 
 them on the map. Collision detection is also quite terrible. Using your Spider Reflexes to dodge 
 attacks often leads to seeing projectiles and enemy appendages go right through Spider-Man's character 
 model!
  
  The soundtrack is hardly noticeable. Different tracks when you are swinging around the city, engaged 
 in a random fight or boss battle, and cutscenes are about all the varied tracks in the score. Sound 
 effects are pretty bland also. You never really get the feeling that the city is alive as you're 
 swinging through it. Scattered voices from the NPCs and car horns honking sporadically are nothing 
 like what its really like on the streets of NYC.
  
  There is some value to be found in the game after you complete the main storylines in the form 
 of trick races, bomb diffusing tours, combat tours, and hidden token collection. Trick races have 
 you swinging around the city high and low through checkpoints trying to beat times and earn medals. 
 Bomb tours have you engaging in diffusing bombs through a minigame interface that builds upon one 
 of the storylines early in the main game. Get the record times by completing the tour as fast as 
 you can. Lastly, the token collection is a complete waste of time and there are simply too many 
 tokens. Each of the three gangs has its own set of tokens, the subway system has one, climbing 
 the skyscrapers in the city can lead to rewards, and secret tokens scattered in hard to reach areas 
 round out the collection quests. Getting the full sets will reward you, but ultimately the reward 
 is hardly worth the effort that you put into getting there unless you're a fanatic completionist.
 
  
  The game, as with all that appear on the 360, has a set of achievements that you can earn. Many 
 of these will be unlocked by just playing through the main game. The remaining 400 points or so 
 are unlocked by performing random tasks throughout the city and collecting the aforementioned token 
 sets &amp; side missions. By the time you finish the main quest, you will likely be frustrated 
 with the game to the point that you don't care to complete the full 1000.
  
  Unfortunately, there are plenty of other problems with the game that will lead you to the brink 
 of insanity. Quite frankly, the camera SUCKS (emphasis intended) . This especially comes through 
 when swinging through the city, climbing on buildings, and fighting in enclosed areas. You'll curse 
 the developers when this happens as you are expected to follow a moving waypoint or reach a timed 
 objective. You'll retry missions several times for camera reasons alone. In summary, Spider-Man 
 3 is a pretty fun game that can provide you with several hours of entertainment and a nice array 
 of achievement points. However, the frustration and general feeling that this game was rushed make 
 this worth a rental and the $60 price tag hard to swallow.
  
  The Bottom Line
  
  Gameplay: 
 Definitely some fun to be had, despite bad camera and bland combat
  
  Graphics: Certainly not the game's strongpoint, visuals look very much last gen
  
  Sound: Again 
 a weakness of the game. The music score is hardly noticable, sound effects fail to create a living 
 city.
  
  Value: After you play the main campaign, there are plenty of other activities. However, the rewards 
 for doing so are hardly worth the effort it requires. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirce
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  SM3 is a great game by its own merits. It&acute; s NOT a typical trash license game like Gamespot&acute; s 
 review is referring. Its got some problems, foremost the camera in interior spaces. But its easy 
 to get used to it and when you do you&acute; ll find a great game beneath it. SM3 has a great looking 
 ,big city to explore and lots to do in it. It has a great combat system, especially with the symbiote 
 suit, which has tons and tons of great combo moves. Plus one of them is called the ROFL copter 
 so you cant go wrong with that. It has great story missions and even greater side missions with 
 many classic villains we so love and many many races and random crimes all across the city. Web 
 slinging is as fun as in SM2 and swinging animations are even better.
  
  This is a must buy for every Spidey fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mps32
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 14, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  God of War has screwed any action games from here forward because they will always be compared 
 to it (which is a losing battle for any game) , but Spiderman 3 takes some of the cooler parts of 
 God of War and adds them to a great looking next gen landscape. I think this game is completely 
 under-rated. The city and physics of spidey swinging through buildings is incredible and the detail 
 to the city is amazing. The gameplay can get a little awkward at times with some camera angles, 
 but if you play it enough you can get the hang of it. The combat was much better and unlike what 
 some people have said, the block/counter button works very well if you just release it and let 
 it regenerate once in a while. The bosses all look great, the fights are very fun and aren't frustrating 
 at all (you just have to use the environment and think about what one with spider powers would 
 do) . The MJ missions are a little corny (swinging and collecting hearts through new york? hope 
 the punisher doesn't see this or he'll take a big pull of wild turkey and unleash) but all in all 
 I think this game is great looking, and very entertaining for someone who just wants a game to 
 kill some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 14, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Watching this game in development got me really excited. Finally a free roaming superhero game 
 that looks like it might rock. I mean Treyarch could do no wrong this time could they?
  
  Unfortunately this game is lacking seriously in some quarters.
  
  Having booted up the game 
 and doing the tutorial followed by some random swinging about the city i thought i was finally 
 there. It feels great to swing about New York city as spiderman, this part of the game is brilliant 
 and the random events are in my opinion the best part of the game.
  
  Then i started playing through the missions and this is where the bugs really start to glare you 
 in the face. The camera is just plain wrong. Your in a subway or a sewer or a shop etc, smallish 
 environments. Spiderman 3 just cant handle them. The camera is jumping about all over the place 
 and is unbelievably frustrating at times. Crawling around a corner or over a protruding ledge on 
 a building makes for some of the most jerky camera controls ive ever whitnessed in a game. Yes, 
 they are that bad. I dont know how Treyarch could possibly release the game with such a bad fault. 
 The combat is actually quite fun most of the time. I like the combo system even if most of the 
 new combos you get are all alike. It just ends up being a button mashing affair most of the time. 
 I do not like the small bosses that you encounter with some of the gangs. They block all the time 
 and using the counter or continually jumping on their head is the only way to defeat them, its 
 quite tedious at times.
  
  I have found myself completely split down the middle with the missions. Some of them were brilliant 
 and i really enjoyed them. Some were frustrating to the point of throwing my controller at the 
 floor. Fighting Krayven in the sewer for The Lizard mission 3 was the worst stand out moment of 
 the game for me.
  
  The Black Suit was fun but was no where near as powerfull as treyarch made it out to be. Still, 
 it looked cool.
  
  The checkpoint system they used in the missions is very well done. You never have to backtrack 
 very far if you die. The God Of War button sequence parts, usually at the end of a mission were 
 fun and definately fun to watch, like an interactive cutscene. The bomb disposal missions were 
 fun although it was very simple to solve the puzzles to disarm them i think if it had been any 
 harder it would have been frustrating. The Daily Bugle camera missions were quite well done and 
 added something new to the gameplay.
  
  Sound and graphics are not what i expected, its not quite a next gen experience but looks far better 
 than last gen. Kinda in the middle.
  
  Fans of Spiderman will enjoy swinging about the city and doing the random missions. General gamers 
 will be put off by the often frustrating camera and boss battles but there is a whole lot of this 
 game that is well done. Its just a shame some of the glaring faults were not addressed before release.
 
  
  Ive spent 22 hours on this game and ive not completed everything yet so its got pleanty of life 
 in it. It just depends if you are dedicated enough to live with its faults and enjoy what could 
 have been a fantastic game, but ended up being purely average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 14, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  The Good: Very impressive and living New York City, voice acting from actors from the movie, side 
 missions greatly increase the gameplay length, combat can be a lot of fun, achievements are used 
 well.
  
  The Bad: Downright aweful camera angles are common, boss battles can be extremely frustrating and 
 un-fun, poor character animation, Tobey Maguire sounds half asleep, game's story doesn't follow 
 the movie's very well.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Spider-Man series of films are known as the best of the comic book movies. The third, and possably 
 final chapter of Sam Rami's set of films was very good, but disappointed many fans. The game adaptation 
 of Spider-Man 3 is similar in some aspects, but is a lot worse than the movie is. Treyarch worked 
 hard to make the City of New York feel alive in the game, and they did a good job with that, but 
 there are many points that could have used a few extra months of development time. Honestly, it's 
 hard to say that I liked it, or that I hated it. It was a fun, but fairly short experience, but 
 there were many points where I just wanted to chuck the disc out the window. You play as Peter 
 Parker, aka your friendly neighborhood Spider-Man. At the begining of the game, you have Spidey's 
 traditional red and blue suit, but later on, you aquire the black costume, which is the centerpiece 
 for the movie and the game. Each suit has different special abilities, but the black costume is 
 more fun, yet more challenging to use at the same time.
  
  The game is completely open-ended. You can swing around New York, bust up a couple of random crimes 
 here and there, foil a bank robbery, then fight a boss. It's completely up to you how you play 
 the game. If you include all of the side missions and a bunch of the random crimes, you can play 
 this for well over 20 hours, but there's virtually no reason to go back and play it once you beat 
 the game. You do have the option of going back and playing the game over again with the black suit, 
 giving you a second chance at several of the achievements you may have missed, but it's honestly 
 not worth your time.
  
  Speaking of achievements, the points are divided very well throughout the game, with a few exceptions. 
 There are several achievements for collecting all of a certain type of token throughout the city, 
 but each one is only worth 10 gamerscore, so it's honestly not worth it. Also, some of the easier 
 bosses are worth more points than the harder ones, which sucks as well.
  
  The combat system is in the classic beat 'em up style. You have a speed attack, strong attack, 
 web and jump attack buttons that you can use in different ways to preform combos that you unlock 
 throughout the game. This is different from the PS2 and Wii versions, where you use experience 
 points to unlock moves. So far, I bet you're thinking that this game isn't so bad, well, you're 
 wrong unfortunately. Here's where the ranting begins.
  
  The camera angles for when you are swinging, or especially climbing up walls are absolutely aweful. 
 You have to manually adjust the camera every time and it's often very hard to figure out if you 
 are going up or down. Also, the boss battles for the most part aren't hard, but there are several 
 that take a lot of time and are just plain frustrating. It's ok to make a boss fight difficult, 
 but for a boss to take out a huge chunk of your health every time you're hit and forcing you to 
 use slow-mo the entire boss fight is a bit harsh. There are several good boss fights in the game 
 (Scorpion, Sandman, the final boss fight with Sandman and Venom) , and then there are a couple that 
 will make you want to chuck your controller at something (Kraven, The Kingpin) . These last two 
 boss fights are completely un-fun and make you want to never play this game again.
  
  In addition to bad camera angles and frustrating boss fights, Spider-Man 3 also features really 
 ugly and bug eyed character animation. All of the characters except for Spider-Man (while he's 
 in the suit) , and a few of the villians look really ugly and not next gen at all, which is a shame 
 because the rest of the game looks nice. Also, the game's voice acting is good for the most part, 
 but why does Tobey Maguire sound half asleep the entire game? Did Activision have to record him 
 at 4 in the morning? The last problem is the story for the game. The main complaint about the movie 
 itself was that the story was a bit choppy. The game is a ton worse. Several key moments in the 
 movie are changed for the game, with one actually being an improvement, and all others were not. 
 Several boss fights, that are key in the game's storyline, don't happen in the movie. There are 
 also some just plain stupid missions including the Mary-Jane Thrill Rides, where you collect hearts 
 by swinging Mary-Jane around the way she wants you to, and one where you have to photograph a UFO. 
 What the heck does this have to do with anything?
  
  Ok, now that the ranting is over, here are my final thoughts on Spider-Man 3. It could have been 
 an excellent game with a bit more development time. It's completely playable and can be a lot of 
 fun, but if the camera issues, character animation and glitches were all worked out, it could have 
 been so much better. If you really want to play the game, I would recomend renting it, or waiting 
 until it's a budget title. It is definately not worth buying for $60, but it is worth playing in 
 many aspects. It's not an aweful game, dispite it's flaws, but it is another example of how movie 
 based games should not end up.
  
  Gameplay: It's a fairly long game with some interesting boss fights and side missions, but several 
 boss fights are just irritating and the camera angles are aweful.
  
  Graphics: It's a nice looking game for the most part, especially New York City itself, but the 
 character animation isn't all that.
  
  Sound: The music and voice acting is good for the most part, but Tobey Maguire sounds half asleep 
 the entire game.
  
  Value: Do not buy this game for $60!!! Rent it, or wait for it to become a budget title.
  
 
  Final Thoughts: My Spider-Sences aren't tingling anymore... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slusheewoot
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 14, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  I was suprised by the gamespot review before i picked up the game, they said it would be about 
 a 6.6!!! thats ridiculous, considering the graphical horsepower and the scope of the newly designed 
 city, There are plenty new minigames, and MANY bosses to fight, and difficulty isnt a problem later 
 on.
  Also they have an RPG element in which you build your character, by just floating around on your 
 web you can max it! So get to swinging!!!
  There are however downfalls, whcih kind of screw over the mechanics, the camera system is beyond 
 horrible, you WILL web swing into buildings, the draw distance is horrible, and the fighting system 
 will make you cry with frustation, Despite these horrors, you will be having FUN with the simple 
 PICK UP AND PLAY attitude of this game, just dont expect SOMETHING BEYOND GREAT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidney_765
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 13, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  When spiderman 2 came out for the xbox i was so excited when i heard you would have complete freedom, 
 but the game wasn't without its major flaws. The game wasn't very exciting and got boring and a 
 little depressing after a couple of days. Then i hear about spiderman 3 the game,. coming for the 
 xbox 360, so yet again im excited. After finishing the game, i felt satisfied, the graphics are 
 easy on the eyes, maybe its not gears of war or oblivion, but its definitely not last gen quality 
 either as some reviewers dare to say. The gameplay is solid, and very fun most of the time, except 
 for the fact that boss fights are not that hard and challenging, but still, they are fun. Especially 
 the fact that those button pressing sequences have been added helps a lot to the gameplay, this 
 is one feature i so much wanted in the last spiderman game, and finally made it here, yeah, its 
 a little annoying sometimes, but it gives the gameplay a special touch. Oh yeah, now its not all 
 done out in the city, finally the game has a descent amount of indoor environments! The game is 
 not as repetitive as the last one, which used to get on my nerves all the time. Another thing i 
 want to make clear, the game may loosely follow the movie, but at least lets you play the key parts 
 of the movie, and yeah, im happy it wasn't based solely on the movie, it gives you a ton of other 
 characters to interact with, giving it the feel of being a standalone game on its own right. Well, 
 about the sound part, i agree that the actors could have put some more effort into their voice 
 overs, but its nothing that will interfere with gameplay. Also something i want all to note is 
 that the city itself is not dead as many reviewers say so (if you want to see dead streets, play 
 the ps2 or wii versions of the game) , the streets are packed with cars and traffic jams (once again, 
 this makes up for the complaint i had in the last game which had only two cars per block) , and 
 theres plenty of people walking down on the streets, even though the developers could have given 
 them some more life by adding voices of excitement or happiness whenever spiderman passes by, but 
 yet again, its nothing that will mess the whole experience. Point is, the game may not be a huge 
 leap froward for the spiderman series, but at least it fed my craving for a well executed spiderman 
 game, something that i have been wishing for since the first spiderman pc game. This game is an 
 improvement over the last one definitely, for a reason is a sequel, and makes up for all the mistakes 
 and disappointments from the spiderman 2 game. So i honestly think its worth giving it a try, at 
 least give it a rent, its worth it.
  
  P. S: Yes, the camera may stink SOMETIMES, but whatever, i loved the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clay_Whitey
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  This game made some awesome improvements from the last game, starting with the graphics! the graphics 
 where a great improvement, although they arent perfect, they were great for spidey. I also thought 
 that the cinteractives were really cool! but i wish that more of the cutscenes had the cinteractives 
 incorperated into them. 1 thing that i didnt like was that we dont get a playable character!!!!!!! 
 ps3 gets new goblin (big deal) but i really wanted venom!!!!!!!!!!!! that would be so cool to roam 
 around the city as venom! anyway the venom part aside i really enjoyed this game a definite buy 
 on my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnakefan20
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 13, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Awesome game, cool elements, like the QTE's, which they took from Shenmue by the way. but it has 
 its flaws, took alot of cool stuff from SM2 and took it a step back. The random crimes aren't as 
 innovative, as they were in SM2. It's annoying that the game makes you feel like you have to solve 
 the random crimes, and it gets annoying when you are trying to go to a mission, and random crimes 
 keep popping up, and you feel like you have to stop and solve it. And I wish the Green Goblin could 
 have been a regularly playable character, instead of getting to play him once. However it does 
 manage to combine a few new elements. Just some basic gameplay mechanics have been tweeked a bit, 
 and it makes a big difference. You have spidey-sense now, in which to help you spot enemies through 
 a crowd, or through walls. Overall, the game takes one giant step sideways, and a little step forward. 
 If you like Spider-man however, like I do, then it is still a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniciscool15
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 13, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  This has alot of things that make it perfect, or atleast better that the last two movie games. 
 The thing were you press buttons during vids are a very good touch. The buildings sizes are alot 
 better, making the game alot more realistic. All the new moves are awesome, and the sky diving 
 mini-game is fun to play becuase you get to go splat. The bomb disarming simulation is cool too. 
 now, how it strains far from the movie is allitle exentrict. But, it is still a good way to practice 
 bosses before the main guys (When you first fight Venom, it isn't really that easy) and the Sandman. 
 But, if you don't like the game, that's fine. Not everybody do like the way some games are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joekruger
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  The long awaited Spiderman 3 is finally out and its good. If youre a fan of the Spiderman Games 
 franchise then dont hesitate get this game NOW. On the other hand test before you buy, dont give 
 a bad review just because the game isnt your type of genre. Gameplay : The movement of Spidey is 
 well done from swinging to jumping you have full control and really does make you feel super . 
 Although when sprinting its a bit difficult to accurately turn and wall crawling sumtimes (five 
 during the game) doesnt work all that well. Furthermore they implemented a lot of new abilities 
 which makes it very cool.
  
  Graphics - Its not Gears of War good but its good- considering they remade an entire city wothout 
 it loading as you move through the city - and you dont really notice the details on the characters 
 since you are occupied most of the times. The city does indeed look great.
  
  Sound- Newly added background musicis also a pro since Spiderman 2 didnt have any background music 
 and the effects of the game is not to bad either.
  
  Value - depending on how big a fan you are you will love completeing the game three times or you 
 might just leave where it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clicker666
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 13, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Pros: Gameplay looks great, swinging is awesome.
  
  Cons: Everything else! The cutscenes are awful. The characters look pitiful, although they can 
 be identified as the movie actors. The fighting is extremely difficult. You have combos, but for 
 the most part finding them is luck, and button mashing is the norm. I ended up having to use a 
 trainer as the fights were way beyond my capabilities. The mini missions were tedious, especially 
 the races. I got stuck at one mission where you had to photograph a guy pretending to be Spiderman, 
 and couldn't progress any further along those lines. The worst thing for me was the button-press 
 sequences. I had to cheat all the way to the end, and couldn't finish the game because I could 
 not get the button sequences down fast enough. (I'm 41, you younger players may have a better experience.)
 
  
  Overall, I'm really disappointed. This game could have been fantastic. The fighting engine is good, 
 but you punch like a little girl, with more Spidey strength you could actually have been a hero! 
 The button-press sequences should have been left out. This isn't God of War, and frankly I found 
 the GOW2 button sequences much easier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wacko342
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 13, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  I loved most of this game i thought the storyline was great and that the g a m e was never let 
 down at one point during playing this . ever.
  the c o m b o s were sweet and way more than the last one i played (spiderman original)
  and 
 i actully overall enjoyed playung this game , since , the coplexity of the game was g r e a t so 
 thats why i put the reviewers tilt h i g h the game itself , i thought was pretty easy and didnt 
 take long to l e a r n , .
  .
  .
  .
  my final veridct is that this game is worth the money and a deinifte buy if you love the s p i 
 d e r m a n series and if you liked any past games you should get it aswell since it has a unique 
 point as is easily the best in series
  
  the graphics were slumped on . . . but that is not all that you expect from a game , i think the 
 engine worked pretty well and the game never lagged for m e . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse83Lives
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 12, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is a perfect example of programmers who have no clue about the Next Gen yet. It does 
 not look any better than Spidy 2 on the old machines. And this version on the old machines looks 
 horrible!!!!!! I mean games should not depend on graphics. But their not to good. And after playing 
 1 and 2. This one is just bad. Worse than the Comic Cell shaded one they tried. Controls seem a 
 tad funny to. Almost like their delayed even sometimes? It don't matter if its the PS3 or 360. 
 Their just off. How could 2 be so good. And 3 be so bad. And on new systems? Some of these companies 
 are doing okish with the next gen stuff. But some of them have not even come close to figuring 
 out these machines. All I can think is they tried to go from scratch. And found that they were 
 behind schedual. And clunked this together at the last minute. because you know they were on a 
 deadline with the movie. So you have to think this game was not even really close to done. This 
 feels like im playing a first try beta of the game. And thats probably what it kinda is. But they 
 had to have it out now with the movie so? Horrible game! These companies need new talent that understands 
 new hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 12, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is the third Spiderman Movie game by Trayrach. Yes I know they also made Ultimate Spiderman, 
 but we are here to talk about the movie games. Right now I'm going to you I gave this game a 8.9, 
 why such a high score!? Well I played Spiderman 3 first on PS2 and Wii. Its not the same as next 
 gen, the game was ugly, boring and could be beaten in a day. No reason to do the side missions 
 or random missions as they tended to be the same thing over and over. I'd give those versions 2.0 
 , just because I'm nice. Oh must not forget you HAD to take off the Black Suit, so it didn't kill 
 you, dumb right?
  
  Now I'm going to tell you about the 360/PS3 version of the game, well the 360 version anyway. This 
 game is beautiful to look at. It screams at you, this is how next gen games are going to look. 
 Wall to wall detail, and even some building you can go inside. Just blows my mind how much work 
 went on to make this game. There are also many villains, like Sandman, Scorpion, New Goblin, Venom 
 and lots more. Also unlike the last gen versions, the gangs have their own story. Really!? A reason 
 for being on the map and not doing the same thing the other gangs did? That's right, you want to 
 do gangs mission. Even the random mission seem different every time (At lest I have not had one 
 that did a repeat, haven't done them all yet) . Once you get the Black Suit, wear it for as long 
 as you want! Just like Spiderman says in the movie The Power is Amazing.
  
  The voice acting is good, some are better than others. The only person who does not lend their 
 voice to the game is Kirsten Dunst, that's ok, I like the new voice actress better. The music is 
 the same Spiderman theme from the movies, plus little bits of other music. Bruce Campbell is the 
 best narrator in the world. Both the narrator and Spidey make some jokes about Superman (Maybe 
 making fun of the Superman Returns movie/game?) .
  
  With all this talk about how great the game is, is there anything bad about it? Yes, I sorry to 
 say, the game is not perfect. The camera is bad when climbing up all. It wants to be just like 
 Superman and fly all around you, but it's nothing that can't be worked around. Also it could be 
 my HDTV, but one part (the Sewers) was so dark! It was by luck I found where to go, but like I 
 said, that just might be on my HDTV. Another thing is the boss battles. I'm a little old school 
 that when in a boss fight, once the boss health is gone it dies. Not in Spiderman 3! After every 
 boss battle you get a push button game to finish them off. It might be cool, but some battles I 
 had little to no health left and one mistake gives the boss a little more health. If that happens, 
 you must fight them back down for another chance at the button game. So that's just a heads up 
 for you that have yet to play this game, EVERY BOSS will have a button mini game to finish them 
 off. So no relaxing when their health is low.
  
  With all that being said, it's still a great game. One of the best movie games to come out for 
 the 360 beside Peter Jackson's King Kong . Beautiful 3D New York, Beautiful Graphic, and a Great 
 Story. Control is good too, it just the camera gets in the way when climbing the walls. So if your 
 a Spiderman fan or action/adventure fan, be sure to give Spiderman 3 a chance on the 360 or PS3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrewVanDamme
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 12, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Way too much time trying to 'luck' your way through boss fights as opposed to skill. BAD dodge 
 and block system, and the combos are extremely 'sticky'. Often times you will be still pummeling 
 an already defeated foe while you are attacked from all sides. No where in this game do you even 
 find a shread of 'intuitiveness'. From the camera down to the fighting, it comes across as a game 
 they made all the wrong changes to.
  The best (only?) part of the game worth playing, is not playing the 'game' at all, and simply swinging 
 around the free-roam city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westcoastwillam
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 12, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  spiderman 3 kinda sucks the camera and fighting systems suck the graphics are good but they can't 
 hold uo when the game kicks in it does not matter if you love or hate spidey this game is just 
 not very good even having the black suit not as cool as could be now don't get me wrong the movie 
 was solid kick @$$ but this game just isnt the game for the first movie blows this outta the water 
 and is cheaper for 60 bucks you get ripped off!!! i would not pay more than 15 for this game you 
 see the other spidey games kinda grew on you but this one you kinda grow tired of it the looks 
 were sharp and cool looking but the game was lame and pointless i hope they make a game away from 
 the movies just a good ol spidey game about the comics like the one on the playstation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigalocus
Rating: 1.6
Date: May 12, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Utter **** its broken and relies on a ****y button that DOESNT even work! WTF? The ****y cod of 
 war bits piss me off the most, as you press the button, and it doesnt work .... missions are totally 
 **** like you have to defend a can agaisnt an unlimited numebr of lizards for 2mins, yet they destroy 
 it within 10 secs! WTF! ALLL of combat relies on the LB, which doesnt even work! whats the point, 
 you should be paid to but this utter waste of **** dont buy!!! its soo stupid, missions take forever, 
 not as there fun or long, just because you'll be retrying the same bit for 20mins, especially boss 
 fights, you ask your self, why the **** can't he die? cos its buggy as **** you'll be fighting 
 somehere, with 100% health, then, you'll just end up dead on the floor in a different county some 
 where, then when you finally do it, you get a crappy, press the A button in time, so you do, and 
 you die, so you have to fight the boss all over, again and again, untill finaly, you've memorised 
 the sequnce and finally pass! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: czapata
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Spider Man 3 is a very awesome game for the XBOX 360. I like that we get to explore large parts 
 of New York city. The controls are ver smooth and the combat system is awesome. I like the bosses 
 such as Sandman, Lizard, Venom, Kingpin etc., the boss i find very frustrating was Kraven especially 
 when he turns invisible and all those lizards attacking you, but i managed to get passed that. 
 I also like the little mini missions that happens during free roam. This game is a little frustrating 
 like the one level where you have to cure all of those lizards in the sewers. But overall this 
 game was fun and very challenging and has some awesome missions, and the black suit looks awesome 
 by the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  With most movie licensed games they turn out to be garbage. Only a few got it right (Riddick) . 
 Now Spider-Man 3 doesn't come close at all to Riddick's crown, however, it does excel as a movie 
 based game. The game is worth playing just to swing around the beautifully rendered NYC. The game 
 is loaded with missions, swinging is addicting, and it follows the movie's plot. They also included 
 the addition of button timed sequences in the middle of combat, which works very well towards the 
 games pros. Once you start playing the game, you get hooked on it. It may not be mind blowing, 
 and it may not really pull you in, but it is just plain fun. The achievements are good, the graphics 
 are not too shabby (they look alot better when your swinging around NYC) , and the gameplay is fun. 
 Though frustrating at times, you have more fun than frustration. Use you spider senses to spot 
 out things you cant see with a naked eye as well as key points, and use them to slow down time 
 to counter attacks. Plus when you get black spidey, you get an all new rage mode. Now if your a 
 Spider Man fan, or just loves doing random missions that are plain fun, you will like this game 
 no doubt. If your into deep storylines stay back. But all in all, it is a fun game. Ignore the 
 terrible voice acting if you know whats good for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryVanBreemen
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  So i got the game about a week after it fist came out. At first everything was cool, the city looked 
 fantastic and spiderman looked good too. The cut-scenes have some of the worst graphics I think 
 i've seen on the Xbox 360, the Wii could have done better.
  
  The storyline is ok, general crime fighting and beating the bad guys as always. The fighting can 
 be somewhat repitive at times, with the constant button bashing getting annoying.
  
  The camera is also a pain. Climbing up buildings and general swinging can confuse the camera and 
 it goes into this weird momentary craziness. It does get annoying but I dont think it harms the 
 gameplay to badly.
  
  Whatever people say abouth this game, you cant argue that it is a great game, there is nothing 
 more rewarding than swinging though Manhattan, stopping a bad guy and just looking at the scenery. 
 Yes, this game has its flaws, but somehow they are forgotten about as you swing throughout the 
 city.
  
  A good game definately worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korpdawg
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 11, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  All in all this is a very fun game. Swinging as spider-man feels better than the 2nd one did. Graphics 
 overall are good. New York does look great. Plenty of action on the streets.
  
  The most frustrating thing for me was the button mini-games. If you liked them in God of War (which 
 I didn't) , they really take it to the extreme here. Using almost every button and both analog sticks. 
 Can be very irritating but if you screw up they usually restart you at the same spot.
  
  Camera is a little too far away from spidey. For the most part it works fine but their are some 
 points where it could have been done a lot better. For instance, when running down a hallway the 
 camera seems to get hung up. Also when your climbing a building the camera can jump around ALOT 
 when turning.
  
  Combat overall is pretty good and if your having difficutly with a mission, quitting that and doing 
 other missions to build up health and earn combo moves can do a world of good to help alleviate 
 these problems.
  
  Sound is great when its on and doesn't seem to lose too much when its not playing. Voice acting 
 is really good with a few parts that are just bad.
  
  Overall it was a great spider-man game and well worth a purchase. Don't be too quick to give up 
 because it does redeem itself after the first 20-30%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wats_o
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 11, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Well to start i loved spiderman 2 thought it was a good game (considering the normal quality of 
 comic book tie in games X-men anyone!!) So was looking forward to this one and despite the average 
 reviews everywhere i went out and bought it. First impressions were that it was graphically unimpressive 
 (The characters in cut scenes look awful) but still seemed to keep the fun of the previous game! 
 On Getting deeper i started to appreciate the graphics more (Well the ingames, cut scenes still 
 are poor) and do enjoy th gameplay, yeah it's simplistic but it is fun! I like the interactive 
 cut-scenes too. So overall i enjoy this game a fair amount. My only problem is that i can't bring 
 myself to spend a great deal of time with it in one sitting, after about 20mins i start getting 
 a tad bored and have found myself playing in short bursts, it has become my 10min fix game which 
 is all well and good i suppose. So overall happy i didn't ignore the game after the reviews and 
 although it's not earth shatteringly great it's still a fun game to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twocoins49
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 11, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  this game isnt all that bad. its got no replay value, but its sure as hell worth the rent. best 
 spiderman game ive played (based on a movie that is) i recomend renting it first. it doesnt quite 
 follow the movie that much, and its only got about 10 hoursof game time, but over all its a good 
 time waster and its fun. great graphics as well. rent before you buy, depends on your gaming preference. 
 alot like superman returns only 10 times better. i give it a 6.8 out of 10. this game runs smooth 
 on the 360, and the moves look well on it, almost as good as in the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetraitor
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 11, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  The swinging is still the same as previous installments and exploring the city is fun for half 
 an hour or so. Unfortunately the combat has been butchered so badly I don't even think a patch 
 could salvage it. The game is completely reliant on pressing the dodge button and waiting for the 
 enemy to attack. The main problem is spidey only does 1 counter attack and your forced to look 
 at it 400 times per opponent. BOSS fights can take well over ten minutes when your forced to bait 
 them into you and counter them over and over. If they play tested this game they would have had 
 to notice that that wasn't any fun. This is another potentially great game that was botched by 
 a deadline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris_Potter
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 11, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  Unlike most other super heroes Spider-Man hasnt had many problems with his games the last couple 
 of years. The first game based off the movie trilogy was decent, number two was a big improvement, 
 and between that game and this game Activision also managed to release the comic based Ultimate 
 Spider-Man which was also pretty good. Now its time to follow up with a game based on the new 
 movie where Spider-Man dons the black suit for the first time. Heres how the new Spider-Man does 
 on the new generation of consoles.
  
  Story:
  Everything is going great. Peter Parker has the girl of his dreams, the city of New York finally 
 loves and respects him and there havent been any big time criminals to take care of since Doc 
 Ocks death. However some things still need fixing. Peters best friend Harry still wont talk 
 to him since he found out that Peter is Spider-Man, and to top it all off theres a new freelance 
 photographer trying to take over Peters job at the Daily Bugle. Just when things start looking 
 up, along comes the darkness, in form of a black suit.
  
  Gameplay:
  Spider-Man 3 plays a lot like Spider-Man 2 did, by allowing you to roam the city by yourself choosing 
 whether you simply want to swing your way around the city exploring and doing random crimes, or 
 if you want to spend your time getting through one of the games short storylines. The most important 
 aspect of the game is of course the swinging; Spider-Man wouldnt be Spider-Man unless he could 
 swing from buildings. The game does an excellent job with the swinging, just like it did in the 
 previous game, and when you are swinging around Manhattan really quickly, looking down at the traffic 
 jams forming under you, thats when the game really hits its high point. For a moment its almost 
 as if the controller doesnt exist and you really are swinging around yourself.
  The second thing is of course the fighting, which honestly isnt nearly as good as it could have 
 been. A lot of the time the game gets aggravating because you dont feel like your control of Spidey 
 is good enough to be able to beat the characters on the screen, and often boils down to you just 
 mashing random buttons in hope of making an awesome move that will get rid of the toughest enemies 
 on the screen. Some points just get tedious and feel completely random whether or not you prevail. 
 However the fighting isnt completely without charm, some fights have really fun enemies to fight 
 and have interesting reasons behind them. The boss battles are also really fun at most points, 
 because even if they pretty much boil down to the same button mashing as all the other fights in 
 the game, these often take place in really cool locales that give the battles an epic feel in some 
 cases.
  Another interesting thing is that the game has some interesting interactive cutscenes where you 
 have to press certain buttons to win. Almost all the boss battles end with these and they appear 
 throughout other parts of the game as well. This might sound a little annoying to some of you, 
 it did to me when I started the game and immediately had to start pressing A and X at certain 
 moments to get out of a flaming building, but after a few scenes it started to get enjoyable, most 
 of the time this is because of the cool choreography the game often uses in these scenes, which 
 actually remind me of the movie at some parts.
  The gameplay in Spider-Man 3 is good most of the time, and if Treyarch had worked a little on the 
 fighting in the game it would have been as good as it could have gotten, but unfortunately the 
 games simple fighting scenes often leaves the player under whelmed, but other than that the gameplay 
 is really great in almost all aspects.
  
  Visuals:
  As a game 360 game Spider-Man 3 doesnt stand out very well, the game looks pretty good in most 
 cases and the city of New York has never looked this good in a video game before. The lighting 
 makes the city feel alive, and the traffic is as authentic as it could be, with loads of traffic 
 jams with loads of yellow cabs everywhere. Spider-Man himself looks really good as he swings around 
 New Yorks skyscrapers. The environments in general look pretty decent, they never scream out Next 
 Gen but still get the job done pretty well, the subways look pretty dark and except for some very 
 bad looking textures look pretty good.
  As I said, the best thing about Spider-Man 3s visuals is the City of New York which is pretty 
 impressive, otherwise the game looks decent in most ways and a little work wouldnt have hurt, 
 but still it never goes bellow decent.
  
  Sound:
  If Spider-Man has a weak spot it would probably be its audio, because even though it features all 
 the stars from the movie (with Kirsten Dunst as the exception) it has some problems with making 
 the dialogue sound authentic at some points, and even though its above good most of the time, 
 some times you just get a little disappointed to hear phrases that really sound wooden. As Alex 
 Navarro said in his review, the most authentic performance is probably given by JK Simmons that 
 voices J. Jonah Jameson, he sounds exactly as he does in the movie and never really sounds like 
 he doesnt no or care whats going on. However he isnt really in the game that much so some of 
 the other actors have more chances to make mistakes. The voice acting in the game is really good 
 in general though, so you never really get bugged by the voices.
  The music in Spider-Man 3 is pretty much non existent; the game only has a few real pieces of music 
 that it throws at you during certain events such as car chases and fight scenes. When you are roaming 
 the city the game hardly ever gives you any music at all, which can come off as annoying to some 
 people. I dont find it annoying at all since I during Spider-Man games prefer to listen to the 
 first two Spider-man soundtracks, so I actually like the fact that Im not missing anything worth 
 listening to, so if you buy the 360 version remember that not having that much game music in the 
 background can be a good thing.
  Basically the games audio is pretty good, with good well known voice actors and decent music where 
 there is any at all Spider-Man 3 gives you pretty much what the previous game made you expect from 
 the franchise, one could argue that a little more music and other small additions would have fit 
 real nicely, but the game is still good in the sound department.
  
  Overall:
  Spider-Man 3 is a good license game, with a lot of great characters and great boss fights. Even 
 though it has some problems with its camera and repetitive fighting system it delivers a fun experience 
 all through out, with loads of action and memorable boss fights that will make any comic book fan 
 smile. The cast of voice actors doesnt hurt the overall package either and even though there could 
 be more music in the game its audio is still really solid.
  Visually the game is pretty good, the character models leave something to be desired, but Spider-Man 
 himself and the city of New York look really great, which is probably the best thing about the 
 game since you will be spending many hours just swinging around exploring New Yorks streets just 
 for the sake of swinging.
  Anyone that can live with some minor gameplay errors and some glitches, and who happens to love 
 Spider-Man should check this out, because what you might find is one of the best web swinger game 
 to date with a lot of stuff to uncover under its surface! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahkarisazael
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 11, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 doesn't have the best graphics, yeah it probably could've been better. But it is one 
 of the most addicting games I've ever played. You face off with around ten or twelve bosses, you 
 can fight random crimes that pop up around the city, you can go off looking fo tokens, or you can 
 do photo missions for the Bugle. You are able to unlock the ability to completely play back through 
 the campaign with the Black Suited Spidey after you have defeated Venom. If you like Spiderman, 
 or if you liked Crackdown then you will most likely love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irishscott99
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 10, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The game has a good base; but it seems like inexperience, lack of care, and/or lead paint caused 
 Spider-Man 3 to become a typical movie game.
  
  Without question, the biggest problem is the inexcusably glitchy gameplay. My very first foray 
 into the city left me inescapably stuck in a building. Upon reset and reenter, the first enemy 
 I faced got stuck in a building keeping me from finishing a mission . The cut scene models look 
 like partially melted clay. Spider-Man during gameplay is nice especially in his black suit, but 
 the cut scenes are simply nasty. The game is excessively slow in its reliance on counters. And 
 the quick jumps to God of War esque button sequences was annoying. These sequences also were a 
 let down when often the actions being accomplished on screen were simple web swings.
  
  There is a good game buried in there, and fans of Spider-Man should definitely rent the game. There 
 are enjoyable moments but just not enough to make it worth while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigsouthern
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 10, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  every game that comes out that has been tied in with a film license is utter poo poo and YOU know 
 this!!! why does it have hype? who knows!!! and to make matters even worse its a multi format release 
 which means graphics are going to be sh1t. spend your 30 pound on something thats going to last 
 you more than 3 nights. c'mon this is for 7 year olds. I bet every person who rated this higher 
 than gamespots 6.6 have no hair on there balls. (the review) just the same old run round punch 
 kick look for item a little cut scene and thats about it oo and power up your abilites. nice and 
 simple if you like simple games that do not immerse you in other worlds or you play for about an 
 hour a day fair enough but if you want value forget it you'll finish it in 3 nights max if you 
 like achievements rent it but its not one for the collection id say command and conq would keep 
 you playing a lot longer and has good live functions rather than a silly action hero game that 
 been brought out to pull in more money lamely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemonkey04
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 10, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Great swinging and combat, love the Gothic Lolitas, super cool Options Screens and UI, beautiful 
 city - what Superman wanted to be but wasn't! It left me wanting more. The cinematic brawls and 
 bomb defusing mini-games were much needed additions to the game-play and the Scorpion Mind Control 
 mini-game was the best! The only criticism was that the cinematic cut scenes were trying to be 
 next-gen but actually looked worse then the ones on SM2. And I wish the city and the environments 
 in general were destructible, but that is a minor criticism. Keep up the good work Treyarch and 
 Activision! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake2769
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 10, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  I honestly think that the reviews given by the official gaming websites are WAY off. The web-slinging 
 alone deserves better than the lowly score they gave it. The missions are fairly diverse and if 
 you try just button-mashing in the later parts of the game you're gonna get your butt handed to 
 you.
  
  I'm starting to wonder if this game doesn't suffer from a (unfortunately) common practice of build-review 
 . The so-called gaming experts just don't have time to play the full game before reviewing it, 
 (so they say) . Now, these are the people who don't do anything but play games, review games, write 
 about games, you get the point. So, they just review the demo they were given.
  
  The main reason I say this is that in almost all of the reviews I've read they complain about the 
 missions. One review, (can't remember where from) , complained about the photography missions. The 
 reviewer reported that they were bland and amounted to standing in a parking lot and snapping photos 
 . That sounds a lot like a early Arsenic Candy mission where you have to take photos of a beauty 
 contest gone bad. Later on in the game, your doing such bland stuff as taking photos of a fake 
 Spidey from the sides of skyscrapers and saving his worthless butt when his helicopter malfunctions 
 and he falls from the chopper. Not too shabby in my book.
  
  It all leads me to believe that they've never seen the later missions.
  
  Honestly, all you 
 have to do is look at the huge difference in what the experts say and what the people who have 
 actually played the game say. Right now, the score is experts =6.6, Actual Gamers=8.1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrnet
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 10, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  First of I would like to state that I have never played Spider-man 2 and there for can not compare 
 this game with the one I just mentioned.
  
  Game Experience:
  In this game you get to play out 10 storylines and just one of these is the one from the movie. 
 Personally I found the game to be really cool and everything worked out just fine. There is nothing 
 cooler then swinging through New York with Spidey. It's fast and nice looking. In the grand scene 
 of things I would have to say that this game actually delivers on most aspects it's aiming for. 
 While swinging through the city random crime events popup and it's up to you to stop them. I've 
 been playing this game for a few hours and all these events do not come across as the same one.
 
  
  You can choose to just explore the city and eradicate the crimewaves or you can choose to strictly 
 follow the games storylines. I've been doing a combo of these events. To select a mission you can 
 press back on the controller and the game zoomes out to show you the entire city (and don't forget 
 that it's HUGE) . While in this screen you can choose three options, namely missions, events and 
 an other one I can't remember at this time 'cause I've never used it before. The move to this map 
 is without a hitch and smoothly goes in and out of this part of the game.
  
  The game isn't purely above ground anymore. You also have to fight in the sewers and subways to 
 get through the game. In the game you also have minigames like defusing bombs and sometimes getting 
 wounded police officers or civillians to safety. It's fun to do and the game provides you with 
 the much needed help to get there.
  
  A new part in this game are the actionsequences, like Tomb Raider Legends had. The problem I have 
 with this feature is that they come out of nowhere and don't notice them that quickly. This mostly 
 results in failing that part of the mission and you have to do it over again (the sequence) . One 
 particular sequence really pissed me of. It's the one where Spidey has to stop a subwaycar and 
 you have to quickly press the buttons that are indicated on the screen. This goes by so fast that 
 it took me a lot of turns to get past.
  
  There is one other problem with the game and that's the camerasystem. I only experience problems 
 with it when I'm crawling on walls as the camera doesn't seem to handle that very well. While fighting 
 I didn't have any problems with it. I've also never experienced a framedrop in the game even though 
 some other online reviews have stated this as a problem.
  
  As in the movie you start of playing in the standard redsuit and while the game progresses you 
 temporarily switch over to the blacksuit. Now that I've gained some experience playing as the blacksuit 
 I must say that it's really powerfull to play like that. Spidey is indeed stronger, faster and 
 way more aggressive! While fighting you build up a rage meter. Once this meter is full you can 
 unleash the power you've built up and this feature gives you even more strenght. Blacksuit is unlocked 
 just before you have the first fight with Sandman. This fight is loaded with actionsequences that 
 don't irritate.
  
  Graphics:
  While playing the game it truly looks great. For a sandboxgame the city is very much alive and 
 the models for the main characters look really good. Not Gears of War good but just good. It's 
 a shame that some elements don't look the part like the cutscenes. The models in these scenes don't 
 look that impressive up close. The spider-man model does in fact look impressive, ingame and in 
 the cutscenes.
  
  Sound:
  Almost everyone from the movie has given their voice to the game except Kirsten Dunst. But hey, 
 you hardly notice it anyway. The best actor in the came is the one who voices JJ Jameson.
  
  Overall:
  A lot of reviews on the net give this game a low rating of a 6. They also have 
 some of the points that I addressed in this review like the camera and the actionsequences. An 
 other point they make is that they find this game a pure visual upgrade from the second movie game. 
 I haven't played that game so my judgement about this can not be made. In my opinion this game 
 is worth a hell of a lot more then just a 6 and I would actually give it an 8,5. The feeling of 
 swinging through the city is just awsome and the moves you make while fighting also look cool. 
 The fighting my be compared with button mashing, but I don't care about that because that, in my 
 opinion, is part of this type of game.
  
  Update
  Now that I've had even more game time I must admit that the game can be really frustrating at times. 
 I'm not the kind of gamer that likes to think a lot with these type of games. And some parts just 
 don't seem to work correctly. How come the ganglevels (near the end of their individuel runs) are 
 harder then the actual known villians? I, for the life of me, can't figure out how to get past 
 not one but two of these gangfights. The camera has been bugging me a bit more.
  
  One last thing that has nothing to do with the game but the various gamesites is the following. 
 Why would they say that this game is a new hit and looks incredible with the gameplay when the 
 next day, when the review is posted, they slam everything they've stated before right into the 
 ground.
  
  Rating:
  7,8 out of 10 (score adjusted from 8,5) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pipipat
Rating: 5
Date: May 9, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  they need to work on the combat, so many times i died because of the camera, they dindn't explain 
 something well or a button would show up and you have 0 time to react. I'm the biggest Spider-man 
 fan there is, my room will prove it, but i gotta say, its hard to admit it, this game is bad.. 
 i find it a lot better just going around town and doing the little crimes, the main battles are 
 trying to hard to be something their not and glitches just end up happening.... at least the acheivements 
 are easy to get... and even after all that, i'm still playing it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThisFire
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 9, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Graphics - Great. City looks nice, characters look nice (the camera is pretty far back, so they're 
 not that detailed) and the animations are decent enough (excellent, actually, when it comes to 
 Spidey swingin' around) . I don't know what version of Spiderman 2 other people were playing, but 
 I thought the graphics on 2 sucked, and these are significantly better. Sound - Toby MacGuire is 
 in it! I'd be excited if his voice wasn't comparable to valium chased with Nyquil. Competent voice 
 acting; not great though. The music is there, though not mind blowing. Not annoying though, and 
 that says something. Gameplay - Swingin' is fun! Big city makes for a lot of swingin' around, and 
 that's fun to do. The fighting works, though it's not great. You really have to get the hang of 
 it before it's fun, and that takes awhile. Biggest problem there is that you're just doing the 
 same combos over and over again, and ut gets a little tedious. There's a lot to do, from racing 
 to fighting to taking pictures and taking Mary Jane around the city. It's just jam packed full 
 of stuff to do. Too many button pressing mini games! You're constantly doing these litte minigames 
 that actually play out to be pretty cool action sequences, but the timing games are pretty lame. 
 You just do them over and over until you know the button sequence. And defusing bombs is pretty 
 boring too. Biggest downfall... the camera. Moves too slowly, and tends to find strange up close 
 angles when you're wall crawling, so that could've been a lot better.
  
  Tilt - It's really fun! I find Xbox 360 is lacking in the action/adventure and platforming genre, 
 and this keeps me happy! If you like Spiderman, buy this, if not, it's definitely worth a rent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spin-Flip
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 9, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok guys, I must say this HAS been by far the most challenging games I have played. This will also 
 be the most Challenging review ill ever wright. Here it is......
  
  Graphics : Ok, these are THE best graphics so far I have seen in a -------------- Spiderman game. 
 They by far bast Spiderman 2, and By far and Beyond pass Spiderman 1 or USM [Ultimate Spiderman.] 
 As look at the veiw of a 360 game graphics, these are average, they could have done a little better, 
 Though, Spidermans model in th egame pulls it off, 100% Spectacular, I couldnt say it could have 
 been done any better. You can even see the stichtings in his model, This is in regular gameplay 
 im talking about. The other characters are avaerage. There are like Tony Hawk Project 8 graphics. 
 As for the buildings in free roam, They look very good, the reflections and all. And at night when 
 the city is lit up, IT IS AWESOME! I love swinging around at night. Also, Venoms model is as good 
 as Spiderman's. Anyway, This is it for the Graphics I give it a 9/10 for a 360 game.
  
  Sound : The sound is good, Of ourse there was a few parts where they were
  ---------- Talking 
 realing quitely and I had to turn my volume up but the sound was satisfy thoughs who like loud 
 games.
  
  Gameplay : This was a flaw in he game but after a while you got really use --------------- to it 
 and you become fine with the gameplay trust me. This game will turn out to be OK gameplay for you. 
 Its just a little hard in the beginning, Also the swinging is kinda jacked, but as I said you get 
 use to it and start to like it.
  
  Camera: Its good. In the way somtimes, but overall its OK.
  ------------
  
  That concludes 
 most of the stuff this review. Hope you get this game because its worth it, if you like a challenge. 
 Yes, its Free Roam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killahmaul
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 9, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  They made this game to freaking hard, it takes 3 stages to beat some of the bosses, I was one of 
 the dumb ones that bought it because of the movie, (which wasnt that good) to much crying, almost 
 like a lifetime movie, I admit it I was fooled!!! its just to damn hard gamestop get ready to give 
 me my 30 bucks buck when I turn it back in... and put that money towards the transformers game, 
 and hopefully is a better game, dont get me wrongthe graphics are nice, as for sound they have 
 that one song that songs like an old Sting instrumental going on for the most part of the game, 
 and as for the unlockables, wheres Vennom or the new goblin as playable characters? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 9, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Oh spider-man you had so much potential. But your graphics are not up to par with next-gen. You 
 have a broken story line. Some of your villains are hard to kill to hard. Glitches are every where 
 killing the game play, making people hit through solid objects, killing men out right, and worst 
 of all you make me of press a sequence of buttons at crazy speeds. Which leads to you replaying 
 the same stupid level over and over. But it never gets old to swing around new york. And that is 
 probably the only fun thing about this game. And even that does not justify the $60 price tag. 
 When all is said and you have beaten the game they let you play it again. WHAT ! I have to play 
 all of that horrible game play again ! O well heres to the next spider-man game with hope the next 
 one wont blow chunks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: friday04
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 9, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game last night and at first I thought they did a great job. But within 
 an hour I was finding myself feeling queasy because of the erratic camera movement. There's no 
 easy way to keep the camera angle behind you and it starts flying all around you as you try and 
 navigate the city or as you try and fight multiple people. The game turns into button mashing very 
 quickly because you become so disoriented.
  
  I can't really talk to the technical challenges the developer had in getting the camera right but 
 it seems like the would have been able to do a better job than this. It feels as though they rushed 
 it out the door just so they could launch with the movie and that's too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEE310594
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 2 - a game everyone waited for. It quickly became a hit because of it's original GTA 
 meets Man in tights Sandbox gameplay. Great storylines and ultimately the fluid experience of controlling 
 SpiderMan, swinging through the streets of NYC. And now, It's back. Shined up by the Xbox 360 and 
 PS3 releases, and mixed around with, adding new storylines and bosses, like Kraven, Lizard and 
 Scorpion. But the question is, is it just a shine up, a re-release, of a game that's pointless 
 in buying if you have the prequel? Here's my explanation. SpiderMan 3 has brung new features (obviously) 
 to the table, including bomb defusal, karaoke style action sequences, the freedom of sticking to 
 the streets, or taking it down to the sewers, or catching a lift on the subway. But the main feature 
 of the game is also the same as the one in the film - The Black Suit. The much anticipated Symbiote 
 life form makes its long awaited appearance, maybe more than that as it consumes and takes over 
 Spidey. And damn, you don't just get a better costume, I mean, this thing is AWESOME. Agility, 
 strength, and of course the demonic, dark and twisted side of Spider-Man really show their true 
 colours - Black. However, are these features really enough reason to spend your &pound;50 on a 
 sequel? I say yes. Although sequels of popular franchises can force developers to run out of ideas, 
 the movie really opened their minds. At last, unperformable acrobatic ways of maneuvering across 
 the environment can be performed thanks to the action sequences. You do feel unrestricted against 
 your will to get mucked up in the sewers and subways. You can take snaps of events for the Bugle 
 and smirk after getting the high-score. You can take over the Black Suit, You can let it take over 
 you...
  
  If you're not a big fan, but have number two, then remember this, An old dog can't learn new tricks, 
 but it can still be bloody fun to play with 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lestatx75
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 9, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  I find Spider Man 3 to be an improvement over the last two games involving everyone's favorite 
 webslinger. The free roaming nature of the game has been improved and Manhattan is much larger 
 than it was before. The random occurence of crimes and your ability to get involved or just skip 
 them is nice as well. When in combat, the game becomes something of a button masher, but I don't 
 think that makes it any less fun. True, the graphics are sub par compared to games like Gears of 
 War and Rainbow Six Vegas. But the multiple plot lines, large free roaming city, and true comic 
 book feel of the game help it transcend the look and occasional nutty camera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxcjordan2k7
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 9, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  spider man 3 is a good game but i think you should just rent it you go through it too fast the 
 game play is class graphics is brill there are some hard levels but in the end you will do it it 
 does not take long to complete this game you will like the missions
  spider man 3 is a good game but i think you should just rent it you go through it too fast the 
 game play is class graphics is brill there are some hard levels but in the end you will do it it 
 does not take long to complete this game you will like the missions
  spider man 3 is a good game but i think you should just rent it you go through it too fast the 
 game play is class graphics is brill there are some hard levels but in the end you will do it it 
 does not take long to complete this game you will like the missions
  spider man 3 is a good game but i think you should just rent it you go through it too fast the 
 game play is class graphics is brill there are some hard levels but in the end you will do it it 
 does not take long to complete this game you will like the missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raine1998
Rating: 6
Date: May 9, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Good grief, can someone please tell me what is so exciting about playing the same game over and 
 over and over again? The last Spiderman game I really got hooked on was Spiderman 2 on the PS1. 
 With a few helpful hints you could have all the spidey suits in the world, you could be the Green 
 Goblin and fight yourself, or anyone. The game itself actually had a purpose. These last three 
 Spiderman games have to me,...... been exhausting. (though the cartoony Ultimate Spiderman was kinda 
 neat)
  I really was looking forward to this one, as all the trailers and screenshots looked great, and 
 yes, the city and spidey himself do look awesome. But where's the back ground story? The one where 
 everything comes together the end and it seems all worth it? Beating up mindless thugs was never 
 that much of a thrill back in '02, I don't know why that would change? Oh, and the N. G. C. thingy, 
 that all gaming companies have been working so hard to use it's true abilities? Well,......... try 
 again. The graphics are cool with the scenery as I said, but the battles are a flashback of a taste 
 left sour from the older gen. gaming counsels. I don't know about you, but I don't spend $70+ on 
 games to put on a cool looking suit and tour around New York. Spidey's evil adversaries? All cool, 
 but all glitchy come fight night, and they turn kinda wonky in the wrong lighting. Too many possibilities 
 left untouched, too many stones left unturned, and yes, w/the TRUE capabilities of the N. G. C. once 
 again left in the storage room,........... too much to lose, not enough (?) ........, well......... just 
 not enough anything.
  But, then again, maybe it's just me.........
  
  The Bloodboys Review
  Score: 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakotan
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 9, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Its spiderman and it has everything a fan could want and he has full range of his powers in the 
 whole game. They did alot of new things in this game that hasnt been put in any superhero game 
 to date. One is the mini game if you cant see buttons pop on screen then your shouldnt be playing 
 games period cause they give you enough time to press the mini game buttons. It is like God of 
 War but better. Has a better feel almost real feel to the movement and swinging in the city as 
 spiderman. They say the camra is off I say they dont know how to handle a superhero game. Granted 
 im not the best gamer but i know a fun game when i play it and gamespot is dead wrong again on 
 another superhero game.
  
  One thing they were right about is graphics could have had some things twicked a lil better then 
 it was. So i gave it a 9 Maybe you guys should look for another reviewer for these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattc7691
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 9, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  This is an awsome game! My favorite SpiderMan game besides the Ultimate SpiderMan game. This game 
 has alot of fun moments in it. Including old villians (like Scorpion, Rhino, Lizard, Kingpin, Kraven) , 
 new villians (Mad Bomber, Arsenic Candy, Apocalypse, &amp; Dragon Tail gangs) , plus the villians 
 from the movie (Venom, Sandman, &amp; New Goblin) . The only problem I have with the game is the 
 annoying camera, and the repeatative dialouge, and that's just about it. Plus, you get the black 
 symbiote in the middle of the game, which is awsome, so this is a great, fun game to play. A must 
 have game for SpiderMan or Marvel comics fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 9, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is a strange game, well maybe its not about the game and more about the people playing 
 it. Its short comings either ruin the game for some, making it a complete boring mess of quick 
 time events, boss fights and disjointed cut scenes or the lack of ambient sound, dull textures 
 and bug-eyed character models dont seem to bother people. Im somewhere in the middle.
  
  Now I know its not kosher to mention another review and call said reviewer something of a blundering 
 idiot but I did read a very IGNorant review that mentioned something of the combat in Spider-Man 
 3 being broken because it took the guy over an hour to beat The Kingpin. You seriously have to 
 IGNore the various moves and powers the game gives you to struggle with a boss that much in this 
 game. Now I wouldnt place the combat on the level of Ninja Gaiden but the amount of freedom and 
 combos you can create is a bit better than Devil May Cry 1. When I faced off against the bulbous 
 mastermind of crime, it simply took me three tries and roughly eight minutes. I enjoyed the combat 
 immensely and would have to say that it is the closest you can come to seeing Spider-Mans amazing 
 agility outside of the paper media he was born in. With a flurry of quick and strong attacks, webbing 
 and grappling, air combos, spider agility and the various button combinations that pull off a wide 
 variety of moves, this game gives you a large arsenal to dispose of any character you come across. 
 Its totally up to you on how risky you want to be during a boss battle. You can wimp out like 
 this reviewer did and spam the counterattacks or you can be a man and play the game like its supposed 
 to be played.
  
  Also within most of these boss fights are little quick time events. If you find yourself in the 
 right position at the right time, or the boss is exceptionally low in health, a prompt will appear 
 on the screen telling you to press a certain button and something of an interactive cutscene will 
 play out as you watch Spider-Man perform feats only he can do. Anything from smacking Sandman around 
 as if he was a beachball to riding the Rhino rodeo style and crashing him into a wall. These moves 
 often add cinematic flair to an otherwise button mashing boss battles.
  
  Now what most of you want to hear about, the black suit. Besides being aesthetically pleasing to 
 a lot of Spidey fans, the suit only offers a small increase in speed and strength, a rage mode 
 that is simply great, and the most memorable scenes in the game. As the dark suited super hero, 
 youre more likely to fatally injure a villain and not care in the least, and when youre raging 
 with your red aura around you, you turn into a perfect ass kicking machine, able to serve large 
 amounts of ass kicking in a very brief time. The rest of the game plays out as you swing through 
 a very large portion of NYC battling three gangs made strictly for this game, stop various crimes, 
 race through markers, sky dive and the typical token hunting you find in every free roaming game. 
 Spider-Man 3 keeps the formula found in Spider-Man 2 but just adds to it... gameplay wise.
  
  Graphics wise however, the game looks like a port from the PS2/Xbox era. While the graphics 
 are a better on the 360 than the systems of yesteryear, They arent up to snuff with titles made 
 for this generation. The textures of the buildings in NYC make all the skyscrapers look brand new, 
 in other words the textures are just bland. Its as if Mr. Clean got together with the scrubbing 
 bubbles and just waged war on all the dirt in the city. Buildings facades are of the shiniest, 
 cleanest brick or glass coating and just makes the game look fake. Also the character models have 
 this strange Steve Buscemi Syndrome to them. In any cutscene where a human face is displayed, that 
 character has a strange ailment that makes their eyes look like they are bulging out of their skull. 
 Also, there are a few instances of clipping, pop-up and overall just bad collision detection littered 
 throughout the game. Oh and the camera WILL piss you off if you need to perform precise crawling 
 movements or find yourself fighting in a building.
  
  On the other hand, The character models for the various criminals and Spider-Man himself are very 
 well done and are well animated. The battles, whether taking place on land or in the air are often 
 on the comic book level. When the camera is working right, and you pull of a few of the certain 
 combos, the game just makes you feel like youre kicking ass as the web-slinger himself and thats 
 what this game is all about. The city also looks alive with all the life and vehicles going about 
 their daily chores, however on closer inspection, you can see that a lot of the pedestrian skins 
 are used far too often.
  
  There are quite a few stories going on in this game and all of them seem to overshadow the main 
 plot simply because... the main plot is terrible in this game. After watching the movie and then 
 playing this game, it seems like Sam Raimi showed the developers about five or six scenes and let 
 the devs fill in the rest. The result is a story that makes very little sense and takes Spider-Man 
 like leaps in plot progression. Its too bad too because the battles with Venom and Sandman fall 
 victim to this shoddy story while Scorpion, Rhino, the Lizard, Kraven the Hunter and even Kingpin 
 are given plots that are far easier to follow and much more interesting. The voices in the game 
 are done by the actors themselves, except for Miss Dunst, but sometimes they miss the mark. In 
 certain parts, the words are just read off with little to know flair behind them. While swinging 
 through the city, you may also notice that, along with the new anti littering campaign that the 
 city has underdone, they must have also thrown in some strict sound regulations. At street level 
 you can hear the various sounds of the city, but even on the third story level, all that you can 
 hear is webs being shot, and buildings whizzing by. That also can be due to the lack of music that 
 exists when youre swinging about. Strangely enough, music does kick in every once in awhile and 
 there is always a tune going during the missions. Maybe the devs didnt want you walking away humming 
 a tune after hours of web slinging.
  
  
  Is Spider-Man 3 simply an average game? The answer is yes, to some it may just be a bland game 
 but to others it may just be a fun and enjoyable time as Spider-Man that just happens to have a 
 few issues. If youre a fan of the other games, SM3 does enough things right to warrant a purchase, 
 If youre just interested in the game, a simple rent would suffice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whakyZ86
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  I must say that gamespot and just about every other website that has graded spiderman 3 has graded 
 it unfairly. i know what you must all be feeling, believe me i felt the same way when i first picked 
 up the controls myself. i had been waiting for spiderman 3 the game ever since spiderman 2 came 
 out on the ps2 and xbox. And the amount of secrecy around it didn't help either. i began imagining 
 all these amazing feats that i must be able to do given the next-gen technology that was going 
 to be available to me when spiderman 3 came out. Everything you said about the camera, the cut-scenes, 
 the fight sequences, and combat controls are correct. the camera system is a bit broken if not 
 broken, the cut-scenes that are god-of-war-esque seem silly because they happen so suddenly and 
 without warning its hard to keep up, the fight sequences with the bosses can get repetative and 
 dont seem to offer too much in terms of spidey-variety that we may have imagined in our sleep prior 
 to its release, and the combat system still has a combined problem of obscure camera angles and 
 bad guys who sometimes know how to block you too well. Now i have pointed out whats bad about the 
 game, does that make me say the game is BAD? no, absolutely not. i am thoroughly impressed with 
 what treyarch has done because it improved upon everything that i wanted improvement on since playing 
 spiderman 2. the city is beautiful, the swing mechanics are great, the fighting can sometimes be 
 annoying but fun due to the sheer number of enemies you can encounter at a time, there is a good 
 variety in missions, and plenty of side-missions to keep you busy. I wished that they had kept 
 the lock-on targeting system (it would have made landing on cars and grabbing falling ppl just 
 a bit easier) , and i wish they had figured out one more way of incorporating the double-web swing 
 (like how it was in spidey two) -- the camera needs a bit of work, but unless you have a weak stomach, 
 it wont prove that frustrating if you can just calm yourself down and work around it. great job 
 treyarch. you semi-broke my heart when i first played, but that was only because my expectations 
 had gotten themselves too high. this is an amazing game that will offer a player hours upon hours 
 of fun. and to all those skeptics and haters out there, even the ones at gamespot who wrote those 
 horrible reviews, i challenge you to BE spiderman in this game. its not easy, not easy at all, 
 but as im proving to myself, very possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peanut789
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 9, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a better Spiderman game, check out Spiderman Unlimited. The actors are better, 
 and give a better performance. Spiderman 3 is one of the worst games I have played, and I have 
 played the new Bomberman. The game has way to many glitches and the camera angles are erratic. 
 I got stuck IN an wall when I tried to land in the street, I had to reset the scenario. The people 
 in the game look scary also. You think that a company that is spending millions of dollars on a 
 video game would actually get it right the 3rd time. These companies need to start listening to 
 their consumers and hear our cries. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimmyD945
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  This is the first time that i have ever posted a review on any website before but i just couldn't 
 let there review on this game slide i reckon gamespot must have had blind monkeys giving this review 
 for this game (Spiderman 3) the graphics is superb, the gameplay is quick to pick up and the combo 
 machanics of the game are spot on, they have done more to improve the game from there last game 
 Spidrman 2 especially the swinging controls are alot better, the storyline is good and they have 
 chucked a heap of different story's to follow , fair enough some of the cutscenes may look a bit 
 off but it's not that bad come on!!!!
  I personally have had no problems with the camera in the game ,it might go off but it corrects 
 itself pretty good i just think that Gamespot is just getting way too picky the same goes for IGN!!!!
 
  All i can say is just shame, shame, shame!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warwithin4486
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  6.6? cmon. This gave destroys Spidey 2 and they gave that game a higher score. Whether you're a 
 fan of the movie or not, but especially if you are, you'll dig this game. The swinging controls 
 are refind to a T making the city free roaming parts absolutely awesome. No other Spidey game comes 
 close to making you feel like you're in the red and blue ( or in this case black) . The new stuff 
 thrown in adds a lot, like the God of War inspired button press cutscenes, they can sometimes be 
 frustrating when the game makes you put them in too quickly, but for the most part they are fun 
 and often give a really cool action sequence feel to the visuals. Some things couldve been handled 
 better, for instance the indoor parts are still inferior to the outdoors, this game is meant for 
 the outside city and they try to make it work within a tiny subway and sewers, it just doesnt work 
 when you jump 20 feet high at your lowest. The camera still sucks, but these are gripes you will 
 be willing to overcome to get to the awesome swinging and awesome cutscenes. The final sequence 
 is not only pretty dead on to the movie, its also one of the awesomest final boss battles I've 
 ever played through, and you get to play as a special character for part of this fight, which was 
 pretty well done and a nice surprise. The graphics are not god of war good, but they definitely 
 dont dissapoint, and the city and spidey look amazing. The sidey model is , not even joking, getting 
 close to looking identical to the CGI Spidey in the films. When youre swinging around the city 
 in-game, i guarantee you'll have to take a minute to admire the animations and awesome work put 
 into spidey. The other characters dont look terrible, Venom and Sandman look great! But all humans 
 without masks look kind of bad, Toby and Topher get the worst with some pretty messed up faces. 
 The Npcs look kind of bad too, but at least they have moving mouths in this one. With all the stuff 
 going on its not hard to see that some processing memory had to be spared to keep a good framerate. 
 And finally spidey can swim, its nothing great but at least you dont instantly drown anymore. i 
 just wish you could swim out to Ellis Island and Liberty Island, and the invisble walls at the 
 end of the bridges are also retarded. Even with all this, I can't deny that I spent countless hours 
 playing this game and loving it, even if some of the boss battles were screamingly frustrating. 
 If you like Spidey, at least rent this game, it's like crack . All I hope is that they release 
 a DLC like marvel Ultimate Alliance, with some new suits , or the abilty to play as Venom, because 
 all you get for beating it is the black costume, which you already had halfway through the game. 
 I have faith that they have some stuff in store wince there is a link right in the pause menu to 
 download content for the game through xbox live. Good game, could be improved but there's no denying 
 this game hits the right notes where it counts, and like i said before, the final fight has to 
 be seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirate-monkey
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 8, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I've played about 1/4 of the game and although I'm not sorry I bought it, it is pretty much the 
 same as Spidey 1 or 2.
  
  The part that I dislike the most is the timed button presses. They could have done without that. 
 There's not enough time in some cases to press the button and at first attempt, it's just a random 
 series. Then you die and it's a memory game.
  
  The Spider Sense is a nice touch, and the bullet time Spider Reflexes is good too.
  
  An online 
 gaming function would have been cool too. Like a Spidey vs Venom or Goblin through the city? Surely 
 that wouldn't have been that hard to do?
  
  Could have been so much better, but at least it's better than the Superman Returns game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtDman23
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 8, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Spider Man 3 looks a lot like Spider Man 2 except for the fact that they have new characters and 
 faces added to the game play. The graphics for this game are pretty good. The sound and quality 
 of the game is pretty good as well. I am only giving this game a rating of 6.2 or around there 
 due to the fact that there are no real special attacks that are not already been used by Spider 
 Man 2. I did like that fact that they interviewed Toby McGuire (Spider Man) and the Sandman for 
 this game. I don't believe that they did that for the second game but i could be wrong. At least 
 the bad guys last longer in the game than what they do in the actual movie itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Honestrex1234
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 8, 2007 11:07 pm PT
Review:  The game is good, but the bosses are a pain. Kraven and Mega Lizard especially! Otherwise fun gameplay 
 and good integration of cutscenes! But the bosses still detract from the overall fun of the game. 
 And the voice work is not as great as it could be but it sounds like Tobey is either high or drunk. 
 I did enjoy fighting Sandman and Venom but the other bosses are pretty low key compared to them. 
 I would rent it first to see if you like at as much as Spiderman 2, but it isnt worth 60 dollars 
 if you arent a hardcore fan
  
  -The Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gavethedarqk
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of Spider-Man 2, it's one of my favorite superhero games, and also the most fun 
 sandbox game I've played. I was a little disappointed in Ultimate Spider-Man though, with it's 
 dumbed down move list, simplified swinging, and smaller city. I had high hopes for Spider-Man 3, 
 and am I disappointed in this one as well? Yes and no. The camera is still atrocious, the combat 
 is still repetitive, and weird things still happen with the physics. But, at the same time, the 
 web swinging and exploration is awesome. The much expanded New York is a great playground. I also 
 like how the story doesn't completely mimic the movie, but i wish it had atleast a slightly stronger 
 narrative. The music is very bland as well. I was hoping for a little better visual presentation 
 too. All in all, Spider-Man 3 has its fair share of problems, but the once again the developers 
 nailed what's really great about this series. Now let's see if they can get the rest of it right 
 with this Spider-Man: Friend or Foe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrman43807
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 8, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  I really like all the Spider-man movies, so after seeing the third one they day it came out, I 
 said to myself this would be fun to play in a video game. I went to Best Buy on the way home and 
 picked it up. Now on to the game:
  
  This game is fun; sort of. I never really played the other Spider-man games so I can't compare 
 it to the others. Here is my stance according to the Gamespot criteria:
  
  Gameplay- Its fun to swing around the city, but it definitely gets old after a couple of hours. 
 The combat system is pretty much button mashing as you don't really care to try some of the elaborate 
 moves they provide you because its easier to just punch them. The camera is one of the worst I've 
 ever seen. The story isn't all there (I've played for 6 hours and have only played one mission 
 based on the movie, and thats trying to play missions from the movie) . The interactive movies are 
 too much trial and error for my taste, but luckily, if you mess it up you don't have to go back 
 too far.
  
  Graphics- I haven't played a lot of movie-based games in the past, but I've always heard they don't 
 have the best graphics. This game is no exception. For the 360, the graphics are bad. Spider-man 
 looks good, but almost everything else in the game does not.
  
  Sound- It doesn't stand out as good or bad, its just there. Music seems lacking to me, but the 
 voice acting makes up for it. I always hated it when they didn't get the original person to come 
 back and do the voice for games, so when I read that most of the cast of the movie would be reprising 
 their roles, i was pleased.
  
  Value- I haven't played it for that long, but it seems like there is a lot to do and will keep 
 you occupied for a while. However, it is not worth $60 from the other problems mentioned above.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- While I'm not exactly pleased that I bought this game, I am not disappointed either. 
 It'll be fun for a while, but will be quickly forgotten after the movie tie in hype is gone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 8, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 the game is the latest Spider-man game from Treyarch. Dont believe the latest gamespot 
 review, they take the bad parts of the game and make them sound as if they completely ruin it.
 
  
  So do they?
  No
  
  Swinging around the city is BETTER than SM2. Sure its not as fast, but its more realistic and thrilling, 
 and it actually has a learning curve, beginning of the game you'll feel like a beginner, 10 mins 
 later you're a pro. The swinging is just so much more enjoyable than SM2. So is the combat system, 
 sure its a bit repetitive, but its a HUGE upgrade from SM2. The combat system is basically SM2, 
 with less blocking and more combos, not much but it gets the job done. The Missions are enjoyable 
 enough to leave you playing them. The Random crimes are far better than any spider-man game so 
 far, jumping on cars, ripping out the driver's door and pulling out the driver is so satisfying, 
 there's also things like manhunts, bank robberys, and a bunch of other random crap thats way better 
 than SM2's.
  
  not so good... the Spider-man and Black Spider-man character models look great, and the bosses 
 look alright, but some character models such as the Peter Parker one and the Betty Brant one dont 
 look so current gen...
  
  The voice acting is passable... Tobey Maguire gives off a pretty good Spider-man/Peter Parker with 
 him sounding abit sleepy at times. J. K. Simmons does a really good job at being Jonah Jameson, 
 and Bruce Campbell is great at being Bruce Campbell. Though some others such as James Franco, Thomas 
 Haden Church, and Topher Grace do a pretty bland job. The backround music is alright.
  
  All the missions will last you around 8 hours if you rush it. Web swinging will keep you entertained 
 for quite a while, and you can replay the whole game with the Black suit, so this game may keep 
 you entertained for quite a while. Overall Spider-man 3 is the best Spider-man game made so far, 
 its better than the Second one, and if you enjoyed the second game... this game is a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverBluff
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok.... originally I wrote this review and rated it with an 8. I now realize that it's better than 
 that. It's not great. It is SUPERB. Spider-Man 3 is, by far, the best game for the XBox 360, and probably 
 will be for the rest of time. It's graphics look a little like plastic, but it's still very realistic. The 
 sound is pretty good, but the voice overs need work (as I said last time) . Playing as the Black-Suited
 
  Spider-Man can't be beaten. It's so fun. Fighting Venom and Sandman is fantastic. Fighting the New 
 Goblin isn't as fun, but still ok. Fighting the Lizard and his lizard army is pretty tough, but beatable. The 
 Mad Bomber was very easy to defeat. Scorpion and Rhino were super easy to beat. I hated fighting 
 Kingpin. He was the toughest villain (in my opinion) . Well, actually, no-I take that back-Kraven was 
 the hardest villain to defeat. Man, he was tough! Anyway, the Apocolypse gang leader was a hassle 
 as the Red-Suited Spider-Man, but as the Black-Suited Spider-Man, it's a breeze beating him. Percilla, the 
 Arsenic Candy gang leader, was the easiest boss to defeat.
  The Order of the Dragon Tail leader was fairly easy, but also fairly hard (sorry if that's a little 
 confusing; what I'm trying to say is that it was medium difficulty) . Swinging around the city was 
 great, and the combat system was incredible. Although, I stand by what I said before about the camera 
 and controls: they're terrible. Oh, well.
  I cannot believe how great this game is. The awesome graphics, fair sound, and incredible gameplay 
 make for the best XBox 360 game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game__Raider
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Have you ever had one of those days where you wake up and your suddenly in a building burning down 
 learning how do punch. I hope not but that is how your tutorial starts off. You learn the basic 
 gameplay and web shooting styles while learning some of the more fun aspects such as Spider reflexes. 
 After the tutorial its time to get out there and do what people love to do best.......... Swing! 
 While it may take a couple of minutes to get used to the controls the swinging makes you feel like 
 your actually Spider-man and learning to swing for the first time, but once you learn how to swing 
 it feels more natural and smoother than ever before. Now on to the aspect of the game. The missions 
 start off slow and repetitive, but after you beat the first few easy missions you get right down 
 to the main storylines, more than one! The first few bosses may seem to easy and might disappoint 
 you but stick in there and you will get to much more challenging and annoying missions. The main 
 storyline is cut down in to three or four missions, but there are over 100 more activities and 
 races to play. You also will have tokens out there to look for which will award you with achievments. 
 Once you beat Venom in the Final Battle you will unlock the black suit to roam around in or play 
 the storyline again as the suit. With the suit your powers are greatly stregthened and you become 
 faster in web swinging, which is the easiest way to get the Fast Swinger acheivment, which alllows 
 you to get to places quicker. The graphics are very clear and smooth but do have a few framerate 
 issues. Some of the fighting is repetitive such as hitting X, X, Y for a combo over and over and 
 over and over agin. But hey button mashing is button mashing and obviously its more fun for God 
 of War which doesn't make since. When you first dive into the game you could spend hours just swinging 
 around the city completing random crimes which are much more detailed this time. Yup, that means 
 no more saving balloons. Instead you have to kill thugs and look through a telescope which points 
 you to the direction of a bank robbery and then save the owner. This is just one of the many new 
 in-depth crimes. The races, while hard and annoying, are a greta way to get swing speed up and 
 grab acheivments. Not oneis the same which makes it interesting instead of swinging to the same 
 place in different set times. Although Spider-man has smooth graphics and descent gameplay it still 
 has some flaws. You should still consider buying this but it al least deserves a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krazyfoolix2
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 8, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  While not living up to the standards set by such masterpieces as Gears or Oblivion this is still 
 a good game with a lot to offer its players. Spiderman 3 has several complete stories, and though 
 for the most part they are not terribly immersive they are fun to play through. This installment 
 has taken what made the prior two fun and expanded on those ideas while also adding some new very 
 clean additions to the series. There are button sequences mimicking those of God of War and God 
 of War 2. These add some great moments to the game that otherwise would have had to be taken over 
 by a cinematic, or simply could not have happened. The stories sometimes tie into each other and 
 while the way they do so is often almost like it was pasted in there, it does offer slightly more 
 depth than the last two. Web slinging has much improved and the fighting combos though sometimes 
 difficult to actually pull off properly are really quite well animated. They do get repetitive 
 but this is a button masher game so what do you expect? This game also adds some random things 
 to do around town like sky diving challenges and sky scraper tokens. The sound is not great but 
 it is good. All story characters are voiced and the dialog is alright. Sound effects are pretty 
 good and the city sounds fair. There isnt that energy sound when youre on top of the buildings 
 like there ought to be though. The game does have a few frame rate issues along with the camera 
 angle getting fudged up when rapidly changing web slinging direction, but aside from this I havent 
 noticed any major glitches. The game is not a technical marvel, but in term of what it offers there 
 are plenty of goods to outweigh its cons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny47
Rating: 7
Date: May 8, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  spider-man 3 the moive is outstanding but theres a game called spider-man 3
  the game and thats what Im about to review right now. well lets first start off with the. graphics: the 
 graphics on this game are very very nice but, at some certain cutseens they are horriable.
  gameplay: the gameplay is actualy pretty good for a spider-man game, when u fight, swing, and whatever 
 u do the controls are solid.
  any defects?: yes, alot of glicthese, and at some certain point u wish if it was 2 players.
  would 
 I get it?: no, rent is better
  what I think that this game should have got at lease a 7.2, I mean the next generation of systems.
 
  I hope for the next spider-man they put in multiplayer or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackdavemahony
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 8, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  spider man 3 is basic action/adventer game. and as you would guess you play spider man. you start 
 off in a burning building which is just a tutorial . after th you in new york city and you do as 
 you see fit. you can pick any mission that you have unlocked at that point. the combat is easy to 
 use but it will take time to master all the combos, which there are loads of but probly to many, 
 so you wll not need. going thought the city is the best part of the game . there are 10 storys 
 in the game they are slit up into parts. main story is very poor in the game, it shows no chacter 
 build up at all so you shouldwatch the moive first. but the other storys are done better but if 
 ou never read the comics seen the fms you will be lost with the chacter thought the whole game. 
 but over all its a great spider man game you should rent first not that its a bad game just because 
 its a little short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubball
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 8, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  I don't understand how Gamespot can give Spider-man 2 a 9.0 then say this game is a flop. If you 
 liked Spidey 2 then you'll love Spider-man 3. The graphics are drastically upgraded and the gameplay 
 is pretty much the same. They do have diverse missions in there so you don't feel like you're repeating 
 the same mission over and over. The swinging is basically untouched which is a good thing. Another 
 thing you'll love is now you have achievements to unlock that'll give you reason to swing around 
 the city some more, if you finish the story mission. Overall if you're a Spider-man fan, or like 
 the last Spidey game, then get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slyons9
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 8, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, the game is fun to play: I am a fan of open-ended games, such as Crackdown, 
 Elder Scrolls, and now this. The chance to play the movie but not JUST the movie is a good premise. 
 The fighting in the games, as well as the webslinging through the streets are the best aspects 
 of the game.
  However, the graphics look like they belong in the last generation of consols. While the broad 
 graphics, such as the city are good, the individual faces and bodies look messed up. Also, the 
 camera sucks, especially when you are crawling on the walls and ceilings are the worst. Lastly, 
 the difficulty of some of the bosses is more than it needs to be. I'm not saying that we should 
 be able to beat the game in one shot. All I'm saying is that it shouldn't take 5+ attempts to beat 
 the Kingpin. Now, for Venom, I could see that. But thats it.
  All in all, Spiderman 3 is a fun game that, mechanically, comes up a little short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FantasyBookworm
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 8, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Not as good as I thought it would be but still has some interesting improvements from S-M 2. One 
 of my favourite improvements has to be pressing certain buttons in a scene so that Spiderman does 
 some cool move. I think it really adds a lot to the game because it looks like a cut scene but 
 your in control, and although it can be frustrating if you dont get it you usually go straight 
 back to it. I think the photo missions were also a good idea and I am glad that I brought the game, 
 it was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hulk187smash
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game is a must have for spidey fans. I really like what they have added. The button sequences 
 in cut-scenes are awesome!!! Reminds me of RE 4 and GOW/GOW 2. Catching missiles and throwing them 
 back at the helicopter is way cool. Rescuing people from falling cars is way cool. Hey, this game 
 is way cool!
  
  The newly added combos are cool to watch in slow mo when using the new LB feature.
  
  The camera 
 angles are not too good, but I use my experience with first person shooters to correct it. Basically 
 pointing the camera at what I am attacking or swinging to or whatever.
  
  It's not the greatest game of all time, but it is fun to play. Probably the best spidey game of 
 all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadget-Man
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 8, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  We all know how games based on movies are not particularly good. This is not the case with Spider-Man 
 3.
  
  Spider-Man 3 is a cool action/adventure game and is the best superhero game. It's a simple game, 
 easy to play and not for serious hardcore gamers. Swinging around the big New York city is fun, 
 and so is stopping the crimes that happen. The combat system has improved from the previous games, 
 you can do some pretty impressive moves without trying to hard, and you unlock more as you progress 
 through the game.
  
  There are 42 missions, some of which follow the movie storyline, the others focus on other villains 
 such as The Lizard and The Kingpin. The game is not very long and can be completed fairly quickly. 
 However the random crimes and the activities in the city can always keep you occupied for a while.
 
  
  What i also like about this game is the interactive cutscenes. This is where buttons will pop up 
 on the screen and you have to press them in time fo Spidey to react. It's simple but fun.
  
  In terms of graphics i think they are quite good for this type of game. Dont expect amazing 
 visuals. Whats not to like about this game? Well my main complaint is the camera. It can be a little 
 annoying and frustrating trying to position the camera at times. Also the music, not very impressive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bing090
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 7, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Much Better than previous Spidermans in a lot of ways mostly to due with variety of missions and 
 side missions. Gameplay overall pretty decent. Some action cut scence's are kinda annoying but 
 overall add value to the game. Graphics really don't seem next-gen enough for me. I look at Gears 
 of War and GRAW 2 and i don't see the same thing with Spiderman 3. Not sure it's worth the entire 
 60 bucks. Maybe a rental or two and you can easily finish most of the game without having to buy 
 it. Of course swinging through New York is awesome but that alone isn't really enough to buy the 
 game. This game had much more potential then what it came out to be. Although a fun game its fairly 
 short and doesn't have much replay value. No Multiplayer on top of that. Rent it Beat all of the 
 Main Storylines and you pretty much have seen what Spiderman 3 has to offer. Maybe Spiderman 4 
 will have enough effort in it to really make it a must have game for next-gen consoles. I HOPE! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philisbd17
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  When you first pop the disk in the drive, the anticipation of playing great game is tremendous. 
 We all know that feeling, while you grasp the controller, dying to push a button, you skip through 
 the start up screen and when the credits roll by, your hoping the money just spent will be worth 
 it. Thats the topic of this review, not whether the game is the greatest action adventure ever 
 created, but if Spiderman 3 is fun and satisfying- if it is worth 60 bucks if you own a xbox 360.
 
  
  So let me just start out by saying im a huge comic book fan, and I have played a numerous amount 
 of games based on superhero franchises. X-men Legends, Marvel Ultimate Alliance, and to go old 
 school for ya, I have even played X-men for the Genesis back in 1993. So I feel like I have a good 
 understanding of how these types of games usually end up, and recently, including the release of 
 the newest edition to the Spiderman franchise, they have all been relatively good.
  
  But now to the review. The first thing you will notice is the graphics, how the sun indicates midday 
 or turns into the moon, creating a nice cool evening or hot summer day while you send Spidey flying 
 through the cement jungle of New York City, this is a really nice effect. Things do get a little 
 rough around the edges when you get up close to the buildings, cars, or civilians, but nonetheless 
 things look great no matter where you go. For the most part the framerate stays solid while you 
 swing from sky scraper to sky scraper, but there is a little bit of clipping and sometimes when 
 you get over to a new area of the city, that section has to load, and you will see buildings and 
 trees suddenly appear out of nowhere, but hey what game doesn't have little problems like that. 
 So this doesnt really compromise the score of the graphics.
  
  Something I really enjoyed was the sound. The music changes depending on the mission, for example-the 
 Mary Jane traveling errand you have to do, the music will go from the now classic orchestral score 
 from the Spiderman movies, to a calm and enchanting melody. Likewise, with the Dewolfe tasks, a 
 little tune will begin to play like that from any detective/mystery film you have seen. Overall 
 the sound is very solid.
  
  Now the most important of all, the gameplay. Immediately, practically as soon I was dropped into 
 the tutorial level I was pissed off. The camera is God-awful, and from the start I was already 
 frustrated. It's wonky and completely un-intuitive, it rarely goes where you want it to and later 
 on in the game, when there lots of enemies on screen, the camera can just totally get int the way, 
 I have been killed several times because of this. Where the camera is the worst is when you are 
 crawling on buildings, inside or out. Obviously there wasnt enough work in how the camera would 
 work because it goes completely haywire while you trys to figure out where the hell to go when 
 you can't tell up from down.
  
  But when it comes down to swinging through the city, or attacking enemies, that is where the fun 
 is to be had. There is a nice combo system, where you can rack a countless number of hit points, 
 so although it's a bit of a button masher, the combos break things up a bit. Straight from the 
 God of War games are the contact sensitive button presses during cut scenes, and the final stages 
 of boss fights. Although its a total rip off it works relatively well, so its not in vain.
  
  The cut scenes in the game are kind of all over the place, but to me it didnt really matter, 
 the gameplay is what matters and thank God its fun. Besides your better off going to see the movie, 
 rather than polygonal characters acting them out in low resolution textures and bad voice acting.
 
  
  So there you have it, Spiderman 3, a solid title with fun gameplay, pretty graphics, and nice sound. 
 Along with a rather lengthy campaign, you got your self a satisfying and enjoyable game WORTH 60 
 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitenight19
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I use to trust gamespot reviews soo much that I trusted them with my own money (I bought games 
 based on gamespot reviews.) But this last year they have been stinkin up reviews like crazy. I 
 almost bought Marvel Ultimate Alliance because of them but luckily rented it first (horrible game) . 
 Ok on to the review.
  
  I liked spidey 1 and 2 but this game takes both of them to the woodshed. 1. The graphics are better 
 but this is to be expected since its next gen (cutscenes graphics suck but are few)
  2. Gameplay is where the icing is. Better combat system as in better defense with spidey sense, 
 combos out this world and plenty, and God of War like button sensitive moves. (people who rate 
 this game badly usually say this button sensitive moves are to hard for them. These people shouldn't 
 be playing video games that require quick reflexes and Iv'e gotten through many of these sequences 
 on my first try.) The Boss battles are out of this world. Fighting just doesnt get boring because 
 of soo many moves to try.
  3. Story follows the movie with added additions to put your favorite villains in . No more boring 
 balloon saving side missions. your side missions now consist of saving people from burning buildings, 
 catching people in mid air that have fallen from helicopters or buildings (yes this is as hard as 
 it sounds) , better car chases, man hunts, and a hole heap more.
  I'd say rent this game but id rather you not waste 6 dollars because you'll be buying the game 
 as soon as you pop it in! Unless you are a person that doesn't like challenging games and likes 
 to go through games with cheat codes like infinite health ( sickens me) then you will like this 
 game. I am not a marvel junkie either but this game truly does rock and is easily the best movie 
 game I've seen. GAMESPOT has failed and this was the last straw for me. Still like the website 
 though LOL!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bamarolltide16
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 7, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  To me I think they should have stuck with the progress they made with SPIDER MAN 2. Graphics are 
 better on that game and it came out sonner whats up with that. I figured though they tried way 
 to hard to make a game that was going to stun people and just completely messed up on all the details. 
 I pretty sure once i get further in the game the story lines will be great. But I don't see it 
 getting any better than that. I think they should have added a better 3d graphic resolution then 
 they did. I think the commercial scene on the other games were way more detailed. But I guessed 
 they thought they could sacrifice the appearance on the cut-scenes and add to the game graphics. 
 (which did not work at all) I dont see this as i highlt addictive game but one that will keep me 
 somewhat entertained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj729
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 8, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  The Plot: This game is based upon the blockbuster movie of the same title. It follows the trail 
 of Spider-man as he battles enemies, both throughout New York city and within himself. Midway through 
 the game Peter Parker is taken over by an alien goo. While it gives him power beyond belief, it 
 also changes him in ways for the worst. Also Spider-man faces enemies from the movie along with 
 others including Rhino, Scorpion, and the Kingpin.
  
  The Good: Any fan of the games or movies will enjoy this. It holds true to the theme and doesnt 
 disappoint in having what we expected. Of course, the most fun part of the game is swinging through 
 the city. The mini-games and command-sensitive maneuvers are amazing and simple to figure out. 
 Not to mention the city is a whole lot bigger than its ever been. The music and gameplay completely 
 immerses you into the story.
  
  The Bad: The main problems have nothing to do with the story. They are all purely mechanical. For 
 example, the water ( which you can swim in) seems underdeveloped. While there are some glitches 
 and linear elements they only mildly detract from the game. Opinion: I personally loved this game 
 but and it lived up to my expectations, and that says a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Divayth_Fyr
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 7, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game, while undoubtedly fun, has a few flaws, makng it the best, and worst of all the Sm games. 
 Let us start with the good. The combat is fun and fast paced, and allows you to pull of herculean 
 feats of agility simply by mashing buttons. The Cineractives feel innovative, despite being based 
 on God of War, and swining through the city is a blast.
  Now on to the bad. The difficulty is relatively easy when fighting common street thugs, but when 
 you fight the bosses, you are likely to through your controller across the room. Also, while the 
 graphics are pretty good in-game, the ones you see in cutscenes look like something from celebrity 
 wrestling. All-in-all, this game is definately worth renting, and if you are a pretty good gamer 
 you may achiee 100% completion and get all of the AP in a five to seven day period. However, thid 
 game is severely underated, and deserves much better from reviewers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philzilla28
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 is worth every penny it costs. Gamespot is wrong with this review. They don't know 
 what a good game is. Anyways, this game awesome, there are 10 storlines including the movie storyline. 
 In the game you get to play as Spiderman in red suit, Spiderman in black suit, and Venom. If you 
 own a 360 or any system this game is on it is worth getting. Spiderman 3 is much better than the 
 second one, and the second one was pretty damm good. Another great thing about this game is the 
 interactive cutscenes. That is the best part in every boss fight (especially when you fight Sandman.) 
 It is free roam so you can basically screw around instead of playing missions. The only problem 
 I have with this game is spidey and the people don't interact and talk, like in the second one. 
 Spidey 3 is an awsome game that anyone who likes spiderman should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerio
Rating: 7
Date: May 7, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Where to begin...
  
  Fun Factor:
  
  In this game, fun is what you make it to be. For me, it's alot of useless button mashing.
  This 
 game had high expectation's from a spidey guru like me. And was i ever let down. While the graphics 
 and some of the mission's are fun. The battle's and what not are insane. Example. Harry the new 
 Goblin. The button pressing for that mission is horrid. And it get's even worse once you bypass 
 that. You have to be clever when dogin attack's from him, and his, sword. or. Your screwed. I had 
 to retry 3x to finish him. And im an adult. Think about how kid's with less patience are gonna 
 feel when they, encouter the same thing.
  
  What to do:
  
  Have you ever played Batman Begin's? I have and let me tell you. That game has fun and replay value 
 written all over it. I seriously don't understand why software companies canot learn from game's 
 like BB. Batman Begin's was non stop fun. Even for being just a movie game. If activision had any 
 brainpower at all. They would of implanted structral element's from that game into this one. Why 
 activision? Why?
  
  Im not gonna complain. Much. All software companies have they're up's &amp; down's. This is defiantly 
 a downer.
  
  I havn't finished this game completey. But rest assured. It's not as fun as some make it out to 
 be. It maybe fun. But fun soon end's when frustration kick's in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creed1
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  gamespot gives crappy reviews, i always add 2.0 to what they score on a game, this game is very 
 good and worth time playing it, i never buy games unless they are sports games, so i would say 
 rent it, beat it and be happy about it cause its a very good game, i never read gamespots reviews, 
 i only read the users reviews because they are the ones who actually spent money on the game and 
 time so what everf rustration'sare given on there own review are actually worth  
 one thing that is missing is that part on spiderman 2 when your hearts starts beating fast when 
 you are falling off a building, the only other thing i dont like is that combos, but its still 
 a fun game to play and is in the 8.0 ratings 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracamus
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  First of this is an open ended world with tons of side mission to be played along with 10 story 
 lines. Graphics are awesome just not up to gears of wars standard, but keep in mind this game is 
 out on every format apart from Sony crappy PSP that why the graphics aint next gen so to speak. 
 Anyway about how long the game is the story mission can be finished in about 8 hours if you rush 
 it. But if you help in random popping up crime and do the side missions this game could take forever 
 to finish like Oblivion, which is nice to think there another game out there with vaule for money 
 unlike Lost Planet. About them glitches Gamespot was talking about in there review of this game, 
 i havent came across any yet maybe the reviewer didnt like this game because it was to hard for 
 him and had to make this up i dont know but who cares. If you a spiderman fan or a fan of sandbox 
 games this is a game for you that why i give this game a score of 9.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigr2k5
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 7, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  After playing this game for over 10 hours, i am still willing to complete it, however, while i 
 do think it was a good buy, there are goods and bads to the game that i believe everyone should 
 know before they go out and buy it, after all, i know that no one wants to spend their money on 
 something they may not like, so heres whati have to say.
  
  Being someone who tends to like free roaming games, this game deffinatly gets a plus from me. The 
 city is massive and graphics are nicely done for the type of game it is, though i will get to some 
 of their faults in a second. So far the game seems to be taking its time, from what the main review 
 says, is that you will be able to play from ten storylines, including the movie one, which is probably 
 the main one to pay attention to. So far missions have been varied, from long to short and the 
 swinging around the city is fun, especially as your speed level goes up.
  
  The gameplay is not incredibly hard to learn. Those who love combos, and button mashing will love 
 the battle dynamics of this game. There tend to be an enomrous amount of combos you learn as you 
 go, and uprades for them as well. Performign them doesnt seem like much of a problem as the combos 
 are easy to learn, but since their are so many, you will probaably never do them all, not on purpose 
 atleast, and they can sometimes not work out the way you want them to. Some of the great points 
 about the gamplay in this game are that the attacs are pretty nicely paced and some of them can 
 be pretty cool to watch and great fun to try and master the moves. There are also a few things 
 you may also need to know about the combat in this game. For one, its not exactly what I would 
 call fair. I love a good challange and beating a game too easily kills the fun, however, If youve 
 played halo games, you could call the difficulty of this game legendary. After the first few missions, 
 missions become teadiously hard., with me having to do missions several times in order to beat 
 them due to the fact the baddies, tend to do a nice amount of damage on you, while too many of 
 them dont give you enough opportunities to hit them. You can perform as many great moves and combos 
 as you want, but you may find it fustrating when you cant hit them. The blacksuit helps with this 
 somewhat, but since the rage ability on it only charges up for how many hits you get in, you might 
 not get it as much as you want it, and it doesnt last long enough to always help. Boss fights can 
 be insanly hard also, and can seriously make you hate the creators for not letting you save while 
 in missons because they can become a major chore, especially since its extremely hard to get any 
 hits in, not to mention the minor damage they do when the get in. There tends to be alot of reliance 
 on spidersenses and reflexes, which can become quite fustrating because spider senses takes you 
 out of the normal view, and putts you in a somewhat sound muffled black and white view where important 
 things stick out more, and enemies tend to be slower. Using this takes away from the cool sound 
 affects and color, but it makes the battle easier. Spider reflexes tends to be overlly important 
 as it helps you dodge attacks which would otherwise cause great damage. and both senses and reflexes 
 only last 10 or so seconds untill they need to be turned on/pressed again. Graphics in this game 
 were nice. Reflections of light on buildings and waterr was amazing, as well as the actual spider-man, 
 however, there are a few problems that are noticable, and may distract some. Aside from spiderman, 
 most of the other characters, including peter parker, look somewhat stiff or bazare. If youve seen 
 some other next gen charcters who represent a real character, you would see that the job done for 
 these characters is somehwat disapointing. Look at the sports games, or the upcoming harry potter 
 game, if you like the scary resemblance from those characters to the real ones, dont be shocked 
 when this game doesnt do that for you. Also, while the lighting is great in some areas, it lacks 
 in others along with the shadows. Buildings and water have stunning reflections and for the most 
 part, there is a pretty good job at shading and light affects on buildings and mission maps, but 
 if you spend some time strolling through central park, or pay attention to some of the mission 
 maps, youll notice there is an extreme lack of shading and shadows. Walk around cenctral park and 
 youll notice the very untdetaild grass is not shaded no matter what elevation it is, and trees 
 are around, sure you might find a few clumbsy black shadows, but it is somewhat disapointing if 
 youve played games like reainbow six and seen some extremly excelent lighting and shading. You 
 also might notice in buldings there will be absolutly no shading or lighting affects on the floors 
 or anywhere in the room. Overall graphics wise, i think that the most change from the older systems 
 is the more detail, clearity and reflections on some of the shinier surfaces and while there are 
 some areas that do excellent with the graphics, others lack.
  
  The sound was pretty predictable, nothing excellent or horrible. Music tend to depend on the missions 
 main gang, as each would have their own theme. Vocie acting was pretty basic, not a whole lot of 
 enthusiasm but they were mostly main actors, surprisingly enough mary jane is not played by K. 
 Dunst, but its not extremely noticable as she is not really in most of the game so far as I played, 
 and her vocie sounds very similar. The storyline in this game is decent, but not so much existant 
 as it could be. I am somewhat disapointed that the cutscens, while some of them show some really 
 cool action sequences, they really dont say much at all about the story, it just doesnt seem to 
 lead anywhere. The story is mostly played out in the missions and really not so much in the actually 
 cutscnes. The story so far doenst really connect., like i have no clue what the lizards had to 
 do with anything, and some keypoint sin the movie made no sense in the game, it seemed like stuff 
 just happened, without a whole lot of story behing it. If your like me and love a great storyline 
 in a game, you will be dispaointed, especially if your a marvel or spidy fan.
  
  Overall, while it does seem like there are quite a few drawbacks to the game, it sill can be fun 
 to play, depending on what you really like in the game. Some good things i havent mentioned is 
 the missinos can be fun when not too difficult, you will have different objectives in each mission 
 that will change as you get further and there are enough checkpoints to make the longer ones not 
 as fustrating as they would be without them. The villans are also pretty cool and while they might 
 be extremely hard to kill, beating them feels rewarding as the cutscenes afterword are nicely done. 
 If your a spiderman fan then you might like this game, especially if youve played older ones, as 
 this one is better then all previous games. If your not a diehard fan of spidy, or really arent 
 sure if youll like this game, i say its worth renting. If you dont like it you only spent 7 bucks 
 on it apposed to 60, Overall i say its a good game, just could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_385
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 7, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  Having played the first two Spiderman movie games and enjoyed them I was looking forward to this 
 one.
  
  First of the game is very similar to Spiderman 2 in mant way's so it is easy to familiarise yourself 
 with the controls. Combos are just a case of button mashing like a hamster on crack. One new feature 
 is often at the end of a boss fight little button sequences you have to press similar to that in 
 concept of the speed kill's in Prince of Persia 3 (I can't remember the name) . So overall the Gameplay 
 is quite fun and esy to use. and the Graphics aren'thalf bad.
  
  Now for the not so good, the game is far to short as is the trend with a lot of games these days 
 I completed all 42 missions in 8 hours. There is a little variety is missions but the case is usually 
 button mashing combos until the end sequence. Another thing is the game is far to easy especially 
 the dodge/slow down time option often finding yourself owning all your enemies in a whole mission 
 without taking a hit.
  
  In conclusion Spiderman 3 is a fun game and a must have for Spidey fans but for people like me 
 who are not die hard fans there isn't much there and once you've played through it once you wont 
 have the urge to do so again anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breenie
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 7, 2007 5:15 am PT
Review:  This game has three great aspects to it:
  
  1 - Free roaming capability through the city to look for hidden tokens, fight crime, do challenging 
 activities or play missions. It's great because you can take your time or jump right into the story.
 
  
  2 - By allowing smaller missions that can be done at any time, it allows you to step away from 
 the story to almost take a break and change things up.
  
  3 - THE WEB SLINGING! If you played the last Spidey, then you know how fun it is to sling around 
 on the buildings. This is what I do when I am spent from miisions and activities and want to check 
 out the detail of this city. They even have Ground Zero. All in all, this is a great game to play 
 that isn't too difficult but will definitely take some time to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bojangles13
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Spider Man 3 is probably the most underappreciated game i have ever seen. I mean really, a 6.6? 
 Come on Gamespot. The games graphics are good, did the faces wonderfully, got most of the voices, 
 except for Kierstyn Dunst, but i dont think anyone misses her anyway. The gameplay is so good that 
 i could just swing around the city for hours and not be the least bit bored, mostly because the 
 city is massive and it would take you forever to get across it anyway. The only thing that I didnt 
 like about the game is those stupid Mary Jane Thrill Rides. Because again, NOBODY likes mary jane. 
 that is the only way the could have put her in the game. she has no significance in it. Anyway, 
 the game is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al_Pomo
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 6, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man is freakin' sweet, that's for sure, and swinging around the accurately modelled New 
 York city is awesome. The combat is even good, and pretty deep compared to the other games. Even 
 the graphics are pretty outstanding (most of the time) ... except they had to go and ruin all of 
 my fun with one thing: the context-sensitive moments. If ya don't know, this is when a button (or 
 direction) is flashed on the screen, and you must quickly press it. The problem with this is two-fold. 
 For one, my clumsy hands always seem to hit the wrong thing, or I don't tap it fast enough. Bigger 
 than that though is that, especially later in the game, they throw you into very lengthy (and boring, 
 but easy) boss battles. Now this would be fine, if they didn't make it so after you spend a half 
 hour fighting a very slow brawl, you have to press about a billion buttons in about a billionth 
 of a second. Now, at first this is just an annoyance, because you can restart the sequence without 
 penalty, but when you start losing health after you mess up, then you have to REPLAY ENTIRE parts, 
 it gets a little frustrating.
  
  Aside from that, the rest of the game is mostly entertaining. Especially the swinging. Can't get 
 enough of that swinging. Gotta love the swinging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pachinko
Rating: 3.6
Date: May 6, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible. There I said it and I really truly believe it , I only rented it as reviews 
 for it seemed to be under embargo until may 4th and thank goodness it was only a rental and not 
 a full blown 60 dollar turd. The problems are many but before I get to why I hate this game I have 
 just a little bit to say about what it does get right, namely the basic swinging about the city 
 open world area. It's fun to just swing around manhatten scaling buildings and such, there's even 
 mini levels that involve races from 1 point to another and free falls from sky scrapers where you 
 drop through targets and finally have to land on a final ground target. The graphics in this portion 
 of the game also look pretty good , maintaining a fairly solid 30 frames per second with all the 
 special effects you can think of cranked up. The music for the most part is adequete and innoffensive 
 to the ears. Alas, that is where the good ends and the poor to terrible begins. First and foremost 
 the camera, there is not centering button and it tends to get stuck everywhere forcing you to move 
 it yourself with the right stick , an action that you cannot complete if you are actually well... 
 playing the game. If left to its own devices the camera tends to lean towards the worst angle possible. 
 Also like every 3d spidey title whenever you crawl on a wall or ceiling the camera attempts to 
 orient itself to spidermans backside shifting wildly if you are stuck in a corner never giving 
 you a decent view of the action. It's somewhat maddening really. Then comes the downside of the 
 graphics, when you aren't swinging around manhatten you have to fight enemies with waaaay less 
 time spent on their modeling that animate poorly and even worse are the cutscenes within the game, 
 spiderman has much more detail then the peter parker model or any of the secondary cast members 
 so for example an early scene involving peter talking to J jonah was actually laughable becuase 
 the models looked so hideous. Also it needs to be said that despite the lower detailed enemies 
 , whenever more then a couple are on screen the framerate starts to waver, especially when more 
 then 10 enemies are on screen. All of these problems are mere distractions compared to the real 
 issue here though- the gameplay, after you spend 10 minutes swinging around manhatten you basically 
 have to do actual missions and well, after the first few are done the difficulty spikes to a ridiculous 
 level. The game basically becomes completly unfair , throwing dozens of enemies at you , half of 
 whichyour web based attacks have no effect on that pretty well forces you to use your spider sence 
 nonstop but... ridiculously enough apparently spiderman can't use his spidersence for more then 
 10 seconds at a time, funny , last I recalled it was just always on. Anyway, if you don't simply 
 dodge every attack you wind up getting hit and for whatever reason the developers decided to make 
 it so anything but the lowest of enemies that pose no real threat is capable of doing 25% of your 
 health damage in 1 simple attack. This means you get a dragonslair effect as you endlessly redo 
 the same portions of levels over and over and over and over and over until you finally manage to 
 time all your special moves and spider sence absolutly perfectly, 1 mistake pretty well costs you 
 your life in this game. There are 2 simple ways they could have fixed this- even devil may cry 
 3 difficullt game that it is has enemies that drop health when you defeat them and alternativly 
 most action games today give you a pretty fat health bar to work with but not spiderman 3 , oh 
 no. In this wonderful game the only time you get a health powerup is when you don't need them- 
 IE swinging around the city stopping random crimes will net you a health powerup.... but if you 
 die swinging around the city you simply spawn again with full health you were never doing a mission 
 so you lose nothing, so would it really have killed them to have enemies drop health pickups? I 
 dont' think it would have. The second option is simply give you muuuch more health, based on how 
 much trouble I had with the game I'd say you'd need about 20 times the size of health bar , or 
 alternativly the enemies do 20 times less damage to you. It's a little ridiculous when a gothic 
 lolita and her plushie mallet can do more damage to spiderman then spiderman can do with a punch 
 to her face. If you actually enjoyed the second spiderman movie game though go nuts , what's here 
 as bad as it is is atleast an improvement on the previous entry. For ANYONE else though , I'd stay 
 far FAR away from this. Activision should be ashamed of themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoB_Scuba_Steve
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok people, this game is really fun and i have enjoyed it for the 2 days i've had it so far. first 
 of all i would like to say that the combat is not choppy, once you start unlocking new moves it 
 gets very fluent and is a blast to watch. second of all the man who reviewed this game must've 
 been smokin somethin'. i mean this game deserves at least a 7.5 or 8. the graphics arent the best 
 but they get the job done. gameplay is great, some things can be quite challenging though. one 
 of the biggest improvements of this game is the webswinging, it is very fun to do, and once you 
 get the hang of it, you can get anywhere in no time. the reason i say this game is not for everyone 
 is because well.... some people are stupid retards. i really dont have much more to say about it 
 except the acheivements are very fun. i would definately recommend renting this and for you hardcore 
 spidey fans to buy it. Thanks For Your Time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2007 3:04 am PT
Review:  Now, Spidey 2 was undoubtedly the best comic book inspired game ever and possibly one of the best, 
 if not the best, movie licensed video game as well. Spider-Man 3 is essentially a next-gen makeover 
 of Spider-Man 2. However, there is still plenty here to get your webs into!
  
  Gameplay: Swinging around NYC has never been better. There is a real epic scale and it just is 
 great! The missions are vastly improved over Spidey 2 and especially USM. There are 10 storylines 
 each with about 4 or 5 missions. The random crimes, races, combat tours and other little challenges 
 are also great fun. The combat is simple and a bit button mashey but still great fun and seeing 
 the combos you can put together is great fun. Black suit Spidey is ace to play with, you really 
 feel as you can pummel your enemies into the dust with ease! There's no doubt that this game is 
 challenging. The boss fights especially will almost certainly take you a good few tries before 
 you nail it, but once you do it's very satisfying. The coolest new feature are the cineactives. 
 These are ace fun and look spectacular in motion.
  
  Graphics: The city looks amazing as does The Spider-Man character model and all the other main 
 villains. The animations are great for the most part but the minor people such as the civilians 
 all look a bit alien. Not the bets looking game but a huge advancement over Spidey 2. The city 
 is also absolutely huge this time round.
  
  Sound: All the actors apart from Kirsten Dunst reprise their roles for the game. Most of them do 
 a decent job but J. K Simmons completely stands out and acts as though he's having a great time. 
 He nails it perfectly just as he does in the films. The sound effects are good and the music is 
 very ncie as well.
  
  Value: The missions took me about 15 hours to do all together but after swinging around gets boring 
 there's nothing much else to do that's worth your time.'v
  
  Overall this is easily the best Spider-Man game yet. It looks the best, plays the best, sounds 
 the best and is overall a fantastically fun game to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snatte
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 6, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  You start off by flying in to a exploding building and the action starts immediatly... with a snap 
 introduction of controls etc, by the original, extremely funny.. dunno hat the hell his name is, 
 anyway he&acute; s really funny.
  the first thing you&acute; ll notice is how good spidey looks now (kind of gay comment, but whatever..) 
 he&acute; s much more aliased, and in high def, he looks awesome, everybody else, not so good... 
 but the hell with them, right ? becouse your gonna kick their sorry little asses 5 sec later anyway. 
 the game holds up really good most of the time, except when things get a little rough, (or sometimes 
 for no reason) &iacute; m talking about THE FRAME RATE here people, what is with the next gen games 
 anyway, 50 % f my games have some kind of bugg, lag, glitch, call it whatever you want, but the 
 thing is, GAME DEVELOPERS NEED MORE TIME GOD #&curren;? @ otherwise every game will end up like 
 SONIC THE HEDGEHOG or SUPERMAN RETURS (a laggy, glitchy mess for those who dont speak Geek out 
 there) the wierd thing is, this game laggs as soon as you end up in water, or just stand beside 
 water, or am in a dustcloud of smoke (the frame rate drops like hell) which is wierd becouse, when 
 you swing around in the ENOURMOUS city, ( which should need to take much more processor power then 
 just looking into a fire) there is no glitches, or lag at all, it floats on perfectly, so therefore, 
 i hereby crown the best part of spiderman 3 : When you dont do anything... just wing around in 
 the city, fight random crimes etc.
  
  even though the game is rich of content, it isnt really fun with the storyline, its more fun just 
 swinging around and dont give a damn about anything. Have fun with playing through the 10 HOUR 
 long story, i dide&acute; nt.
  
  See Ya All // The Snatte Has Spoken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeDesouza1991
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 6, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Alright, first of all, Gamespots video review is going way over board on their description of the 
 game. They make it sound like its a terrible game, isnt fun at all, and is just a waste of time 
 for gamers. I completely disagree. There is only one problem in the game that every critic out 
 there picks on making the game sound terrible. That problem is the camera. Which isnt all that 
 bad. It does have its annoying moments but its no sonic the hedgehog ... not even close. The camera 
 is at its worst during wall crawling, it just doesnt work, and will mostly cause you never to wall 
 crawl. Only when absolutley neccessary. You also cant manually centre the camera behind you or 
 lock on. But, for the most part, the game takes care of that, It automatically locks on when its 
 needed most (like for flying bosses, oddly not for the new goblin fight. ??) and it centres behind 
 you automatically when cahnging position. Sometimes it gets stuck, but all games do that from time 
 to time. It would have been nice to have been able to do the camera stuff manually, but its nothing 
 to cry about (seems to be what all the critics are doing) . The camera tends to not affect you the 
 more you play. Also, its not a complete button masher. Its a button masher if you just randomly 
 press buttons, and will always get the same 3 damn moves over again. Its designed for those who 
 button mash, and for those who like variety, you cant pull off awesome and farely complicated move 
 button mashing. This way it appeals to everyone. Also, the battles are fun, and are very satisfying 
 the way that the camera angles so perfectly giving you a feel like your playing straight from the 
 movie. And on that subject, the Movie-like, God-of-War inspired interactive cutscenes are well 
 placed, and at most moments make you smile and scream AWESOME! as you just dodged 3 cars in mid-air 
 then slingshot yourself punching scorpion right in the face. Ahh its great. To sum it all up, the 
 only true problem with the game is the camera at some points. The cutscenes are far better than 
 the second one, it really gives you a movie feel, ang the action is great. Swinging is at its best 
 and is the most fun so far. If you liked the second one, the movies, you'll really enjoy this one, 
 once you get past the sometimes annoying camera, you'll really get attached to this game. Plus, 
 a game update could potentially fix the camera problems anyway. When that happens, watch the reviews 
 change from 6's to 8's or 9's. Check this game out, you won't be dissapointed. A definite rent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalf_storm
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 6, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed spiderman and spiderman 2, the second being superior in every way, the free roam 
 was great.
  
  The third in the series adds a few tweaks, new moves, new bad guys etc. but is still pretty much 
 more of the same , which ok is not necessarily a bad thing, but liike the gamespot review stated 
 a step sideways is pretty much spot on.
  
  Spiderman himself looks amazing, especially in HD, the buildings look ok but they are hardly Next-gen, 
 bad guys and cars again look ok. The frame rate is pretty smooth, probably why the graphics arent 
 that great for next gen, the swinging takes a while to get used to, I`m not saying its that hard, 
 but it can be a bit frustrating, I found myself not always sticking to a building, even though 
 there were enough buildings around.
  
  Combat hasnt changed a great deal, its still hammer the buttons, dodge, buld up your combo meter, 
 unleash a super attack.
  
  There are some extra bits to the game like races and other activities, but I found they get tedious 
 very quickly, and the combat tours seemed a little hard.
  
  The main story missions are great and are what the game is worth playing for, I`ve only rented 
 this out for a few nights so I didnt get very far, but I would have to sum it up with rent it first 
 before splashing out &pound;45 
  
  If you can get cheaper by some sort of trade in offer, like blockbusters trade in a certain 360 
 and get it for a tenner then great, if your bored and fancy something a bit different.
  
  In general, film tie-in games suck really bad but I give spiderman 3 a 7.5 and class it as above 
 average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockermm2
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 6, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  the game was like blah the fun of the game is just flying through Nyc nothing really much that 
 stands out the fighting was hard meaning that many of the bad guys would all jump on u and u had 
 no chance to defend ur self let alone attack and then we go to the boss fights which i like bc 
 they make u feel like ur facing something that can easily kill u and also the button sequence at 
 the end gives the game a little more spark than the normal beat down, as well the game doesnt really 
 go with the flow of the movie its almost like Saints Row when u have to do little missions away 
 from the main story line just to be able to face like sandman or any other man villain. The game 
 had way to much hype whcih made me go out and get it on Friday so yea dont buy rent unless u like 
 hours of senseless swinging around NYC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optimus_kezzer
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 6, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Spider-man was a game I rushed out to buy the same day I saw the film, I thought there would be 
 nothing better then watching the movie and then playing the game. Well at least the movie was as 
 good as I was hoping, the game unfortunately fell a little flat. You will read a great many reviews, 
 some are going to tell you its was the greatest game of all time, some the worst and I feel both 
 are wrong. The game is OK, thats all and when you think Spider-man 2 was a great game that feels 
 like a huge disappointment. Ok lets start with what was good with the game, the best thing by far 
 was the feeling of been Spider-man you got with the last game. You have the whole city of New York 
 and you can web swing around doing whatever you want, there is even more freedom then the last 
 game as you can pick and chose when you want to do missions. Web swinging is a lot of fun and the 
 city looks great despite the occasional bug in it but more on that later. There is a lot of content 
 in this game, with main story, sub missions, races, sky dives and much more that could keep you 
 playing all week or longer. Also on the plus side the voice actors are for the most part from the 
 movie, even if they dont quite give the passion they did in the film. The main problem with Spider-man 
 3 is it feels like it was rushed out as fast as it could be to make sure it would make its release 
 would be at the same time as the film. There are a number of bugs in the game, clipping and pop 
 up the most obvious but in sandbox style games these are expected. However it is a lucky thing 
 I watched the film before playing this game, or I would have had no clue what was going on. The 
 ten stories, both from the movie and made just for the game, feel like the abridged version from 
 hell. Huge gaping plot holes are riddled through out the game, you miss so much it is just sad 
 as this game promised to be so huge. Combat is one of the worst areas of the game, you are playing 
 a button masher which will either bore you to tears or have you going into fits of rage. The thugs 
 you fight for the most part are easy, you can just hit random buttons and you will pretty much 
 win every fight. Fighting bosses though is a long painful experience for the most part, for example 
 the fight against New Goblin has you do a God of War type battle for a while that just feels 
 like a cheap imitation followed by bashing the X or Y button until you win. Some of the other bosses 
 that need you to think a bit just become frustrating; especially with some poor hints you are given 
 as how you are meant to do it. Also as you can not control lock on to you enemies you will find 
 Spidy will be busy attacking a corpse because the button mashing has a long memory. Until your 
 combo is done you can not put in new controls so unless you have Spider-sense you can find yourself 
 doing a combo you really wish you had not done because of a change in circumstance. The single 
 worst thing of this game is without doubt is the camera, I have played games with bad cameras and 
 this ranks up as one of the highest. Controlling it is awkward and does not get easier even after 
 ten hours of getting used to the other controls of the game. When you are wall-crawling you will 
 find the camera becomes a nightmare and makes what should be one of the major game play elements 
 all but impossible. I was actually screaming with frustration when one time you were forced not 
 only to wall-crawl but to do it with accuracy. The camera danced all over the place like the camera 
 man was having an epileptic fit, the controls shifted with each new angle and every time I made 
 a mistake I was forced to restart the whole thing from the very start. Spider-man is an OK game 
 that has a great game hidden deep inside of it, and if you are willing to fight past the problems 
 you might find the little traces of greatness. I wish this game had been given a month or two more 
 to perfect things, so it did not feel so rushed with some much seemingly tacked on and in desperate 
 need of a polish. The graphics could you a little work, Spidy looks fine but everyone else looks 
 well scary with their sunken eyes and weird faces. If you liked Spider-man 2 then take a look at 
 this game, but dont be surprised when you find yourself either bored or enraged at many points. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay_J
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 6, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  This is wonderful, much much better than spiderman 2, though if your looking for a game with a 
 storyline exactly like the one on spiderman 2, you might not like this game, gamespots video review 
 saying that there isnt a lot changed that i completely wrong, there is a lot of things that have 
 changed:
  the fighting system
  graphics
  no cinematic cutscenes, you take part in them
  more expansive new york (subways, sewers)
  swinging feels better (camera movements while swinging)
 
  completely non-linear
  more activites, longer and more missions
  i wont go on explaining more but you get the idea
  Good:
  graphics rock!
  changed fighting 
 system rocks (millions of combos including black suit)
  all of the things that have changed and more make this game wonderful, thought there is bad things 
 to
  Bad:
  button mashing cinematics can get annoying, expically when you have to keep repeating them over 
 and over
  boss fights can be fustrating
  if only there was a infinite health cheat the game would be 11/10 for me :D but i wish the developers 
 would have made the game slightly easier and its would of been perfect, but overall
  Conclusion:
  GOBSMAKINGLY GOOD GAME AND VERY VERY ADDICTIVE!, I RECCOMEND THIS TO SPIDEY FANS 
 AND ANY OTHER ACTION OR ADVENTURE (FREE ROAM) FANS
  
  thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hybrid3713
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 6, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Let's just start out with a few of the issues that I had with the Gamespot review. From their perspective 
 it seemed that the game was just a remake from last year, with new bosses, etc. At first I understood 
 what they meant, but some of the problems i have to address.
  
  1. Framerate glitches only happened in one scene during my play (yes i have beaten the game) . That 
 was when there are 5 or 6 Dragon Tails and they have a mech. It fires rockets at you and it slowed 
 to like 15 fps for 2 or 3 seconds, but that is one bit.
  
  2. Dialogue is exellent, with the exeption of a few cheesetastic lines, like the one at the end 
 of the Apocolypse story line (believe me it's stupid) .
  
  3. Fighting doesn't seem all that monatonous to me. I still wish there were dynanic bodies, like 
 in the second game and how they were showing it in the demoes. i wanted to hang guys by all four 
 limbs!
  
  Review:
  
  Gameplay: For the most part gameplay is right on. Fighting and Swinging both work, though if you 
 say that you buy the game to fight the various bosses, that is total BS. Camera Glitches on walls 
 and some issues with collision detection that weren't there in SM2 (why can my webs go through 
 walls again?) keep it from a 10. Verdict: 9
  
  Graphics: Disapointing, but you can't blame the team. They have to make somewhere around a scale 
 3 cubic miles of programming. However it is the next generation and some things can't be taken 
 lightly. MaryJane's hair should have been floppsy, not like stone. Bad but not terrible.
  Verdict: 7
  
  Sound: By far one of the coolest things that I didn't expect was above average 
 sound. Like the doppler effect type of enhancement that you heard when you boosted or were just 
 going fast in general. Explosions and all sound great, better in 5.1, but still great in general. 
 Verdict: 10
  
  Value: You know i have to say 10 here. If you try everything, and if you are an achievement hunter 
 like i am, you will be swinging in NYC for at least 40 hours, and probably a lot more. Verdict: 
 10
  
  Tilt: Gotta hand it to these guys. They knew they had to usher in the Next Generation of Spiderman, 
 and although it wasn't their best, they still put on a show. A- for good effort. Verdict: 9
  
  At the end of the day, to say that this is better than SM2 with only an 8.7 seems strange. 
 It's better, but because it is somewhat recycled doesn't get my A of ultimate approval, but is 
 still a great game and should be picked up.
  
  Final Score: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lapricorn
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  A great Spiderman game that surpasses its predecessors with better graphics, a large New York City 
 to swing about in, plenty of missions, and a new combat system which although can swerve to becoming 
 button mashing is much more exciting then the last one. The inclusion of (god of war inspired) 
 cut scene battle scenes where you have to press the button that comes on screen is also a welcome 
 new addition for people who felt that your reactions in the game were no where near as good as 
 Spidey's. Now I'll tell you whats bad about the game, Boss battles can be tedious depending on 
 who you're fighting most bosses have either large amounts of health or just don't get affected 
 by most of your hits leading you to beleive that you've been pummeling them for the best part of 
 ten minutes. The missions involving the Arsenic Candy gang also are quite annoying. Which involve 
 saving annoying librarians who you would have let fall to their death and saving the national history 
 museums collection of dinosaur statues all while fighting little girls with hammers who dodge every 
 normal attack you make. This is all in a lead up to a comically bad wedding that they have planned. 
 The other gangs are a good deal better with the Rocker Apocalypse gang, and the Kung Fu Dragon 
 Tail Gang missions being a lot more enjoyable.
  
  All this is irrelevant however because I like 90% of the people who will but this game bought it 
 because of Spiderman 2. This is better than Spiderman 2 there is no denying it and if you disagree 
 you need only go home and play Spiderman 2 to be proved wrong. I think this game is suffering from 
 one of two things that led to such an under rated review. 1. Classical Its everything I asked for 
 but for some reason I have to find something wrong with it disorder a common illness of most games 
 nowadays. Or Alex Navarro was having a bad day and he hates Spiderman etc etc... because this is 
 a really good game and its becoming all to frequent that Gamespot keep giving good games bad review 
 and then have the nerve to give Gears of War the highest mark they've ever given higher then Wow 
 and GTA??? That is wrong and so is the review on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daredlaser
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  Peter Parkers alter-ago adds another kick-ass game to his repertoire. Spider-Man 3, while not 
 a radical departure from the excellent foundation laid by its prequel, will amaze Spider-Man and 
 action games fans alike. The sequel fixes the major complaints of the first game (generally the 
 repetitive nature of side missions) and polishes everything up. Spider-Man 3 follows the movies 
 plot. It begins right after the prequel ended with Peter finally getting his life in order. Of 
 course, this cheery mood doesnt last very long. In Spider-Man 3, the game, youll be able to relive 
 the movie and classic action sequences against Sandman, Green Goblin and Venom but Treyarch also 
 added a lot of additional plot lines not based directly on the movie. Some of these involve additional 
 villains (Scorpion) while others task you with doing something like protecting New York City.
 
  
  Of course, the main reason to pick up Spider-Man 2 was the swinging mechanics. As great as they 
 were in the prequel, theyre even better in Spider-Man 3. Spider-Man is faster and more acrobatic 
 in this game. For instance, you can swing around poles with ease. After a few moments, youll be 
 swinging around, going around corners, around light posts, and running up walls with ease. Combat 
 has also been improved in the game so there is more to do and a larger variety in the move set. 
 It is also faster-paced and more fulfilling thanks to a quicker Spider-Man and a greater variety 
 of moves. Dodging and counter-attacking is emphasized in the game since Spider-Mans spider sense 
 goes off before hes going to be attacked, which gives you opportunity to dodge or counterattack. 
 The game also includes a new spider sense system (which works similar to the goggle filters in 
 the Splinter Cell games) to detect hidden items and enemies.
  
  With all of the basics down, SP3 also introduces some gameplay wrinkles. The most notable is the 
 addition of the black suit. When youre donning the black suit, Spider-Man is more powerful and 
 fills up a rage meter as he attacks. When this meter is full, Spider-Man basically loses it but 
 becomes incredibly powerfulsomething very helpful for boss fights. When playing in the standard 
 red-and-blue suit, attacking also fills up a different meter that enables you to use stronger attacks. 
 But Treyarch also added a lot more variety to the random missions so youre doing a whole lot more 
 on that end, as well as trying to keep three gangs under control. Lastly, the game includes cineractives 
 similar to those found in Call of Duty 3 or God of War. As with those games, SP3 will move into 
 a cinematic and require button presses at specific moments. If you hit the buttons at the right 
 time everything moves smoothly and works well. These interactive cinematics provided some of the 
 demos biggest wow moments such as struggling in the air against the Green Goblin (while playing 
 as Peter) and jumping through lasers as Spider-Man.
  
  Visually, Spider-Man 3 is a looker. The highlight of the graphics is undoubtedly the recreation 
 of Manhattan. While it was impressive in Spider-Man 2, this sequel takes it to unprecedented heights. 
 All of the buildings have realistic textures and lighting effects and the games draw distance 
 seems to go on forever. Swinging to the top of a building and free falling is quite a sight. Spider-Mans 
 character model is also more detailed, shinier, and nimbler than he has ever been. The same applies 
 to Sandman and Scorpion, who is unbelievably detailed in this iteration. While the other enemies 
 dont share the same level of detail, they look quite good overall. The audio in the game is also 
 very impressive. The audio component is led by the actual movies cast so youll hear Tobey as 
 Spider-Man, Topher Grace as Venom, Thomas Haden Church as Sandman and James Franco as the New Goblin. 
 The dialogue is spot-on and helps draw you into the game. The games sound effects are generally 
 great, too, although the actual combat sounds are a touch too repetitive. The orchestrated score 
 sounds it was ripped directly from a big-name Hollywood blockbuster.
  
  As I mentioned above, Spider-Man 3 doesnt reinvent the Spider-Man games or action games in general. 
 But its hard to beat the feeling of swinging across Times Square, free diving down, and then saving 
 yourself at the last minute. One of the best games of the summer has arrived. Spider-Man 3 is a 
 definite must buy if youre even remotely interested in the license. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casey_mcqueen
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 6, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  I purchased the game and watched the movie both on the same day, and I can happily say I thought 
 they were both good.. good, not great. Spiderman 3 is by no means whatsover a bad game; kids can 
 have fun webbing around the city and even the hardcore gamer can have fun unlocking achievements. 
 Gamespot's review does a great injustice to this title. It by no means should be rated as low as 
 6.6 The fighting, unlike gamespot says, is actually quite fun and allows you to really feel like 
 your Spidey and wasting the bad guys and villains. The graphics aren't anything to be amazed over; 
 however, New York City has never been so available to explore as it is in this game. Overall, a 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omidsojoody
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Swing mechanism is so better than the previous games. Game play has been improved and the upgrade 
 mechanism is fun and makes game more attractive. God of war like transitions is cool but just a 
 copy! In screen hints is so short and hard to track in the middle of gamepaly. The camera control 
 is so damned and make player confused! Some transition frames in spidys moves is missed.
  It seems that it missed the next gen gamers satisfaction : ( It could be even better as next gen 
 game title. The character modeling is not so good. Anyway its best spider man game in the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost_shelly
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 5, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Okay i played this game and liked it, the graphics have improved but not that great for Next gen 
 but hey its a movie game. Anyways i like the gameplay, its addicting but it is frustrating at times 
 and the camera sucks as well. It is fun sometimes when your not getting killed by your enemies 
 using there cheap ass attacks to kill you easily. Controls are well mediocre because the running 
 in the game is so sensitive you barely touch the left stick and your character is running. Good 
 Things about spiderman is that it is very addicting and it doesnt tie in the movie well which is 
 a good/ bad thing, such as if you havent seen it it wont spoil it for you . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterOfSprites
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I read the comics, watch the movies, and play the games. Let me tell you if you are a fan of the 
 comics you will love this game, it is a classic showing all of you, your favorite classic villains 
 with much game play and challenging bosses. You will find the graphics to be insane for a spider 
 man game. For those of you that don't think so take the old games and this game, yeah big graphic 
 difference. For those that dont think the game play is different. WRONG! Have you even played 
 the game, the story and sound and every thing can easily top all the other games by at least TWO 
 TIMES. This is a great game for any one and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarhero009
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 5, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This is an ok game. First off i'll tell you all the good stuff about it. First thing is that you 
 can web swing around the entire state of New York. Second thing is the cut scenes where you have 
 to press the buttons. The last good thing about this game is you could be on the black suit.
  
  The bad things about the game are that it is very hard!!! The camera angles in this game suck. 
 The fighting isn't that great either. So with all that you should rent the game like i did before 
 you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xx-CLOUD-xX
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 18, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I wasnt too sure if it was going to be good or not. But when I put the 
 game in my 360 I was amazed. With all the great gameplay, graphics, and audio this is a great game.
 
  
  I first want to get started on the gameplay. The gameplay was great. It was sort of like the last 
 spiderman game ( which I thought was awesome) only better. One thing I thought was fun was taking 
 pictures and the daily Bugle missions were fun. Also the levels were very fun and the missions. 
 I gave the gameplay a 9/10 because the missions were fun. For the graphics I thought they were 
 almost a complete masterpiece. I thought the graphics were really good and most of the characters 
 looked great especially Spiderman and the villians. But other then all that I thought the graphics 
 were an 8 out of 10.
  
  For the audio I gave it a 9/10 because it had great voice actors like Toby Maguire and more. I thought 
 the VO were really well done.
  
  Overall I thought this was a great package! Dont listen to the haters. I give this game 8.7/10 
 (about a 9) because it was awesome and i had alot of fun and im sure you would too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  So far the game is pretty interesting. Following the course of the movie you can pick and choose 
 your missions. Free roam all over the city and pretty much do what you want. The fighting is nothing 
 special. Hit a few buttons for a combo and your enemy is dead. Lets get down to the nitty gritty.
 
  
  Graphics
  I really expected more from a game that spent over $250,000,000 to make the movie. The characters 
 speak but their mouths dont move. The character detail isnt that good, and Peter Parkers character 
 looks nothing like him. Sound
  Some nice voice overs by most of the cast from the movie makes this game feel more like the movie. 
 There really isnt anything great about the other sounds though.
  
  Value
  Dont expect to play this game more than once. Its tedious and most of the missions feel repetitive. 
 Boss fights are pretty cool though. You also get to see alot of clips from the movie.
  
  Overall
  7/10
  The game could have been alot better. It just doest feel like a next gen game 
 nor does it make you say WOW! I only recommend this game to those lookin for achievement points 
 or if your a die hard spidey fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mykebison2
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 7, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  i kno before i said i didnt like the swinging at all but i guess it alright... after 2 days of 
 playing it non stop lol the game is so short tho.. i wish the stories were longer... not longer 
 but way more story missions 2 do... not just racing
  the combat is still good.. since i got the game thats basically the thing they wanted to make better 
 and yea they did.. but still overall wit the game im kinda up set cuz they could have did alot 
 more.. tooo this game 2 make it bomb ohh 1 thing i kinda really dont like.. it takes alot longer 
 for the shinanigains to happen wit the gangs n car... jackers. i basically have to swing around 
 for a long time until somthing comes up. i dont like that. and i dont like when it does.. the yellow 
 thing doesnt appear on the main screen like it did for the SM2 it only appears at the bottom radar... 
 = [ but like i said before it gets ok after a whil. e. but that first day when i played it.. I WANTED 
 TO THROW IT OUT THE WINDOW... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lasseee
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  it gives you a great sense of being spidey, and swinging through NY never felt as good, it's true 
 that the camera and combat can get frustrating and boring, but isn't as big as biggie as th make 
 it out to be, spidey has some great moves and cmbos (fx the web rodeo, where he swings baddies 
 in a line of web and throwing them into walls etc.) and most of the missions are fun, as they combine 
 the different knda gameplays into the same story's, all of which a pretty funn, in the way the 
 comics are...
  th e graphics are not very good, well the are when swiging through the city at night with the whole 
 lighting aspect, but cutscenes are nightmares, but you'll survive, basically this is a great game 
 f you're a spiderman fan, if you're loking for a great action game, not so much... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cronos591
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 5, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 the game may not be a swing in the right direction to wow a lot of fans, but all in 
 all it is a good game. The Upgrade system has been changed to suit the people who prefer just doing 
 whatever they want without having to worry about the missions, which I think is a plus for the 
 series. The combat system has been expanded, not by a long haul but it has, and there is the introduction 
 and use of the black suit.
  The graphics are good, but the models of Peter Parker or Mary Jane do seem a lil monstrous in 
 some minds, I think it tries to make a turn back to a cartoonish version to accommodate some of 
 the enemies seen in the game which otherwise would seem out of place.
  Though it seems as if it is a remake of the same games in the past, it is a small step toward where 
 Treyarch and Activision may see a grand Spiderman game. After all, other than swinging around New 
 York and beating up bad-guys, taking some pics here and there. What else does spiderman do, thatd 
 go beyond the spectrum that the movie has placed the game in? Its not like theyre going to send 
 Spidey to the moon or anything, or Counter-Earth for those who watched Spiderman Unlimited. Though 
 I do hope to see something amazing for the next Spiderman on the next-gen systems, for now, thisll 
 give me that fix.
  (Plus I haven't even beaten the game yet...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Fiend
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 5, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Well I was so concerned that this game was going to give away a lot of the movie plot that once 
 I bought it I went to the cinema so that I would be clued up.
  (A mistake I learned from the Revenge of the Sith game)
  After a couple of hours of playing and 
 swinging around, there was hardly ANY references to the movie plot. Which I didn't consider to 
 be that bad, although the game is called Spider-Man 3. The graphics are great during the actual 
 game, but the cut scenes are a little embarrassing. Peoples faces look constantly surprised, with 
 their eyes bulging regardlessly. (MJ looks better than her monkey like appearance in the 2nd game) 
 . Character models like The Lizard and Venom look really cool though, especially in the game. I 
 was quite impressed.
  
  The swinging is great, but they seem to have changed some of the coolest parts for worse. Air tricks 
 are no longer fun but are a boring complication. Wall running is so jerky and fast that you can't 
 keep up with which direction you're running in. Dual web however is brilliant, and looks really 
 really cool. And what the hell is going on with that sky-diving mini-game???? Pointless!
  I've also never experienced more frustration than trying to just drop off a wall I'm crawling on. 
 You end up going flying across a street and have do everything again to get to whatever point you're 
 going to.
  
  The God of War style mini games are a nice addition if a little unexpected in some places. (the 
 2nd lizard level comes to mind) PRESS A!!!! haha
  
  One addition i really like is the Spidey Sense. Changing the colour to near black and white to 
 show you clues, footprint and car chases etc... The only problem is, is that it sacrifices the 
 button usually reserved for the camera reset (R3 or Click in RT) . The camera is really bad, really 
 jerky and erratic. Pity.....
  
  Combat is good once the controls are mastered but it can be confusing as to how long you hold the 
 focus button. And because there is a fine line between a medium jump and a really high jump it 
 can be hard to maneuver from one enemy to the next. The dodge system in S-M 2 was awesome and didn't 
 need any changes, it made combat fast paced and it always looked cool. Now it's always slowed down 
 and feels like a matrix rip-off every time you get in a fight. Shame
  
  Overall it's a real disappointment. Like the film... it only delivers a satisfying experience with 
 overtones of frustration. Rent before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathiasX
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 5, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  Went down to the local B-Buster and sure enough they had sipdey 3 (Oooo the jubilation!) I brought 
 this hot lil game home and popped it in my 360. First thing I noticed were the graphics (obviously) 
 great graphics, Spidey never looked so real. Ok, then I got to the fighting.... Very lackluster, 
 the combo's you pull off early in the game seem to be very redundant ala the superman 360 game 
 (It gets old people!) Ok so fighting might get better.. right?? WRONNNGGG!!!! The first battle with 
 the new goblin seems down right impossible and some other missions will have you pulling out your 
 hair with a poor targeting system. The plus side of this game for me has to be the photo missions, 
 a nice touch to finally work as parker although the helicopter mission had me wishing for a brick 
 to put through my television set. Good side: Graphics are nice, some of the missions are decently 
 done, controls are semi-easy to get used to. Random city crime is fuuun!
  
  Bad Side: The on screen Press this now crap is ridiculously done and doesnt allow enugh time to 
 get them all right away. Fighting kinda sucks, mission difficulty is very hard in certain points. 
 At best I'd recommend this as a rental, I liked Superman 360 way better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lapdaddy
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Spider Man 3 is a great game especially the swining around NYC. The gameplay is the greatest of 
 all the other Spider Man games. The game has great graphics NYC looks really realistic it good 
 way to sort of be in NYC with out leaving your home. I was waiting a relly long time for this game 
 to come out in stores. The best thing in the game that i like is the way you have to is to press 
 the buttons during some movies to save the day. Another best thing about the game that I like is 
 the way you can go to the subway and the sewers. The game is great I suggest it for Spider man 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamisadoBlue
Rating: 3.9
Date: May 5, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I'm a big Fan of Spiderman, as a kid I would sit around and read the comics with my friends. When 
 they finally started bringing out games, and even films of his adventures I was so happy.... until... 
 now.
  
  First of all the graphics, this is the new generation (I refrain from saying Next Gen because how 
 can it be next when we have had the consoles released?) And I was truly expecting more from this 
 game, if you have played Spider Man 2 on PS2 you will be a bit surprised to see the same old rehashed 
 graphics with a few new additions. But at the end of the day, graphics are not everything so we 
 can move on.
  
  Game play, for the most part, this is the strongest aspect of the game (and really should be in 
 any game) The swinging mechanics feel great although if you've played Spiderman 2 you could be 
 forgiven for being a little bored of them quickly as it essentially is the same. The fighting is 
 a total let down because of a few things, presented lovingly in bullet notes.
  
  * There are 3 classes of enemies within this game, Grunts, Elites (my terminology) and Bosses. 
 Grunts are easy to dispatch, unless there are a large number of them or they start pulling out 
 guns and then it get all kinds of crazy, Elites appear often with grunts and are one of the most 
 frustrating things I have ever experience in my time playing videogames (Over a Decade) You cannot 
 hit them with regular attacks, instead you are forced to wait for them to attack you, then slow 
 down time, and finally counter attack. Given their stupidly long life bars this can take a while 
 and really drags the game down. If there are grunts on screen as well you might as well deal with 
 them first or just repeatedly get beaten in the back until you die (which takes about 6 hits... 
 don't even get me started) . Finally we reach bosses, now I hear you cry... bosses are supposed 
 to be hard! yeah but not this hard. You basically have the same procedure to follow as with Elites 
 except that even when you dodge there attacks, a lot of the time you still get hurt they can also 
 usually dispatch you within 5 or 6 moves while one of the early bosses took over a 70 hit combo 
 from me and still had way over half his life left... fair? I think not. All of this difficulty 
 could be put down to it being challenging but when you remember this is a kids game, with a rating 
 of 12 and a target audience of probably younger it just looks stupid. The Camera wont make these 
 long, boring, thumb numbing and un-enjoyable fights any easier either as it does whatever it likes, 
 whenever it likes... including staring at spideys ass as you try to fend off another round of grunts 
 and elites. Over all this game could have been so much more and they have destroyed all the good 
 work they had done in Spiderman 2 in search of some quick and easy cash. Shame on you Treyarch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willps3
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Guess what, you probably saw my first review but let me tell you I judged this game incorrectly 
 and I do apologize for that. I have spent over 6 hours playing this game and it is so much fun, 
 it's addicting as hell. I previously said this was like Spiderman 2; yes but a little. Spiderman 
 3 is so much better then the others in every aspect. All you have to do is give it time into the 
 different storylines and you'll see this game is so worth it. My first review was based on 25 minute 
 gameplay. Of course I was going to think this game was like the other Spiderman games, but I can't 
 get over the fact that I was totally wrong. The gameplay is great. Great graphics due to the fact 
 that New York city is so detailed, plus the lighting makes it come to life. Also lots to do in 
 the city and the new features added in the fighting makes it really fun. Also it it has the cineplays 
 just like Shenmue and God of War. If you liked the other Spiderman games please get Spiderman 3, 
 you'll love it. Trust me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horizon95
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 5, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  The game is a spectacular fun filled thrill ride so i say don't listen to what gamespot has to 
 say the game is amazing and is enjoyable to all ages even non comic book fans. So go out there and 
 by the game. The content is amazing from the lizard to scorpion all the way to the black suited 
 spidey the game rocks.
  From swinging all across new york facing gangs and fighting with the new amazing combat this game 
 is truly a comic book fans dream. I wont say much more because i don't want to spoil much else so..............
 
  
  Go by the game today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkai
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 5, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  This makes me wish the developers took more time to make a more solid game rather than releasing 
 it at the same time the movie is released. Visually the game is pretty nice and Spiderman and the 
 city have never looked better but that's about it. The city is huge and you can easily get lost 
 while web slinging, which makes me very glad they put a locater for each new location. The openness 
 of the game is still there as it was in the prior games, and having the choice to move onto to 
 the next mission or simply keeping the crime down in the high crime areas is pretty well done and 
 easily accessible.
  
  With that said, how in the world can you screw up something like web slinging that has been fun 
 in all the previous games? Half the time, while web slinging you're running into buildings, signs 
 or even into something you couldn't see because the camera just couldn't seem to keep up. If Spiderman 
 did this in the comics or the movie it would be one ugly experience. Even the combat suffers from 
 this same experience. There needs to be some sort of targeting system in place so you know where 
 the next person you want to smack down is, beating a person up and not seeing half of it is sort 
 of lame. I don't know about anyone else but there didn't seem to be much skill required in the 
 fighting other than button mashing in hopes you're hitting something. The frame rate was pretty 
 poor during fights as well and seeing the same old dodge from the web head was a huge disappointment. 
 It just seemed rushed and poorly planned, and that's a shame because it's 98% of this game. Playing 
 Spiderman has never been more frustrating as it was in this game. I personally remember the first 
 time I picked up Spiderman on the Playstation and enjoyed every aspect of the game, including the 
 web slinging and wall crawling. This game just makes you want to stay away from wall crawling most 
 of the time because the camera system is jerky and all over the place except where it needs to 
 be. The new interactive feature of button pushing (ala God of War) is o. k. at times but at least 
 in that game you have an idea when it's going to happen. In this game it jumps out with no warning 
 and you get a nice chuckle (at first) when you see Spiderman hit a huge pipe he was attempting 
 to avoid. The first time it's funny but doing it in other sequences over and over because you weren't 
 as prepared or the game uses and odd sequence like going from hitting 'A', to 'LB', then 'R Trigger' 
 is a major annoyance.
  
  All in all it's still Spiderman and being a fan I'll still play through the game. However, I won't 
 play through it as fast as I did with the prior titles since there are a lot of frustrations in 
 the game mechanics wise. I hope and pray that Activision realizes the mistakes it made with this 
 title and doesn't make the same mistakes in the next one because I know personally I'll be a little 
 more hesitant in purchasing the next title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyralution
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 5, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  Well, the first thing i must say is that this game is the best in the series. Moving on from that, 
 however, i might add that it does so only marginally. While the graphics have had a great tune 
 up (my opinion i think they are great, gamespot disagrees with me though) and the swinging is just 
 as fun as ever, that darn camera is back from spiderman 2 and so is the lacking combat system. 
 Really, the biggest problem with the game is the camera. It does follow nicely when swinging around, 
 but if u decide to go upside down on a ceiling or take on more that two guys at a time, ur gonna 
 be thinking ur not in kansas anymore. Simply put, the camera sucks when in combat and ur GONNA 
 get lost. Frustrating. Along with that the combat hasnt really been improved all that much. Yeah, 
 you get a little more flash, and a few cool looking moves, but mostly you are going to be going 
 on back to the spiderman way of button mashing. It is also dissapointing how much u must rely on 
 the bullet time to really get anything done to insanely hard bosses (take that how u will, i like 
 em tough) . I might also add here though, that I personally think its very hard to make a super-hero 
 game that doesnt have an amount of button mashing. There is just so much to control with a guy 
 that swings around on threads and uses them for combat and climbs walls and hangs and jumps and 
 punches and kicks....... with that in mind the combat is passible. And if your really concerned 
 with the story, well, its not all that great. But trust me, ur really not gonna be paying much 
 attention to it because the swinging around manhattan is that much fun. All in all, the game has 
 added more extra side missions, a few unlockables, and a ton to graphics. and again, the swinging 
 rocks more than ever. Spiderman 3 is a good game to buy or rent, and a lot of fun to play, but 
 i would be hesitant to buy if your not a real fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flipgoeg
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  If you where in the spiderman 2, this is just the thing.. I really like this game, alex got some 
 good points in the review, allthough those things dont bother me, I really enjoyed this game, and 
 for the black suit-part, thats this year big twist.. spiderman.. Well, made spiderman.. spiderman 
 2, made the HUGE part, of free-roaming, and the 3rd. well. just tuned all the great parts from 
 1st and the 2nd, and added some cool, greatlooking effects, and gameplay features
  
  I can only recomment this game. So if your are a fan of spiderman, or just a fan of good action-adventure 
 game, this is a game that you might consider. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake7882
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 5, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  the traning the game really picks up speed. The graphics are great, the cutscenes could have been 
 better, combat alittle glitchy at times and camera is a litttle anoying at times as well as the 
 controls but once you get the feel of it the game really takes shape. With the movie being so awsome 
 I was expecting alot out of this game and was disapointed at first but then the game took shape 
 after the training missions. The side missions could have been better but overall it's a great 
 game. The graphics are outstanding with the exceptions that a few of the cutscenes arent that great 
 but this is indeed the Spiderman game for spidey fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmac981
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  This game had a lot of hype coming out and to me it lived up to expectations.
  The game can be challenging at some points but you wont want to stop playing. Very addictive game. 
 The fun part was the black suit, it changed the syle of the game in a big and fun way. That really 
 sold the game to the fans who wanted to see spiderman finally in the black suit and they got what 
 they wanted. Overall thay made a good and fun game to play for all the spiderman fans. Really good 
 graphics for the xbox 360 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Reaper
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 4, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, that I am pretty damn disappointed in this game. Although I admit it is still fun. 
 I know some of you must have got really excited about this game, and actually got it as soon as 
 it came out. After watching the trailers, seeing what you could do in Spiderman 3 I also got worked 
 up about this game. The way they made it look in the trailer was amazing. But if you look at SM 
 3, and the past SM games. You can see that there is a very very small difference.
  
  What is good about the game, is its amazing graphics. They are amazing. But lets be honest here. 
 Even though some of you may want to have sex with the graphics in this game the combat in all the 
 spiderman games are similar. From that one spiderman game for the nintendo 64, the blocky gross 
 graphics with disgustingly huge ugly webs that look like ropes, and their mouths dont move when 
 they talk. To the spiderman 3 game, with its crisp, glowing graphics and its detailed quality of 
 the movie... except for the faces. The combat really hasn't changed. Its the same repetative button 
 mashing. In SM 3, they did make a small difference. The slow motion, spidey reflexes. That was 
 really cool at first. But he does the same dodge over and over again.
  
  From the trailers, i was expecting - say when you fight harry, or a. k. a the new goblin. There would 
 be more interesting dodges and evasions. But what happened was pete would punch harry the same 
 way, and dodge the same way when harry tries to kick him off. It was the same, except you alternated 
 buttons and you repeat until you finish the next step. A good thing, is that they've implemented 
 a good variety of attacks, and a lot of new web type attacks. Yes, they give you the commands for 
 each unique move... but come on. Who actually attempts to follow those? Yeah maybe from time to 
 time you'll use the combinations you remember once in a while. But for the most part. You'll probably 
 be button mashing and repeating bicycle kicks. A really intresting feature, which they could've 
 done better. Was those very cool sequences where you have a giant button flash, and you press it. 
 Thats pretty cool. But I mean, if they coud've done that a different way it would be a lot better. 
 I'm sure most of you remember that jump between the cars in the trailer right? Well. I think that 
 they should've made it so we could choose to do it manually. It would be so much more fun that 
 listening to random buttons that flash up on the screen. I was expecting a lot better from this 
 game. It is still fun. No doubt, but from a game that most people thought would kick ass, and be 
 the next revolutionary SM game for the next gen... it felt like i was playing something for the 
 gamecube. THe game itself tries a lot of different things. But fails. The missions are pretty repetative. 
 you almost already know whats going to happen even if you haven't seen the movie, or read the comics. 
 After you play maybe the first two missions, of whatever. It probably already forshadows what the 
 rest of the game is going to be like.
  
  Now heres the ONE THING they shoud probably focus on. Two words: The camera. God, that is the most 
 frustrating thing on earth. It probably could have made it to the book of records. Probably most 
 frustrating when you're crawling ont he walls and on ceilings. Which brings me to another point. 
 Whenever you're crawling - and you try to get off. Its one of those things that will piss you off 
 to no end. But anyway, the camera. I remember, this one part in the uhmm mechasomethinglab I forget. 
 Mechabio.... anyway. While you're in that facility. Theres one part where you have to get up through 
 this cylinder thing that leads to another tunnel that again leads you out into a giant room somewhere. 
 In that tunnel while you're crawling - You cant tell where you are. Or whats going on. If you try 
 to adjust the camera, it like.. spasms .. it flips out and flickers and flashes... when it stops, 
 i leaves you more confused. And you somehow accidently drop.. and you're back where you started. 
 You do this over and over again and you realize that the tunnel leading out into the room was to 
 your left. Then you try to get there, and the camera flickers and freaks out again and you're trying 
 to get down... then you fall back to where you started. When you're fighting, sometimes. The camera 
 gets in the way, and you lose your target. But thats not a big problem.. because you can just jump 
 3023948billion feet in the air. Shoot a web, and grab them and buttonmash nuke them in mid-air. 
 Spiderman 3, even though its added some new unique features... that really don't make the biggest 
 difference. THe thing is, spiderman 3 is like the past other spiderman games. And these go way 
 back to the nintendo 64. Not a giant difference has been made in combat. Maybe the visual and the 
 phsyics and how you travel in the game has been improved. But the combat? No... it really hasn't 
 changed. Same old, button mashing, earn new moves... then button mash again and earn some more. 
 But i'd say the two major problems of this game:
  
  Is The combat, and the camera. Especially the camera. The game is still fun, even with its repetative 
 combat and missions.
  
  By the way, i think they should bring back the classic spiderman way of swinging too. Because i 
 know everyone loves to just swing around the city, and wants to do awesome spiderman acrobatics 
 and let it look realistic while doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thespiritoflife
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  So far from what I've played, Spiderman 3 is a very decent innovative game that captures the next 
 gen pretty well. The Graphics got a nice boost from the previous games, the city is large and interactive 
 with certain objects, the combat is fairly fun and it's definatly a game to check out especially 
 if you're going to see the movie. The visual appearance in the game is pretty compelling even from 
 the start of the game if you have a high def. display, you'll notice the celieng and fire and everything 
 else have a high texture boost. I'm sure more could've made it all that much more better but from 
 the unbelievable size of the city and drastic amounts of copy and paste people all over, its understanding 
 that room may've been an issue to fit everything and also keep a good Frame rate while playing.
 
  
  The story is interesting as it not only contains parts from the main story in the movie but includes 
 alot more other villans from past spiderman comics and etc. Which give it extra value and more 
 missions to try. The gameplay and combat system is okay for the most part. But it does get a little 
 frustrating at times when fighting and you have to move the camera to find out where the other 
 enemys are before they take you out before you can even see them. the new spider reflex move slows 
 down the action almost like matrix so you can have the upper hand against your foes but it is limited 
 just like everything else in life. Nothing lasts but its cool.
  
  So far its a great game and think you people must check it out, check the movie out to get you 
 hyped to play the game because it makes it all the more enjoyable and interesting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSUJD524
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 4, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Spiderman 3 for about 5 hours how and I've come across some great things that 
 remind me why I love the game series. For example the ability to swing around New York like a champ 
 and take on multiple enemies that are not just in the movie storyline. But I have one HUGE, actually 
 two HUGE complaints about this game. One is the seemingly never ending reliance on the Spidey Sense 
 button (LB on XBOX 360 and L1 on PS3) . This button slows down time to allow you to automatically 
 dodge attacks. Sounds like it would come in handy right? Well it sure does when you are facing 
 multiple weak enemies because you can just clear them all out in about two seconds. But when you 
 come across bosses, 95% of them almost make you have to constantly hold down that button in order 
 to barely scathe by in your victory. Boss fights are supposed to be challenging, sure, but there 
 are a few that are borderline impossible. I love being challenged in a game because it makes the 
 victory that much sweeter. But there have been times that I've had to repeat the fight so many 
 times that it's just not fun anymore. You'll find your wrists, fingers, and forearms almost numb 
 from the constant button mashing that it requires to even make a dent in some of the bosses. I'd 
 say the difficulty at times is too great for some.
  But other than that the game plays great. It's smooth and has great in engine interactive cinematics. 
 This game is definitely worth buying and adding to your collection...... until you throw your controller 
 down in frustration, cursing to the heavens asking how many times will you have to play this damn 
 boss. I'm guessing most will trade it in after that happens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzureLivesOn
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 4, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to say whether I'm a true Spidey fan. While I religiously watched every episode of the 
 animated series, have seen all three films (just got back from the third one) , and have played 
 both film-to-game adaptations thus far, I can honestly say I've never read a single comic book 
 and only heard of its numerous stories and villains through word of mouth. But I know I like my 
 friendly neighborhood Spider-Man. And I still hold faith that his day in gaming will come.
  
  Spider-Man 3 is hard because its intentions are clear: revamp everything that was great about 
 the second installment (movement freedom in webslinging, visuals, story) and not so great (undirected 
 button mashing, tedious civillian-in-peril sidequests) and do it for a next-gen audience. But the 
 question lies in whether those intentions were lost in a sea of corporate licensing greed or sheer 
 ignorance. When first booted up, the visual of New York is absolutely amazing and was fairly reminiscent 
 of that first moment in Oblivion stepping out of the city sewers. But as I played more and more, 
 it became apparent that the gorgeous screenshots were hiding something far worse. Like an M&amp; M. 
 Colorful on the outside, black on the inside. Sure enough, this was all too much the case with 
 the game.
  
  Controls are a bit more refined this time around. Web zipping, which was the faster and more efficient 
 way of quick travel in Spider-Man 2, has been adjusted to a single button as opposed to a dual-button 
 combination. You also have better control of your Spidey Sense and a new feature called Spidey 
 Reflex where like that movie with the dude from Speed you can slow down time to evade attacks. 
 A similar feature was used in the previous game, but as a move upgrade whereas here it's more fleshed 
 out in allowing the user to fully feel like the wall crawler. Despite hammering out these details, 
 it still doesn't help in terms of what the battle system really is: a nonsensical button masher. 
 While you can follow the tedium of waiting for an enemy to punch, Reflexing into a dodge, and dealing 
 a spinning kick counter in order to make it feel like the films, you can just as easily just move 
 back and forth between two buttons until they're dead (sorry, unconscious, as Spider-Man wouldn't 
 kill ) . The worst is without a proper lock-on feature (yes, a next-gen game HAS regressed backwards 
 to that point in time) , you may find yourself kicking nothing but air while bank robbers simply 
 run away. Should you want to partake of the 'realistic reflex/counter battle system', simply fight 
 a boss. Any boss. They're all fought the same with the exception of Venom, but moviegoers will 
 be quick to understand why.
  
  The afforementioned glorious visuals are the real crime of this gold-plated turd. Having sampled 
 both the PS3 and 360 versions, it's hard to believe that after witnessing titles like Gears of 
 War, Resistance: Fall of Man, and even early gen titles like Kameo a studio could still have problems 
 creating character models and environmental texture mapping. But it's there, all of it, from simple 
 jerking of buildings and people to unnecessary glitches and issues (in pursuit of robbers, the 
 robbers suddenly froze... then the cops chasing them froze... then everyone in New York froze... 
 except Spider-Man, who could still effectively beat up the enemies and win the mission without 
 any sort of challenge) . Any and all beautiful imagery is exactly that: a still frame of one isolated 
 moment in time (i. e. a screenshot) . When put into motion, the end result is just horrendous.
  
  The story itself does offer correlation to the film, as well as branching off into varient 
 tangents from the Spidey universe. The more interesting approach this time around was trying to 
 justify the petty crime side missions by evolving it into a gang warfare subplot to which Spider-Man 
 has to defend and rid crime zones from three rival gangs. It's good on paper, but doesn't help 
 mask that these are still the same repetitive catch em and beat em quests from the last game if 
 not added with ones completely unnecessary... like the second one (saving a renegade balloon for 
 a little girl has become defending canisters from lizard-like creatures) . Aside from mundane bosses, 
 the actual film storyline feels jagged and missing large pieces. While this may become a review 
 on things wrong with the actual motion picture, the problem with the game is it doesn't focus on 
 the whole M. J. aspect of the films (ok, with the exception of a 'nails on chalkboard' webslinging 
 minigame collecting hearts) . What's left is a garbled mess of Here's Sandman, here's Harry, he's 
 mad at you, here's your Black Suit, here's your Old Suit back, here's Venom, The End . The new 
 content added, like dealing with The Lizard and even Wilton Kingpin Fisk (in argueably one of the 
 longest and most dreadful and painfully choreographed boss fights in gaming history) , is nice but 
 still feels out of place considering Sandman knows Venom and Venom knows Sandman but neither acknowledge 
 the existance of anyone outside of the motion picture plot. The end result is like two different 
 movies going on at once, and neither are of Raimi's calibur.
  
  Die hard fans or anyone under the age of 10 will easily look past the dreadful nature of this game 
 and simply be happy with I'm Spider-Man! . But everyone else, please be aware you're in for a horrible 
 horrible mess. I tried to be subjective, I tried to be fair, I even tried to play it like the Spidey 
 fan I am. But this is, by far, one of the most disappointing and attrocious titles to be given 
 the gold to be printed when it clearly needs 6 more months of fine tuning. Another victim of 'money, 
 money, money' (God rest your soul, Enter the Matrix) , Spider-Man 3 is just plain awful. Because 
 when you unwrap that gold foil, yes there is still a turd underneath it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 6, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this title since friends have told me the earlier Spiderman titles on 
 other platforms were pretty good. So I thought it must be a decent game to try out for the weekend. 
 About 3-4 hours into the game I don't know if I can stand the weird camera angles at times, the 
 poor control and the glitches. I had a mission 3/4ths of the way done and when I got into water 
 the game glitched and I was stuck in midair, had to restart the game and start the mission all 
 over... The games missions seem to be the same thing over and over and a bunch of button mashing. 
 But the missions can drive you insane trying them over and over if they deal with some bit of precision 
 swinging where you are trying to beat the clock and land on a ledge or a certain part of a rooftop. 
 I can't tell you how much I hate the Mary Jane fun ride missions now and her annoying voice saying 
 faster, higher blah blah blah! Also the cut-scenes are hard to look at and the representations 
 of the actors is a bunch of bug eyed mannequins. This just is not the fun game I was looking forward 
 to playing this weekend.
  
  Another thing I would like to say is most the reviews I have seen on the 360 Xbox part of this 
 website have been unusually positive. Look at the Playstation 3 version and you will see quite 
 a few negative ones with the same rating as mine. So I'm not sure if this is the initial rush of 
 Spider-man fans who just will say they love it because they are a fan boy on the 360 side or what. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploder22
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 4, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit I went into this a bit jaded. I really really really wanted to love this game and after 
 seeing the movie I was detirmined to sit down with the fond memories of the Spider-Man 2 game fresh 
 in my mind and just love the hell out of this new installment............ But thats not what happened. 
 Although it started off that way, by my second hour into the game I could already see 90% of the 
 problems that I would be facing for the rest of the game, namely the sometimes spotty camera control 
 and absurdly difficult boss battles. I was a bit disappointed in the GS reviewers take on the game, 
 not that I disagreed with most of his points but that he failed to at least give credit to the 
 fact that content wise it was a Large step over its predecessor. I think the best way to think 
 of the game would be to look at it more as a Spider-Man game in general and not so much one based 
 off the movie since I would have to say sixty to seventy percent of the game's content has nothing 
 to do with the events of the movie, which is a good thing trust me. I'll admit I am a Spider-Man 
 fan, and with the exception of Ultimate Spider-Man (venom was an anti cancer suit??) , I've really 
 like most adaptations of the comic book hero. Being a fan will certainly help any potential buyer 
 in enjoying their purchase more although its certainly not necessary. I suppose if I had to generalize 
 it I'd say its definately worth a rental and probably worth a purchase if your a fan. I know I 
 have enjoyed for the most part my time swinging around NYC and beating up bad guys, and with the 
 exception of said camera controls and tougher than you would expect bosses it stands an example 
 of how you can make a good movie based game even if the execution is somewhat flawed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 4, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Intro: What can I say.... well I really realished the fact that it wasn't like the cartoon spiderman 
 *caugh horribley dreadful caugh* and it was like the 2nd spiderman. (Thank God, and the makers 
 of the game)
  
  The good parts of this game: A few new features, and a new spit shine from the 2nd, this game looks 
 like a next gen game, but lacks some new content. I enjoyed the overall gameplay, although the 
 story was a bit shakey, but it also wasn't to narrow roaded, giving the chance to choose what you 
 wanted to do next. Abilities, and web slinging was fun. I enjoyed the little mini game things where 
 something would pop out and you had to press a button, it kept me on my toes. The bad parts of 
 this game: Story is really kinda bad, the animations, fights, and web slinging are hard. The bosses, 
 and fighting style was extremely hard. Peter and characters do not look or really sound like the 
 actors. So the audio is not very good. Really only fun for those who have seen the movie, or followed 
 the others. Above all, lacked new features to make it stand out.
  
  Overall Verdict: As usual, I recomend renting this game, then if you absolutely love it, and feel 
 so inclined, then buy it when it becomes cheap. But this game may not be for everyone, so don't 
 just buy it without trying it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katterfly
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Together. :P Honestly I think this game is definitely one of the best in the Spider-Man series. 
 I'm one of those die hard Spider-Man fans though so you may not agree with me. I've been playing 
 it for awhile now and I have to say I enjoy it very much. My favorite part of the game is wearing 
 the Black Suit. The raw power this suit gives you is amazing.
  
  I very much enjoy watching as Spidey punches men down streets and can take down 5 to 10 criminals 
 in one hit. The storyline is great, however weak at some points. I feel the sting of the lack of 
 movie moments but that isn't Treyarch's fault it is Sam Raimi's. Raimi felt that they shouldn't 
 have to many movie moments, he was afraid they might show up his movie with this game. Hence why 
 sometimes the story seems disjointed. The lack of the Venom transformation scene annoys me honestly.
 
  
  The Red Suit has also been very improved by this game series. It has alot more suit content and 
 I love how the combat system has been remade for this game. I enjoy punching people up into the 
 air and then just unloading on them. Spider-Man has gotten a major power upgrade. The voice acting 
 is strong, though I admit it has its weak points. I can't help but giggle at some things Peter 
 says and Bruce Campbell is as funny as always. I will say one big weak point is the lack of sound 
 in the city on this game. I miss the citizens shouting greetings, and they act like total zombies 
 to be honest. This could have been done much better.
  
  I'd have to say my favorite aspect of this game is using the Black Suit, and I look forward to 
 spending many hours playing this game. I know IGN may not like this game, same with Gamespot but 
 I personally love it and I suppose thats all that really matters to me. I leave it up to all of 
 you to make up your minds about it. ^.^ Hope you enjoyed reading as much as I enjoyed writing. 
 Until next time True Believers, look out for the Amazing Spider-Man!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flockmaster
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 4, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because I loved the other Spiderman games that have come out. This was quite 
 a disappointment in terms of graphics and gameplay. The draw distance is nice, but the models and 
 textures of every character in the game is PITIFUL. Totally not a next-gen game, but then again 
 when developers make games that will be ported to several non next-gen systems, you can't expect 
 Crackdown/Gears of War graphics.
  
  The good:
  Fun to swing around the city, easy yet suprisingly satisfying combo attacks, HUGE city, The bad:
 
  Chinatown/Little Italy doesn't look any different than the rest of the city. If you're going to 
 develop a whole city at least look at more than one area of the city to get design cues. You don't 
 even get to SEE the rest of New York if you look at the map... the island is in the middle of nowhere, 
 mainland is nowhere to be seen. Characters look HORRIBLE. Storyline is disjointed and rough as 
 the movie was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pachatad
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 4, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  After playing Superman Returns I was a bit worried about how another Next Gen Superhero movie would 
 go. I loved Spiderman 2 and was hoping it would take the basics of that game and get rid of the 
 repetition. I was very pleasantly surprised when I popped it into my 360 this morning. I have only 
 played for a few hours but the mission types are much more varied and haven't gotten boring yet. 
 I've heard some complaints about the combat system but I really enjoy it. It moves very fast, and 
 is visually impressive. Moving around the city takes a little getting used to, its not the smoothest 
 thing in the world but it does feel like Spiderman. And thats the bottom line, the game creates 
 a living breathing city and you get to be Spiderman, and the game does a great job from his movement, 
 to the style, to the actual actor voice overs. I'm looking forward to seeing everything else the 
 game has to offer. Oh and Bruce Campbell is the narrator! While this game is not Gears of War it 
 really is a very fun game, slightly better than Crackdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This is off the hook!! The graphics are really good. The graphics are amazing it goes real good 
 with the 360 system. The controls are banging i mean for webbing you have all these new moves and 
 also for the fighting. It also adds this cool thing where you watch spider man go and hit the buttons 
 that pop up and he will do these cool moves. The missions are good but i think that spider man 
 does way to much subway missions. IT a good length and it has tons of achievements. I think i will 
 beat the game and then i m going to beat all the achievements. Good game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bodhe
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I think I made my point. The game play is good and all with the combat system and the ability to 
 web across the entire city. The multiple story lines expanding across much of the Spider-Man universe 
 will also be enjoyable to fans of the franchise (such as myself) . Such things as that make this 
 game enjoyable for me but the thing that made me write this review is that Bruce Campbell narrates. 
 Thats right kids, Ash, or God to some of us, narrates Spider-Man 3. So do yourself a favor and 
 rent this game because if Bruce Campbell is involved, you know its going to be off the chain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejudge808
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 4, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This had the potential to be great game but some key elements seem rushed and therefore a letdown. 
 The biggest culprit is probably while it seemed quite clever in the tutorial when you get into 
 real combat the whole thing seems random and broken, the missions are dull and frustrating and 
 in some cases completely pointless on the upside swinging around the city is genuinely fun but 
 is probably the games only saving grace.
  Its a real shame because it had the potential to be a Crackdown beater but falls way short of the 
 mark i will probably percevere with it in the hope that things improve when you unlock some more 
 moves but im not holding my breath 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  This game is really nice, it has better graphics than the last one ofcourse ( every sequal should 
 have better graphics than the other right? ) . Anyway i havent bought the game yet but i played 
 it and so far it's great. There are so much things you can do now, like you can free roam withoout 
 having to go straight into the game as soon as you turn it on the first time like the last time. 
 Spiderman has a whole of new tricks like you can use your spider webs to catch things and people. 
 I think you can do that in the last one but i don't remember, anyway the game is great and it just 
 came out and it's a must get for may. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pat_gamespot
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 4, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The best thing about the game. Awesome combat and swinging, great button pressing cinematics. 
 Sound: The voice acting is very well done, the music could have been a bit better.
  
  Graphics: Very nice, great lighting effects, great animation, great character models (except peter 
 parker) Value: The Story took me around 11hours to complete. But i can say with confidence i'm 
 not done with the game. (second playthrough with blacksuit)
  
  Overall: Theres moments in the game that are just plain awesome to play. Like when you first become 
 blacksuit. This is a must have for fans of spiderman, wether it be the games, the movies or just 
 an interest in action/adventure games, this one should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodimus_prime85
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 4, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man, Spider-Man, does whatever a spider can. Runs away from the rolled up paper, he caught 
 a fly but he'll eat it later 
  
  The wait for this almost killed me. (It was like waiting for Jesus) ... So I got Spider-Man 2 and 
 played that. I finished the story in 6 hours but still played it for 2 weeks, because the real 
 fun of the game was just swinging round the city.
  
  So, after doing the tutorial with that darn same guy who thinks his funnier then he actually is, 
 I set out to test the web-slinging, hoping they brought back the old SM2 system and not the Ultimate 
 system. Well... Theres good news and bad news. The good news is that its kind of like a whole new 
 system and for the most part its solid, fluid and fun. I hoped they would drop the Ultimate system 
 of shooting out a webline and letting it go as soon as the button was released, returning to the 
 SM2 system of jumping out of your weblines. But it is similiar to Ultimate. However now, you'll 
 come out of the web differentlty depending on when you let go. So, if you release at the very bottom 
 of the swing you'll propel spidey forward super fast, but letting go at the top of a swing will 
 send him flying towards the skys. So its simple, yet complex, though still not as complex as SM2. 
 The physics of the swinging has been completly over-hauled aswell. Spidey now FEELS like a weight 
 on the end of a string. It takes a short while to get used to since most people will be used to 
 old mechanical feel of swinging, but the way it actually feels to swing on a web is better from 
 previous games.
  
  At the very start of the game, as usual, you only start off with the basic swing, but as you play 
 the game you get EXP which unlocks the usuals... Web zip, wall sprinting ect. One strange thing 
 that seems to have been left out if the ability to jump off a wall as you slide down it, but maybe 
 you unlock it later. Although making a happy return is also the ability to swing on lamposts!!! 
 I can't wait to unlock Level 7 swing...
  
  Combat has also had a re-working. It's faster paced and spider-reflexes is now shorter, but charges 
 when not in use rather then charging from beating people up or while web-slinging. It works well, 
 and if used right you always have enough spider-reflexes to deal with trickier situations. Combo's 
 are now a big part of combat, and easier to string together then in previous games. If the combat 
 does have a flaw though its that sometimes it can be done too fast.
  
  There is a lot of stuff to mention about new Spidey. One of my faveorite things is what was called 
 QTE in good ol' Shenmue. A button with flash on the screen and you have to press the button quick 
 enough to avoid a hazard, shoot a web-line ect. Also new, is Spider-Sense.... Although not technically 
 new it actually has a purpose. You activate it with the right stick and it highlights threats in 
 red. I've tried using it to find random crimes and it sometimes comes in handy.... sometimes. Also 
 'hotspot' like 'zones' which are ran by 3 gangs. 'zones' are red on the overview map and hanging 
 around in that area you have more chance of spotting a crime. Keeping levels down is important, 
 because if they get to high, the gang will litterally rule the street.
  
  The final big new addition is the black suit - and it adds quite a bit to the game. In previous 
 games it simply gave you unlimited webfluid. Obviously with the focus on the black suit in the 
 new film (Oh and the fact webfluid no longer exists) , the game focus on it is to enhance Spidey. 
 After unlocking it you can change between Red and Black suit from the pause menu... Kind of like 
 Ultimate where you could choose between Spidey and Venom... Its not titled 'Choose a suit' but 
 'playable characters' so I'm hopping even though its 360 and we didn't get New Goblin, we may have 
 some other costumes to swing around in... Or Venom... hopefully. While doning the black threads 
 you have enhanced strengh, speed webs and can jump higher. Combat is different to with respect 
 the improved strengh. Combo's look harder, that is, you'll knock someone littereally to another 
 side of the block to web him back to your arms ready for a Zageath (sp... From Street Fighter.... You 
 know who I mean!) style powerdriver. The down side to the black suit? Only one, no EXP. Meaning 
 if you rely on it too much you won't learn any fancy tricks.
  
  Graphics wise, you'll be swinging around a whole new New York city. Well thats a lie... It is NYC 
 after all, but the graphics are beautiful. The streets themselves are busy with cars and people, 
 buildings are no longer blandly textured boxes... And Centeral Park actually has trees. Not just 
 a few random green bloobs here and there. Playing it in HD adds more shine to things and just makes 
 things sharper. Theres also a subway and sewer system to explore. Interior is also more impressive, 
 the Daily Bugle is a huge, grand office now instead of a tiny little room.
  
  Sound is the usual Spidey wit we've come to expect from the past games, and music is fitting but 
 probably the weakest point of the game.
  
  Live support?? Well despite stating on the box, and multiple places in the instruction manual that 
 it does not support Live, in the pause menu theres Live options. Granted it only to upgrade your 
 account (First game I've seen this in and why the hell would you want to upgrade to Gold if its 
 not even supported?) and XBL Marketplace... DLC would be cool, like costumes or new interior to 
 explore, but at the moment its empty and I'd be willing to put money on the fact it just picture 
 packs and themes.... Both I'd love to buy.
  
  Overall, while not perfect it sticks to the orginial formular and builds on what worked from SM2 
 and USM. There are some small issues, the camara sometimes has a mind of its own while running 
 around in confined areas like the subway and sewers.... And Spider-Man runs so fast its hard to 
 navigate certain areas. Also, even with the improved web-sling physics, it still not as much fun 
 as SM2... But then with that said I have yet to unlock everything, including swing level 7!! It 
 could get a hella of a lot better. Still the fact remains.... you are Spider-Man. You have an entire 
 city to explore and protect... and you can look damn cool while doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therock_26
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  There was just something about Spiderman 2 that left us wanting... more. In theory, it was perfect, 
 but lacked luster and the ability to keep us interested past just wanting to battle Doc Ock to 
 get it over with. They nailed the web slinging, but fell short everywhere else. However, I can 
 safely say that with Spidey's latest incarnation, Activision nails it!
  
  Not that the last game looked bad by any means, but this game looks absolutely beautiful. The city's 
 texture is reminiscent of that of Metropolis in Superman Returns (although not nearly as redundant) . 
 It really and truly looks and feels like New York City! The civilians add to realism quite nicely 
 as they all appear in an array of fashions. You see some folks going to work carrying briefcases, 
 some going for a morning jog, and even some standing behind hot dog and magazine counters. I have 
 to admit, I miss the occasional praise from NYC's citizens as Spidey walks the streets, but in 
 the end, it's only minor.
  
  The gameplay continues to improve from earlier versions. Web slinging is only slightly more difficult 
 as you will often find yourself falling for a couple stories before finding somewhere to swing 
 from. But when Spidey swings... he really swings! The web slinger does NOT walk when he can crawl 
 or websling! Every action is captured superbly as he swings from building to building, even more 
 so than SM2. Starting the game with an arsenal filled with already available combos is nice, however 
 the action can get a bit hectic to the point where you're merely mashing buttons instead of strategically 
 placing combos, especially when using the awkward dodge/couterattack function. the difficulty's 
 been upped this time around which makes attacking random thugs a gamble all in itself. Don't be 
 surprised if you run up against a gang that can kick the living crap out you effortlessly. This 
 is where Spidey's trusty black suit comes in which offers a completely revamped style of gameplay. 
 Every single move is augmented, including web slinging with this monster. It comes at a price, 
 however, as not all good things last forever. Still, the suit adds a mode of gameplay never before 
 seen in a Spidey game that's a very warm welcome.
  
  The soundtrack and voiceovers are masterful, as you'd come to expect from a game of this calibre. 
 The music shifts to fit the scene; hard core rock and roll for infiltrating gang hideouts. Peace 
 and serene tunes when strolling through Central Park. The voices are unmistakable as Tobey and 
 company do a remarkable job of bringing the game to life.
  
  So far, so good, right? Well, now comes the part when Spidey takes a (slantedly) downward turn. 
 The camera is the game's biggest flaw. Although, it's very reliable most of the time, it can be 
 menacing! There were even times when I'd enter a building and have the door close behind me, yet 
 the camera would not follow me inside the building. I was basically battling a group of thugs blind! 
 When wall crawling, it's not at all unusual for the camera to lose you going underneath a ledge 
 or something of the like. It would also be nice to have a bit more interaction with the city folks 
 as well as more environmental interaction, but all of the aforementioned are again, only minor. 
 This is a great game that finally does the movie its based on justice. Everything from the numerous 
 side missions to the main storyline is done in well thought out fashion. All being said, unfortunately, 
 in the end, there is a feeling of familiarity that accompanies this. I admit, there's not much 
 more they can improve on as far as web-slinging goes, but once you get into it, you'll find yourself 
 saying, I've done this before. But again, only minor. This is a great addition to the Spidey fan 
 nation's game arsenal! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-cubano
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 4, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  This game is really nice, it has better graphics than the last one ofcourse ( every sequal should 
 have better graphics than the other right? ) . Anyway i havent bought the game yet but i played 
 it and so far it's great. There are so much things you can do now, like you can free roam withoout 
 having to go straight into the game as soon as you turn it on the first time like the last time. 
 Spiderman has a whole of new tricks like you can use your spider webs to catch things and people. 
 I think you can do that in the last one but i don't remember, anyway the game is great and it just 
 came out and it's a must get for may. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thryon
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 4, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Who is not excited about the new Spider-man movie? Maybe it was this excitement, maybe it was that 
 I picked up my new Elite console today (needed the black spidey for my black Xbox) , but I decided 
 to take a chance on Spider-man 3 for the Xbox 360. My review is mostly based on my opinion after 
 having played a few hours, and may change after I played it a bit more. If it does, I will edit 
 this review.
  
  The game is not bad, but I could not help but feel that they developed this game for the weakest 
 console out there, then added a bit of next-gen gloss on Spider-man for the Xbox 360. Because of 
 this, the graphics and sound are sub par when compared to recent Xbox 360 titles.
  
  The game make use of the very popular sandbox format. You may choose to perform missions, activities, 
 or go and fight crime. While this is great for letting play the game at your own pace, the problem 
 is that the activities are not live in the city. You bring up a map and then select what you want 
 to do, then you have to swing over to that part of town, once there you will find a icon, that 
 you have to press X when over to initiate the event. It would have been much better if you could 
 just swing from building to building, stumble upon the scene of a crime, and like a streak of light, 
 arrive just in time.
  
  This is not to say that the game is not fun, for it does have it's charm. But this game will not 
 dazzle you, or keep your interest for long, unless you are an achievement hog (like myself) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demondeano
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 4, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  I was soooo excited about this game was a bit nervous thats its not going to be what i expected 
 i didnt want to waste my money but who does? anyway i didnt waste it because it is a awesome game, 
 i bought spidey 2 on the ps2 and was so disapointed with that game but this is somthing else, if 
 you like the spiderman games or a big fan this is the one for you! web swinging is amazing, the 
 combos and fighting is amazing and the whole new york city is amazing its a really good game love 
 it! shameit doesnt have somthing to do with xbox live and games you could play on line so after 
 you complte it you can always go on that but there isnt thats the only downer i thought anyway 
 thats about it! i recromed it to any spidey fan! wooop 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweeet
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 4, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  To put it simply, if you enjoyed the second game but was disappointed with the lack of depth it 
 contained, then spidey 3 is all you could ever ask for. And even if this is your first spidey game, 
 you certainly won't be disappointed whether you enjoy the franchise or not.
  
  With 10 story arcs to sink your teeth into, a whole city to explore and solid game play that's 
 just fun fun fun... Spiderman 3 is a game that will leave your throat feeling dry and quenching 
 for more.
  
  Web slinging is easy to grasp and will have you flying through the rooftops just for fun.
  
 
  The combat, while solid, can feel as if a little more love should have given by the developers. 
 That is until you start unlocking combos and moves that allow for different strategies. You'll 
 soon find yourself wanting the mission to end simply so you can see what upgrade you've unlocked!
 
  
  The real-time cut scene interaction while copied directly from Shenmue is highly effective and 
 just reminds me how brilliant a game Shenmue was. You'll be sitting in front of the screen in anticipation 
 every time a cut scene is shown.
  
  To conclude, if you're a fan of Spidey it would be a crime to miss this master piece from Atari. 
 And even if you're not, you'll love this game as it holds true to the sandbox era and is simply 
 just a pleasure to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacktheflipper
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 4, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  Ok, I LOVED the second movie game so I got myself up early this morning and dragged myself along 
 to my local game store to buy the xbox360 version of Spiderman 3. I've played like an hour and 
 a half and these are my first impressions. Firstly: graphics, the graphics for this are pretty 
 awesome, spidey's character model is well detailed and for such a large play area the varitey in 
 cars, street people and gang thugs is impressive. Secondly - Webslinging: It looks great and it's 
 fun to do (not a big surprise if you've played the second game) , sadly it's a little niggly at 
 first but I soon picked it up and once you get the webzip it's a very fluid system. Combat: This 
 is where my main gripes with the game so far lie, it's visually impresive but as far as I can tell 
 the combat system isn't very deep, everything moves too fast unless you are in spider reflex mode 
 (which saves the combat system from being broken) and I've tended to have to resort to button mashing 
 for large groups of foes. Super moves are added when you complete certain goals and it is my hope 
 that these will eventually allow a bit more strategy in fighting the city's goons. the chain combos 
 are a great improvement on the spiderman 2 system so I remain hopeful that as you progress the 
 combat will get deeper. It's been fun so far - so if you liked the second game I'd recommend this 
 to you, if that game slipped under your radar then wait for a full review - hope you guys found 
 this helpful 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbaldath2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  Played through first couple stages, and so far I have found that this is the best Spider-man game 
 to date. It is not with out its problems (Animation glitches, small path finding problems) , but 
 the sense of scale in this game is amazing. Between the black suit and red suit, the animations 
 for spider man are incredible. The new interactive cut-scenes (reminiscent of the God Of War series) , 
 also bring incredible new depth into the game play pulling you straight into the action. Haven't 
 finished the game as yet, but be assured that if you purchase this game you will not be disappointed. 
 Thank you Treyarch for continuing to do justice to Spider-man. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
