-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: The Force Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/starwars2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Moving, intense story that will excite fans and nonfans alike.
 Beautiful art design dripping with flair.
 Powerful physics engine lets you execute all sorts of awesome-looking moves.
 You can punt a Jawa.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating, imprecise targeting.
 Several gameplay sequences are simply awful.
 Weird glitches and performance issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 65 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 4,857 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Action
Date: Sep 16, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Force Unleashed's action can be incredible, though it too often strays from what it does best. 
 

  There are a number of thrilling moments lurking in Star Wars: The Force Unleashed -- enough of them 
 that you'll likely be disappointed that it drifts so often from the things it excels at. Amazing 
 displays of power and destruction are interspersed with inept, poorly conceived gameplay sequences, 
 making for an inconsistent journey that, fortunately, gets more right than it does wrong. It certainly 
 gives a fantastic first impression, starting with a tutorial level that serves as a great introduction 
 to its complex protagonist. Yet while the initial levels impress, the later ones stumble a bit. 
 Force Unleashed is a very good game that could have been great, had it not taken so many unnecessary 
 detours.  

           This is the best Star Wars story in years.      

  A big chord and brass fanfare signal the opening of Force Unleashed -- the same intro that sparks 
 excitement in millions of fans the world over every time they hear it. If you're interested in 
 this game because you're looking for familiar science-fiction pageantry and a classic good-versus-evil 
 tale, you'll find it delivers both. In fact, The Force Unleashed represents a real step forward 
 in storytelling for the famed franchise, delivering a story both more intimate and more powerful 
 than the entirety of the second film trilogy. Sure, it offers its share of melodrama, but it's 
 tempered by emotive voice acting and expressive character models, and together they provide the 
 emotional heft long missing from the movies. The drama is further enriched by a vivid art design 
 that breathes life into the franchise's long-sterile visual exterior.  

  Leading the narrative charge is Galen Marek, aka Starkiller, Darth Vader's secret apprentice. The 
 Clone Wars have ended, and Vader orders you to hunt and destroy the last of the remaining Jedi. 
 The story, as brief as it is (the game ends at around the eight-hour mark) , contains multiple twists, 
 features some friendly and not-so-friendly faces, and is both explosive and remarkably intimate. 
 You'll interact with Vader, of course, but Starkiller spends most of his time with an android called 
 PROXY and his female pilot, Juno Eclipse. Sharing the details of the trio's adventures would spoil 
 too much, so suffice to say, you'll grow remarkably fond of Starkiller and his companions, and 
 their moral conflicts carry a lot of weight.  

  If you're interested in The Force Unleashed for more than its story, you'll find that it's a mixture 
 of pure fun and pure frustration. The fun wins out, mainly because when it runs on all cylinders, 
 you truly feel like a powerful Dark Jedi, using a variety of force powers and lightsaber slashes 
 to rain death upon rebel and imperial foes alike. You can thank the game's robust physics engine 
 for those thrills. You can grab any number of objects and characters using your force grip power, 
 and when combined with other skills like force lightning and force push, you can fling stormtroopers 
 into Wookiees, crush Felucian tribal leaders under boulders, and smash AT-STs with scattered barrels. 
 In open environments, these mechanics deliver -- big time. Grabbing a Rodian from a distance, electrocuting 
 it, and flinging it into a crowd of shock troopers; hearing your lightsaber hum and whir after 
 you whip it toward an innocent Wookiee; or just drop-kicking a whining Jawa: These moments may 
 very well cause you to yell with glee. This is a game that will make you grab your friends to show 
 off your potent skills.  

           When the Force Unleashed rocks, it really rocks. Too bad it doesn't always stick to its 
 strengths.      

  Unfortunately, developer LucasArts often fails to string these amazing moments together long enough 
 to keep the momentum going. The impressive physics work quite well in huge, open areas like a TIE 
 Fighter facility. The action gets problematic at almost any other time, however, and the hyperactive 
 physics become almost as much of a liability as an asset. This becomes more apparent as Force Unleashed's 
 targeting foibles come more clearly into focus. The targeting is loose, which makes it incredibly 
 easy to grab something other than what you intended, and even easier to throw it at something other 
 than into its actual mark. In the most claustrophobic areas, this might mean flinging an exploding 
 barrel into yourself, throwing it into nothing at all, or targeting a completely immovable item -- which 
 then begs the question why the game let you target it with force grip in the first place. And as 
 is the case with many third-person action game cameras, getting in a smaller space means claustrophobic 
 camera angles that cause you to lose perspective of the bigger picture. This is more of a problem 
 here than in most games, though, because Force Unleashed chooses a target not based on the direction 
 the player is facing via the camera, but which direction Starkiller is facing. That's fine in large 
 environments, when there is more camera maneuverability. Otherwise, it becomes a frustrating paradox 
 of ideas: In confined areas, Force Unleashed requires greater player precision, but makes it more 
 difficult to be precise.  

  Despite these moments of frustration, you'll often find that Force Unleashed is a pleasant challenge, 
 particularly during the best of its boss encounters. The boss battles on your first visits to Felucia 
 and Raxus Prime are the best of the bunch, because they're fun and challenging without being frustrating. 
 These multipart battles are implemented well, letting you restart from that section of the encounter 
 should you die, rather than forcing you to restart at the very beginning. In all of them, you'll 
 need to be constantly active, use a mix of different skills, and pay close attention to patterns. 
 Most of these encounters feature a cinematic camera that may zoom in and out during the action, 
 which makes some of them even more exciting. In others, the camera angles more annoying, since 
 it restricts the viewing area, thereby exacerbating the targeting and physics issues. A battle 
 featuring a bull rancor could have been epic, but it's too easy to get stuck between the rancor's 
 legs, or inside the large skeletons scattered about. The battle is also bugged; in both the Xbox 
 360 and PS3 versions, the rancor's health bar disappeared, rendering the beast impossible to kill 
 and requiring a restart. In a later boss fight, the camera pulls back and magically appearing invisible 
 walls keep you confined to a limited area, which is odd, given that Force Unleashed avoids invisible 
 walls for the majority of its campaign.     

   

  Other attempts at variety arrive with mixed results. Boss encounters and battles against larger 
 enemies, such as rancors and AT-STs, initiate God of War-style quick-time events, and while the 
 initial button prompts can sometimes take you by surprise, most of these sequences are larger than 
 life, featuring all of the acrobatics and pain-inducing attacks you'd expect from a Dark Jedi. 
 You'll also find a few light but sensible puzzles that require you to pull platforms upward or 
 bend metal slabs downward. Other sequences are simply terrible. The most egregious of these involves 
 pulling a destroyer from out of the sky while simultaneously taking on a group of TIE fighters 
 firing at you from their fancy figure-eight pattern. This could have been a game-defining set piece, 
 but due to a broken feedback system -- which purports to show you how to maneuver the analog sticks 
 but does nothing of the sort -- it's reduced to a malodorous misstep best forgotten. In another misbegotten 
 sequence, you must fight the sensitive targeting system to get rotating rings to stay in place, 
 then fight the camera while you ride an elevator and dash across a walkway -- while under the pressure 
 of a time limit. And you have to do it twice. That bit, along with another one that requires you 
 to float upward on blue lasers, brings what should have been Force Unleashed's most exhilarating 
 level to a grinding halt, and the gameplay never fully recovers.  

           The loose targeting means you won't always be grabbing what you want to grab.      

 
  As you progress from level to level, you earn (and find) upgrade crystals, and in turn you learn 
 new combos and can upgrade your force powers to make them more effective. It's a nice touch, because 
 it gives you the impression that Starkiller indeed grows more powerful as the game hurdles forward. 
 It also provides some light character customization, but there are only three development trees, 
 so by the time you reach Force Unleashed's conclusion, you may very well have maxed out most of 
 your abilities. As your move set deepens, you'll encounter increasingly mighty foes, many of which 
 are immune to one force power or another. This approach is a double-edged sword, requiring you 
 to abandon your favorite combinations in favor of other, potentially less enjoyable moves.  

  Force Unleashed's art direction sparkles and glows, injecting brooding, rich color into every 
 environment -- even corridors and control rooms. The junkyards of Raxus Prime are most notable in 
 this regard, but other locales, both familiar and new, are beautifully lit and feature lightly 
 stylized textures and other subtle touches. It's Star Wars, all right, but like the story, the 
 art direction surpasses franchise standards. The graphics engine renders this artistic vision (along 
 with the game's overactive physics) well enough, but it often struggles to keep up. Visual bugs, 
 momentary pauses, and frame rate drops are relatively common, and somewhat more prevalent in the 
 PlayStation 3 version. We encountered instances of blinking textures, incomplete geometry, and 
 on the PS3, multiple occasions when enemy character models would immediately disappear upon defeat. 
 It's certainly beautiful to look at, but throw in weirdly long load times just to pull up menus 
 and jarring cutscene transitions, and you start to see the corners that were cut.  

           The art design is rich and beautiful.      

  If you know your Star Wars, you probably 
 already have an idea of what Force Unleashed sounds like -- and you'd be right on the money. The 
 sound design is of generally high quality, filling your speakers with the swooshes of sabers and 
 the strains of John Williams' famous musical score (along with some new and appropriate compositions) . 
 So it sounds expectedly great, but like with the visuals, you may come across some bugs. While 
 we played the PS3 version, the voice track would occasionally fade away, making it essentially 
 impossible to hear dialogue over the music. In the Xbox 360 version, the voice track became desynched 
 from character lip movements several times. It's too bad, because the game's audio is almost as 
 well conceived as its art.  

  Once you've completed the game and are the all-powerful Dark Jedi you've always wanted to be, it's 
 remarkably fulfilling to return to Force Unleashed's earlier, better levels to try out the powers 
 and combos you didn't possess on your first play-through of them. Or perhaps you want to experience 
 the second of the game's two endings (a reasonable goal, since one of them is bound to get fans 
 talking) while wearing one of the unlockable costumes. But most players will find that aside from 
 a return to the better areas, once is enough. When the game caters to its strengths, it soars; 
 when it deviates, it flounders. Regardless, it's still a more than worthy entry in a long line 
 of licensed Star Wars games, and a good action game in its own right.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (479 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gll25
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:13 am PT
Review:  Star Wars The Force Unleashed is one of the best Star Wars game out there, and for sure the best 
 availiable for the next-gen consoles.
  
  This game features some beautiful graphics and amazing animations. Doors, Windows and all that 
 stuff never brake the same way, and thats awesome. The voice acting is just terrific. But theres 
 a consequence for those graphics: The loading times are somewhat low and the game freezes some 
 times, but you'll never need to reset your console.
  
  Force Unleashed story reveals loads of secrets of the series, while being still a cool story to 
 newcomers at Star Wars, and thats something hard to do. The story of Darth Vader secret apprentice 
 and its gigantic importance to the story of the series just sucks you in, and when you stop playing, 
 you'll want more.
  
  The combat at Force Unleashed resembles those great action games, such as Ninja Gaiden, Devil May 
 Cry and God Of War. The combos are just amazing, and altough they dont look like Star Wars movies 
 fighting, they're plain fun. The boss fightings are great and very cool, with a more traditional 
 lightsaber fighting. Still, Force Unleashed is very unbalanced, with moments that are completely 
 easy, and moments that are hard as hell.
  
  The game features an slight RPG-look, because you have to buy new combos, find new lightsabers, 
 expand your power, with jedi power holocrons ( you have to find then) , and Sith holocrons that 
 expand your powers and give you some abilities for some time. Fortunately, the game allows you 
 to mantain your skill levels after you finish the game, because there's a problem about size in 
 Force Unleashed: Its short, very short. Featuring only nine large levels, it will give you the 
 feeling of ''I want more''.
  
  Overral, Force Unleashed is a great Star Wars game, but its still not a 1st class action game, 
 altough its close. Lets just wait for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venomblood369
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 7:32 am PT
Review:  Star Wars games are all over, but none, is more amazing to look at. The game has a prologue where 
 you begin with some great force moves, and play has the one an only Lord Vader, Vader finds a young 
 child called Raan Starkiller. Vader discovers he's amazing with the force and takes him on to become 
 his assassin and secret apprentice. Your powers look amazing and the camera is easy to use, a good 
 start, the story links in between Star Wars episode 3 and 4. The combos are amazing and make considerable 
 damage, the boss battles are fun and are perfect to test new skills you may of found, but the game 
 has no multiplayer, and all you can do is replay the story over an over, the game is a hit for 
 the Star Wars series but can lose the fun when played more then once. Amazing Combos and great 
 fun throwing around poor enemies, great fun, but can become dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ermac1986
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 12, 2009 5:36 pm PT
Review:  When developers at LucasArts finally announced the release date for Star Wars: The Force Unleashed 
 in Sept. 2008, fans of the franchise, as well as other gamers in the community saw the long wait 
 as a slight inconvenience that required patience, and would eventually yield an awesome game, sure 
 to achieve a 9/10 ranking. However, frame rate, targeting and platforming issues marred what could 
 have been a fun, and satisfying experience. The game is overwhelmed with other problems, such as 
 character development and voice acting that don't sell well, and a pair of two endings, that while 
 serve the story telling purpose, are likely to receive copious amounts of criticisms.
  It is amazing how far the limits of what players can do in games have been pushed by the gaming 
 industry. Previews of the highly anticipated Star Wars: The Force Unleashed gave gamers a glimpse 
 of a new and innovative type of style combining game play. This game play blended button mashing 
 sequences seen in games like God of War and Turok, with lightsaber swinging, telekinetic manipulation 
 to create a real time based combat simulation like no other. In fact, players are able to use the 
 force to hoist up objects such as storm troopers, explosive canisters, and even starships and hurl 
 them at other enemies to create destructive results. Lightsaber fighting is even combined with 
 force powers, as players are afforded the ability to hoist enemies into the air and throw their 
 lightsaber right into them. The character also has the ability to collect lightsaber crystals and 
 spend them on a limited set of lightsaber moves, force abilities, vitality, and several other abilities. 
 This too seemed to come right out of the page of God Of War's book, as we saw the player being 
 able to collect orbs and use them to expand Kratos's repertoire. And if all this isn't enough to 
 get gamers drooling at the thought of the game, the story driven star wars premise will be sure 
 to do so.
  The game is set to take place during the time between Star Wars episode III: Revenge of The Sith, 
 and Episode IV: A New Hope. Without spoiling the story for anyone who hasn't seen the Star Wars 
 movies yet, it is suffice to say that it fills people in on what happened during the gap between 
 movie. The Force Unleashed tells the story of evil Darth Vader's secret apprentice known as Starkiller. 
 It depicts what happened during the 18 years in between episodes III and IV, from the perspective 
 of Starkiller, who is the protagonist. Throughout the game, Starkiller works with an attractive 
 female pilot (who makes it abundantly clear at the beginning that a small love interest between 
 the two will inevitably ensue) , as well as a droid similar to the well known C3PO. Starkiller's 
 mission is to hunt down and destroy the jedi knights who oppose both his master, as well as the 
 head of the empire, Palpantine. 
  The force unleashed allows you to use the dark side of the force to manipulate objects and AI, 
 as well as jump high and far, and throw your lightsaber at your enemies. Starkiller will grow stronger 
 in the force with every level he progresses through, and your abilities will be seem more effective 
 in combat. The most duly noted ability in F. U. is the telekinetic manipulation of just about anything 
 in the area. You'll be able to lift up a storm trooper, throw him into a handful of his comrades, 
 and then hurl an explosive canister at the whole crew, making for a fun experience. What is disappointing 
 about this is that the targeting system was doomed to create utter frustration from the get go. 
 If you spend the 12-13 hours it takes to complete the F. U., you will become aggravated at least 
 once whilst using this power. You never really seem to be able to pick up exactly what you want, 
 and hurl it in the exact location you want. This is because there is no targeting system that affords 
 you a good measure of control over the objects you hoist up. For example, there is one sequence 
 in the game where you have to use the force to pull down a platform in a tie fighter manufacturing 
 factory, in order to cause a collision, and destroy a set amount of passerby tie fighters to progress. 
 However, there are no arrows or crosshairs that enable you to know exactly where you are deploying 
 the platform in relation to the quickly moving ships that will likely outmaneuver you. Although 
 it may seem nice to be able to use the force to pick up any object in the area, it actually just 
 leads to more frustration. You will often have problems picking up unneeded objects with the force, 
 and if enemies are constantly attacking you while you're doing it, this can be a huge problem.
 
  Though no obvious solution stands out for the targeting problem in this game, it can be reasonably 
 inferred that the developers rushed this system a bit, and left out some much needed structure 
 here.
  There also is a problem with plat forming. You will at times, be limited in what ground is safe 
 to walk on. Lava, or dangerous liquid will force you to use force jump to get from one plat form 
 to another. For a game that focuses almost purely on combat and story, this just seems out of place. 
 The plat forming in The Force Unleashed isn't exactly terrible, as you won't have to deal with 
 it a lot, but the way it's done makes it seem like it should have been avoided altogether. You 
 will often have to just engage in trial and error as you miss a platform and fall into the deadly 
 liquid, or just have to repeat jumping onto higher ground until you finally make it. Starkiller's 
 land is quite slippery, and he does not grab onto ledges, nor does he have a terribly impressive 
 jumping ability, which leads to more trial and error. 
  
  The difficulty level is rather appropriate, as in the beginning you will deal with stupid storm 
 troopers and later progress to armor wearing, tougher, alien mercenaries. The bosses in that vein 
 are relatively the same deal. The first few are relatively easy, and the last couple are substantially 
 more difficult. However, it is strange how the second boss did feel like it was much harder than 
 either of the following ones, but the difficulty level among bosses is not really a big problem 
 overall.
  
  The game will occasionally freeze for a moment, as it's frame rate is very choppy. The issues with 
 this seem to have stemmed from an overload on level detail and enemies, as well as combat with 
 larger numbers of AI. 
  
  A lot can be said about the voice acting here. The Force Unleashed possesses both positive and 
 negative aspects of this. Notable characters such as Emperor Palpantine and Senator Organa will 
 sound just the way they did before to Star Wars fans. Moreover, apprentice Starkiller sounds just 
 how a young, anxious apprentice should. Then there are characters like General Kota, who sound 
 like a Russian poorly delivering an American accent, which takes away from his character lore. 
 What is more troubling, is that Starkiller's dark jedi attire and overall elusive demeanor is severly 
 marginalized when he begins to flirt with his female pilot partner in some of the cut scenes, and 
 spit out some clich dialogue throughout the game. Similarly, it is a little disappointing to find 
 out some of the paths Starkiller chooses to take later on in the story, which all but kills the 
 once mysterious and dark demeanor he was built up to have prior to the release.
  
  Other aspects of the game are done beautifully, as the original star wars music score by John Williams 
 dominates the music and ambience of the game and story, as well as some other newer sounding tracks. 
 The sound is also of high quality, as depicted in the sound of swinging a lightsaber, or blowing 
 up an explosive canister.
  And the Force Unleashed looks great, as the environments range from lush, fern and plant dominated 
 lands, to imperial starships filled with technologically furnished rooms and decks. It is also 
 worthy to extend compliments to the developers for creating fantastic character details, seen in 
 Starkillers face, as well as animations and movements.
  
  The Force Unleashed will take you roughly 10-13 hours to complete, depending on how skilled and 
 quick you are, and is entirely level based. Cut scenes and dialogue help to explain exactly what 
 is going in the game, and you are not likely to get lost, nor backtrack much in the mostly linear 
 levels. The story is open to criticism, as many might find some of the relationships or connections 
 formed between characters unable to buy. There are two different endings available to unlock, though 
 they don't seem to make a whole lot of sense, and are open to much controversy, as well as subjective 
 interpretation.
  
  All in all, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed, while recommendable to fans of the franchise, simply 
 isn't for everyone. Frame rate, targeting, and other game play issues, as well some unfavorable 
 combat situations will surely make you angry in this game. It is just the lesser of two evils when 
 you accidentally pick up a rock instead of a ship, as opposed to being pummeled by multiple enemies 
 while on the ground. There really should have been a more structured targeting system, less maddening 
 sequences in the game, as well as better character development. Players should be aware that The 
 Force Unleashed's wink links such as the dialogue and story are more or less overshadowed by it's 
 primary focus, which is combat, but it's a shame that it even falls short of that. The replay value 
 of the game as a standalone package is pretty lackluster. You may want to go back and choose the 
 other ending to see how the story would have played out, or even play through the game again to 
 fully power up abilities you ignored before, but overall, it seems like a first and only run through 
 the game is all many people will want to do. Xbox live is likely to offer some content players 
 can download later on, but by then, you may have already sold it back to your store, or lost interest. 
 If you can get past all the aforementioned flaws with the less than terrific Force Unleashed, and/or 
 you're just a big Star Wars fan, you should give this game a try, but be warned, as it would be 
 a good idea to rent it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrydandan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  For what it's worth, the game was medicore, nothing great but not terrible, i would deffinately 
 reccomend you rent it, 
  it's just one of those games. I am a huge fan of the jedi knight series on the other hand, which 
 is a spiritual predecessor
  to the force unleashed. I remember watching the demo videos of the in-game physics engine and being 
 as every bit excited
  about it as i was GTA4 at the time, but i must say it was dissapointing, the storyline was way 
 too short, combo's nothing 
  more than boring after mastering them for little more than 10 minutes. And the story is incredibley 
 short, with next to no replat-ability at all. 
  
  All in all i would deffinately reccomend that you borrow or rent it, it's alright the first play-through 
 but that's it, for me.
  it would have just collected dust after who know's how long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameOrder
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:08 am PT
Review:  Star Wars The Force Unleashed (SW: TFU) is LucasArts less game for X-Box 360, PS2, PS3 & PSP for 
 now.
  The game is cool and is combos is greet but for really have fan you need to play at least one star 
 wars games like: Star Wars Jedi Academy, Jedi Knight II Jedi Outcast, Knight Of The Old Republic 
 & more.
  The Force Unleashed have powerfulls force abilities but games like Jedi Academy the more abilities.
 
  The combos are cool and fan to make.
  Lightsader combos, lightning combos, push combos & more combos they are in the game.
  To me it 
 was fan collect the achievements but some was annoying.
  The lightsaber crystals have the famous colors and some new, colors like: red, blue, green, yellow, 
 purple & more.
  Your need to play star wars the force unleashed and collect the achievements change your lightsader 
 color and make combos
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: obiken
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 9:59 am PT
Review:  Let me say that as a storyline the FUL is great. It melds in with the main Star Wars Movies. The 
 story line is wedged in right before Luke Skywalker is thrown to the Imperial story. 
  It is basically a good game. I gave it a 9. The guys at Gamespot were too low, I am probably too 
 high, to be fair split the difference. 
  This game is worth buying once the price hits 39 bucks, IMHO. 
  The game play is ok, I like the 
 interface and overall combat, I don't like the way the camera has to line on you target to hit 
 him. Its a pain in the neck. 
  The graphics are fantastic. The character models are unreal. 
  I hate the Holograms, they are 
 a necessity IF you are going to become anything in this game but they should have been melded into 
 achievement, or secondary missions, not hidden all over like a giant Easter Egg hunt. 
  Its just me but there are too many combos to memorize. 7 would have been plenty. 
  The combat 
 with main Sith or Jedi are not in 1st person they are in wide view which makes it harder to line 
 them up, and gives the AI an advantage. Why did they do this? 
  Having said all that play through it and if you get stuck Gamespots guide is great. 
  Its a game 
 worth having. 
  
  obiken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  In its very good moments this is everything you could want from a Star Wars game. Weaving elegantly 
 between enemies, lightsaber flashing though dizzying arcs-a slash across a Stormtrooper's chest 
 an impaling thurst into a Rodian... The sense of power is really brilliant. You enter a room and 
 you are sure that you are going to kill everyone that is in your way. No wonder the dark side is 
 so secutive. Once you've toasted Jawas with lightning or used the Force to push opponents on walls 
 it's hard not to get a taste from it.
  
  Playing as Vader's secret apprentice Starkiller, hunting Jedi, works very well as a plot. The wistle 
 stop tour of cameos also doesn't jar as much as you might think. The only thing that's hard to 
 stomach is that it doesn't so much rewrite the story as tear out pages and eat them. Especially 
 as events clearly make Starkiller the most powerful Jedi ever and the crucial pivot responsible 
 for everything in Episodes IV, V, VI.
  
  Your core powers are built around lightsaber combos lightning and Force manipulation. It's initially 
 simplystic hack 'n' slash stuff but level up and things get interesting. New combos and powers 
 increase your options and you can moix them up-finishing a furry of blows with a flare of electricity 
 or a devastating Force blast. The combat is similar with DMC4. It includes combination of lightning 
 and moves that decimate the opposition.
  
  Though the game stops short of Nero's acrobatic brilliance. Around the first 6 hours you will have 
 unlocked all the best moves so just when you feel the fighting is about to reveal hidden depths 
 it stalls. You can still power up abilities but the variety stops. One redeeming ability is the 
 one that undos all your leveling up at any point and reassign your collected XP from scratch.
 
  
  What's hard to understand is that having given you abilities LA seems hell bent on stopping you 
 from using them. When you pass some stages most opponents will easily avoid all your special attacks 
 and powers. This leaves you feeling impotent or worse like your abilities aren't so special after 
 all. That infrustrating because when you're allowed to cut loose with your skills it's brilliant. 
 When you make good combinations you gain self confidence and get excited. But most of the time 
 you will be facing a huge amount of foes and when you try to hit someone the others will hit you 
 from behind or shoot you from distance.
  
  The Boss Fights need special mention. Every single one is broken. It is a horrible mess. To make 
 matters worse countless button-press mini games appear to make you grab your head.
  
  All in all it is a good game but sometimes desparating. It deserves your attention.
  
  Graphics:8
 
  Sound:8
  Gameplay:7
  Controls:8
  Lasting appeal:7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antidon2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 11:31 pm PT
Review:  First off I will say that I haven't played the game in months so some material may be a little 
 inaccurate from what I remember.
  
  I must have been tracking this game several months before its actual release because I was really 
 excited to get my hands on it. I am a big star wars fan and have been after playing Knights of 
 the Old Republic, and knowing that this game would take place between episodes III and IV made 
 it even more exciting. The way the interview videos showed how the new physics engine would work 
 and how every time you play it would be a totally different experience gave me goose bumps. Now 
 that it has arrived I can say that I am a little disappointed with the game I had such high hopes 
 for.
  
  Gamespot pretty much felt the same way I did about the game and that's why I have the same score. 
 The game has some innovative elements to it but it doesn't set it off quite right. The whole deal 
 about giving the AI a mind of its own and objects breaking realistically was there but poorly executed. 
 Whenever you broke glass in the game it would break realistically but then it would disappear after 
 two seconds. The AI was unique but I never got the sense that each storm trooper had a mind of 
 its own. The new way of using force powers was well done but sometimes clumsy because targeting 
 the object (or person) you wanted to pick up was a real pain in the ass.
  
  As far as lightsaber moves and combat styles it didn't revolutionize the old formula. The more 
 enemies and objects you kill the more points you get to buy more fighting moves. It sounds pretty 
 basic and I used many of the same moves over and over again. Then again, I can't imagine any other 
 way of doing it. They have yet to come out with a game where you can control the lightsaber (or 
 sword) with the analog stick. That would have been a cool new feature if they had pulled it off 
 right. 
  
  Pretty much the game relied too much on the physics features and paid little attention to the rest 
 of the gameplay. If they had used the physics to their full potential where glass wouldn't disappear 
 would make all the difference for me. It's not only that but everything about the level design 
 and the god forbidden enemies that made matters worse. I found those creatures on the world with 
 the big plants to be extremely annoying because they would always block your attacks. The lightening 
 power didn't seem to help much either.
  
  Now on the positive side the most important part for me was the actual story and characters. That 
 is where the game succeeds in flying colors. I love the idea of Darth Vader having once had a secret 
 apprentice who performed all his dirty work. The acting and voices were all well done and the story 
 played together very nicely. It never really tied any lose ends but then again it didn't create 
 any new plot holes that I can remember. Everything felt in place. The characters were very likable 
 and the robot wasn't even half as annoying as C3PO.
  
  What it comes down to is The Force Unleashed doesn't live up to the hype. They let the tension 
 get so strong for anticipation that when it actual released it was a hard fall in disappointment. 
 It isn't a bad game in the least and many people will enjoy this game and especially those who 
 like star wars. I never expected it to come even close to Knights of the Old Republic and I don't 
 think any game will for a long time.
  
  Oh and by the way, having loading times in the pause menu it completely and utterly unacceptable 
 in this gaming generationperiod!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechnologoDoom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Unlike some of my other reviews, I'll keep this one fairly short.
  
  Strengths:
  
  Graphics + Design - The setting for this space opera is magnificent. Each world is really unique, 
 colorful, able to be manipulated by your force powers, and all around gorgeous. This might be its 
 greatest strength. Its just wonderful to look at.
  
  Force Powers - The Gamespot review gets it right on here. You really feel like an all-powerful 
 jedi. It plays here very similar to Bioshock, but with more reliance on melee (unless you were 
 a wrench lurker) . 
  
  Holocrons - (spelling?) Finding the (Very Well) hidden objects that provide boosts for leveling 
 or your light saber are great, fun, hard to find, and make the game interesting outside of the 
 pure action it is.
  
  Good, but Could use Improvement:
  
  Leveling - While you do have customization and this makes a difference early in the game, you're 
 really not stuck with any type of character. You will enevitably be strong on all fronts and use 
 all types of powers. And there's only so far you can take any powers.
  
  Action - There's a ton, and that's great, but I felt the game could've used some additional missions 
 within missions, given by encounters etc (but there are no character encounters) . It just makes 
 the game one-dimentional when it wouldn't have taken much more to beef up the gameplay or complexity.
 
  
  Poor:
  
  Length - The game is pretty short on it's first run through. And while you'll deffinately go back 
 for more with your awesome force powers, it gets a little old, even on harder difficulty. Longer 
 levels with less need to replay is fine with me. The first experience is the best experience. The 
 game is just really short.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:38 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed rocks!!!!!!!!!!!!
  I will review the good and bad things in this game in my review. 
  
  The Good:
  Many levels 
 and Locations to explore
  20+ Force Moves
  Unlockable lightsaber types and costumes
  
  
  The Bad:
  A few glitch problems
  
  
  In this game, you can enter the life of Starkiller, 
 Vader's apprentice. The story takes him on a lifechanging journey to defeat the sith, or join them. 
 You fight enemies and jedi on planets like Felucia, Kashykk, Coruscant, Raxus Prime and on the 
 Death Star itself. You can unlock force moves like lightning, choke, push, pull, repusle, maelstrom 
 and over 20+ more moves and upgrade them with the "Force Points" you collect by killing enemies. 
 Combat moves include throwing your saber, and of course, using it to oblitterate enemy troops. 
 You will fight bossess like Jedi, Sith, AT-STs and even Rancors (Normal and Bull kind) . You can 
 unlock orange, red, pink, purple, blue, green, and yellow lightsabers by finding crystals. You 
 can also unlock bonus costumes. Also, by finding Jedi Holocrons (200 are hiden across the game) , 
 you can view concept art in the rogue shadow, as well as Factfiles of weapons, characters, vehicles 
 and planets. On some of the concept art are hidden codes which you can enter in the rogue shadow, 
 to unlock bonus characters and cheats like invincibillity. These characters include characters 
 from all 6 episodes, and Ventress from the clone wars and Mara jade from the later books. You cannot 
 unlock Grevious or Yoda, which is a shame. Boss characters and friendly characters from the game 
 are also unlockable. One flaw from changing characters is that it takes allot of time to change 
 because it shows the droid changing the costumes for about 3 seconds. Also, I think it would be 
 better if the game would allow you to unlock double lightsabers, which it dosen't. 
  
  9.5/10 in total. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoltanusFoo
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  I really bit into the hype building up to this game. I thought it was going to be the next great 
 Star Wars game since the release of KoTOR.
  
  Unfortunately, that feeling starts to end very quickly once you finish the first level.
  
  
 Let's start with the graphics, they are good graphics, the animations are fluid though some things 
 look rather silly, especially when mobs running towards you fall as if they are running on ice 
 for no apparent reasons. The cutscenes are usually ok, though the facial animations on the game's 
 protagonist can sometimes look very goofy.
  
  Combat in this game can be very very fun at times. Especially in the first level when you are mowing 
 down stormtroopers and rebel soldiers as if they were nothing more gas vapors standing up to a 
 hurricane force wind. Though that feeling does quickly fade, especially when the enemies start 
 blocking or absorbing many of your attacks as well as giving the enemy AI some rather cheap knockdown 
 moves. The Apprentice tends to over animate especially when getting up, the few seconds it takes 
 for his getup animation to end makes it really easy for mobs to knock you back down again. Being 
 stuck in a corner with mobs that perform knockdown attacks is usually a one way ticket to the last 
 checkpoint. Combat can stay fun, just don't expect to be the force of nature you are in the first 
 level throughout the game. Start practicing your ability to dodge and move rapidly.
  
  Story in this game is usually pretty good. You are Darth Vader's secret apprentice. There are some 
 typical (bad) George Lucas plot points in here. You are the hero, you have to have a love interest. 
 Luckily the developer's don't cram Lucas' formulistic approach to storytelling down your throat. 
 and the romantic side story is kept very small. I won't spoil the ending in any way for you, but 
 I felt the end of the story served to very much trivialize two supposedly very powerful beings 
 in the Star Wars universe and takes away from the power and fear they possess/create in the original 
 trilogy. Voice acting in the game is good as should be expected from almost all Lucasarts games 
 so you shouldn't need earplugs and subtitles for the cutscenes. Also there are two endings to this 
 game. Unfortunately unlike the Jedi Knight games, these endings are not determined over the course 
 of choices that you make throughout the game. Instead it is a choice you make at the very end of 
 the game. So you can simply reload your last checkpoint, make the other choice and you get to see 
 the other ending. So don't worry about it during the your play through the game, play however you 
 want, it has no affect on the ending.
  
  I did run into a few bugs with this game as well. For some reason the last level's progress screen 
 stayed bugged for me. It made it so that i could not pick up the holocron achievement because the 
 game would not keep track of the fact that I had collected the ones in the last level. Also there 
 were instances of clipping bugs where my char would fall through the geometry and be stuck, causing 
 me to have to reload my last checkpoint.
  
  All in all this game could be really good even though it does have some frustrating points in the 
 combat system. But a game can't be too easy so that's forgivable. What is unforgivable for me with 
 this game is how incredibly short it is. A full playthrough will probably only take you 8-10 hours. 
 Your second or third playthrough will be even faster. This game may actually be the only one I 
 was able to finish faster than Heavenly Sword on the PS3.
  
  My recommendation? Rent it, don't buy it. Grab it if you want something to play over the weekend. 
 You can rent it on Friday, play it on Saturday and probably return it completed on Sunday. Paying 
 fifty+ dollars for it will only serve to frustrate you, especially since the game has no multiplayer 
 and little replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsweens24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is a very perplexing game. There's so much that it has going for it, and yet 
 at the same time there's a lot that - from any other developer - would be considered heinously 
 bad game design. But seeing as it's LucasArts... apparently they can get away with it. Still, they've 
 managed to produce a decently entertaining game that, whilst rife with problems, still has a thoroughly 
 enjoyable core set of gameplay elements.
  
  As you probably know, The Force Unleashed is a 3rd person action game that puts emphasis on hugely 
 over-the-top Force powers being blasted about. It uses a couple of revolutionary technologies, 
 and its story finally fills in the gap between Episode III and IV, which has been so closely guarded 
 by all the creators of Star Wars.
  
  The story itself is actually pretty good. It goes that you step into the shoes of Darth Vader's 
 secret apprentice, who Vader abducted as a young child and trained to help him fight the Emperor. 
 It's a bit of a startling revelation, in truth, but it fits surprisingly well into the Star Wars 
 canon. What's more, it's highly cinematic, with some fantastic cutscenes (both standard and interactive) 
 that are at the very least equal to anything that the prequel movies churned out, if not better. 
 There's a huge amount of imagination being thrown at the CGI entries into the Star Wars saga at 
 the moment, and the Force Unleashed is no different. The only problem with it is that it suffers 
 the current generation trend of short and sweet stories, but don't hold that against it.
  
  What's more, there isn't a single bad performance from the 'cast', from Battlestar Galactica's 
 Sam Witwer in the lead role to the voices of the supporting roles, everyone throws in at the very 
 least a decent performance, and this helps draw you in deeply to the story and connect with the 
 characters, giving emotional gravitas to the final, chaotic battle which ends in a rather unexpected 
 manner.
  
  The core gameplay mechanic is, of course, the lightsaber battling and the Force abilities. They're 
 all linked together with the combo system, and you can put together some ferocious combinations 
 of lightsaber blows and Force lightning, push and grip. Later on you acquire the ability to chuck 
 your lightsaber at opponents, as well as an ability that propels all the enemies around you away. 
 When pitted against wave upon wave of basic enemies, this system allows you to plough through them 
 with relative ease and - importantly - is an enormous amount of fun.
  
  However, it falls down when the game tries to up the challenge, pitting you against tougher enemies 
 that simply feel odd. In an attempt to counter-act this tidal wave of Force energy, the designers 
 decided to give a lot of enemies the ability to survive many, many, many lightsaber strokes - and 
 this goes against the whole mantra of the Apprentice being 'unleashed', as having to pound at a 
 'Stormtrooper Commander' for four or five lightsaber strokes when you should be able to take him 
 down with a single one is just frustrating. There are so many other ways of making enemies more 
 challenging, and yet LucasArts still made the decision to make them tougher where they really shouldn't 
 have. A good half of the boss battles, too, feel unnecessarily difficult, especially towards the 
 end of the game - with the games final couple being exercises in luck and trial-and-error rather 
 than skill.
  
  It also fails to expand the game outside the combat - the platforming elements feel tacked on and 
 half-arsed, with a lot of them being badly laid out and poorly pointed towards. One particular 
 moment - where you must take down a Star Destroyer using only the Force - is wrestled from iconic 
 and pulse-pounding into a frustrating exercise in just trying to get through it without dying, 
 simply with the addition of wave upon wave of TIE fighters coming after you and interrupting your 
 attempts. Realistic? Sure. Fun and iconic? Not any more.
  
  The level design, despite being absolutely gorgeous, is yet another black spot. It simply lacks 
 the required logic to funnel you towards the next fight, and you'll find yourself backtracking 
 and going in circles quite a lot. Which is a huge shame, because the level of detail involved is 
 absolutely incredible, and had there been more thought put into the actual layout, it could've 
 been one of the most beautiful games ever produced.
  
  The new technologies are also hugely underused. Euphoria - the new AI tech that imbues character 
 models with nervous systems and human-like reactions - feels completely peripheral. On my play-through, 
 I only encountered a handful of moments where the Euphoria really shone through. The enemies simply 
 don't have much chance to use their new-found abilities before the Apprentice cuts a swathe through 
 them and they're dead. DMM - Digital Molecular Modelling for those who don't know - is also sorely 
 in need of better use. Lightsabering through walls would've been nice, but as it stands there's 
 very little in the way of destructible environments, and whilst the effects that are there are 
 incredibly impressive, there's simply not enough of it included in the game for the amount of brouhaha 
 that LucasArts made of it.
  
  At the end of the day, The Force Unleashed is a trade-off game - you should go into it expecting 
 both pulse-pounding action, and frustrating banality in equal measures. It's just about pushed 
 into 'worth it' by the incredible and cinematic story. There's a lot to like about it, but the 
 crap that you have to wade through to get to it prevents the game from achieving greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinrscott
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Through the years, I have played nearly ever Star Wars game that has been released. With that being 
 said, I think this is without a doubt the best one.
  
  The other games have been in most cases the same thing over and over again. With this game though, 
 they took a nearly untouched piece of the time line and created a cannon story that is believable, 
 and a blast to follow along.
  
  I played this originally on the PSP, and I could hardly put it down. I waited awhile before playing 
 it on the 360. I'm sure glad I did though. It is like a totally different game on both systems. 
 The stories are the same, but that is all.
  
  On the PSP, the play control is akin more to a hack and slash game. On the 360, the play control 
 is more like God of War. Sure, you can hack and slash your way through it, but it is much more 
 fun to link the combos and watch the devastation the force can create.
  
  For the 360, I'm on to the download content now. Interesting enough, that the download content 
 for the 360 is part of the core game for the PSP, and actually is part of the storyline.
  
  For any Star Wars fan, this game is top notch. The graphics are beautiful, and sound is amazing. 
 My only complaint about this game is some of the camera angles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRTG
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:32 pm PT
Review:  SW: TFU can really amaze you with its destructive abilities, but the pros are outweighed by bad 
 graphics and a mediocre fighting system. The new addition to the Star Wars series opens up a lot 
 of new info in the time between the destruction of the Jedi and when Luke S. comes into the picture. 
 Apparently, more Jedi than you think survive order 66, such as Shaak Ti and several new Jedi, like 
 Kaazdan Paratus and General Kota. You play as Darth Vader's secret apprentice, Darth Starkiller, 
 and are assigned to hunt down the reamaining Jedi without leaving any witnesses, no matter what 
 side they're on (which sounds like more fun than it really is) . 
  Unfortunately, you can only play as Starkiler, but the game features a good amount of customization, 
 such as lightsaber strength and color, force abilities, combo attacks, etc. You can also unlock 
 costumes by beating levels and finding Jedi "holocrons", which appear as glowing whiter boxes hidden 
 in the levels. 
  The graphics aren't that good but almost everything in the levelcan be destroyed and you can go 
 back and do levels over again. The game features a good amount of enemies, too. There are several 
 familiar characters (Princess Leia, R2-D2, Shaak Ti, Vder etc.) but there are many new characers 
 that have never been introduced. Juno Eclipse, Starkiller's ship pilot, seems new but was actually 
 in the game Sar Wars: Jedi Starfighter. 
  Sadly, even through all the publicity such as through GameInformer mag, this game gets very repetitive 
 once you learn all the secrets and moves in the game. Once you beat the game and get all the upgrades, 
 the game is not really worth playing again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_evil_Nemesi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This is an example of a game, good old fashioned game. No multiplayer, only a singleplayer with 
 a strong story line, great playability and immersive sound effects and an awesome soundtrack. Star 
 Wars : The Force Unleashed has great production value and it grows on you. When you stop playing, 
 you can't wait to play again to find out what's next in the story.
  
  The characters are likeable and you get attached to them quite quickly. The main character, Starkiller 
 (The original name of Luke Skywalker, by the way, an interesting touch) is very very awesome in 
 concept and in it's movements and combat style.
  
  The sound effects are true to the Star Wars franchise, and so is the soundtrack. Needless to say, 
 it all helps make you feel that epic shivering feeling of wielding a lightsaber in one hand and 
 the force in the other.
  
  Some minor flaws here and there, like the targeting system which doesn't always make you lift the 
 right things or aim at the proper enemy. Also the combo aren't breakable, meaning that if you started 
 the animation of a lightsaber combo, you can't stop it midway. This can lead to frustration sometimes.
 
  
  Other than that, the game is fairly hard, on normal difficulty expect to die every now and then. 
 Sometimes the game seems a little bit unfair, with you being attacked from every angle at every 
 range, meaning you'll be surrounded by melee types heavy hitters, hard to kill laser shotgun stormtroopers 
 and snipers, and sometimes even AT-ST (those big two legged robots) .
  And sometimes you'll plow through the opposition with ultimate ease.
  
  
  Overall, Force 
 Unleashed is an absolute buy for the Star Wars fans out there, since it is the gap between episode 
 3 and 4. Otherwise, rent it before you buy it, since you either love it or hate it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_3691
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 5:45 am PT
Review:  Hmm that's two games I have played this year that have claimed to be unleashed is that the buzz 
 word going around the gaming scene at the moment? Anyway the game making the claim this time is 
 Star Wars which of all the movie tie-in franchises has had the best success over the years with 
 its games so do this one keep up the good rep?
  
  The story in this game is one of the best from the past year in gaming (admittingly there wasn't 
 much competition Fallout was alright I guess) it certainly keeps you hooked and has a very Star 
 Wars feel to it, probably because it wasn't written by George Lucas who seems to have forgot how 
 to make a good film. You play as Darth Vader's secret apprentice and yes it is as awesome as it 
 sounds, there are twists and turns with character development and emotion plus actual moral dilemmas! 
 It was brilliant and then they tell me to be good or bad at the end, I hate it when game developers 
 do this and do you who I blame Bioware ever since they kept promoting this make your own decisions 
 crap everyone's doing it and in this game in particular it feels tacked on with one ending making 
 sense, following the well written story and the other screwing everything up completely. Ultimately 
 though that's a minor flaw and there is no doubt that the story will keep you captivated until 
 the good or retardedly stupid end. 
  
  Onto the gameplay and it's pretty satisfying with the force powers working especially well. You 
 can do a force push, force repulse, force lightning etc. and they all work really well and can 
 be built into satisfying combos between them with some lightsaber attacks thrown in. This has certainly 
 captured the Star Wars feel better then any other action orientated Star Wars game and as you level 
 up your character the moves get more powerful and you increase the ones which suit your style (although 
 just levelling up force lightning would let you beat the game easily it's pretty overpowered) . 
 What I like about the level up system is that it is not forced down your throat like an RPG's tend 
 to be, it occurs naturally throughout the game and means that you don't need to grind to get a 
 level up. There is a good selection of enemies all from within the Star Wars universe and although 
 the lesser ones can be defeated easily the larger ones can be awkward and require some thought. 
 Nowadays boss fights tend to be a disappointment but the Force Unleashed bucks that trend admirably 
 with some truly great boss fights that require all of your force powers to know which ones work 
 best against others, now all of these boss fights end with a QTE which usually means I begin to 
 hate the game but somehow the Force Unleashed developers have managed to pull of the perfect way 
 of dealing with them. The problem I have with QTE usually is that they happen at random times when 
 you don't expect them (meaning you have to start again because you don't have a form of spidey 
 sense for the bloody things) or they make the time limits really cruel or the button presses convoluted 
 (Sonic Unleashed been a good example of harsh time limits but then again I think Sonic Team hates 
 everyone because the world won't let the hedgehog die) but amazingly enough The Force Unleashed 
 does neither of these things and to top it off give you a really awesome finisher video too. 
 
  
  Ok there are flaws with the game, the main one been the truly terrible clipping issues and believe 
 me when I tell you there is nothing more annoying then getting through a difficult section only 
 to get stuck in a rock. It feels like this game needed another month of testing to get rid of some 
 of the bugs and glitches but alas the lure of money proved to much for Lucas Arts. Also as other 
 reviews have mentioned the lock-on ability can be awkward in many places as there is so much to 
 lock onto (Pretty much everything can be used to force grip) and it can take a while to lock-on 
 to the one you want which can be frustrating in huge battles but the sheer ambition of been able 
 to lock-on to pretty much everything has to be applauded. The game itself is very short and can 
 be completed in about 8-10 hours depending on difficulty but the replay value is there and the 
 action never lets up so there is no wasted time.
  
  The graphics are good but it is the environments that really stunned me as they are really detailed 
 and make you feel completely immersed in the Star Wars universe with some recognizable landmarks 
 for fans of the films. Coupled with the great locales is the physics engine so people fall correctly, 
 things crumble realistically and you can pick almost anything up. It is impressive and adds up 
 to a great package. The sound is great kicking in with that all so familiar Star Wars theme and 
 others from the film, frankly the whole thing has the nostalgia feeling the prequels should have 
 had. Voice acting is competent and never offends the ears with a particular stellar performance 
 from the Apprentice himself.
  
  Other minor disappointments include no multiplayer and the should have been epic was instead a 
 clunky mess star destroyer set piece that really should have defined the game but instead turned 
 out to be a clunky minigame. Overall though this is the surprise hit from 2008 after all I expected 
 to hate this game with a passion but I thoroughly enjoyed it to the point where I think this is 
 one of the best games from 2008 and the reason why is that it does what all videogames should do 
 have a compelling story and above all else just be fun.
  
  Pros
  
  + Fantastic storyline that keeps you hooked
  + Intuitive and responsive gameplay
  + Kick ass 
 force powers and boss battles
  + Great Level design and Environments. Plus brilliant physics engine
  + Awesome sound track
 
  
  Cons
  
  - Clipping issues needed resolving
  - Some set pieces were disappointing 
  - A tad too short
  
  Overall 
  
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I was very interested in SW-TFU since it's announcement mainly because a good Jedi game is rare 
 and with typically does not come often. In order best suited to my recent memory, the best recent 
 Jedi games I've played are probably: Jedi Outcast, Jedi Academy, KOTOR, and KOTOR 2. I gotta be 
 honest, the SW Galaxy games never really appealed a whole lot to me because they really were on 
 a less personal RPG level. Now, here comes SwTFU - now among the best that I rate.
  
  SwTFU revolutionizes the 3rd person Star Wars RPG in its controls and ease of control of force 
 powers. In the past I have always felt that switching between force powers was clumsy in the action 
 games like Outcast and Academy, but with the set-up of the XBOX 360controller, it's quite easy 
 to level enemies in any manner of combination in your power... which is quite extensive.
  
  The thing that this game does best is demonstrate how the force can tear &@$% up. Though you start 
 out with relatively few powers in this game moving quickly through each level massing experience 
 which brings you to a bulldozer level of destruction. By the end of the game, normal opponents 
 and even mini-bosses don't present any challenge at all... given that you're not a total spazoid. 
 
  
  Some would contend, however, that it is the fault of this game to get away form the slaughter within. 
 I disagree. The slower moments of plot development are actually refreshing and present a storyline 
 that, overall, buries the cow dung Lucas presented as prequels only a few years ago. The only fault 
 of the plot, as far as I'm concerned, is that it's far too short. I would have lied to have seen 
 more development over LONGER cut scenes during this game. I mean, EVERYONE know Darth Vader and 
 the Emperor and the founders of the Rebellion, but not so much with the new characters like Juno 
 Eclipse who is a focus of interest throughout the game. Though, I suppose it's too much to ask 
 for a game with the action of SwTFU and the plot of KOTOR combined. 
  
  Side note- Starkiller is SUCH A CRAPPY NAME for the main character. Like, seriously, wtf? It would 
 have been better if they left it at apprentice or game him a genuine name. I just don't think it's 
 in Vader's personality profile to think of Starkiller when he names his secret apprentice. Starkiller 
 is what a 13 year old boy comes up with when he writes his fan based novel of Star Wars. Seriously... 
 I just.... have problems with this.
  
  Some Jedi characters you face int he game are killed a bit too fast, and by fast I mean without 
 much build-up. Some Jedi, well, they have to die quickly because they're obnoxious, there is no 
 doubt. But while others survive and become main characters there is one in the plot that should 
 have lived on... I know that's vague. Okay... what I mean is: Kazdan Paratus should have dies because 
 he's another annoying little blue fart, however Shaak Ti, being a respectable Jedi, should have 
 lived on or at the very least been part of two boss battles to make a good showing of her power. 
 That's just me...
  
  It is very fun to go through the game again after gaining all the force powers and tear up the 
 opponents that may have given you trouble and make a mess of them. I will say, however, you should 
 play the game on the highest difficulty available to you the first time through. Why? It makes 
 it last longer and makes the fighting a hell of a lot more rewarding and interesting. Rolling through 
 this game definitely gives the wrong impression and takes away from the overall game play. It also 
 multiplies the time in which you will beat the game by quite a bit which is also a payoff since 
 the game itself is relatively short. 
  
  One other side comment would be about the costumes... this was not what I expected. Starkiller 
 changes his outfit every time he goes on a new mission in order to be trendy for the environment. 
 The word that kept popping into my mind was metrosexual. I sorta expected the costumes to be difficult 
 unlocks that granted special powers or benefits... not so. The only added benefits you will see 
 in this game to your force powers comes from light saber crystals, and your light saber can only 
 have one crystal in place at any time. Luckily, many of these are sufficient on their own, but 
 if you;'re looking for an in-dept saber customization.. it's not there. Then again, action comes 
 before the RPG part of this game, so it is pretty understandable. 
  
  The art and design of levels are quite good and I never experienced any really slowdown in the 
 game other than when I was working through the character menu. However, the flaw in the art come 
 when your CUSTOM selected outfit or saber color does not appear int eh cut scenes since they are 
 pre-rendered with the game-selected outfit and saber colors. A little of art continuity I guess. 
 
  
  I also realize there's a lot of complaint about the targeting system and grabbing objects with 
 force grab and push. I say, you gotta be a complete SPAZ to not figure it out. I never had a problem 
 grabbing anything and throwing it it in the the direction I desired. YES, it does take a small 
 learning curve to get sued to, but that you seriously can get over with in the first level if you 
 spend a second throwing around the first few droids and random objects your come across. I mean 
 seriously people... it's not difficult. ADAPT!
  
  This game is worthwhile to own if you're a big Star Wars fan, but certainly should be on your rental 
 list if you're on the fence about it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is quite an ambitious game, it lets you do things with the Force that you have 
 never been able to do before (at least not effectively) and it tries to do it on quite a large 
 scale. The game succeeds in many aspects but it also falters along the way. Here is my breakdown:
 
  
  Gameplay: Controls are a touch clunky and it can be hard at times to throw objects where you want 
 to. Overall though the controls work well and you can get the job done. Being able to toss things 
 into people with ease and knock open doors and windows is AMAZINGLY fun! If you want to feel like 
 a Jedi, this game is for you.
  
  Graphics: Solid graphics. Nothing too spectacular but they don't have to be because the physics 
 in this game are phenomenal! Glass breaking is a thing of beauty as is wood shattering. The game 
 engines are just fantastic in this game, there is no other way to say it.
  
  Audio: Great sound in every aspect. Really enjoyed the laser sounds and lightsaber sounds as well 
 as the voice acting.
  
  Overall this is a solid outting. It may have it's faults (some clunky controls) but they are outweighed 
 by the fact that you can do SO much Force stuff and by the fact that the game engines are just 
 unreal! The story isn't too shabby either. Any Star Wars fan should try this game out for sure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lsnicket94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - A great, intense, and realistic storyline that gives a bit of background to the Rebel Alliance.
 
  - The force grip ability is always great fun.
  - All of the different combos you can do often adds fun if you're losing interest.
  - The controls 
 are easy to get used to, despite how confusing they may sound at the beginning.
  - The last level gives you a choice of how you end the game, which will definitely have you replaying 
 the whole level just to see the other ending (and to get that extra achievement) .
  - The ability to kill every single person you see doesn't cause confusion and annoyance.
  - Starting 
 off the game as Darth Vader and going on a rampage against Wookiees is memorable.
  - The Star Destroyer part was amazing.
  - Fun unlockables give you something to work for.
  
 - Downloadable content is surprisingly worth it.
  - Has a fairly high replay value.
  
  
  The Bad:
  - The game is FAR too short.
  - The annoying boss fights often make great levels 
 boring to play.
  - Some of the characters can be very, very irritating to fight, which really hurts the game.
 
  - There were way too many times (particularly in one level) when I ended up yelling at the game 
 because of glitches that caused me to have to restart the level or section.
  - The Star Destroyer part was annoying.
  - Hearing about the black lightsaber is amazing, but, 
 despite how cool it DOES look, it's really a let-down because it's definitely not what you'd expect.
 
  
  
  
  I borrowed this game from my friend and it was pretty crazy. But that was on PS2. You wouldn't 
 believe how amazed I was with this game after upgrading to Xbox 360. My brother got it for me for 
 Christmas, and as soon as we were done opening the rest of the presents, I had to get in there 
 and play this. It was so crazy! I finished more than half of the game in about three hours though, 
 and that was a bit of a disappointment, because that meant the amazing gameplay and storyline was 
 getting close to an end already. I decided to take a break from that game for a week or two, then 
 I went back to playing it, and got halfway through the last level in just two or three hours. I 
 decided to take another break. I then picked it back up the very next day and beat it (I did the 
 main ending) .
  
  Some of the Felucian warriors were very annoying, honestly, because they just wouldn't die! Like 
 the ones with the invincibilty shields wouldn't even get hurt with my attacks, or the ones that 
 swarm you wouldn't let me get a single hit in. That was unbelievably irritating, and I found myself 
 yelling at the game constantly during those levels. The bosses could get very annoying too. The 
 bosses weren't hard, but they were very annoying. I just felt like I was wasting my time trying 
 to defeat a stupid boss, and they weren't really helping when they'd send people after me or start 
 going nuts on me.
  
  The one level that ended with the Star Destroyer was fun and all, but when Proxy fights you near 
 the end with his "secret program that he's been storing for years" I kept getting really annoyed, 
 because I had to fight him twice. The first time I fought him, I got his health really low, and 
 then I finally couldn't see his health bar anymore. I kept swinging at him and swinging at him 
 for about a minute, and he was helpless. And soon, he suddenly disappeared through the ground! 
 I stood motionless for a few seconds then started running around trying to figure out how to fix 
 the problem. It was just a major glitch, and I had to change my costume and then change it back 
 so that I would restart at the last checkpoint. That fight wasn't real hard, but it sucked having 
 to do it again. Then the Star Destroyer! Oh, boy.... That was amazing, and really fun, but I kept 
 coming really close to dying because of those stupid TIE Fighters. And I didn't think I'd ever 
 beat it because the Star Destroyer would aim away way too fast when I'd stop to kill TIEs.
  
  The game has an amazing ending that gave me the chills when I watched it the first time, and 
 I am going to be playing this game for a few more years now, at least until they come out with 
 another game remotely like it.
  
  (This review may have sounded stupid to you, but I've been typing for a while now, so I don't want 
 to go back and read it and have to edit a lot. Sorry.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermike6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is an enjoyable game, most of the time. The rest of the time it 
 feels glitchy and last-gen. It does a good job living up to the main premise, which is making you 
 feel like a powerful Jedi (or Sith, rather) , but sometimes you're too powerful for your own good. 
 The skins you can download are also really cool, and playing as people like Darth Maul is fun.
 
  The best part of the game is the force powers. You can throw things around, bend things, and buy 
 plenty of other force powers as well. Sometimes, it get's too easy though, and you'll find yourself 
 walking into rooms and having everyone dead in a few seconds. The controls are good, and most of 
 the time when you try to throw something at someone it will figure that out and hit the nearest 
 person. The targeting system can be pretty off though, and targeting things that you can't possibly 
 move or do anything to is quite annoying. The physics is good, you can break glass and things bounce 
 around like they should.
  The game to me sometimes feels kinda last-gen for some reason. It's full of invisible walls and 
 things you shouldn't be able to stand on but can that you feel it would've fit better on the PS2. 
 There's also a really annoying Star Destroyer sequence that should've been taken out.
  The story is great though, and feels like an episode of Star Wars. It tries to link prequels to 
 the original trilogy and they did a pretty good job, though I don't see why anyone would try to 
 link something as good as the original trilogy to the lacklustre prequels. 
  Overall, it is a fun game for a rent, but unless you are a die hard Star Wars fan, nothing more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nokoryous
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Well after a long string of flashy but boring games, this was a relief. Here is an awesome story 
 that bridges the gap between Revenge of the Sith and A New Hope. It's a pretty important role to 
 fill, but with an awesome cast of deep characters, one of the best scripted stories in the series, 
 and voice actors who far outweigh the likes of Mark "The Scar" Hammil and Samuel Yell Jackson, 
 The Force Unleashed Rises to the top ranks of the bean-bag-sized pile of Star Wars games you have 
 stacked on your mom's coffee table.
  
  When it comes to gameplay, it is both the biggest innovation of the game, and the primary frustration. 
 You can't spell Force Powers without "power" and believe me, you feel it from the moment you pick 
 up the controller. This isn't a droid-domino game like the last few SW titles. Your force throws 
 will set Olympic distance records, and you'll be electrocuting enemies like the game is your own 
 personal Texas State Prison. I might also mention that there is one moment in this game that I 
 would say is among the top 10 in any video game I've ever played. Unfortunately, the game's lock-on 
 system is pretty poor, and leads to a lot of headaches when fighting enemies in a room full of 
 debris. Why you would want to spend time in one-on-one combat with a barrel while an Imperial Guard 
 is firing missiles into your back is beyond me, but trust me, it happens. There are also those 
 moments when you are knocked on the ground and become the roomful of enemies' personal hackie-sack, 
 being juggled by sniper fire and the stomps of AT-ST's until you can find your way to your feet, 
 minus half your health bar now.
  
  Also, the game isn't unfamiliar with the occasional glitch (often game-stopping) . During one play 
 through, I turned invisible during a boss fight, walked through a wall that I could then not exit, 
 got "glued" to the back railing of a platform, and pushed a boss inside of a mushroom. Better left 
 unexplained. Anyway, the programming feels unfinished in these moments, and it stinks that you 
 have to get taken out of the coolness of the game to troubleshoot the problems.
  
  All in all it's a very fun game. Pretty much everything about it is great. It would be nice if 
 it were longer than a 8 hour story, and if the glitches were no more, but don't let that stop you 
 from at least renting one of the best Star Wars games ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  You play as Darth Vader's secret apprentice. If this statement peaks your interest even slightly, 
 then drop what you are doing and go get this game. It isn't perfect, but it's the best Jedi action 
 in a game to date and the story helps fill in the gap between the new and old trilogies.
  
  To best describe this title, you would need to take the gameplay from the last Jedi Knight game 
 and put it on crack. Nearly all the moves are the same, but far more extreme. Instead of picking 
 guys up and tossing them around, you fling them across the level at a speed that kills them on 
 impact. If you find the right angle, you can easily throw a guy over a half mile and much more 
 if there is a cliff nearby. Instead of the Force push knocking down a couple of guys here and there, 
 you can actually blow over an entire squad of storm troopers. At it's most powerful, the Force 
 lightning can hit every guy in the room and even take down a Rancor or an AT-ST. Even your character's 
 lightsaber technique is totally unique and over the top. The game starts you with some decent powers, 
 but you must earn experience from fighting or finding hidden items to level them up and become 
 truly devastating. Using the Force powers aren't without their problems, though. The push and lightning 
 will miss when you could have sworn you were looking right at the target and picking up enemies 
 to throw them can be difficult in rooms with a lot of debris lying around. Many times the game 
 will grab the closer item that is near your crosshair rather than the enemy in the distance that 
 is directly in the crosshair. It's not a big deal since the item you accidentally picked up can 
 easily be tossed at the enemy you wanted to grab, but it's still a little annoying.
  
  The rest of the game may be awesome, but the story is the main reason to play. The Jedi Knight 
 series, as well as most other Star Wars games, were content to simply be spin-offs with a few cameos 
 from the major characters. This game is basically the reason why thing were the way they were at 
 the beginning of the original trilogy. It leads up to and explains how the rebel alliance began, 
 as well as shows what happened to many of the Jedi that survived Order 66. Since it only follows 
 your character, the game doesn't have the same epic feel as the movies. Imagine if the movies only 
 followed Luke's point of view. They would have still been great, but we would have missed many 
 important events. Even considering this, the story has to be one of the best in a Star Wars game 
 yet. It does have the light side and dark side ending, but it is simply a single choice made at 
 the end of the game instead of a build up of all the decisions made throughout the way the Jedi 
 Knight games did. The rest of the game plays the same whichever side you want to be on. Most of 
 the time is spent fighting storm troopers since the emperor isn't supposed to know about you or 
 slaying natives to a planet that want you dead regardless of your allegiance to either side of 
 the Force. The only downside would be that it is another short game and can be completed in around 
 six hours. There are four difficulties and plenty of secondary objectives to complete that increase 
 replay value, but I still wish the story was longer.
  
  The graphics are amazing. The character models are some of the best I have seen, although your 
 pilot unintentionally has a creepy Joker smile on her face most of the time. The voice acting is 
 spot on and it's not easy to tell that they aren't being performed by the original actors and actresses. 
 Each planet has it's own feel that makes you believe it is a real place. Thanks to their new DMM 
 technology, much of the environment reacts realistically. Trees bend like they would in real life. 
 Metal doors contort just like you would expect when hit with a massive Force push. Wooden doors 
 crack and break depending on where they get hit. It's a blast trying to break stuff and see what 
 happens. There are a bunch of objects that are unaffected by any kind of physics and cannot be 
 damaged. This is probably due to hardware restrictions or level design, but when I throw an object 
 at a tree and it bends in one level but a tree in the next doesn't, it take me out of the experience 
 a bit.
  
  This title not only expands on the Star Wars mythology, but let's you explore explore the dark 
 side in a way that the movies and other games haven't. Had the controls not been slightly annoying 
 on occasion and the story longer, this could have been one of the greatest games in a long time. 
 As is, I still love it and highly recommend it to any action fans. One more statement to help convince 
 you. In the first level you get to play as Darth Vader; how can you beat that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilgodmonkey
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 9:19 am PT
Review:  Star Wars and I go way back - and when I say way back I mean my parent's first date was at the 
 premiere of the first film. I mean that my room was covered with Star Wars toys, my shelves filled 
 with Star Wars fiction, and my monitor usually sported an x-wing background. While I did grow out 
 of it in high-school / college, there's still a soft spot in my heart for anything with light sabers 
 or Leah's buns in it.
  
  So when I first watched the early trailers for The Force Unleashed, watched some dark-lookin' character 
 bring an entire Star Destroyer crashing to earth with the Force ... I got a serious case of goosebumps.
 
  
  As such, I feel my game experience may be somewhat tainted. The franchise has a lot of expectations 
 associated with and it's hard sometime to determine where the SW fanboy ends and the casual gamer 
 begins.
  
  The Force Unleashed has a lot of potential - to begin with, LucasArts, as usual, executes beautiful, 
 interesting level design. There's great variety and detail to your surroundings and it's not the 
 same old tired digs as the movies (with a few exceptions) .
  
  The story features you as an orphaned Jedi's son, swooped up into Vader's clutches after he casually 
 dispatched of your daddy. As the story unfolds you transition from Sith minion to conflicted scourge 
 of the Empire. Your character is pretty likable. The voice acting is good (the Vader voice doesn't 
 quite have the gravity of a James Erl Jones - but hey, there's only one of him) . The cutscenes 
 are solid - they keep the story moving and don't plod on unnecessarily.
  
  You actual combat toolkit is pretty badass as you draw from a wide variety of saber and force-driven 
 attacks. The force can be used to control environmental features such as clearing obstacles or 
 "unleash" it on your foes. The fact that you can launch an enemy into the air, zap him with Force 
 lightning, and send him flying across the battlefield as a grenade is pretty sweet.
  
  Unfortunately gameplay can be incredibly frustrating and convoluted. There is a ton of things you're 
 supposed to be able to do - it's just really hard to do them with consistency. While you're supposed 
 to be able to use the Force freely in your environments, the dynamic for handling objects doesn't 
 quite work. Use the right trigger to select an object and move it around with the thumb sticks 
 (left for horizontal, right for vertical) . Press a thumb stick in any direction as you release 
 the trigger and the object will rocket away. Sounds pretty simple right? Well, it's not, especially 
 during combat. For one, whenever you Force grab a target you freeze, giving your enemies a clear 
 shot. Two, moving the damn thing takes for ever so by the time you have an exploding barrel or 
 bolder in position, you're getting swarmed. 
  
  Particularly irritating is your inability to lock onto an actual enemy - because half the environment 
 is open to Force interaction, the system gets confused and you'll lock onto a wall panel when you're 
 trying to tag a stormtrooper. This leads to half your attacks being executed like your character 
 had just downed a handle as you hurtle around the room trying to find something solid to shank.
 
  
  Boss fights are aggravating beyond belief and highlight all the issues with the controls. All the 
 bosses are faster than you, block pretty much everything you throw, and easily string together 
 combo's ending with you being tossed across the ring. When you finally do kill them it's almost 
 as if they took a dive to save your gamer ego. Oh, and you lose control of the camera in boss fights, 
 which adds another level of WTF.
  
  Finally, you have an f-ing lightsaber - I expected to be able to hack-n-slash my way through 90% 
 of the opposition with glee but no, everyone and their mother has a shield or force field.
  
  All in All, the Force Unleashed is a disappointment. Taken solely on it's merits there's enough 
 production value here for the game to stand above a number of mid-level titles, but it's hard to 
 get around the realization that this could have been a really good game had it not fallen so painfully 
 short of the mark.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwamebeauvais
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Although I'm not a die-hard Star Wars fan, I love the movies and got excited about the possibility 
 of playing a character with so many abilities (as well as being given additional storyline in the 
 space between episodes 3 and 4) . I didn't have high expectations for Force Unleashed, but the things 
 that were wrong with the game make it such a disappointment I'd say it's not much more than a rental 
 for a quick day of play.
  
  Let's address the good first: force powers are just as much fun as all the other reviews indicate. 
 The story is interesting and adds a new layer to the Star Wars universe. The option to choose your 
 characters direction is also a plus, and the game does capture the Star Wars look and feel very 
 well.
  
  As for the bad, there aren't many bad things, but they're so difficult to work around that they 
 offset all the good.
  
  1. The targeting system for using the force powers is extremely difficult to manage if you're trying 
 to keep moving and have multiple enemies surrounding you. The simplest fix of all for this would 
 have been to introduce something similar to bullet time mode which would simulate the speed at 
 which a Jedi could move. Instead, you're left with Darth Vader's apprentice needing to run in circles 
 to avoid a couple of Storm Troopers with laser cannons.
  
  2. Centering and working with the camera is a headache. On every level there will come a point 
 that you have trouble figuring out which direction you're heading in and have to stop to search 
 around. It's a major problem with any game if you get slapped with the reality of holding a controller 
 instead of feeling as if you're the main character.
  
  3. Movement problems happen from time to time that frustrate gameplay. As an example, there is 
 an area in the Falusian forest where there's a slight slope you must walk up. Unfortunately, you 
 cannot pass over part of this slope without jumping, yet there is no visual indicator that it is 
 a step.
  
  There are other minor issues such as unusually difficult minor enemies (there's no reason a Sith 
 apprentice should have to break a sweat against a lone Storm Trooper, no matter how well-armed) , 
 but they are easily overlooked by the great fun of using those powers... once you actually earn 
 them.
  
  I didn't mind playing Force Unleashed. But I didn't love playing it either. A game with this kind 
 of potential shouldn't disappoint gamers so thoroughly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cahallmxj
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:11 am PT
Review:  Story: The story in this game is actually entertaining and about the only reason I found to keep 
 wanting to play through all the nonsense levels. The player takes on the role of Star Killer. A 
 "secret" assassin that Darth Vader kidnapped (after killing his father) as a young child and trained 
 him in the ways of the force to help Vader overthrow the emperor. Of course since this is a star 
 wars cannon (its part of the actual star wars universe i. e. George Lucas approved.) story our plucky 
 anti-hero eventually starts to think for himself and that's when things start to kick into high 
 gear. Story wise anyway. I'm not going to spoil the story for those who play the game or read the 
 book (I'd say read the book even though I haven't had a chance yet.) . Suffice to say that it does 
 fill in some gaps and there are some "so that's why that was like that moments" along with some 
 of the star wars twist and turns that are expected. Now on to the actual (when are the going to 
 stop beating poor star wars to death) game play.
  -----------------------------
  To start off any level that generally lets you run around and hit things, smash things, fry things 
 or some combination of the above is fun. What is not fun is having the above interrupted by annoying 
 button sequences and go break /move that thing to open this door so I can go fight another annoying 
 boss that involves more button sequences. In my opinion if they could go back and rewrite this 
 game as a open world /sand box game (ala mercenaries 1 or along the lines of mass effect) and give 
 me the option of figuring out how to recruit forces against the emperor and cause merry havoc along 
 the way this would have been a much better game . Or on the other hand make it so I could play 
 like a actual assassin and I don't know, be able to do things like the mind trick or make myself 
 invisible or make the bad guys shoot each other. Instead the developer came up with this half polished 
 hack and bash game that showed me occasional glimpses of what could have been. I guess the reason 
 I'm irritated with this game is because while I was playing it there were points where everything 
 clicked and I actually felt like I was playing a scene out of a Star Wars movie about a conflicted 
 dark side assassin and then I would run into one of the many bugs or game play issues and go "why?". 
 On the bug front, there are many. I only ran into a few show stoppers that made me get up and restart 
 my console. The majority are what a good QA run would have caught and are generally along the lines 
 of clunky controls and bad hit detection. The clunky controls were obvious in the first level. 
 Trying to actually pickup anything and aim it and throw it while dodging laser fire is darn near 
 impossible. For some reason it was decided that the camera should lock onto what your throwing 
 and not what you are throwing it at. In my experience that translated into forgetting about aiming 
 and just turning yourself into a force powered tornado. Throw enough stuff and you'll hit something. 
 Most of the bugs I ran into were the ones where the game forgot you should have died (fell off 
 the bridge on the way to rescue Juno and the silly game just let me walk around in the flames for 
 two minutes before I restarted the level) and the ones where for some reason I just lost control 
 of the character and stood there until a enemy got done killing me. Also there are a lot of unnecessary 
 (imo) button sequences in just about every mini boss and end level boss and a really *special* one 
 on the bring down the star destroyer level. Other than that if you can slog through all the nonsense 
 and power up your character the game does warrant a play through (or two) just to find the collectibles 
 and unlock everything. Too sum up this is one of those games that could have been great if it hadn't 
 been rushed out the door. There is a good game under all of the problems that came from the rush 
 job that was done. It just takes till the second play through to see what could have been (unfortunately 
 the second play through doesn't magically get rid of all the bugs) and hopefully if Mr. StarKiller 
 makes it to a second game Lucas arts might skip the doughnuts and coffee instead of skipping the 
 QA. Would recommend to anyone who likes Star wars and action/hack an slash games with the warning 
 that it does take at least till the second play through to really get to the meat of the combat 
 system. M. a. c
  
  Story: A great (if a little predictable) story set before the original story begins. 
  Graphics: 
 Good. A little choppy hear and there. Nothing major that I came across
  GamePlay: Above average. It is entertaining while you can run around and cause chaos, but some 
 levels are broken up with annoying puzzles and button sequences.
  Camera/control: Control can be a bit wonky. Aiming is an after thought and the auto target doesn't 
 always work. The camera didn't cause me any problems. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarrisk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 11:49 am PT
Review:  The level sequences were great. The Combat System was awesome, the storyline was fantastic. The 
 frequent targeting and camera glitches were a real sting to the gameplay. The occasional graphics 
 glitch can detract from the gameplay a little bit, also. 
  
  The avid Star Wars fan will probably love it. Those who even remotely enjoy the concept of incredible 
 Force battles will find a distinct degree of satisfaction from playing this game. If one focuses 
 primarily on the good things from the game, it's easy to forgive the little things that might cause 
 a more negative vibe about the game. The only thing I would dare say the game lacks is a multiplayer 
 option of the game - even if it was only dueling like in the Episode III game.
  
  But overall I will say that it is a ridiculously entertaining game to play! But only for the first 
 time through.... After that it starts to get repetitive, so I will have to say that it has fallen 
 into my "I will play it when I am in the right mood" category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruhdezee
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Well first off this game is great. Having the force in the palm of your hands is amazing. There 
 is literally NO limit to your power. Any force move you can remember or imagine from the movie 
 is here plus devestating combos that make stormtroopers quake and run back to their barracks. All 
 of this is rounded out by and enjoyable yet vague story plot executed by a new and exciting protagonist.
 
  
  THE GOOD
  
  * excellent addition to Star Wars lore
  *Satisfying (mostly) story that fills in a vague time in the Star Wars timeline
  *Excellent array 
 of powers/combos
  *intuitive control scheme/button layout
  *Replayability
  *Will make fan boys tinkle
  *enemy/non playable characters are varied and detailed
  *boss battles 
 on an epic scale
  * large open and well designed ( for the most part levels)
  THE BAD
  
  *certain sections are frustratingly difficult (star destroyer)
  *some level design seems odd
 
  *some enemies are unnecessarily strong or weak
  *less than immersive story
  
  
  All in all this game is a MUST BUY for star wars fans and is still a good bet for star wars virgins 
 that is sure to pull them into the ranks of the starwars faithful !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtim266
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I have long been a fan of Star wars and have played the other games before it but the Force Unleashed 
 is by far the best game so far. The game mixes new and old force powers to make you think that 
 you are a Sith lord blowing through anything that gets in your way. It truly feels like you are 
 the ultimate Sith ever. The boss battles are epic, with several different bosses that all have 
 a great killing cut scene. The environments look realistic on a regular TV and the voice acting 
 and sounds are great. But the game isn't perfect and those imperfections can be really, really 
 annoying. Like "throw your controller at the wall because I have done this same scene 10 times" 
 annoying. The game sometimes feels unbalanced when you are going up against large numbers of enemies. 
 This normally wouldn't be a problem but at times it seems like your controller shuts off and you 
 just stand there taking hits. Or you get stunned and right after you get up, before you have a 
 chance to move, you get stunned again, taking massive amounts of damage. This can make some scenes 
 very aggravating and that makes you want to leave the game, come to your computer and write a review 
 so that you don't snap your controller in half. Also the game sometimes glitches and you fall about 
 waist deep into platforms and can't move until you die or leave the level. This doesn't happen 
 very often but it has happened to me several times. Overall, when I first started playing I thought, 
 "Wow, this seems just like the old games," but now I think that this game is much better than the 
 previous ones and is worth playing if you like the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boba_ben
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 4:14 am PT
Review:  This game is, amazing. It is the first star wars game with next Gen graphics and fills in the gap 
 between episode 3 and episode 4. The games control system is quite tricky and the combos are quite 
 hard to remember. The game does offer a lot of fights and a lot of good force powers but can stray 
 away from the point of the game. One let down is that you can't use blaster weapons, using a lightsaber 
 all the time can get a bit boring and repetitive. However you can upgrade your lightsaber by finding 
 the many secret lightsaber crystals that change the color of the saber and the power. These are 
 spread out all over the game which gives it good replay value. There are also more costumes that 
 are unlocked and found as well. It doesn't take long to find these however which leaves you with 
 nothing else to do.
  
  the ability to be able to upgrade your skills, powers and abilities is also good because you can 
 choose what to give him and allows you to make him how you would like him.
  the game does lack the two player option that is on the wii, this would have made the game better 
 so you could enjoy it with your friends instead of just on our own. There is only two easter eggs 
 on the whole game, both of which are easy to find.
  overall it is good for about 10 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeWerePirates
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I seem to have a ritual around Christmas. Between gifts and the sales I end up with a pretty good 
 haul of games. And every year among the games I instantly go for the most criticized. Two years 
 ago I went straight for Red Steel before Twilight Princess and Gears of War. Last year I went for 
 Assassin's Creed before Super Mario Galaxy and Orange Box (Assassin's Creed was a great game but 
 bashing it and praising Super Mario Galaxy was flavour of the month) .
  
  This year, Dead Space, Gears of War 2, Left 4 Dead and more all sit unopened while Star Wars The 
 force Unleashed has been played obsessively.
  
  I don't play a game out of a need to complete it. If I don't enjoy a game I'll stop playing it, 
 so I do enjoy The Force Unleashed but that doesn't mean it's a good game.
  
  There are two major problems with the game. First targeting is imprecise and seemingly random. 
 Second the controls are unresponsive, everything you do leaves you trapped in the animation a bit 
 too long. On everything but the lowest difficulty this can make the game incredibly frustrating 
 as you languish unable to move and avoid attacks which leave you defenceless for longer. As a result 
 you feel rather squishy rather than like a mighty force wielding warrior. The game is still playable 
 even on the top difficulty but you have to be much more opportunistic. Rather than rushing a group 
 of enemies, pick them off from a distance.
  
  But perhaps the most annoying thing is that both these problem feel very fixable, a bit of fine 
 tuning and balancing could have ironed out the kinks.
  
  Boss fights rather being a test of skill are a more a test of patience as you figure out how to 
 do any damage to your foe. You are punished for the stupidity to think that just attacking with 
 a lightsaber might work. While it is entirely unintuitive what will work once you have found a 
 way of reliably harming a boss even on the hardest difficulty all the fights become fairly easy.
 
  
  The story is advertised as connecting the prequel trilogy to the original trilogy, but don't worry 
 it's much more in the spirit and style of the original trilogy. In fact the story is much better 
 than the any of the prequels or clone war... but that is hardly glowing praise. The apprentice 
 is a flat character, his design and array of costumes never really stand out (the most memorable 
 costume seems to be a tribute to Assassin's Creed) . Yet despite his squishyness he seems able to 
 achieve feats well out of line with what we have previously seen of the force, such as the publicised 
 pulling down a Star Destroyer. Worst of all, as well as being over the top, the sequence fails 
 to be fun. His development never really connects. The unwillingness of the game to name the character 
 when he has a name established in canon (Galen Marek) is baffling. On the other hand the supporting 
 characters in the story are well realised and much easier to empathise with. The story seems overly 
 convoluted, even contradictory. Overall though the narrative is strong enough to play it's part. 
 The Music also deserves an honourable mention. Some of the music is lifted from the films but there 
 is some original music too. The original music fits better with John Williams music both in style 
 and performance than any other spin off I can think of.
  
  I can accept the parade of weird variants on storm troopers we never see in the films as a contrivance 
 to provide more varied opponents but it would be nice if this at least remained consistent through 
 Star Wars products.
  
  The thing is, despite all it's flaws, The Force Unleashed is still fun. The force powers give a 
 lot of options. Hurling around foes, chucking objects and flinging lightning remains fun a lot 
 longer than it seems it should.
  
  If you are a Star Wars fan The Force Unleashed is worth a try. It can be a frustrating experience 
 but if you can put up with the flaws and push ahead with the game it can be rewarding too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikyb666
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 9, 2009 1:01 am PT
Review:  As a bad Star Wars Fan i was waiting for this game like nothing else and the first chance i got 
 i got into this game.
  
  I first got this game on the PSP as I travel a lot for work and am all over the world and I must 
 say that on the PSP is one of the coolest games around than I got stuck in the country for X-mas 
 so I thought I make the next step and buy a new console so I decided to go with the XBox 360 and 
 Got the game.
  
  Firstly I noticed how long it takes for the game to load even when installed to the HD Then the 
 game starts, the grafix are awesome and are nice and sleek I spend the first few minutes just checking 
 out the games world and fighting wookies then restarted and started playing seriously, I noticed 
 as well that the controls weren't that good and many of the moves were pre-played for you by little 
 sequences which i thought was something just adopted by the PSP due to its capabilities but no 
 this continued across platforms.
  
  The game didn't run too bad at first with some minor glitches like having to re-start several times 
 because the character got stuck in a wall. Then it started to be constant annoyance especially 
 in the Junk Yard levels where I was getting stuck nearly in every wall and some of the jumps were 
 impossible to make . 
  
  The game continued on and I tell you I never was getting as frustrated at any game as this .. eventually 
 I gave up for a few days.
  I contined the game and hoped things would change but they didnt there are some really weird glitches 
 all throughout the game and I boubt that it was ever beta tested,
  
  Besides all that I thought it had a good story but i was too frustrated most of the time to care 
 in the end.
  
  a 4/10 result .. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonnerdratt
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game does not live up to all the hype. I bought this game from a friend for $10. thats about 
 as much as i will ever pay for it. The Force Unleashed brings some good things to the table like 
 being able to be powerful enough with the force to defeat Darth Vader and The Emperor. But it is 
 very disappointing played for 7 hrs, sometimes i could not figure out what to do, basically played 
 the same level over and over again, not able to kill Bosses by normal means. No multilayer was 
 a real biggie for me because i wanted to be able to have a awesome force v force and lightsaber 
 on lightsaber battle against a sith lord. If there would have been mutliplayer this would be a 
 much better game. One thing i would have liked would have been you being able to choose who to 
 kill star on good side or dark side and have alternate endings were you dont die or all you do 
 is go int hiding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joaq1999
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This is for the guys of the old school, if there are any around... Once upon a time there was Jedi 
 Outcast... 
  Once upon a time there was Jedi Academy...
  
  I'm not telling these two games were the best ever, but they had a very good lightsaber fighting 
 system with REALLY COOL flourish saber combos (the only thing I didn't liked was the impossibility 
 of blocking, the auto-blocking system was annoying) , COOL missions were you have to do a lot of 
 things and not only bash and slash, all the force powers that are included in Force Unleashed and 
 even many others WERE ALREADY THERE, etc. 
  
  Without this games, Force Unleashed wouldn't exist today, but the question is: Is Force Unleashed 
 better than these two? And the answer is NO, Force Unleashed is crap in comparison. By the way, 
 in this games when you cut your enemies, they actually were cut, which was great effect, not like 
 in the present one.
  
  For a game that comes so many years after the mentioned ones, I would expect so much more, yeah, 
 the graphics are better, and certain effects also, but it is also after more than three generations 
 of technology.
  
  The only thing I really liked better from FU, than JO or JA, is the story, JO and JA had quite 
 a bad, even stupid story, with everything mix.
  
  My point is, take JO and JA general ideas, get the last generation graphics and effects but make 
 it unpolished, make just a plain and dull bash and slash, and you get FU, its somehow going backward 
 in game concept, not forward. 
  
  I didn't feel like a Jedi, I felt just like playing a game
  
  Here are the main issues by which 
 I wouldn't recommend this game:
  1 Worst targeting system ever
  2 Very bad camera, even the fix camera sucked
  3 I'm getting boring of every game putting God's 
 of War sequences, come on guys, it was a good idea once, not every time
  4 Plain leveling bash and slash, I would have expected more adventure
  5 There is no lightsaber 
 fighting, honestly, just X, X, X, X, X the Force Powers might b good, but lightsaber fighting is the 
 worst
  6 Can get dull to play this game, this may sounds weird but is like having an overpowered Jedi, 
 and from time to time, certain overpowered enemies to make balance. You hardly feel being a Jedi
 
  7 Something that really annoyed me, many enemies in the game had powers equivalent to a Jedi, 
 without being a Jedi, so What's the point of being a Jedi then? I meant like throwing objects and 
 so...
  8 And so on
  
  I liked the story, and the control is somehow good. Some timing felt weird
  
  And yeah, I finished 
 the game just to be fair about complaining of how bad it is
  
  Nevertheless, I guess certain people who like plain Bash and Slash may like this game, just for 
 rental I suggest, you can finish it in two days and I see no reason why anyone would want to win 
 it more than once.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidbusters
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  There are many sub-plots, side stories, fillers and character backgrounds that have been told in 
 many different ways, both in the canon movies, as well as various other venues, i. e. video games, 
 books, comics, etc. I think the effort and result behind Star Wars Force Unleashed is one of the 
 best of these to date.
  
  The story is fairly immersive, whether you are just playing the game, or also reading the accompanying 
 book that goes along with it. Overall, it conveys that the importance of the Force in the context 
 of the battle between the Light Side and the Dark Side is far from diminished, and if anything, 
 is as thriving as ever. Also, it does a great job of bridging the time of the Clone Wars, and the 
 dominance of Anakin and Darth Vader during that time, through the period after Order 66 and that 
 somewhat of a fuzzy grey zone before Episode IV, and what's changed with Darth Vader and the Emperor 
 during this time. Also, it really underscores that extremely well developed, disposable pawns are 
 one of the key axioms of the Emperor's ruling and power control tactics, and not just limited to 
 his well known plot that led to the rise, and his control of, the Empire in the first place. This 
 in turns re-emphasizes Darth Vader as occupying this same role.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the light saber and Force Combos were very well done, and obviously a considerable 
 amount of time and development was put into them. The various character enemies and bosses were 
 also very well done, and the AI seemed appropriate and in-line with what you'd expect from the 
 Star Wars story-line. The environments were particularly awesome, as well as your ability in the 
 game to explore it thoroughly. The developers definitely picked some of the best environments in 
 Star Wars to be able to explore, and they leave you wondering how great it will be in the future 
 to see more of the many worlds still out there that could be explored in such a game.
  
  I know that many folks have been disappointed with this game, and if you have not played this game 
 yet, you may find yourself a part of this crowd when you do play it. To fall into this state of 
 mind with this great game, is really an easy thing to do, because of all the preconceived expectations 
 we all set for ourselves with anything new from Lucas Arts. This is because most of us have a very 
 particular set of likes and dislikes within the vast universe of Star Wars games, movies, books, 
 toys and you name it that we've all interacted with. These experiences, combined with a lot of 
 game hype and months worth of delays in SWTFU, makes the wow curve a steep one going into it. My 
 best advice, if you are a big Star Wars Fan in general, or if you were a big fan of particular 
 Star Wars games, is try to set your expectations aside and simply let yourself be immersed in this 
 new environment, story line and Gameplay options. From that stand point, I think this game is really 
 one of the best you will ever play and the graphics and environment you will find wishing you had 
 more often in other games.
  
  Now, I am a huge Star Wars Battlefront fan, and so I have to say that I was initially a bit miffed 
 that I didn't have more of that game type, but looking back, I just didn't fully realize the category 
 of game this was really meant to be. Until a new Star Wars Battlefront comes out, I would say to 
 all that this game is awesome and one of the best from Lucas Arts. Enjoy it for the genre it is 
 and you will get a lot out of it.
  
  Also, the new Downloadable Content is well worth it. The Jedi Temple level is one of the best levels 
 I've ever played, in terms of design, look, feel and fun factor in terms of exploring. Enjoy this 
 game, its awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  I had heard about this game, saw the trailers and was amazed. I waited and waited. After Christmas 
 I thought the price would come down, it didn't ( I guess people are still buying it) So I decided 
 to rent it. Finally I would have my hands on it. . .
  
  Graphics are very nice music and sound are outstanding. Again I don't have a HDTV so for those 
 of you that don't. This game is less of an issue as compared to others games where the icons are 
 so detailed you can't tell them apart or text so small its unreadable. So for you SDTV owners this 
 game has minimal problems the only one of which is reading will be slower, but that is only if 
 you care to read the data bank for character, location and equipment backgrounds.
  
  The story was pretty good, really it is what kept me going. Someone could argue that it rivals 
 the movies. I enjoyed what this game was about and it was a struggle for me because I was so frustrated 
 with the game. I almost classified it as broken.
  
  Do rent the game if: You are a Star Wars Junky, You are curious about how bad can that camera be?, 
 Enjoy massive fights with many different combinations to use with glorious results (occasionally) .
 
  
  
  Some basic problems, Clipping (Raxus Prime was bad for this issue) it usually happens in awkward, 
 narrow places where the camera gets stuck (another issue) . It didn't happen so often as to be a 
 deal breaker but it happened about 5 times (usually critical) .
  
  The camera. . . people say it is poor, it is really, really, terrible. Aside from artifically making 
 the game harder to play, it takes you out of the game and really breaks up the flow of fights, 
 both regular and boss.
  
  There were things that I wanted to do but I couldn't because I had to fight the fight according 
 to what the camera was going to do. It made some of the fights very cheap and hollow. This takes 
 you out of the story and the game and will frustrate anyone even if you love the game. It is bad, 
 bad, BAD.
  
  I don't know if this is an issue of this game or is a programing limitation in general. I have 
 seen what I am about to describe in other games like Marvel Alliance. There is no consistency in 
 fight rules between you and bosses, why?? In most games like this your (insert super power) are 
 useless against bosses. 
  
  This game seems to actually make an attempt at fixing that, but it is inconsistent in its application. 
 For example, if I'm charging a force repulse, I can still get hit and it stops the chargeing and 
 I take damage, or I'm doing a heavy string of combos and I'm slower on a heavy part (like a swing) 
 the enemy can break the combo and deal me damage. Now if my enemy is charging a force power, can 
 I hammer him/her/it while they are charging?? Nope, no chance. They are invulnerable when charging. 
 It makes the game feel like a game and again you feel like you won a fight because you had to cheat 
 and not because of strategy or skill.
  
  This game DOES reward the patient player that has good timing and is thinking about the fight. 
 You can block almost anything if timed properly, but the game conspires against you because you 
 need to be able to see what the enemy is doing to time it right and (you guessed it) THE CAMERA 
 SUCKS.
  
  The target lock doesn't work as designed (I think) , because the camera SUCKS, the target lock won't 
 stay locked during crazy jumps and evasions and this will cause some frustaration as well, just 
 getting the cursor on the target you want can be difficult in a cluttered environment, but that 
 is forgivable givenn that they tried to make the environment and usable as possible.
  
  The save system sucks, it feels like you can save anywhere but you can't ( it will just tell you 
 that it saved) it actually just saves to the begining of sections, you know you are in a new section 
 when it auto saves. Which will have you replaying whole sections over and over, depending on your 
 ability and luck. This again takes you out of the story and makes the game on harder levels ( My 
 first game was on Sith Lord) a game of frustration in many sections.
  
  All of these issues will have me not buy this game until it is in the bargin bin so I can complete 
 Sith Master. 
  
  It is a shame, this game's story was very good, the graphics and game play could have made this 
 game one of the best, but instead when people think about the game it will be about its flaws first 
 and what it could have been second.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 10:31 am PT
Review:  The light ending really bugged me after he died, the dark side one gives you cooler looking robes. 
 I found out that if you double jump on the death star level and then force lighting one of the 
 2 AT-ST, if you get it just right the first one will kill the second also (when the first one dies) . 
 Also, you can get the black saber crystal here. IT LOOKS BEAST! This game also has a lot of achievements 
 so try to get all the holos you can get. Btw, the emperor is easier to fight than Vader. He mostly 
 hurls lighting and junk at you, and every once in a while he calls in royal guards, so you can 
 kill them for more health. Vader likes to choke you and throw you so watch out with him, i killed 
 him useing a lot of lightsaber attacks because my force powers did nothing to him. Hoped this helped, 
 the ending (both) if you hit continue it let you keeps your powers and play the game again :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djdiddles77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Force Unleased was a very fun game to play!! There is nothing better then using all different force 
 powers to kill you enemies!!! I thought I would get tired of throwing people across the terrian, 
 but that never happened! I often used my lighting skill which was very enjoyable!! The one down 
 side was the saber special moves were extremely hard to do since you had to mash down every 360 
 button at one time or in a extremely special order so I pretty much never did them!! The graphics 
 of the game are pretty good and the levels are fun to play! The bosses weren't particulary hard 
 to beat after seeing what their weakness is! Once I started playing I didn't want to put it down 
 until I beat it, which didn't take that long! I definately recommend this game to any Star Wars 
 fans or to anyone who wants to have fun using the force a lot!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vista8
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  You play as Darth Vader's 'secret' apprentice. Your main goal is to destroy the rest of the Jedi, 
 then you have other missions. The reson you kill Stormtroopers is becasue no-one is supposed to 
 know you exist. You have the force at your disposal, and can totally destroy people!! And your 
 light-saber has cool combos too.
  The Good: The Force!! In previus SW games you can only push people over with the Force, now, you 
 can send them flying and sometimes through walls.
  You can also pick up almost anything with the Force, and chuck it at your enemies. You shoot blots 
 of lightning from your finger tips (highly additcting!) .
  With your ligh-saber, you have cool attack combos. When ypu fight a  
 you pull of extremly cool ending moves. For example, you can pick up an AT-ST and crush it like 
 a wad of paper, or cut it right in half. You can jump on a Rancore's head, stap it with your light-saber, shoot 
 lightning in is head. Also, amazing graphics, great music, and an extremly sexy ship pilot. And, 
 fight Darth Maul!
  The Bad: Throwing stuff acuraty is difficult. Some very breif, but very extream graphic gliches. 
 Having to unlock saber crystals by looking for holocrons.
  The Confousing: Why does Phroxy (your robot) help you, but try to kill you? And why is the Emporer 
 such a coward? He hides behind is body guards when you attack him.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jer006
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Very annoying game... 
  Frustrations are:
  1) You will fall to your death multiple times
  2) Cannot lock onto enemies
  3) Force buttons are lightsaber combos so when you need that force 
 lightening to be unleashed as you are being double teamed you will instead attempt to throw a lightsaber 
 combo as you previously pressed X
  4) Enemies are way too difficult, 3rd level the boss has so many combos and friends to help her 
 out I just gave up!
  5) Prepare to repeat the same sequence many times in the minigames as I if like me you generally 
 lack hand eye coordination!
  6) Camera Sucks, fighting the boss in level 2 was hard to follow him and actually hit him with 
 force pushes, half the time I just hit thin air as I was not lined up with him!
  
  Could have been very good and I stuck it out to level 3 hoping it would get less frustrating but 
 it did not!! Great graphics and some good bits in there but overall too darned difficult and frustrating... 
 I mean from the get go, vader tells you to leave no evidence and kill everyone so when you try 
 and do that in the hanger initially all you get is wave after wave of stormtroopers spawning over 
 and over again so you have to give in and run away! The only way I got to the boss in level 3 was 
 by running past half of the bad dudes and ignoring them!
  
  I am on the normal difficulty too, if I had known it would be this difficult I would have picked 
 apprentice and maybe I would have liked the game more... Has a lot of potential, good story line 
 and really good graphics - the characters faces were suprisingly well done and unlike most CGI 
 they showed a lot of expression! Force powers are also cool but like I said above the combo mechanism 
 leaves a lot to be desired
  
  This one is definately a renter... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blockie123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a really good game, with one glaring flaw... the targeting system sucks more than all of 
 the bad targerting systems combined. It really breaks the game from being perfect. 
  
  PROS: 
  
  You're force powers kick ass! +3
  The story is great +2
  There are a lot of ways 
 to defeat you're adversaries. +1
  The graphics and art style are top notch. +3
  
  CONS:
  
  Voice acting is very dry and uninspired. -1
  THE TARGETING SYSTEM! -3
  Short -2
 
  Some frame rate hiccups -1
  
  OVERALL: +2... GREAT
  
  The targeting system is based on how the Apprentice is facing, which can create some awkward moments 
 of grabbing the wrong guy or box. Another bad part about this game is that it is short. It can 
 be beaten in a week if you're bad at it, or 2 days if you play it maniacally. 
  
  The graphics are truly impressive, as is the art style. Lucasarts put some good work into the story 
 as well. Since this stuff is totally cannon, you can bet we are going to hear some fan boy weeping.
 
  
  Overall this is a solid title, that could have been much better, but certainly did not disappoint 
 me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marky_Ramone
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  A good game and a good story, and the light side ending fits in nicely as a bridge from Episode 
 III to IV. This is always a good thing when the game is probably going to be judged a lot on continuity. 
 
  
  The gameplay is generally very good and the apprentice's force powers kept me interested. The customisation 
 of the lightsaber was good although I didn't feel that the different crystals made that much of 
 a difference during combat.
  
  Unfortunately there were a few glitches. I suffered from the default text glitch in places which 
 made collecting all the holocrons difficult. On the second run through the game this problem disappeared. 
 I found the targeting system was poor at times also, it tended to target the wrong things during 
 fight sequences. Towards the end of the game, on the hardest setting, I found the game very difficult 
 at one point even with all force powers at maximum. I eventually found a way round it instead after 
 spending a long time trying to beat it.
  
  Overall a very good, if slightly flawed game. In terms of Star Wars games a lot better than Episode 
 III but doesn't have the same lifespan or flexibility as the Knights of the Old Republic games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charliejames4
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Okay, The Fore Unleashed. When I heard about this, I waited for months to play it. When it came 
 out, I hated it. The first thing about it is, its far too repetative. Even when each level is on 
 a totally different planet I feel like I'm doing the same things, over and over again. But not 
 for too long at least, because the game is so short an inexperienced gamer like myself beat it 
 in 2 hours. The force moves are hella tight, but they arent actually as impressive as they looked, 
 usually being smaller and hard to control. And then the duel mode, wii only, sucked balls. So if 
 you like short, irritting games that arent what they were hyped up to be, go buy yourself a copy 
 of The Force Unleashed. Unless you're a Star Wars fan, A real gamer, someone who enjoys life, or 
 currently still breathing. Otherwise go ahead! Because you'll be as dead and boring as this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiritualchemy
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Back when the original X-Box was kickin' around, I played the amazing (and underappreciated) game 
 Psi-Ops. At the time, I would repeatedly ask myself "why hasn't Lucasarts utilized this (telekinesis) 
 control scheme in any of their games? It'd be perfect for using the force!!!" Well, imagine my 
 glee when I heard that Psi-Ops was actually one of a number of influences for Force Unleashed! 
 Unfortunately, when playing as Starkiller I didn't make the Psi-Ops connection at all. Not only 
 does Starkiller grab objects other than what the blue reticule is telling me is targeted, but getting 
 those objects to fly in an intended direction is an exercise in futility. And if your target happens 
 to exist on a different y-axis than Starkiller then forget throwing objects altogether, you'll 
 be lasered to death long before you can adjust the height of your object. Just a little bit of 
 auto-aiming from Lucasarts in this department would've been appreciated.
  
  My second complaint comes from some of the gameplay events thrown in as an act of variety. Raising 
 platforms, for example, takes an absurd amount of time. I understand that the intention is to increase 
 the impression of lifting sizeable objects, but the frustration is too much when constantly spawning 
 enemies shoot you in the back and, when turning around to engage them, the platform you spent the 
 last 10-15 seconds raising drops back down. The mini-games, likewise, were upsetting because I 
 want to be able to enjoy Starkillers cinematic destruction without the anxiety of waiting for the 
 next button in the sequence.
  
  Lastly, and probably most importantly, I felt like the title of this game should've be "The Force 
 Humiliated". I never had an exhilarating moment playing as Starkiller. It honestly felt as though 
 Lucasarts bent all sorts of Star Wars canon just to make every single enemy in the game a "Jedi/Sith 
 Killer". Every set of enemies in a level has one enemy type with melee/block capabilities equivalent 
 to that of a lightsaber. (Not to mention the lightsaber felt as though it's damage was equivalent 
 to that of a tee-ball bat.) Each set has an enemy type with a function that performs exactly like 
 a force grab/throw. Enemies with heavy laser guns will spawn in multiples and are capable of tagging 
 you with sniper precision from ridiculous distances. And the sheer number of enemies assaulting 
 from every direction (good luck with the camera) felt absolutely stifling.
  
  I don't know if there's many that agree with this assessment, but in regards to third-person action 
 I believe there's better experiences to be had with the likes of Ninja Gaiden or Devil May Cry. 
 The graphics in this game were superb and I was digging the character development, but essentially 
 it was just too much to ask to forgive the actual gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet573
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Star Wars TFU lets you play as Starkiller, a man who works for Dark Vader as his secret apprentice...
 
  But wait... you already know that... All the hype and all that...
  
  Anywho, the game is fun, killing enemies using specific force powers can lead to great results, 
 but for some reason, every enemy finds a way to negate your force powers, which leads to frustration. 
 I am supposed to be playing a powerful sith lord, not someone who can get killed by a stormtrooper...
 
  
  The story is good, and explains quite a few things, though the ending is kinda crappy (I'll let 
 you fins out) .
  
  I beat this game in about four hours... a really small amount of time considering the fact that 
 I paid sixty dollars for it. You can always go back and play on other difficulties, but the game 
 barely rewards you for doing so...
  
  Also, Raxus Prime is one of the worst gaming levels ever. When you have to take down the Star Destroyer, 
 the huge thing I saw when I first noticed the commercials and trailers, it is the most annoying 
 thing ever. 
  
  Slowly turn... oh... tie fighters.... (It takes like five minutes to take out the tie fighters, which 
 means the star destroyer can go back to its original position...)
  
  It took me over an hour to complete this, even without dying... I cussed my way to the end...
 
  
  A good rental, but a horrible buy, for all the hype this game had, it trips, falls flat on its 
 face, and breaks its nose... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steeley92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:51 am PT
Review:  i was sceptical at first, i mean another star wars game with an extra story line that seems to 
 be even less interesting with every new game, but this game is suprisingly different and unique 
 and is very fun.
  
  i thought the stroy was really special, really filling in the gaps between episode 3 and 4, and 
 showing how the rebellion was formed and what happened to the rest of the jedi order. i loved the 
 combat system, and i thought that using the force to kick the crap out of the stormtroopers was 
 the most fun i have had in a star wars game. 
  
  there were a few glitches with the enviromnment and when you throw the stormtroopers into walls 
 they sometimes get stuck, but i liked the game i was able to see past them. sometimes the game 
 went off from the actual story straying into the annoying area.
  
  finally, i love this game and i think many people do to, but i think that it could of been alittle 
 bit better with the fighting moves. the new destruction physics are amazing and i love to do the 
 versus mode.
  great game!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game has an engaging story. It also has graphics that do not quit. Best graphics I've seen 
 on the 360 so far. Problem is, there isn't enough of it. It also can be frustrating when trying 
 to target enemies and things when speed is of utmost importance.
  
  There were several points in the story where they could have expounded and had further action. 
 It didn't need to be this short. It felt too quick anyway. It felt like they were leaving things 
 out.
  
  It is frustrating sometimes during the action to try and target something during a fight. I'm sure 
 there are alot of really cool things that could be done. Trouble is, it is difficult to target 
 specific things. Since the story is so short, it doesn't let you really get the hang of it before 
 you get to the end.
  
  It is very much worth playing though, especially if your a star wars fan. It is so short that I 
 wouldn't recommend laying out $50 on it. I'd go rent it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unholy_Terror
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I will just start off by saying that I am a pretty big star wars fan. I've played a few Star Wars 
 games, but I think this one is my favorite. 
  STORY: First of all, the story, which takes place not too long before Episode IV, is quite amazing. 
 It is the story of Vader's secret apprentice and is full of the betrayal, inner struggles, and 
 lightsabers that Star Wars fans have come to love. The story gets a little cheesy at times, but 
 I still felt connections to the characters, especially Starkiller's droid, Proxy. A flaw with the 
 story is that Starkiller ends up stronger than any pretty much any other Star Wars character and 
 it seems a bit ridiculous, but this isn't much of a flaw because it makes you feel ridiculously 
 cool!
  I'M A JEDI: I heard in previews for this game that the makers wanted to make you feel like a Jedi/Sith, 
 and they definitely did this for me. Running around using my lightsaber, force grabbing and throwing 
 stormtroopers and barrels hundreds of feet into the air was incredibly satisfying and really made 
 me feel awesomely powerful. I've heard a lot of people talking about problems with the targeting 
 and I have to admit it wasn't perfect, but I think it was very good considering the scope of what 
 it was trying to accomplish. You can pick up a box and throw it at an enemy that is across the 
 map. Even though this doesn't always work as planned, it was definitely good enough for me.
  REPLAYABILITY: Before I beat this game, I thought this had some replayability, but as I started 
 to play it again, I found myself not really wanting to go through it again
  One last negative thing is that, you will occasionally come across an enemy that can knock you 
 down pretty much in sync with you getting back up. This can be a hassle at times and you might 
 die but you can usually dash out of the way if you get the timing right.
  
  Overall I had a lot of fun with this game. The story was good, the action was fun, and the controls 
 really allowed me to feel like I was wielding the awesome powers of the Force. I highly recommend 
 you play through this game at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Star wars the force unleashed is for the most part a dreadfull, frustrating game with many reasons 
 not to play it, and maybe a few to give it a look. Good storyline, awesome ways to kill your enemies, 
 and different saber color crystals are the good part of the game. What's the bad? Well where do 
 I start... oh yes the camera in the game. Say that you are trying to jump over a 1000 mile deep 
 ravine to get to another platform which is only a few yards away but several yards down. Naturally, 
 you would adjust the camera so that you could see if you are about to fall short and then you could 
 double jump. But the camera **** up as soon as you jump and you will probably fall short of the 
 jump or over shoot the jump causing you to die and wait through the ridiculously long load times. 
 Honestly, the load time for this game is just unacceptable. I have time to go and use the bathroom 
 and make myself a hotpocket panini before the game is finished loading (not kidding, I've done 
 it) The targeting system is EXTREMELY annoying. For example, if you are attempting to use force 
 lighting on an enemy that is 5 feet away from you, sometimes you will attack a **** rock with force 
 lightning. Wow, that helps alot. If you are knocked down by a rancor or a large enemy that knocks 
 you down whenever you are on the ground, it takes you way to long to get up and as soon as you 
 get up you get knocked down again!! This game is ridiculously difficult and so frustrating that 
 I had thoughts of homicide directed towards the developers while playing it (a little overboard? 
 nah.) . Star wars the force unleashed has a good storyline with good voice actors and without a 
 doubt the plot is 90x better than the prequel trilogy (episodes 1,2, and 3) . Which is why im so 
 angry when this game hits a wall of glitches and bad camera **** ups. I want to continue the storyline 
 but it dont want to get pissed off. And the only way to view the cutscenes (in a decent quality, 
 mind you) is to beat the game. The graphics are nice, the lightsabers are cool, and the unlockable 
 costumes are sweet. I'd say that the bad outweighs the good unfortunately. Star Wars: The Force 
 Unleashed is a good continuation of the Star Wars saga, but a mediocre game at best. Hopefully 
 a movie adaption of this will be made (since the characters in game look similar to the voice actors) 
 so that people won't need to put themselves through the frustration that is this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdmnymrph
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is suffering from a perfect example of fan boy fare going overboard. Such Star Wars lovers 
 wanted this game to be so fantastically perfect that anything short results in what we have - criticism 
 that is not completely warranted. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, I too am a Star Wars junky and die hard fan. The glitches did suck, but at 
 it's core the game play was fun, challenging at harder difficulties, and had a great story.
  
  I admit that there is no excuse for the glitches (never should have made it past beta with 
 the holocron glitch) , but it should not take away from what was otherwise a solid Star Wars experience.
 
  
  Feel free to call Lucas Arts out on the glitches, but as for the actual game people are piling 
 on the hate in volumes that the game does not deserve.
  
  PS: Lightsabers are cool; even better with lightning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  And there was already the ending sequence to a great story with an almost as great game. I can 
 totally agree with gamestop that this game has it's frustrating moments, but there are so many 
 good things about this game, I'm happy I gave it a chance.
  
  First of all, I have to say I'm a huge star wars fan, that's the main reason I wanted to play TFU 
 before Fallout 3. I've heard that when you play this game, you have a different feeling about the 
 movies. I can't say that yet, because I only watched one of the 2 different endings, maybe with 
 the other one I'm more surprised..
  
  Well about the game, here are my thoughts:
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  -Fantastic presentation, with the well-known orchestra you know from the movies.
 
  
  -Some of the greatest boss-fights you'll ever encounter, especially with.... I can't tell you, 
 but I definitely said something way rougher than "Oohh Snap!!" when I started the fight.
  
  -Being a Sith and using the force is really fantastic and gives you the feeling of power!
  
 
  -The story is most definitely much better than episodes 1-3. You really feel involved with the 
 characters and their inner conflicts.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  -Some force-powers do not work very well. When you use grip, you will have many times that you 
 misgrip and take something completely different. Because of this, it often happens that you grab 
 something which stands next to you and cause it to explode, and get hurt. Annoying!
  
  -The first levels are great, later on, you will get claustrophobic because of the narrow spaces 
 you have to walk in. Let alone that using your force powers in those spaces are really frustrating.
 
  
  -The camera can be a great annoyance!
  
  -The platforming can sometimes be frustrating
  
  All said, when you are a fan of the movies, 
 don't hesitate to check it out!
  If you are not a fan, it is still a good game, but there may be other similar game that are a bit 
 more "stable".
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan353
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  The star wars force unleashed is a great game at most points but there are a few annoying things 
 with the game.
  
  It has a way to short story mode which makes it to quick to finish if u play this for one whole 
 day u r most likely going to finish it within 3-5 hours of playing.
  
  The game is way to easy to play. But on the good side great graphics combat is good. this game 
 is one of the best cut scenes games ever. It also has a great story line. anyway star wars force 
 unleashed is a good game and you will be addicted to it for a while so why don't u head down to 
 your nearest game store and buy it.
  
  Now i am just running out of words to say now lol so any way what do u guys think of the game. 
 YES ONLY ONE day of school left then holidays this is a crap review don't listen to me lol lol 
 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tksmiller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  When I played the demo for the first time, I thought the lesser graphics was for space on Microsoft's 
 XBOX LIVE server. 
  A month later, it was the same graphics. What the heck?
  THey said it was supposed to be great graphics but it seemed to have that Jedi Knight feel to it, 
 just with amped up force powers and a man holding a saber backwards. 
  The game is very short too. I finished it in two days... both endings!
  But it is true, Euphoria 
 and DMM is very visible in the game. JUSt not what it seemed to be. 
  LA really made it seem that i'd be playing the best game in history. 
  But really, its just another 
 SW game.
  Yes its highly addicting and fun to electrocute stormtroopers or throw rodians off the ledge, but 
 it didn't get you to say, "Wow! That story was great!" 
  The story was too predictable. 
  
  Conclusion:
  - graphics (7.5)
  -Story (5.0)
  -Addicting (8.0 if your a SW fan.. if not 
 7.0)
  -Sound (9.0)
  -Actors (7.0)
  
  Would I suggest this game? If you like Star Wars, yes. 
  If you like smart AI? No.
  
  (Note: 
 this review was made by a Starwars fan.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Lucius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I first saw this game in a prevew of Shonen Jump magizine. The picture was a guy with a lightsaber 
 blasting a stormtrooper into a solid steel wall. At that moment i fell in love. Sense that moment 
 i waited almost a year untill it came out. I took out the disk, placed it into my 360, and fell 
 in love all over again.
  
  You are Galen Marek, aka Starkiller. You are Darth Vader's Secret Apprentice. Diven to limets, 
 you are the most powerful weapon in the galaxy. Deployed by The Dark Lord Vader, you travel across 
 the galaxy inforcing your master's iron will. Together with you Pilot Juno Eclipse and your Holo-Droid 
 PROXY, you must uncover your past and decide the future of the Rebal Allience. 
  
  This game is an instant classic. The Story tells the tale of the birth of the Rebellian and sheds 
 light in the pivotal years between Epesodes III and IV. It left me gasping and yerning for more. 
 The Graphics are by far the best i've ever seen. Not only can you see every scar on starkiller's 
 face but even the rust on the stormtrooper's armor. The Cutscenes are almost life like. But the 
 thing that gets me is how lifelike the enviroment looks. Steel bends like steel, wood breaks like 
 wood, and stomtroopers run in fear of your powers. For that you have Euphoria and DDM to thank. 
 
  
  I would have given this game a 10 if it were'nt for the fact is that the levels can get old. If 
 youve been through the level once, than you've seen everything there is too see. So i give it a 
 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CliX098
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This has some really god graphics. The combos are cool and sometimes funny. The main reason I like 
 this game is bcuz it has some pretty awesome force moves. My favorite to use is the force grab. 
 I like it bcuz u can pickk someone up and then throw them really far of a cliff or a bridge. And 
 u can shock people. It looks amazing! I almost got blinded by the PURE aweaomeness! It is pretty 
 short but has some cool cheats and lightsaber colors (the best is black) to choose from. Combat 
 in this game is intense. The finishing moves on the bosses usually end up being pretty sweet. One 
 of the best parts in this game is bringing down that immense star destroyer. When it crashes, its 
 like, bbcchhhh boosh boom bang errrrnnngghhh. Yeah. This is the third best star wars game in the 
 freakin' world! After you play it for a little while, you get bored of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: udunwanan0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Force Unleashed is truly one of the best in the Star Wars series. Its the first Star 
 Wars game to be made in this next-gen of consoles and it definetely lived up to our expectations. 
 Throughout the game you play as the apprentice of Darth Vadar, trying to kill Jedis and fullfill 
 your ultimate destiny. The combat system in this game is great, you have an entire arsenal of techniques 
 to kill your opponents with. It ranges from lightsaber combos to force powers and force grip and 
 even the ultimate Sith attack Force Lightning. The combat system would never get boring, something 
 cool or new always happens. The physics engine in this game is extremely powerful, being able to 
 force push and grib many objects nearby makes utilizing your enviornments a necessity to pass through 
 the game. The storyline in this game is a bit shaky but a lot of emotional moments, its not one 
 of the games where the plot drives you forward. Throughout the game you'll meet a ton of characters, 
 all proving to be significant sooner or later. The graphics are stunning, it just.... soooooo good. 
 Every detail is just right and you can tell by looking at a Stormtrooper or the Lightsabers. One 
 of the best things about this game is that there are a wide range of lightsabers, and they all 
 look freakin awesome, making the humming sounds and just... wow its like the lightsabers in the 
 film. During the gameplay there are some weaknesses, youll experience laggs and occassions and 
 pauses, but not as frequent as it would drive you nuts, just a little here and there. Bottom line 
 Star Wars Force Unleashed is a great game that any Star Wars fan or 360/PS3 owner want an action 
 packed game, you cant go wrong with SWFU. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmsaareagles
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  The goal of this game is to make you feel as powerfull as ever, totally owning everyone and everything. 
 They kind of do this well, but after a little bit of playing, being strong can be very boring. 
 All of the levels are highly repetitive and have the same kind of enemies and objectives. The boss 
 battle are a big let down and one of them will have you screaming your head off and throwing everthing 
 in site. Its not because its hard, its just that it was so badly made and just plain stupid. The 
 game isnt broken, but the targeting system goes off and on, and the lightsader seems to be not 
 very affective in combat. The leveling up system is kind of good, but must of the upgrades do nothing 
 to your character and his skills. It is cool how you can change his outfits and lightsaber, but 
 thats about it for the good stuff in this game. If you are a Star Wars fan then this game may be 
 good for you. The story isnt to bad, and it can turn you on to the game some what, but its pretty 
 predictable. This game could have been good, but repetitive guests, bad boss battle, and some messed 
 up controls prevent this game from being a next great chapter in the Star Wars Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedMetalFan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Its been a while since the last successful Star Wars has been released. This release changes, with 
 a very fun action game, that lets you use the Force unlike in any of other Star Wars game. And 
 for the most part the game succeeds in doing this. The Force powers feel unlike they do in any 
 other Star Wars game.
  
  The intro level is one of the best I've seen in a long time, you start out in a prologue level, 
 playing as Darth Vader. I'd never thought I'd have so much fun killing wookies. Darth Vader is 
 very powerful, and the level does a very good job of giving you a feel of being the sith lord. 
 He slowing marches forward, with the ability of killing anyone in his path, with ease. The level 
 will finally make it clear why Darth Vader is feared so much in the Star Wars movies. 
  
  Shortly after this you take the control of brand new character, Darth Vader's secret apprentice, 
 Starkiller. With very few powers at the first level, he is far from being a sith lord, but it won't 
 be long before you become extremely powerful. You might even start to fell like the most powerful 
 person to ever live, I know that sounds odd, but after you get so far into the game, you'll know 
 what I'm talking about.
  
  But this feeling of being powerful may not last long, because The Force Unleashed has some really 
 challenging boss fights, some of the best in recent memory. The first boss fight seemed like a 
 breeze, so I thought the rest of them would be too. But that is the only boss in the entire game 
 that I thought was easy, you won't be disappointed with the challenges these characters will bring.
 
  
  But that doesn't mean there's nothing disappointed with anything in the game. This brings me to 
 the games main problem, it's targeting system. The way you target your force powers is not with 
 a button, not with adjusting the camera. You will target in whatever direction Starkiller is facing. 
 This leads to some very frustrating combat sequences, it can easily cause you to mess up a combo, 
 or attack the wrong target.
  
  But now we get to what is probably the best part of The Force Unleashed, it's story. It's one of 
 the best, if not the best, story that's been told in a video game all year. With main characters 
 that are very easily likable, to a reason to want to get to see the game though. You will see some 
 very strong changes in Starkiller's personality. There are two endings to the Force Unleashed, 
 the 'good' ending' is what actually happens in the Star Wars saga, and it adds a very good and 
 interesting twist to the entire Star Wars story. And the 'evil' ending is a 'what if' kind of ending, 
 that is very dark, and twisted. 
  
  The Force Unleashed is a mix of fun, frustration, and great story telling. Fans of Star Wars will 
 probably be very pleased with the game. Giving a feel to the Force that is very fun, and unlike 
 any previous Star Wars game, to a great story that you will wan to see though. If you are a fan 
 of action games, you might also enjoy this game, if you can get though its downside. So if you 
 are a Stars Wars fan, check the game out, if not, you should at least give the game a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bornabuckeye
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  The Good :
  
  1. Learning a new chapter to star wars is great, although the character development could have 
 been more entertaining.
  
  2. Destroying everything in sight with a plethora of powers and combos is satisfying.
  
  3. 
 Game difficulty levels are spot on and will give any gamer a challenge. The 
  
  4. Playing as darth Vader quenches a thirst we have all had at one time or another.
  
  Bad: 
 
  
  1. Game lags often
  
  2. Too much boredom in between action
  
  3. Story and characters develop slowly.
  
  4. Story is rather boring repetitive
  
  5. Graphics 
 are marginal. Very simplistic most of the time. 
  
  Like I have stated above, dont believe the hype. SWTFU is a game that will have its followers based 
 on the fact that its star wars and you kill people with darth vader. But at its core its an underwhelming 
 video game that has more than its share of problems. Save yourself some money and rent before buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mandalorian_81
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This game has me pretty puzzled. Im not sure if its because i listened to the hype too much or 
 weather the game is just a bit dull but The Force Unleashed left me cold.
  The storyline, which i was told was going to be a very important key part in the Star Wars saga, 
 seemed very unlikely and didnt seem to fit in unlike other side projects such as the Clone Wars 
 cartoons.
  I found the main character to be quite boring, his attitude and his looks gave me the impression 
 he was more of a couch potato sith than the all powerful uber sith he was touted to be.
  While the main storyline is often boring it does offer some very interesting bombshells which i 
 wont go into because i dont want to spoil it, its just a shame they great points in the plot werent 
 concentrated on more.
  
  The action in the game is very samey, its the same old running around and hitting buttons pulling 
 off some combos that arnt very exciting. I would have prefered they used the combo system that 
 was in the Conan game, now that would have been awesome !
  
  The force powers are fun to use at first but they almost start to seem as if they are cheats, its 
 far too easy to defeat the strongest of enemies when using your force powers, they take away all 
 the challenge from the game and make it pretty boring, i suppose being so powerful with the force 
 is a double edged sword.
  
  The graphics are pretty nice, and the controls are nice and responsive, the sounds as you'd imagine 
 are first rate.
  
  The Force Unleashed is actually a good game and a must for fans of Star Wars just because all us 
 SW geeks have dreamed of weilding the force in this way but people who arnt huge SW fans will probably 
 just find it pretty dull.
  
  I wish it was more like "Jedi Acadamy" in the way that there was a decent enough story line and 
 it felt more like you were in the SW universe rather than running around beating things up just 
 because they are there.
  
  In conclusion, if your an SW fan then definitly go out and get this game, and if your not into 
 SW then go get it anyway, its better than the incredible bloody hulk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xdubah
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  This game is not like other star wars games. It gives much more freedom with force powers. But 
 still doesn't get it all. The controls for Starkilller are a little rusty. Jumping is weird when 
 coming down. It feels like gravity has its hand on you. The powers have a variety but upgrading 
 doesn't change much. Still the force is really unleashed in this game. Also upgrading takes some 
 while. Customizing is perfect including lightsaber and costume. Overall it is great game. May the 
 force be with you. Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed 
 Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed 
 Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed 
 Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed 
 Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed 
 Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed 
 Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed Force Unleashed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarTorn409
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is an interesting case. I will say that is the first game to truely 
 master the art of fighting with a lightsaber and some of the forces power are truely incredible. 
 The forces push especially envokes an "OH!" factor. The only problem is some of the powers that 
 a player can earn are frustrating to use or you honestly have no idea what they do. Most normal 
 players end up just using the force push/lightning combo repetitively when there could be so much 
 more. Many of the games combos are made far harder than they have to be and sometimes a player 
 will get frustrated while trying to execute a certain move either to earn achievements or just 
 kill a character in a particular way that suits your fancy. 
  The lightsaber duels with other jedi are an aspect that make a must buy. They are truely believeable 
 and the "finishing sequences" are creative. The system for these sequences are the "press the button 
 on time or start over" which can be difficult at points especially if your health is low because 
 if you fail you could die. 
  The Sith Lord difficulty is the true jedi experience and really makes you feel mortal. It is unlocked 
 after you beat the game on any level. After you beat the game the first time you will want to replay 
 it as the story has alternate endings. I suggest doing it on this Sith Lord difficulty if you truely 
 want a challenge. You have the option to chose your upgraded character from a previous save slot 
 or begin a new.
  The story is also a very strong point of the game. It truely does fill in the gap between Episode 
 III and A New Hope. It explains the origins of a lot of things, but at times it can be a little 
 bit unbelieveable but then you tell yourself "Well it's Star Wars..." and forget you even thought 
 that.
  The failure to properly utilize more force abilities is why this game did not get a 9+ because 
 it is what was most publized about the game. While you do have the ability to wreak havok there 
 is a possibility to wreak more if tweaked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAlTerego
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The lightsabers dont cut through anything
  Multiple replay sequences that you cant skip
  The junkyard for example.... The force trash over and over and over again when you fall because 
 you don't make your jump
  
  I give up.
  
  Play Dead Space, Grand Theft Auto or Bioshock
  
  This game is a total waste of your time.
 
  
  The last Lucas Arts game I'll ever waste my time on.
  
  Flush this turd.
  
  Al
  
  Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your 
 time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of 
 your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste 
 of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste 
 of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste 
 of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste 
 of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste 
 of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste 
 of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste 
 of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste of your time. Waste 
 of your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynam3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  The Star wars journey hasn't stopped yet, with star wars the force unleashed the new game by lucasarts.
 
  
  Star wars the force unleashed is a game where you feel very powerful, you can throw people, slam 
 people and zap people. Your character feels brave and wants challenges. The story is the best part 
 of the game where you are darth vaders secret apprentice doing top secret missions against the 
 emporer, Star wars fans will not be disappointed by the story. A story of betrayal and revenge 
 which will keep motivating you along with the amazing cutscenes which make your mouth water. The 
 characters are great with sam witwer being the voice for the apprentice it adds emotion to the 
 character. Proxy you robotic sidekick and juno eclipse your flight officer and love intrest.
  
  Now on to the gameplay, ill tell you this now, the game is WAY too short, I was left wanting 
 more =) . The first few missions are the best with the easy guys like stormtroopers and other creatures 
 and for the first mission you play as Darth vader murdering wookies for some reason. The controls 
 are really simple and easy to do combos and force moves, force moves include push, grab, lightning, 
 surround and throw. Its so thrilling just thrashing these force moves together and creating and 
 ultimate star wars scene. Also of course you can use lightsaber and stab people but the force is 
 the big thing here. The boss battles tend to be easy for the first few but than to the end along 
 with the missions get pretty frustrating with enemies ambushing you and attacking from every direction 
 so you cant stand up, Frustrating much!!!. There are 2 endings both really good ones which are 
 worth doing both of them, during the game you unlock stuff like new lightsabers and suits which 
 are pretty good replay value i guess. Overall Star wars TFU was a decent game that you will remember. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  Force Unleashed hands us the reigns of Darth Vaders secret apprentice, set between episodes 3 and 
 4. You spend the game hunting down remaining Jedi for Vader, and setting in motion events that 
 lead into the original Star Wars Trilogy. For the most part the game is a fantastic experience. 
 Starkiller has an amazing amount of powers, all of which are fantastic to use. Nothing feels better 
 than electrocuting a whole group of Stormtroopers and then blasting them away with force push. 
 Graphically the game looks fantastic, and everything looks like star wars should. However gameplay 
 wise, the controls sometimes give out with a few bad movements. The biggest flaw is the fact that 
 the lightsaber fighting in the end plays a very small part. Very early on if you pump enough points 
 into your force powers, you can pretty much get through the rest of the game with just that. The 
 game is also somewhat surprisingly short, but again blasting stormtroopers makes up for that. Overall 
 its a fantastic game that has a few flaws that unfortunately drags it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  How was the Rebellion formed? What happened between the Revenge of the Sith and A New Hope? Questions 
 like these, and a lot more, will be answered. The Force Unleashed, which is the episode no. 3.5 
 reveals all the plotholes ever and not just that- it focuses on the development of characters who 
 have already been introduced in the Star Wars saga and tells us of a young boy of a Jedi, whose 
 family is snatched away by the dark side and how Darth Vader trains him to become a Sith. Throughout 
 the game, the turmoil of Starkiller is shown, his disbelief in both sides of the Force and how 
 he goes on to ultimately form the Rebellion. 
  
  The story of the game is one of the best you could ever find in ANY game. It can put many movies 
 (some of them Star Wars themselves) to shame. It tells of Vader and his apprentice, Starkiller 
 and their ultimate plan to kill and overthrow the Emperor. But everything in the plot is not what 
 it seems to be...
  
  The story, throughout the game is presented through breathtakingly cinematic cutscenes, which are 
 highly reminiscant of the epic Star Wars movies. 
  
  Throughout the game, many revered themes of the Star Wars saga- The Duel of the Fates, The Imperial 
 March, The Skywalker Theme and many more- are very frequently heard. Even the background musics 
 which have been newly composed are so typically Star Wars, it feels as if you're playing one of 
 the movies.
  
  The Presentation of the game, as has been told before, is highly breathtaking and not any less 
 when compared to ANY Star Wars movie. The sound, the story and the presentation put together make 
 this game so breathtaking, you almost feel sad that the Fore Unleashed is nothing more than a game. 
 FU is so spectacular, that you want to see it in the form of a movie. You feel as if it was made 
 to be a movie.
  
  Also, the unlockables of this game are one of the strong points of the game. The costumes, the 
 light saber customization, the holocrons- they all add up to form another major part of the game.
 
  
  Now, lets move over to the cons of Star Wars: The Force Unleashed. The first glaring flaw is the 
 gameplay. Its very typical. Its good, yes, no doubt about that, but it offers nothing new. It offers 
 the button mashing thingy, which has been shamelessly ripped off from God of War. Then, it offers 
 the context sensitive battle system, which ultimately brings down the boss, but even that has been 
 ripped off entirely from God of War. And even these things dont feel as good as they should. Then, 
 there's the magic. Now, tell me, isn't magic a very old concept. Not that they shouldnt have put 
 it in. Its fun to use. 
  
  What I'm saying is that everything that is present in the gameplay should have been there. I have 
 nothing against them. But there should have been something else. Something new that would make 
 us want to say- "Oh Snap!"
  
  Then, we move on to the next, and the biggest, put off in the game. The graphics. The graphics 
 and the camera are the most glitchy graphics and camera you could ever find in a game, except for, 
 maybe, Burnout Legends on the DS. I was battling the Emperor, when suddenly the camera goes behind 
 my head and I'm seing through the point where my nose should be and I'm flying in the air with 
 triangular holes of black nothingness in the ground. 
  
  The graphics are not exactly bad, but its the glitches what makes them so horrifying. 
  
  My 
 final verdict is that Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is technically a highly pro-efficient game 
 with great sound quality, spectacular story and presentation and a funfilled gameplay engine but 
 the flaws of the game, like the glitchy graphics, might put you off. In short, for all hardcore 
 Star Wars fans and any other players who are looking for funfilled masterpieces, this game is as 
 good as perfect.
  
  Mey the Force be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobie2games
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  It's not like the demo was better than the game. Because the demo does help tell you if your going 
 to like the game or not. If you didn't like the demo, you're not going to like the game. On the 
 other hand though if you liked the demo, well that's pretty much the game. See story is good and 
 that's why I kept playing, all though I did stop for a brief time because well it didn't seem worth 
 it to continue at one point. I got to the part where you fight Darth Vader (sorry if that's a spoiler) 
 and he kept killing me. I bought the game the day it came out and even got a free T-Shirt with 
 it, but now I wish I would have saved my money to buy one of the other great games that came out 
 this year. Force unleashed does have some moments where you say woah thats cool with it's God of 
 War cinematic fights, but overall the game-play was just alright. I don't think it got repetative, 
 but I'm a star wars fan and I have been following the game since it's teaser came out and it was 
 just a let down. You do feel like the force is unleashed with you and the story does draw you in. 
 But the level design lacks creativity I felt and the combat I just feel when I'm playing it could 
 have been much better. One thing I hated about the game was there a loading time between switching 
 in out of the menu screen and when you're choosing which menu to go to. That just ruined the game-play 
 especially when you have to go to the menu screen to level up. If your a star wars game or if your 
 just an action adventure fan that likes a good story I would suggest you wait a little when this 
 game goes down in price. With no multiplayer you're going to play this game once maybe two times 
 and $59.99 new or $54.99 used is just not worth it. I would say wait til the game goes under $20 
 and you will feel like you got a good deal. Because I bought this game full price and I feel like 
 I got cheated and its just a regret now that I look back and there are just so many good games 
 that I don't have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geon_lansis
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Do we actually need another Star Wars game? The latest game developed entirely by Lucas Arts seems 
 to be the most ambitious Star Wars game to date, with all the hightech realistic gravity engine 
 and all, but like the movie Episode 1-3, it missed the point entirely for what made Star Wars great.
 
  
  This latest installment of the Star Wars story lies between Episode 3 and 4, where the Rebellion 
 starts to take form, and where the Death Star nears it's completion. You play the game as Starkiller, 
 a Sith apprentice, son of a Jedi Master killed by Darth Vader. In the game you get to see cutscenes 
 and story plots that are rich with Star Wars styled movies, with very good voice acting.
  
  As usual, in the game you venture through the galaxy and come across various life forms, creatures 
 and characters from the Star Wars universe. Plenty of them are new to those who aren't in par with 
 the advancement of the Star Wars universe in the past few years, and may seem odd, kinda weird, 
 sometimes stupid, but mostly weird. You are assigned a pilot - Juno Eclipse, who shows some itimacy 
 and interests within the game in Starkiller, and the other way 'round. With several twists in the 
 plot, with the help of Juno, Starkiller starts to doubt the favor of Darth Vader and his true destiny.
 
  
  You are armed with a lightsaber and the ability to use the force. You can use the force to grab 
 your opponent in the air and throw them away or against the wall to kill them, or you could grab 
 TIE Fighters using your force grapple and send it exploding onto a pile of unexpecting Stormtroopers. 
 You can electricute your enemies or temporary stunt larger and more powerful droids and attack 
 vehicles to combo in with your attack. You earn points to upgrade your skills, abilities and powers. 
 You can even customize your costume or even the color crystal of your lightsaber, from orange to 
 black.
  
  The controls are solid enough but are unresponsive especially for jumps and important combo moves 
 and the camera angles are no help at all. Unlike DMC or GOW (God of War) games, Lucas Arts still 
 has plenty to catch up to. The game is mainly a hack and slash game, and have left puzzle solvings 
 entirely out in the game. The only puzzle to this game is to allign 3 reactor beams thingy in the 
 Death Star to go across the platform. That's all for puzzles.
  
  The cutscenes are amazing and the graphics are stunning as well, especially in the faces of the 
 characters. Other than that, attention to detail in worlds and environments and other character 
 environments are on the very low side of the force. Making the world seem very unrealistic and 
 unimmersive. Boss fights are good enough to make you interested for a while, and some stages are 
 very challenging, such as the stage where you get to pull down a Star Destroyer while avoiding 
 getting killed by TIE Fighter laser blasts.
  Some who are not entirely sure about Star Wars might find themselves playing the game just for 
 the purpose to beat it. The game does has some bugs and irritating enemies such as the AT-ST walker 
 and the Rancor, and the game does have some annoying loading time, especially when you're trying 
 to upgrade your skills and abilities.
  
  Overall, this is a good game and could do better. The game is very short, and I finished it within 
 3 short days of playing. The controls are sluggish and unprecise, especially if you need to use 
 the Force to grab enemies. The cameras are awful but it does the job right most of the time. Story 
 tells lots about the Star Wars universe, and graphics are quite good. Not great, but quite good, 
 especially in the life-like details for the main character's facial expressions and skin texture. 
 If you're hyped about this game and has high hopes, probably you shouldn't expect too much out 
 if it. Nonetheless, this remains the highest selling Star Wars game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noahjwhite
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Overall I was surprised at how well this game implements the force powers. It really makes you 
 feel like an unstoppable sith lord. I didn't have trouble at all with the targeting except in the 
 level 9? Close to the end. (SPOILER) You have to target Tie fighters and Destroy them... This part 
 was REALLY frustrating and seemed like it should have been cleaned up a bit. Also the game is quite 
 short. I finished it in about 5 hours or so on normal difficulty. As mentioned in the op's review. 
 The story telling is great. I wouldn't go as far as saying it's better than all 3 prequels combined... 
 but it's certainly better than the first 2. Bottem line... if you're a star wars fan you'll love 
 this game. If your an action game fan you'll like this game. If you don' t like star wars or beat'em 
 up action... skip it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savagedesire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a trully unique gaming experience that I can actually justify 
 recommending to others. The games plot takes place in between the third and fourth movies and follows 
 the newly formed character of Darth Vader's secret apprentice. The first few missions are about 
 the same, mostly consisting of going to a planet, smashing everything in sight and killing a member 
 of the jedi council. Later on you mostly end up destroying enviroments as well as some of the more 
 well known series enemies. As you progress through each level you will acquire new and more powerful 
 force powers. These consist of the old favorites from force push and saber throws to force lightning. 
 Although each certain powers are more useful in different scenarios, rarely does any level require 
 that you use that exact skill to complete it. Its all just a matter of how easy you want to make 
 it, but by all means hack and slash everything in sight with your saber if you so choose. The game 
 includes a wide variety of enemies which must be handled in their own way. The weaker fleshlings 
 are daftly prone to take damage from your slashing attacks and quick combos while the AT-ST's and 
 Elite Troopers need some special attention from your electrical abilities. Boss fights really take 
 the cake as far as gameplay goes. Each fight is ever challenging and increase in difficulty and 
 complexity as you advance through. Each battle requires your full attention as the slightest slip 
 ups could land you in a galaxy of pain dealt from your force weilding foe. The game does have a 
 few components that add unnecessary frustration to the experience. First of all I only logged about 
 6 hours on this game and that is with quite a few deaths and restarts. Even with the games multiple 
 difficulties, variety of achievements and unlockables, it's overall repalyability is slim. Also 
 silly things will end in your untimely death. The apprentices squirrely jumps and awkward camera 
 angles can ofen end in him leaping off ledges for no reason. Finally for some reason you have no 
 problem picking up starships with your mind but cannot pick your damn self up off the ground in 
 less then 4 seconds. This can be particularly annoying when you are getting mobbed by a cat-like 
 jedi and have no way to stay on your feet. It's sad to say that this game is only a renter, but 
 even the best experiences can be short. Definitely worth it though, a very good step forward in 
 the Star Wars game franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Lucas Arts tried so hard with this one, and failed due to the simple fundamental difficulty. For 
 gods sake, I had to play the level where you bring down the Star Destroyer about 10 times before 
 I got it down right. After that, you have to deal with a squadron of 10 or so TIE fighters who 
 will blast you to pieces. You must force grip them and destroy them, however they don't fly close 
 enough except on one side of the map and only occasionally. Then, the one object you're given to 
 throw at them loves to seek for a tower to the left that does nothing. Once you destroy them, you 
 must PERFECTLY (I mean PERFECTLY) line up the Star Destroyer. It gives you two pictures of control 
 sticks telling you how to move and it turns green when it's right, but it waits for several seconds 
 before they change to say "Pull down" to bring it down". So you try leaving them alone. Nope, the 
 ship drifts out of alignment and they turn red. Try wiggling them to make it stay put and after 
 10 seconds it finally says "Now bring it down!".
  
  The whole time you're doing this, more TIE fighters are coming at you. Of course, the fact they 
 are coming from the ship makes no difference to you pulling it down. You're not able to smash the 
 TIE fighters with the ship even though it comes down over them, no instead they float through it 
 like ghosts and attack you. You slowly bring the ship closer, but amazingly its thrusters work 
 EXCELLENTLY in the atmosphere and when the TIE fighters get too close you are forced to let it 
 go and destroy them all. In that brief time period, the ship does an almost 90 degree turn making 
 you slowly turn it and take forever doing it. When you finally get it lined up and allow you to 
 pull it down, you get to move it for maybe two seconds then the TIEs are back.
  
  The entire process was controller breakingly infuriating. I did the medium difficulty level (And 
 I thought about doing the hard one... good lord it must be for masochists) and it was this difficult. 
 The game is FULL of these moments. Another irritating habit, the game will have its stupid cutscenes 
 take over and it doesn't stop the action while you can't control your character. The whole time 
 your character is getting attacked, or if you happened to activate the cutscene in a bad spot - 
 WHOOPS, you just get attacked by whatever comes out. One particular scene has you fighting a lot 
 of troopers outside. You kill them all and no matter where you were when you killed the last one, 
 the doors open and you're standing on a pedestal as if to say "Hey, looking for someone to shoot? 
 Pick me, I'm standing tall and RIGHT where you can see me!!". Two purge troopers launch home seeking 
 rockets at you and they both damage your health without any chance of you avoiding them. Hope you 
 weren't almost dead, then it will kill you and you have to fight ALL of them all over again.
  
  Weak characters are able to inflict FAR too much damage. Snipers are an extreme nuisance and 
 have pinpoint accuracy and deal 1/6th of your health bar in damage. They're always hidden away 
 where you can't get them and the targeting system has no way of picking targets - it simply goes 
 for whatever the game wants to. You may try to pick the sniper out and throw him, but it's too 
 busy targeting a rock on the ground and then redirecting the camera. Again, the game is full of 
 moments like this where the targeting system is horrible and causes your death. You may be fighting 
 three rancors and you've almost killed the last one and then a random weak solider who would die 
 from a single hit by your lightsaber hits you and you die. Now you have to fight ALL three rancors 
 again. Infuriating.
  
  Another thing this game has way too much of - glitches. I constantly got stuck in areas for no 
 apparent reason and nothing would get me out except getting hit by a rocket or simply dying. One 
 time I jumped from one platform to another and fell and then fell into white abyss. The game just 
 let me fall off map, but the top half stayed and I was still getting shot and could not move. I 
 had several of these glitch moments which add to the overall frustration of the game.
  
  The difficulty level is far too high and sporadic. The first mission you fight on Raxus Prime against 
 a jedi in a junk jedi temple is ridiculously hard and then the next one is a cakewalk. Then, the 
 next jedi you must kill, Shak Ti (or however it's spelled) is extremely easy compared to the last 
 mission.
  
  The game also tries a romantic side story of sorts. It shows one of the first female Imperial pilots 
 I've ever seen (in rather revealing clothing no-less either - guess they made an exception for 
 her uniform) . In total though, it feels completely unnecessary. Then again, I did not finish the 
 game (Last level I believe, quit due to the insane difficulty level) so it may have tried to culminate 
 into something further. I can only imagine what painfully difficult battle the final one most be. 
 Most likely a fight with 10 AT-STs, several purge troopers, snipers, a few sith, a couple rancors, 
 and a several dozen stormtroopers for good measure.
  
  Overall, the game was fun when not glitching or being insanely difficult - however that was most 
 of the time. That said, I cannot recommend this game to anyone unless they want to break their 
 controller. Avoid this game at all costs unless you're a die-hard Star Wars fan - even then make 
 sure you're in a padded room. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: david12211
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok here do you guys get your game reviewers seriously do you find people that have no idea on how 
 to review a game. I has some problems but not that many like most games do there are glitches but 
 its not as bad as the review said I've played a good 75 hours give or take and I've only had to 
 restart once and that was because my xbox 360 was overheating cuz I have semi good ventilation 
 but. I did notice the sound glitch were sounds were lost or repeated I haven't seen any graphic 
 errors except when something goes out of bounds (witch has errors on every game when that happens) . 
 The game does slow down in one spot and one spot only and that's at raxios prime imperial when 
 your in the drop base (lasts about 20 seconds at most) and after that the game goes normal speed. 
 After saying all that I'd say the game would be a good 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordbob13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  This game is most definitely worth playing through. I would go as far as to say it is worth buying, 
 but I enjoy replaying the same game looking for different results. If you like Star Wars then this 
 game is a must. The power of your Jedi abilities is far beyond what we are used to seeing and makes 
 you feel immersed in the game. The art, sounds and most game play will leave you with a wet spot. 
 You run into a good number of familiar faces which are well rendered. I also enjoyed how they were 
 able to fit the storyline into the larger Star Wars world without creating any continuity issues.
 
  
  The only real problem is a very common one, camera angle. I really think the vast majority of this 
 game's problems come from poor camera angles which give the controls a snarky feel and will leave 
 you yelling "What the #$%@?" more than you'd like. But those are small when compared to the over 
 all game experience. Worth ever dime I paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vercendegrxx
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  The whole child jedi story at the beginning was horribly lame at best.
  Not once have I seen anything remotely close to the crap I was seeing in relation to the new (or 
 old) trilogy . Just a cheap attempt to fill they're pockets by using the SW licence. Lightsaber 
 style looked foolish (al la Asoka anyone?) , and the X X A style combat finishers were a complete 
 joke ! Gameplay is identical to Devil May Cry 4. I'd rather play Dark Forces 2 than this steaming 
 pile! Can these guys at LA ever make their newer games actually fun and or canon to the the OT 
 ? Games like Shadow of the Empire , Dark Forces Series , Mysteries of the Sith , KOTOR , ect. I 
 found Proxy the droid annoying and unrealistic , there are no female imperials anywhere in the 
 Empire during that time (cept for Expanded U stuff) , the idea of this "Secret Apprenticeis 
 lame and totally out of character for Darth Vader. The ending of this game felt like a total waste 
 of time , because I defeated Vader and the Emperor and said mehh , I 'll let them live and let 
 them destroy themselves? Come on people ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgamer367
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars hasn't been known for having great video games. Knights of the Old Republic was my favorite 
 title, but The Force Unleashed is better. Previous games hadn't had been able to capture fun use 
 of the force, which is the coolest part of the series. This is the first Star Wars game where I 
 actually felt the force. As an apprentice to Darth Vader, you learn how to control the dark side 
 of the force. When you begin, you can use the force to lift objects and enemies, but as the game 
 progresses, you will be able to choke enemies, shock enemies with lightning, and take out vehicles 
 with a simple force push. Watching your enemies get eliminated by the force is incredibly fun, 
 and it never gets old. The lightsaber combat in this game is very simple, and pretty boring, so 
 you'll most likely be killing enemies with the force rather than with your lightsaber. Despite 
 the fun gameplay, The Force Unleashed has an awful plot. It is unclear what the main character's 
 relationships are with others and the plot isn't explained or built up very well. Although this 
 game may have a lame plot, any Star Wars fans will love this title. It perfectly demonstrates the 
 power of the force, and how much fun it is to use it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisempire
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  I do believe that this is the best game I have ever played! Not only are the graphics amazing, 
 but the game play, voice acting, music, control scheme, and all other components of it amazing. 
 To date I have finished the game 9 times, 1 on Easy, 2 on Medium, 3 on Hard, and 3 on Very Hard 
 ( I know that these are not the names on the game... such as Sith Lord.. etc...) , I have not played 
 any other game since I bought this game, because of its addicting level. I am planning on finishing 
 the game another 2 times, so I can get full of it. This game is so good, and has such good script 
 and quotes... I have memorized every single line in the game, and know exactly when each come in... 
 people say it's kind of freaky, but after you have played a game like this for this long, and have 
 been this addicted, it's quite self-explanatory.
  
  I recommend to everybody: BUY THIS GAME!!! It is the greatest game ever!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  Star Wars The force Unleashed is a great game. Simply awesome. I loved playing through this game. 
 The game play is great and is a lot of fun. The difficulty is just right. The combat is spectacular 
 and is sharp. The action is fast and furious. Its non stop action and the game is fun, fast paced, 
 and action packed. Using the force push, force grip, repulse, and force lightning is great. Throwing 
 your light sabre and using it in combat is just awesome. This is a very cool game. I highly recomend 
 it to star wars fans and anyone looking for a great action game. the levels are very good and are 
 highly detailed. The graphics are great. The story is great as well. This is the best story ever 
 in a star wars game. The replay value is good, but not great. I'm currently playing through the 
 game for a second time.
  I give 8 out of 10 for the game play. Great game play. 8 out of 10 for the graphics. Graphics are 
 very good. 9 out of 10 for the sound. The star wars music is superb, the voice acting is great, 
 and the sound effects are very cool.
  7 out of 10 for the value and replay value. 9 out of 10 for the tilt. The controlls are suberb 
 in this game. 8.5 out of 10 for the combat. 8.5 out of 10 for the story. Very great story. Keeps 
 the game moving along good. 
  The main problems with this game are the camera and the lock on. The lock on sucks in the boss 
 battles. Like I said I highly recomend this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost89x
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  Supposed to be the next great edition in the star wars saga? This game is a disgrace to lucas arts. 
 The force powers are weaker than ever, fewer than ever and the targeting system is a joke. You 
 will rarely if ever be able to target the opponent you want to. Simple blast rifles put you on 
 the ground and by the time your character gets up more enemies have hit you and you are thrown 
 back onto the ground. In my agonizing play through i have encountered numerous problems with being 
 thrown of into the abyss of a level and dying for no apparent reason. I am very disappointed i 
 bought this makeshift garbage and would suggest no one to buy it even if you are a fan of star 
 wars as this game will only disappoint. The whole press the button sequence is over played and 
 was forgotten about on the original xbox, so lucas arts i am very ashamed you would even put your 
 name on such a terrible unfinished product with no plot whatsoever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icemare13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:24 am PT
Review:  When this game came out, I understood that I haven't played anything Star Wars for a long time, 
 so I just had to buy it. Mediocre reviews didn't scare me as long as it was something about the 
 Galaxy far far away. When I started playing the Force Unleashed, I had only one thought in my mind: 
 "Awesome."
  Where do I start? The best aspect of the game is undoubtedly the storyline. The story of Galen 
 Marek, the secret apprentice of Darth Vader, is simply great. The characters are well-drawn, the 
 plot is strong and the acting is top-notch. The only thing disapointing is, of course, the ending.
 
  The gameplay is amusing but really repetitive. Using the force powers brings you a lot of pleasure 
 but the targeting system is poor (how many times have I grabbed a flying rock instead of a Tie-Fighter?) . 
 The saber combat could be improved - it is fun but not always useful. The boss battles are a pleasant 
 surprise, but some of them are downright cheap. Though the gameplay doesn't have a lot of variety, 
 it is still very enjoyable.
  The soundtrack of this game is composed of original John Williams SW themes so it basically rocks. 
 The graphics are beautiful though the environments are too dull and they are practically the same. 
 
  The Force Unleashed is one of the best SW games to date. It's storyline makes it a must-buy for 
 any SW fan and the others will enjoy its gameplay. The lack of variety is a serious downside but 
 the overall quality of the combat keeps you interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fodpea
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  On the bright side this game has one of the best story lines ever!!! The system to have people 
 move when in air and such is amazing and really realistic (as games allow them) . This game is so 
 pretty too. Has one of the most original story lines too (beside it is star wars) . Controls are 
 great too......................
  On the dark side. Enemies sometimes take a lot of trial and error to get though. I played on medium 
 and it was some times really hard to beat. Opponents sometimes can just block your moves which 
 can make it more hard but it doesn't make it more fun. You know that big scene where you pull down 
 the star destroyer yeah its awesome but it shows how bad the targeting can be. Overall I enjoyed 
 this game alot except for that big star destroyer scene.
  This game sets the bar high on making a great story this one is better then fable 2's.
  Really 
 this is an 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OisinOD
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of star wars games but.... The Force Unleashed is class. Although you can complete 
 it in about 4-5 hours or less. I went back and played most of the levels again because frankly 
 I loved it. The story is better than most of the movies and the voice acting is great. 
  I would say the most enjoyable part of the game is just using the force. I mean if just being able 
 to lift the enemies up and throw them around the room isn't enough you can electrocute them in 
 mid air, throw your lightsaber at them while the try to get back down or just drop them off a cliff. 
 One of the most annoying things is when they you have to drag an enemy ship down while fighting 
 tie fighters. 
  All in all though the game is outstanding and i would recommend it to anyone fan of star wars or 
 not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supernoob662
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I had some fun with this game, mostly because i love star wars, is wasn't all that bad. The storyline 
 in this game is movie worthy and really sucks you in the more you play, the story is Vader goes 
 to kill your father and discovers you and after killing your father he takes you with him and you 
 become his apprentice and are trained to help him kill the emporer, the cutscences are very pretty 
 as is with the rest of this game, the visuals and graphics are really good in this game. The gameplay 
 is at first simple, hack and slash, but then as your powers devolp you'll find yourself stratagizing 
 to make your kills look really cool, how is a force grip, force lighting, lightsaber throw, and 
 force sound to kill only one guy, but the gameplay gets repetetive intill boss fights. The sound 
 desgin is great, with classic star wars and some new stuff that fits perfectly into this world. 
 The biggest downside is how short it is, about 7-9 hours depending on what diffculty you play on, 
 by the way appertence is a big cake walk, but the achievments (how bout killing 200 wookies on the 
 first level) and unlockbles add to replay vaule. In short, it looks and sounds great, has an immersive 
 story, so-so gameplay, and a short game, but all this turns how to be addictive for about 10-20 
 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihs21596
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  I started playing the force unleashed with a sense of excitement when i picked the controller up. 
 The excitement is still there. Although there is a story line with 2 different endings, your character, 
 nicknamed 'starkiller' or 'the apprentice', is basically yours to customise. A wealth of costumes 
 will be available to you by the end of the game, there a a lot of different lightsabre crystals 
 that offer you different abilities and colours (my favourite being a black lightsabre, seriously 
 it's cool!) and you can unlock multiple force powers, abilities and moves from simply playing around 
 with force powers. 
  
  Speaking of which, there are a multitude of powers to acquire and upgrade. Force lightning is a 
 guilty pleasure, force grip lets you throw one (or with upgrades) up to three enemies around for 
 as long as you like, plus you can electrocute them while in the air and use them as a human bomb, 
 force repulse smashes, warps and throws anything around you, sabre throw can kill an enemy that 
 is otherwise untouchable, and lightning shield creates and aura of electricity, and continuously 
 infuses your lightsabre with electricity. 
  
  Sabre combat feels slightly underdone, but when combined in combos with force push and force lighting 
 it can be very fun.
  
  Meanwhile the enemies range from the simple stormtrooper cannon-fodder to the tough and burly (and 
 extremely annoying) stormtrooper droid. The boss fights are very fun and engaging, and quick-time-events 
 work surprisingly well.
  
  The graphics are extremely detailed and top-notch, some of the best you'll find, especially in 
 the stunning and slightly emotional cutscenes.
  
  For those veteran star wars fans, you'll find a lot to like here. Telling the untold story of Vader's 
 secret apprentice between revenge of the sith and a new hope, you'll travel to worlds such as the 
 marshy felucia, an industrial tie fighter factory, the junkyard world of raxus prime and even *spoiler* 
 the under-construnction death star.
  
  Summing up, this is probably an essential purchase for star wars fans, and with its amazing tech, 
 stunning visuals, impressive dialogue and characters, interesting story and fun customisation and 
 gameplay, this could surely impress anyone motivated by a great piece of work. (gotta luv throwing 
 helpless stormtroopers around, eh!)
  
  Thanks 4 ur time, (check out my other reviews 4 a good read. cya) ;-)
  
  Isaac H. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Not since the four quarter of 2003 has such a thrilling Star Wars action adventure game been unleashed, 
 until now. Cue Star Wars: The Force Unleashed, and it offers amazing displays of power and chaos, 
 combined with often poorly conceived gameplay sequences, making a variable journey which positives 
 outweigh the negative.
  
  The Force Unleashed provides perhaps one of the greatest first impressions ever to be seen. The 
 starting level provides a tutorial giving players a taste of the destructive power of the force. 
 Far removed from the force powers used in the movie trilogy, incredibly chaotic and brilliant force 
 powers illustrate a different much more intense kind of force.
  
  For any casual or diehard fan of Star Wars looking for familiar sci-fi pageantry and the familiar 
 good versus evil tale, TFU offers both. A new step for the franchise, TFU delivers a narrative 
 more powerful and more emotional than a great deal of the film franchise. Filled with drama, the 
 sensational voice acting, expressive character models, and vivid art design breathes life into 
 the franchise.
  
  Leading the narrative is Galen Marek, more commonly known as Starkiller is Darth Vader's apprentice. 
 With the end of the Clone Wars, Vader sends Starkiller to purge the remaining Jedi from existence. 
 An unfortunately brief story running at about eight to ten hours, features new and familiar faces, 
 and is both action-packed and surprisingly intimate. To add to interaction with Vader, Starkiller 
 spends a majority of his time with an android PROXY, and his female pilot Juno Eclipse. 
  
  However, The Force Unleashed cannot provide enough interest on storytelling alone. The action and 
 adventure on are the essence, and they are mostly fulfilled, with a few exceptions. At the peak 
 of excitement, players are made to feel like they truly are Dark Jedi's, with a mix of force powers 
 and lightsabre slashes. Force grip is one of the first force powers to be introduced, and its arguably 
 the most useful. Any units from Imperials and Felucians to simple astromech droids can be flung 
 at will. With this skill, others can be combined such as force push, force lightning and force 
 repulse, all which are very satisfying. 
  
  Unfortunately, TFU cannot hold itself together long enough to keep the momentum going. The impressive 
 physics engine works well in large areas, but becomes problematic at times as the hyper sensitive 
 physics engine can become a liability. It's other issues begin to surface as its force targeting 
 system centers on the direction Starkiller is facing, rather than the center of the screen. This 
 issue becomes more apparent when the targeting easily grabs something unintended. Easier still, 
 is throwing the object into something other than the desired target. To further add to the frustration, 
 there will be certain points in the story when the combat feels recycled, and only certain techniques 
 will be useful for the entire stage. TFU forces more precision, but makes it more difficult to 
 be precise.
  
  To help outweigh the uncommon, albeit annoying combat issues, The Force Unleashed offers intense 
 boss battles. The initial boss encounters of Felucia and the final fight particularly stand out, 
 as they are fun and challenging without being frustrating. These battles are multi-part and are 
 implemented well, without punishing the death of the player to harshly. Boss encounters and larger 
 enemies like the rancor initiate quick-time events similar to those in God of War. These features 
 offer some brilliant acrobatics and destructive moves you would come to expect from this point.
 
  
  Once completed, The Force Unleashed doesn't offer the highest replayability. While the new costumes 
 and different moves not experienced in the first play through, one could argue once is enough. 
 Despite its handful of flaws, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a memorable game and a worthy "spiritual" 
 successor to Star Wars: The Jedi Academy. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheff_donty
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the trailers I was excited. When I bought the game I was excited. When I put the game 
 in I was excited. When after 4 hours of some very fun game play, incredible graphics, and a stunning 
 plot the game ended I was no longer excited. My heart has been broken, it was one of my favorite 
 games ever, but it game to an end far too quick for $60 of payment. Even the two different endings, 
 the uncrackable costumes, and the highly entertaining levels aren't enough to get me to play it 
 again. I have said all there is to really say. this game is shear perfection that will only ever 
 have an 8/10 in it's golden God-like thrown in it's castle mightier than the King Arthur with an 
 army more powerful than Genghis Khan. I believed that the game WAS my father, but sadly, and tragically, 
 Lucas Arts has betrayed me as we could have ruled the galaxy as father and son. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sliencerz123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  The Force Released. The greatest Star wars game since Knights of the Old Republic has been brought 
 to stores everywhere. The game takes place between Episodes III, & IV. It stars Darth Vader Who 
 discover a boy named Galen Marek, who could control the force. That's obvious. Then was train to 
 kill the last of the Jedi. There is his pilot Juno Eclipse. A totally hot babe that falls in love 
 with Galen eventually. She is like the leading lady in the game, That's Cool. Then there is his 
 kill droid named PROXY. He is like a violent version of C-3PO but without the plating Vader program 
 him to fight Galen when he least expects it, but it never works. So... the problem in the game 
 is that he is a killing machine an... I shouldn't say any more if I do it would Spoil the game 
 for you so if you want to find out what happens to Galen in the end. Get the game and stop being 
 lazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Criket_Rogers
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  THE STORY: We all know the Star Wars stories, and if you don't, this story takes place right before 
 the construction of the Death Star. You were once a child on the Wookie planet, hiding from the 
 mighty power of Vader. Years later and more amounts of reshaping you can shake a stick at, you 
 are Lord Vader's apprentice. You now must fool Palpatine to help Vader take over the Empire.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This game is all about the Jedis, so don't think of using long range attacks, except 
 for the handy saber throw. The object in the game is to attack remaining Jedi Masters, this however 
 is very easy. Using the force powers and the saber is just a combination of the A and X button. 
 Button mashing is key.
  
  CONTROLS: Button mashing and simple.
  
  SOUND: The script was written well and the actors did an amazing job. For Lucas Arts to make a 
 script of this secrecy, it was amazing.
  
  THE GOOD: STAR WARS, Kick @$$ force powers
  
  THE BAD: Button mashing, storyline was bland
  
  FINAL THOUGHT: This game didn't do half 
 bad but I would honestly wait for this game to lower under thirty. However, if you are addicted 
 to Star Wars (I'M NOT) buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fezilla
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a treasure for Star Wars nerds, it really is. A great story that fits nicely within 
 the 8 million other canon stories George Lucas and co. have spewed out about a secret apprentice 
 to the evil Darth Vader and his struggle with the fact that 9 times out of 10 a Sith Lord is about 
 on par with a gigantic douchebag.
  
  The characters were built well, although a bit too quickly (but that's because of the short game) . 
 The voice acting was quite good and sold the story very well. The only problem I have is that the 
 guy playing the Emperor tried too hard to get his weird accent. But over-all, one of the, if not 
 the best Star Wars stories to come along in a long time (and this is from a guy who doesn't loathe 
 the prequels like many Star Wars fans) .
  
  The gameplay? Awesome. The grip might get difficult for many to get used to. It's not hard to grasp 
 and get basic concepts down, but it's nearly impossible to be perfectly accurate to grip what it 
 is you want and then throw it at what it is you want. You'd be amazed how many times I had a giant 
 boulder directly in front of an AT-ST, tried to throw it forward, and *gasp* it flew off to the 
 side into a wall. But for the most part, the system works fairly well.
  
  The intro level (where you play as Darth Vader crushing Kashyyyk) is awesome. Like, amazingly so. 
 I replayed it about 3 times to show friend blasting through walls with Vader.
  
  And the first couple missions with Starkiller were a blast with great boss fights that always ended 
 in a brutal rampaging for the fallen foe that was pretty damn well put together, even if the button 
 pushing system was taken straight from the God of War book. The only discredit I'd give the boss 
 fights is that some of them require a very specific move, and the game gives you NO idea on what 
 it would be. Think like a Zelda game but there was no reason to use your specific tool.
  
  Fighting Shaak Ti, I was getting molested by her, the stupid exploding bubbles, and those damn 
 tentacles. After about my fifth try, I said "To hell with it." and tried using Force Repulse (a 
 move I don't like because of how much Force power requires) and HOLY MACKEREL! She was catapulted 
 into of those obnoxious exploding bubbles. About 2 minutes of repulse spamming, and I was declared 
 victor. That sort of trial and error happened a couple times.
  
  The next couple levels were an exercise in frustration. Fighting four rancors at the same time 
 with a bunch of invulnerable Felucian warriors and like, 3 chieftains you have to kill so you can 
 kill the other warriors so you can kill the rancors without being interrupted by everything? Let 
 me tell you, fun.
  
  By about mission 6 or so though, the game came back on track. Everyone seems to think pulling a 
 Star Destroyer out of the sky was the most obnoxious thing of all time because of all the TIE fighters. 
 Did they not notice that pillar in the middle that you can, oh I don't know, HIDE BEHIND? Jesus, 
 rubble conveniently flies out for you to take out the TIE fighters. My only problem with it is 
 that for how repetitive it was, it was a little drawn out, I just did the same thing four times 
 and was done with it.
  
  But I still felt like an epic bad-ass for crushing a Capital class starship.
  
  The lost boss 
 fights were tremendously fun and the ending (I accidentally spoiled it for myself because I'm a 
 dumbass) still managed to surprise me with its sincerity.
  
  In summary: The gameplay, while it has some flaws, is still very fun overall. And despite a couple 
 obnoxious missions (I think there were like, 2 or 3 that pissed me off) , the game is overall pretty 
 fun. It would have been absolutely epic if I didn't have to hide behind a wall to peek out and 
 blast everything with Force lightning, but alas.
  
  An absolutely must pick-up if you're a fan of Star Wars. And if you're a fan of action games in 
 general, I'd suggest it. It does have its annoying moments and it won't be the best game you've 
 ever played, but its an interesting rent for non-Star Wars fans, to say the least.
  
  Also, I have since replayed it to get the alternate ending, and the second playthrough, while much 
 shorter, feels much more balanced. Mostly because the first levels are easy enough to get through, 
 but the difficult ones are great when you have level 3 lightning and repulse. Also, both endings 
 are awesome. So the game also has quite a bit of replay value.
  
  Final verdict: 8.2. Gamespot REALLY needs to bring back .1 increments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdmiralX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  A very nice game if you take it into context of what it's supposed to do. Be the bridge between 
 III & IV. It does have a nice story, with a lot of connections between the first trilogy and the 
 second. Star Wars fans should be able to recognize a lot within the story. Non-fans are probably 
 not playing it, but it really does hold it's own on a story level. Something you cannot say for 
 a lot of games based on movies or in this case a franchise. Unfortunately it's rather easy, and 
 rather short.
  
  When I run into a level I cannot seem to beat, I take a break then look at it with a fresh pair 
 of eyes. If I still cannot beat it, I change tactics. The first time I ran into a level I just 
 couldn't figure out, was the Boss Battle of Mission 8. Fairly deep into the game, practically the 
 end.
  
  I will say this though, it's not like I am on an easy level. I started and have stayed on the Sith 
 Lord Level for heaven's sake. It's still easy. Not to mention if your looking for a Lightsaber 
 heavy game. Wrong place to look. Obviously from the title your main /strongest weapons are force 
 powers. Which is fine, it's just unfortuante that most of the bosses can be dealt with in the same 
 way. They don't have to be, but it's just easier that way. I do like the addition of the combos, 
 for all you button mashers out there.
  
  I just wish there was a little more difficulty, without having to defeat the game first, (notice 
 I don't use cheat codes) , or at least double digit levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediJon77
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Star Wars The Force Unleashed was a very awesome game. I felt like I got one achievement after 
 another the first ever time I played it. Believe me, this video game is definitely 100% worth buying 
 and playing. If you would like to know about what happened between Revenge of the Sith and A New 
 Hope, then I would highly recommend that you buy and play Star Wars The Force Unleashed as completely 
 soon as possible, because I believe the video game will be on XBOX 360's greatest game list. When 
 I first played Star Wars The Force Unleashed, it blew my mind and amazed me in ways that I never 
 thought were possible. This video game is definitely another great and amazing success for both 
 Lucasarts and the Star Wars culture. I give this game a 10/10, especially for the action. So players, 
 when you play this video game, feel the power and May the Force be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalariedLeader
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Well the only complain I had with the Forced Unleashed was the minor glitches I experienced. First 
 of all, the first glitch I had was that it was saving and yet when I continued, it went back to 
 where I last manually saved. This was probably the glitch I hated the most. Secondly, some Shadow 
 Troopers were disappearing and after a few seconds they reappear waist-deep in the ground. This 
 wasn't a glitch that made me mad, instead it made me confused..... so I didn't really count this 
 glitch a MAJOR glitch, but it was still disturbing to see it. Third, there were some combos and 
 moves that were a little too slow, this glitch didn't really happened much with me, but with some 
 research it does happen to a lot of players. To me it only happened around 5-12 times and maybe 
 even more, but I got use to it. Lastly, in the orbital shipyard level, It froze a lot! I don't 
 if this happens to anyone else, but it's pretty annoying and I was glad that I finally beat that 
 level.. very annoying  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Difahrint
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  As revolutionary as the three game mechanics are in this game, it did not help create an organic 
 feel as I played in the game. It did give an outstanding impression in terms of visual looks but 
 the common lock-on glitches, poor camera controls and various other glitches (or quite possibly 
 vexing intentions) have not created an organic gameplay feel. You may spend as much time analyzing 
 and finding more frustrating ways to die than actually playing the game. There have been countless 
 times where I had a very, "What just happened?" moments. While I could complain more upon how the 
 game sucked, I think it's time to focus on more positive thoughts about Force Unleashed.
  
  One main focus on Force Unleashed could be blatantly pointed at style. From customization of the 
 color of your lightsaber or even your outfit they really produce any logical purpose. Aside from 
 a few of the outfits you can unlock in the game. Secondly combo moves and figuring out various 
 ways to kill my enemies was where the real flesh of the game was. Rush into the heat of the battle 
 and unleash a fury of flurry attacks and vault the targets half-way across the room. Infusing your 
 saber's attacks and leaping from the skies. It was very fun, but the boss fights were either too 
 difficult or too simple. Especially the inevitable fight against Darth Vader and the Emperor, it 
 was possibly the biggest disappointment of the game. The most tedious task of Force Unleashed however 
 was destroying a galactic Imperial cruiser, roughly took me an hour and fifteen minutes and numerous 
 restarts to actually get it right without messing up. The problem wasn't so much as surviving but 
 getting the ship's angle correct and when or if you have played you will know what I mean. 
  
  Overall, I'm giving this game a six out of ten. The revolutionary game mechanics simply don't 
 compensate for any of the negatives. The game has no replay value except if you're a game point 
 obsessive and want to even bother with the game points you get for 75+g. Though I would like to 
 see the three game mechanics implemented in other games, possibly Assassin's Creed? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed brings rampant Star Wars action back to the consoles with some over-the-top 
 powers and quick-paced combat as you play the part of Darth Vader's secret apprentice in a story 
 that takes place between Episodes III and IV. Die-hard Star Wars fans may have to stretch their 
 imagination to work this story into a canonical reference, but there's plenty of nods to those 
 same fans with cameo appearances of characters and several "Easter eggs" hidden in the background. 
 
  
  The game features a lot of good qualities: Epically staged battles with Force-powered enemies; 
 the ability to rip just about anything in the environment apart and use it as a weapon; the sprawling, 
 chasm-filled landscapes we've come to expect from Star Wars games; brilliantly-designed characters 
 and a well-scripted plot move the story along nicely. There are a few flaws, mostly cosmetic ones, 
 which mar the overall performance.
  
  For starters, since you can rip just about anything in the environment apart, those environments 
 tend to get cluttered with those objects, making targeting a bit of a hassle. While you have the 
 ability to change your costume (you gain new ones at the beginning of each level and can collect 
 a couple extra along the way) , the costume swaps back to the level default during the cinematics. 
 It's a small detail, but one that shows this performance may have been a little rushed. There are 
 several sections where you'll notice a notable lag in your commands; these lags always seem to 
 occur at the worst possible moment, such as when you're surrounded by foes or taking fire from 
 multiple directions. I also encountered a strange bug towards the latter half of the game, in which 
 the Mission Updates screen stopped updating, so I didn't receive credit for the Holocrons I collected 
 or the Force Points I'd accumulated. The Mission End screen also gives a tally of what and how 
 many enemies you defeated, but it stopped doing this about five missions in. It was kind of bizarre 
 and a little annoying, especially since completing the optional missions earns extra points towards 
 your Force Powers.
  
  Still, taking these few small flaws in stride, The Force Unleashed is a fast-paced action-oriented 
 game that pits you up against Rebels, Imperials, and Jedi alike as you tear across the universe 
 under Vader's tutelage. Using a variety of powers will earn you extra Force Points, which in turn 
 help you level up so that you can pump talent points into learning new combos, force powers, or 
 innate powers such as Resilience or Saber Mastery. The leveling process is a little ambiguous, 
 since you never know how close or far you are from your next level, and there's no way to track 
 your actual stat increase. It also seems a little odd that you collect an abundant number of certain 
 types of points, maxing out all the abilities in that particular category, while other points are 
 few and far between, leaving you lacking in certain abilities toward the end of the game.
  
  I've read quite a few reviews that complain about gaining Force powers only to encounter enemies 
 that counter what you've learned. This is a rather broad generalization. While it's true that some 
 foes do counter your Force powers, this is nothing we haven't seen before in Jedi Outcast or even 
 in the KOTOR games. I believe it's what most game designers would refer to as "difficulty." You 
 have a pretty wide variety of abilities to bring to the table, so if an enemy counters one attack, 
 you have plenty in your arsenal to throw its way and bring it down. 
  
  This one's definitely worth adding into your Star Wars game collection!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollawona
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars unleashed has an amazing story. The einviorments that the game takes you to look great 
 most of the times. The gameplay is pretty well done. It uses a Euphoria engine but dosen't work 
 as well as some of the other games that use it. Although it did an amazning job on using it for 
 the game's destructibility.
  The gameplay is pretty good and the graphics are great. The game has a few minor issues that can't 
 really be fixed. One of them is that when you try to grab something you end up grabing something 
 else that you didn't want to grab and that happens alot. The lightsaber combat is pretty weak but 
 the game is called Force Unleashed so I don' think it focused on lightsaber to much. The force 
 powers are pretty cool but its something that we have seen before but its still cool to see with 
 the Euphoria engine. The story is what makes the game so great. I won't spoil anything but the 
 there are alot of suprises. The game is very short and once you beat it there really isn't much 
 to do. Other then re-doing the last mission to get a one out of two possible ending and reaplying 
 the game on a diffrent difficulty there is nothing else to do. Star Wars force unleashed is a good 
 game but I recomend renting before buying because it has no replay value whats so ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphics and voice acting, you really feel super powerful, new characters are 
 great, concentrates on the dark side for once
  
  The Bad: Absurdly cheap deaths thanks to no recovering after falling, luke warm plot, repetitive 
 action, the whole upgrading thing is confusing, force throwing is difficult, retarded camera
  
  I was really excited about this whole game and I'm surprised LucasArts lied and made a lot 
 of things up. First I have to mention that you can't choose which side you go on until the final 
 boss fight. Without spoiling anything the whole game is based around you fighting with the dark 
 side as Vader's apprentice to bring The Emperor/The Sith Lord/Darth Sidius down so Vader can take 
 his place. So, Unleashed takes place between episodes 3 and 4 (ok if you can't the original 3 as 
 3, 4, and 5) and you try to bring about the Rebel Alliance to take the Empire down. While the story 
 flip flops a whole lot and doesn't get interesting until the VERY end its keeps things interesting 
 and there are a few new memorable characters that help make it interesting.
  
  The whole point of the game is to make you feel ultra powerful and mainly focuses around Force 
 powers. The controls take a bit getting used to but you basically learn force powers over time 
 and can upgrade your lightsaber and your powers by using force powers. You can earn yellow (combo 
 spheres) , red (force spheres) , and blue (power spheres) . Each section has abilities that cost sphere 
 points and can increase your max health, max force energy, give you new combos etc. I found only 
 a few of the combos really useful since the game is full of cheap fighting and death. You have 
 to use your most powerful stuff on the weakest enemies thanks to you falling down and not being 
 able to recover. You'll flop around like a rag doll while 20 enemies are wailing on you and you 
 can't get up. You can ONLY recover in the air by pressing A really quick so this is really kills 
 things... a hell of a lot too. You wind up dying and being overwhelmed because you get knocked down 
 and can't get up so you die almost instantly even on the easiest setting.
  
  The game throws WAY too many people at you so here's a scenario. You have a bunch of Stormtroopers, 
 2 AT-ATs, 4 huge black Imperial dudes, 5 snipers, and 3 guys with turrets all wailing on you. How 
 the HELL can you beat them all without dying? Well use your force powers like lightning shield, 
 saber toss, Force push, or Force throw. When you fight bigger enemies like Rancors or AT-ATs you 
 get a button pressing sequence like in God of War and it's not as fun as you think. There's not 
 variation like stick turns, button mashing etc. Most of it is just sitting and watching so its 
 really broken.
  
  I also have to mention that the game is absolutely gorgeous and this is probably the only superb 
 thing about the game. Everything is HUGE and you really feel like your almost on these planets. 
 Of course a Star Wars game wouldn't be complete without finding stuff. If you get Jedi Holocrons 
 you can get new lightsaber crystals to change the color of your blade, or power crystals to change 
 properties of your saber. Good luck finding them all since they are so stupidly hidden you'll only 
 find half in every level and there's really no incentive to replay the game since it's so darn 
 cheap and retarded. If the game wasn't so cheap you could possibly beat the game on hard, but even 
 on medium you almost can't beat the game. I have a strong feeling that this game wasn't play tested 
 much or these flaws wouldn't exist.
  
  Another major flaw is when you're force throwing. The game using both sticks to do this but it 
 lacks depth perception and it's hard to aim objects properly. Another stupid flaw is the retarded 
 camera; even though you can control it the camera likes flopping around constantly and it makes 
 you feel sick after awhile. PLEASE!!!! Now, if you're a Star Wars buff then there are a lot of 
 files you can unlock and read, an art gallery, unlockable costumes, a cheat code section etc. I 
 guess only the hard of the hardestcore will go back and play this again, but even me (a HUGE Star 
 Wars fan) won't go play this more than once. So, if you can by pass the absurdly cheap deaths with 
 no recovering after falling, the repetitive fighting, and the luke warm plot then by all means 
 go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  ... LucasArts made a Star Wars game that took place after Revenge of the Sith but before A New Hope. 
 The Beginning of the game is kinda unexpected because you're playing on the planet Kashyyk (CASH-EEK) 
 as Darth Vader. After that's done, you play as the main character known as "Starkiller" who is 
 Vader's apprentice. Most of the characters you are probably familiar with are in this game; Leia, 
 Senator Bail Organa, Emperor Palpatine and Darth Vader. This is probably one of the better Star 
 Wars games I played that wasn't a Starfighter or a Rogue Squadron game. What I like about LucasArts 
 is that they make Star Wars and Indiana Jones games feel like Star Wars and Indiana Jones; from 
 music score to sound effects. TIE Fighters sound like TIE Fighters Imperial Walkers like the AT-ST 
 and AT-KTs, voice acting is great, this whole game has some really great cutscenes that actually 
 feel like another Star Wars movie. There are some really cool abilities that you learn throughout 
 your quest and some really nice looking worlds. I also liked that when you almost defeat someone, 
 there's a mini-game almost similar to what you see in Shenmue or God of War where you finish the 
 enemy off. There is also some betrayal scenes. I'm not very big on Star Wars but I know that a 
 Sith will betray his/her own or so Shaak Ti said... I was expeting a little more though because 
 it was actually kinda short and I don't know what happens to Starkiller in the end. It was still 
 a good game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_pink88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  i just recently finished playing this game and i really liked it alot. i thought that the story 
 was really good and that they really made it fit perfectly into the story in the movies. 
  
  the gameplay is also very good but like other games based, somewhat off of a movie the gameplay 
 can get quite repetative from time to time. if with the upgrades and all of the combos you can 
 do it seems to be the same thing over and over. none the less the game play was still awesome and 
 all the new things that can be done with the force is really cool.
  
  all n all i think that this is a really good game especically for a hard star wars fan such as 
 myself and i am looking forward to wat lucasarts wil give us next in the way of star wars games. 
 this game was a big step in the star wars games since it seemes like the only games coming out 
 lately were lego star wars games. 
  lookng forward to the indiana jones game as well and hoping that it is as good if not better then 
 this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadMac132
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  This game is hit and miss, some will love it some will hate it. What I like is if you're the kind 
 of person who doesn't like star wars or star trek or star anything, there is probably still some 
 fun to be had with this game. But also if you're a star wars nut, you'll most likely be pleased.
 
  
  The good
  The best thing about the game is it's story, it's better episodes 1 & 2, and probably even episode 
 3. It feels like what a star wars story should do, action, morals, and romance. It plays a much 
 larger part in the star wars story line than I thought it would. The environments are mostly stunning, 
 and even places we haven't seen before will fit right into the star wars setting. Combat is mostly 
 fun, and the upgrade system works quite well. Once you get used to the controls and powers you 
 can get quite creative and involved.
  
  The bad
  I don't like how they've put it on every platform going (other than pc) , i think a developer should 
 focus on one specific audience and give everyone the same great deal, not offering certain platforms 
 exclusives. Handhelds, pc, xbox360 & ps3, and wii, are all good at their specific gaming types. 
 Trying to make a game fit into all of those doesn't really work.
  
  But anyways. The benefits of the xbox 360 and ps3 is apparently the advanced physics engines, like 
 euphoria (smart a. i) , and dmm (objects breaking dynamically as they really would) . To me this doesn't 
 seem like much when compared the the wii which has multi-player. Especially sinse i barely saw 
 either of those systems at all in the game. Enemies even sometimes just stand still, unaware you're 
 standing infront of them.
  
  The game has a good concept- taking the usual powers of push and lightning etc and taking them 
 to extremes, to make you feel incredibly powerful and seeing things from an 'evil' point of view. 
 However the game strays from this too much. You'll spend most of your time fighting stormtroopers 
 and other imperials, people you're suposed to be allied with. Although there are upgrades, enemies 
 always feel one step ahead of you. And towards the end most enemies become completely imune to 
 your main attacks, such as lighting and grip, something that doesn't make much sense to me. It 
 also becomes quite irating when you're flung to the floor after being hit with an unavoidable missle, 
 flail around on the floor for a bit, then get up only to be greeted with another one to the face, 
 spammed into a corner in an infinate irritating loop.
  
  Although the environments are good, there is only 4, which are repeated again and again. Forgive 
 my spelling, Kashyk (forest-like wookie planet) , felucia (primitive plant-like world) , raxus prime 
 (junk planet) , and space ships (death star, tie construction facility etc) . These 4 environments 
 are revisited over and over. The game is also scatted with glitches, the most common being the 
 'default text glitch', where you're save file being corrupted and force points, collectable, missions 
 etc aren't counted.
  
  This aside, combat is fun. The story is excellent. Star wars nuts will be happy, but sci-fi haters 
 won't be annoyed by technical jargon. Worth playing, but best to play it first by renting or the 
 demo first eh.
  
  Concept
  6/10 (Good, but doesn't really act on it)
  
  Graphics
  8/10 (Although cinematics can be a little tedious)
  
  Story
  9/10 (Worthy of a film, infact, 
 i think theyr planning on it)
  
  Combat
  7.5/10
  
  Re-play value
  
  6/10 (Aside from the alternative endings the combat is varied enough to make you want to go back) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DVIENT
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  After hours of watching trailers and any other videos I could find to do with this game, I found 
 myself overwhelmed and chomping at the bits to get my hands on this game. 
  
  The first level in which you play the dark lord himself, Darth Vader is incredible and really do 
 feel the power of the force. Unfortunately it also the point at which the game starts to slide 
 down hill. The first few levels as the apprentice are challenging and entertaining and make a great 
 setting for what is a truly excellent story. However despite your lack of ability in the force 
 it is still very easy to get through and once you've upgraded some of your powers and abilities 
 it gets even easier. 
  
  The most challenging parts of this game are most likely the boss fights, Which are incredible. 
 From the finishing move combo to the cut scenes, you can really tell that have gone that extra 
 mile.
  
  The level design itself feels constricted at times and feels as though it would of been better 
 had they given you more than one route to get to your goal. However the extent that they have gone 
 to with the design is nothing short of incredible, you really feel like you are there. From the 
 scrap metal floating through the sky to the monstrous primordial plant life the level design is 
 one of the more enchanting parts of this game.
  
  Before the game was even released everyone was raving on about the mechanics and the systems behind 
 this game, unfortunately you very rarely notice it. Yes you can smash open the windows on starships 
 and most objects in the environment can be used as a weapon but the so called a. i reactions were 
 rarely seen. They never tried to grab a hold of anything or another a. i so at times you can feel 
 cheated considering what was promised by the developer.
  
  Now I am not to complain about the force unleashed, I am I thoroughly enjoyed the game and loved 
 they storyline and characters and believe that this is one of the best star wars games since K. O. R. 
 But I still feel that there was so much more that could of been done with this game. 
  
  For someone who was counting down the minutes to the release of this game by the end of the game 
 I was left with a sense of joy and happiness but at the same time also this empty feeling, or maybe 
 it was just the fact that I had finished it. Who knows?
  
  Overall this is a game with a enthralling storyline and characters and good game play, it may not 
 live up to the hype that some game players were expecting but it is a whole lot of fun using the 
 crazy nuts steroid fuelled force powers to kill jawas and storm troopers. A must buy or at least 
 play for true star wars fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopur94
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a fun game to play around with. With awesome combo moves, destructible 
 environments, different force moves and lots of enemies swarming you, the game adds up to a lot 
 of fun for a while. 
  
  You are Starkiller, the apprentice of the famous Darth Vader. Darth Vader will send you out into 
 the universe to hunt down the remaining Jedi after the end of the third movie. So you're off in 
 a ship with your pilot and your robot companion Proxy, mission after mission killing swarms of 
 storm troopers or Jawas or Felucian warriors on different planets. The introduction to the game 
 is great and leaves you wanting to play it until you realize that you have to start from scratch 
 on the first mission after the prologue. Though they could have extended the story to add in more 
 planets because you practically only have like six different settings and the galaxy is a lot bigger 
 than that. But it is good enough due to the awesome gameplay that TFU provides.
  
  The combat in Star Wars is really fun to play and watch. Fighting swarms of enemies with your light 
 saber and your incredible force powers can be very entertaining. The X button for the Xbox controller 
 is for the light saber, Y is lightning and B is force. Press the buttons in different combinations 
 and you will pull off some cool combos and some combos you will learn when you spend your experience 
 points that you gain. Holding RT while facing a object is Force grip and you can pick it up and 
 maneuver it with you LS and RS and you can fling the object or the person at someone else. 
  
  Force Grip sounds like a real cool move but it's a really sloppy control due to the sucky targeting 
 system. To Force Grip an object, you're character has to be facing the object and not the screen. 
 Sometimes Starkiller could be facing you but the screen is pointing in the direction behind him 
 at a enemy and he is highlighted (meaning he can be Force Gripped) and you're holding the RT wondering 
 why he isn't lifting into the air and then you turn around only to be punched to the ground by 
 the guy who probably thinks you're an idiot. This can lead to frustrating battles against AT-STs 
 and Rancors when it's trying to stomp you and you're running away desperately trying to Force Grip 
 an object and fling it at them to slow it down. So the Force Grip is a major failure, I don't know 
 how they released the game without making it a lot easier to use.
  
  Boss battles are a good part of the game especially against other light saber wielders. You're 
 supposed to find and kill leftover Jedis and when you find them you will have to battle them in 
 an awesome clash of light saber and force skills. After you have done quite a bit of damage, a 
 cut scene will appear as you finish him off with awesome moves that look like Japanese anime fight 
 scenes. But of course you can't enjoy these awesome moments because you have to keep an eye out 
 for what button to press and when or the enemy will just smack you down.
  The parts that make the game entertaining is all the awesome moves you can perform. When you fight 
 enemies you will get experience which you can use to unlock new combos or improve your force, health, 
 light saber etc. skills. The combos look really nice, I mean, lifting a Jawa into the air and then 
 throwing your light saber impaling him is just so awesome. Then mixing your light saber slashes 
 with your lightning power makes a nice light show. Also the story is well structured and nicely 
 done unlike a lot of games this gen. It fits well in the Star Wars universe and is nice way of 
 filling in what happened between the third and fourth movie. In each level there are some hidden 
 items that can "pimp" Starkiller. They're called holocrons and they are in every level and they 
 either give you experience or force points, a light saber crystal to change the color of your saber 
 or make it better, or sometimes a costume, Starkiller got to look good, finding the holocrons can 
 be really rewarding.
  
  The graphics of the environments are stunning; from the bunch of garbage floating in the air on 
 the garbage planet or when you're running in the construction hangar for TIE fighters as you try 
 to bring down one of those machines with your force. The battles are brilliant, when you slash 
 you're light saber with lightning flashing and circling the weapon and flinging the enemy into 
 oblivion or when you force push an enemy the ground and air ripples as the enemy is flung a hundred 
 meters away. The character models could be done better (if Mass Effect could do it, anyone can) 
 but I guess they are satisfactory. Oh and Starkiller should have been made a lot better, that wimpy 
 face doesn't scare anybody.
  
  The sound is fantastic with light saber slashes echoing through the halls or lightning or force 
 thundering in your speakers. Voice acting is alright but could be a bit better and of course anything 
 Star Wars based isn't complete without John Williams' Star Wars soundtrack.
  
  Overall Star Wars deserves 8 out of 10 because it has many good qualities in the game that provides 
 entertainment but the Force Grip control leaves you disappointed and frustrated at times. If you're 
 a Star Wars fan, go for it. But it's a safer bet to rent it first to see whether you're up to it.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnigManic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: the Force Unleashed is a decent addition to the saga. It fills in some canonized story 
 between episodes 3 and 4 as Darth Vader plans to use a secret apprentice to help him overthrow 
 Lord Sideous.
  
  Fans of the franchise will enjoy the riveting story with all the subtle little details that tie 
 it into the films. From a perspective of customization, it's also nice to have a decent assortment 
 of outfits as well as different colors and effects for your lightsaber.
  
  The graphics are very nicely detailed, and there are plenty of destructible objects in the environments 
 to practice your force powers on. The sound effects and musical score effectively set the mood 
 throughout the game. The cut scenes were also well done, rife with graphical detail, a compelling 
 story and decent voice acting.
  
  The action gets pretty intense as you take on wave after wave of imperial forces using a customizable 
 lightsaber and a diverse assortment of force powers which really let you seize control of the action, 
 even when you're outnumbered ten to one.
  
  Now on to the bad stuff. The game can be frustratingly difficult at times, particularly when facing 
 Vader. Unless, of course, you use the cheat codes which disable you from gaining achievements and 
 unlockable items. The physics, which were hyped to be state-of-the-art, deliver well but it is 
 often difficult, if not impossible, to smoothly control objects with Force Push.
  
  I also found the AI, another thing the developers hyped to be groundbreaking, to be seriously flawed. 
 I expected very realist response from the NPC's but this was simply not the case. All too often, 
 I was able to walk right up to storm troopers and slash them down while they just stood there.
 
  
  Lastly, the story, as compelling as it is, is awfully short. Playing non-stop, you can easily beat 
 this game in under 8 hours. There are unlockable outfits and lightsaber upgrades and some other 
 trivial things, but nothing exciting enough to bolster any real replay value.
  
  Star Wars fans will probably eat this up, but for the rest, this is a weekend rental.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: psdsoldier25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Ok if i had to sum up this game in one word it would be AWESOME. Star Wars The Force Unleashed 
 takes place between episodes 3 and 4 in the Star Wars Universe. You play as Darth Vaders secret 
 apprentice and your job is to seek out the remaining Jedi in the galaxy and destroy them.
  
  The overall game play is a blast minus a few camera issues and one particular mission ending 
 (star destroyer) . Your force powers are amazing and they only get better once you learn to combine 
 them. Force Gripping + Force Lightning + Force Pushing jawas, imperials and rebels = endless possibilities.
 
  
  The story line was great as well. I became greatly immersed in this game. As far as completion 
 time, if your playing through on an easy setting you can expect about 4 hours although i found 
 that this game kept me coming back for more. The re-play value is extremely high.
  
  Regardless if your a Star Wars junkie like myself or just a newb to the series, this is a must 
 have game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rktPYZQShWz
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is a game I had been waiting a while for I felt as if it was going to be a 
 amazing edition to the Star Wars Franchise like KotOR and Battlefront. I was wrong sadly.
  
  The game is good but good wasn't expected. I loved some of the force powers and the button 
 sequences but that isn't what makes a game amazing. The boss battles were interesting... and the 
 only challenging part of the game. However there are flaws that exist that diminish this game to 
 average. First off there is so many bugs and glitches. The game crashes too much and annoyances 
 such as the Star Destroyer can really lead to frustration making you want to just stop playing. 
 I found the story decent enough but the ending (s) were chalk full of dumbness.
  
  Overall this game was enjoyable for a time but definitely not worth 60 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PriorChaos
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Force unleashed had immense amounts of hype surrounding it and was bashed almost immediately after 
 its release. I personally enjoyed this game thoroughly. The force powers looked beautiful. The 
 story line was very compelling. The voice acting was superb. The game was rather short but what 
 do you expect from an action game? As a prime complaint i have heard from people about this title 
 i would like to point this out: Action games are best at 8 to 10 hours of gameplay and riddled 
 with hidden stuff. RPGs are where we expect 50 to 60 and sometimes even 100+ hours of gameplay. 
 A lot of people i have talked to also feel that the force wasn't "unleashed", that any jedi could 
 do what he does. For one he pulls a star destroyer from the sky. He beats Darth Vader AND the Emperor. 
 He even brings down rancors like they are prairie dogs. I feel that Starkiller was a great main 
 character and really developed throughout the game. My complaints, well the targeting often times 
 was aggravating. I would rather target the guy shooting me in the face over the box laying in the 
 corner. After you get a feel for the force powers and a solid handle on the combos, you can keep 
 the combat intense and entertaining. Not to mention your able to punt jawas and encase enemies 
 in carbonite. And the greatest Easter egg ever, Jar Jar Binks encased in carbonite in a trophy 
 room :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered what it would be like to control the Force, and in a way that is much more 
 vicious than depicited in the Star Wars movies? Then you'll want to check out Star Wars: Force 
 Unleashed. Not only will you experience what it's like to be one of those most powerful Sith in 
 the Galaxy, you'll be treated to an excellent story as well.
  
  Most Star Wars games these days either revolve around the original or the new triology's storylines, 
 but rarely does one take place during the events between the two. You start the game off as Darth 
 Vader, but don't get used to his massive power for too long. After the opening level on Kashyyyk 
 ends, you'll see Darth Vader take a young boy under his wing and train him as his apprentice. This 
 is when you take control of the game's main character, Starkiller, and then you begin to carry 
 out Vader's mission: hunt down and erradicate the remaining Jedi. The story continues to remain 
 interesting, being told with exceptional cutscenes, so it makes bearing through the rest of the 
 game much easier.
  
  The gameplay of the Star Wars: Force Unleashed is manic. You'll have wave after wave of enemies 
 thrown at you, and it's a good thing you have a varied aresenal of moves at your disposal, because 
 you're going to need them. You'll be fighting everything from Stormtroppers, to droids, to animated 
 junk piles, to wookies, and yes even rancors and AT-STs.
  
  Your basic method of attack is of course your trusty ligh tsabre, which can be altered with crystals 
 that will either change its attributes, or its color. You start off with very basic combos, but 
 as you level up, you can purchase more devastating combos, as well as purchase more upgrades for 
 your Force abilities and enhancing talents. 
  
  To really mix up the action, you have powerful Force moves that you can utilize. You can Force 
 Push enemies out of your way and into walls and objects, or if you get surrounded, you can concentrate 
 the energy and discharge a Force Repluse outward sending everyone in the radius flying. You can 
 zap and stun them with Force Lighting, or you can create a shield of lightning that can shock enemies 
 in close proximity as well as add lightning to your light sabre attacks. 
  
  Perhaps the most entertaining maneuver you'll use is the Force Grip. When you execute a Force Grip 
 on either an object or enemy, you can manipulate them any way you like. You can slam a Stormtropper 
 into a wall, or throw him through a window into the vaccuum of space. Too many guards in the next 
 room? Pick up a crate, charge it with Force Lightning and send them a package bomb. There's all 
 sorts of ways you can dispatch your enemies with Force Grip, so don't be afraid to use it and experiment.
 
  
  You don't just use Force Grip to kill your opposition; you also use it to open doors and solve 
 puzzles. Is a chasm too wide for you to cross? You can pull down a piece of curled metal to create 
 a platform to jump on to. Can't figure out how to shut down a force field blocking your path? Look 
 around for a generator you can pull out of the wall. You can even use wings of TIE fighters to 
 create platforms in order to jump up to an out of reach area. The game really makes some creative 
 use of what you can do with the Force, not to mention bringing down a Star Destroyer that's attacking 
 you in the background.
  
  Still on the subject of the Force, the game has numerous QTE (quick time events; buttons that flash 
 on screen prompting you to press the corresponding action) sequences to dispatch mini bosses and 
 end bosses. Once you wear them down to an inch of their life, the QTE will engage, and you'll get 
 to witness just how vicious Starkiller can be with his command of the Force. They're truly awesome 
 scenes that make every frustrating battle before it worth while.
  
  Level design is a very important facet of a good action game, and thankfully, it's one of Force 
 Unleashed's most outstanding features. Just about every level you play in is terrific, from Starkiller's 
 first level inside a Tie Fighter factory to the junkyards of Raxus Prime to the last mission that 
 takes place inside the first Death Star as it's still being constructed. You'll even be fighting 
 your way out of the bowels of a sarlac. 
  
  As far as the graphics are concerned, it's a very beautiful game. The textures are superb. The 
 facial animations during cutscenes are wonderful. Some of the more colorful levels are dripping 
 with color. The special effects, especially the erradic branching of the Force Lightning are full 
 of life. The only complaint visually is that a higher polygon count could make the models during 
 cutscenes look that much better.
  
  What's a Star Wars game without terrific sound? This game doesn't disappoint. Of course, it's adorned 
 with a fantastic soundtrack, and the special effects do nothing but enhance the already chaotic 
 action of the gameplay. The voice acting is also rather good, with fairly decent impressions of 
 Darth Vader and The Emperor. If you have a nice surround sound set up, you'll be in for a real 
 treat.
  
  As for the negative aspects of the game, the target lock stands to be the most irksome. Sometimes, 
 you'll want to grab an enemy, but you'll end up grabbing a rock or crate instead. It can even disappear 
 completely. The camera can be spazmatic at times, further inflaming any frustration you might be 
 experiencing during combat. There is a bit of platform jumping to do in this game, and it doesn't 
 help that Starkiller doesn't know the meaning of precision jumping. At times, the commands can 
 even be a bit non-responsive setting you up for several cheap deaths. When all this comes together 
 during the game's most hectic battles, it's enough to either make you throw your controller at 
 the console, or throw your console out of the window.
  
  All negatives aside, this is a solid action game. Enthralling - albiet frustrating at times - gameplay, 
 gripping story, beautiful graphics and great sound make this game a good time. Although there are 
 some complaints with the game's length, any perfectionist out there will want to play through it 
 again on the harder difficulties. A bit more tweaking would have made this game a must buy, but 
 as it stands, a rental or sales price will suit most people just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigwhitcher
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Ok i know that starwars games are normally bad, but force unleashed has bucked the trend. The game 
 play is just great fun, blasting jawas with force lighting never gets old and tossing stormtroopers 
 aside with force grip provides smiles a plenty.
  
  The game takes places between the end of revenge of the sith and a new hope, and while im not sure 
 how official the story is as star wars goes it is very well thought up and fits in nicely.... well 
 as long as you have a crack at killing the emporer in the end game and not do over darth.... which 
 really screws the story line up for the next 3 movies. I have to admit the great story kept me 
 playing.
  
  I would recomend not playing the game on an easy setting as it is really easy to complete on my 
 second run througth on the easy setting i did the game in just under 4 hours but on the hardest 
 setting it exstended it to about 16.
  
  if you like star wars you have to add to your collection
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: God_father_87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for along time and now I have finally played this game and let 
 me say that it's not a disappointment. 
  Before I get stated I would like clarify what my expectations were how I was looking at this game. 
 When I was reviewing this game I was look at the Jedi Knight games as a point of comparison. I 
 loved the Jedi knight games as they generally had a substantial story solid, Game-Play, amazing 
 soundtrack and great graphics. 
  The Force unleashed does have a solid story, amazing soundtrack and good graphics. 
  Unfortunately 
 the game-play feels slightly gimmicky at times.
  
  But we are getting a head of our selves lets look at the story. 
  The story Happens between episodes 
 3 and 4 in the Star Wars saga
  Darth Vader finds a young child with a particularly strong force powers while hunting for a Jedi. 
 The child grows up and is become Vader's secret apprentice and is instructed to hunt down Jedi 
 and kill them. Along the way the plot twists and turns and the ending concludes nicely. 
  
  Graphics this is one of the best looking Star Wars games to date with full face expressions and 
 detailed textures. This really helps you get immersed in the world.
  Along with the new graphics comes some technology that takes destructible environments to a whole 
 new level. Now let me expand on this point if you have been following the development of this game 
 you will know that the game has this system for destructible matter called Digital Molecular Matter 
 or DMM. This allows objects in the world to break part more realistically like glass shatters, 
 wood splinters and metal bends. This means that you can force push a stormtrooper into a metal 
 door and the door bends according to the speed and angle you bushed him at. This mechanic in game 
 is not use as often as you might have though. However when DMM does happen it is fantastic effect. 
 
  
  Sound with this game is top notch with Mark Griskey taking over from John Williams in the music 
 department. The Foley artists in this game have given us some real gems in regards to sound effects. 
 Especially with all the metal sound in this game. A final thing to say about the sound in the voice 
 acting is very well done with just the right mount of drama to make you feel that these people 
 are actually real people. 
  
  Now with out further a due let's look at game-play. Now let's start with the bad elements about 
 force unleashed the game is littered with quick time events. While I don't hate them as much as 
 Yahtzee from 'Zero Punctuation' does they are slightly anticlimactic after you have had a huge 
 boss fight only have to watch a small part of the screen waiting to press a button. It would have 
 been nicer if you could have if you could have chosen what way in which you were able to finish 
 off an enemy. The next thing that's annoying is that all of the cut scenes are unskippable this 
 is all very well when you playing it through on the first time. But when you are replaying the 
 level it is very annoying to sit through the same cut scene again. And the learning curve for the 
 combos is about an hour. However with this be said the force power are awesome in this game and 
 really feel like you are actually bashing around an enemy such as stormtrooper. Also the a mount 
 of ways to kill your opponent is a nice to have. The collectables in this game i. e. 'Holocrons' 
 actually are easy to find unlike other games such as Tomb Raider. Using your lightsaber is with 
 a doubt extremely fun to use after you have unlocked your first couple of combos. Over all the 
 gameplay feels good but slightly gimmicky.
  
  To Conclude while The Force Unleashed does not quite match up to the Jedi Knight Games it does 
 get awfully close. If Lucasarts had spent some extra time polishing up the game and tighten up 
 the quick time events I would have been a better game. But despite all this it is a good game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miiplay16
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok, There are people out there saying to rent it first I agree Rent it. I beat it in less than 
 a Day with all but like 10 achievements. But the story is amazing the actions intense. Its satisfied 
 my Star Wars thirst. It could have had multiplayer. (Spoiler) The only part I didn't like was on 
 the level where you had to pull down the Star Destroyer It could be a little bit easier maybe less 
 tie fighters coming at you, because trying to destroy all the tie fighters in a good enough time 
 so you could get back to taking the star destroyer down. But overall fun game I love the assortment 
 of force powers you can use. Its a great game. It is worth it to play. So Rent don't buy. It's 
 a great game worth the play. I'm only writing this all this madness after This is because of the 
 length 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shyguy75
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  the reason is that they did it and for you guys who doe not know what it is it is what i call it 
 when a company makes a game and makes an even worse game for the system i have or the system i 
 have that sells cheaper games the wii in this situation has the worse version and when they make 
 a game for wii made by ubisoft or something they usually have a DS version it is only 30.00 dollars 
 for DS but 50.00 for wii now which system do you think has the better version thats write the wii 
 but in this case the wii has the bad version bad graphics bad game play bad story line the only 
 thing better is duel mode it is good for everything else so if you have multiple systems buy it 
 for xbox360 or ps3 thats my guide on this game good luck trying to beat it over and over and over 
 again you now what doe not buy it rent it if you really want it bey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironthor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The only thing that's missing from this game is multiplayer, all they had to do was make online 
 matches then this game would have been awesome! but, no... it's only a story, which is great, but 
 still not worth the 45 dollars I spent for it on ebay. After a week of owning it I'm watching myself 
 trying to sell it. Really... rent it first if yo are a gamer, you'll beat in in no more than 2 
 - 4 days. About the storyline, well it's amazing. If you are a Star Wars fan, then this game will 
 be a great addition to your knowledge of Star Wars. It's a great tale, but you light v. Dark side 
 won't show till the end. I have to admit, that if you are looking for a game with intense game 
 play, then this is the game for you. It will make you think about what your next move will be. 
 You die many times, just thinking about how you will take on the boss. You will find parts very 
 repetitive, but overall, it makes yo a better "jedi" and you will take then down with ease once 
 you find a vulnerable point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyger712
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that if you like games that are pretty with lots of cut scenes, this game is for 
 you. I won't knock the action, it's good. The missions are fairly challenging, the difficulty scales 
 appropriately, and the story is interesting. But this, like so many other Star Wars games falls 
 short again.
  I've finished the game twice and as usual the format of the game strait jackets you into a series 
 of inflexible missions, a small game world and an ending that should have been predictable. In 
 short, regardless of the choice you make... you're basically dead.
  Attack The Emperor and after defeating him he comes back and kills you, a la Mace Windo in Episode 
 III. Attack Darth Vader and he's really dead, but rather than getting the chance to attack The 
 Emperor, you are rewarded with a cut scene where you end up as some kind of drone to be used at 
 the Emperors whim.
  Let me give George and company some good advice. Take a page from Bethesda. I for one am tired 
 of shelling out good money to be straitjacketed into the story you want to tell and it ending the 
 way you want it to. Give us some options. Give us some freedom. Presumable the galaxy is bigger 
 than 5 worlds that you only get the option of exploring what maybe 2-5 square miles of each planet? 
 KOTOR came close, but again, once you complete the missions, there's not much left. This game could 
 have gone SOOOOO far, but as usual, it only went far enough... maybe. Unless you're a rabid Star 
 Wars fan, this is a rental you can easily complete in a weekend and see all there is to see of 
 it without missing anything. $60.00 to buy or $5.00 to rent, believe me your wallet will thank 
 you for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  With the Star Wars Series of Movies at an end, the story now continues through other mediums, Star 
 Wars: The Force Unleashed is one of them.
  
  The story is the bridge between episodes 3 and 4, although I think there will be many more bridges 
 to come. It is mainly about Darth Vader's secret apprentice, why is he secret? Because "Starkiller's" 
 main goal is to kill the Emperor and rule the galaxy with Vader. The story is very well written, 
 and news of George Lucas himself considering a Big Screen adaptation. You're missions consist of 
 destroying the last remaining Jedi, whom are scattered across many planets. If this game gets onto 
 the Big Screen, then I'd hope Jedi Outcast gets one as well.
  
  The gameplay consists of chaining attacks, the B button is Force Push, Y is Lighting, and the right 
 trigger is Force Grip. There's only one good looking combo which you can unlock later in the game 
 where you force your enemy into the air, and you do a pretty cool jump and slashing combo. The 
 others are pretty much normal strikes of your lightsaber, combined with lighting and Push powers. 
 You can also find some real time events, which are very cool to watch, and is exactly what the 
 Star Wars series has been missing, some Jedi/Sith Ninjitsu, they had some in Episode I, what happened?! 
 Also the system feels a little on the cheap side, as you are a powerful wielder of the Force, because 
 of this fact, you never really fight a good enemy where you can use these combos on, Stormtroopers 
 are usually weak, and die before you complete the combo, and bigger enemies are immune to some. 
 Adding to the weak Stormtroopers, are the weak AI. Most of the time your enemies are stupid and 
 either stand around or rush right in. On harder difficulties, the power of their weapons increase, 
 if only I could say the same for their IQ. Most of the time you can find yourself electrocuting 
 everyone, especially bigger foes like the AT ST.
  
  Graphics are impressive, and I'd like to applaud LucasArts for their accomplishment, combining 
 3 engines/technologies into one. Textures are really sharp, physics are the best on the market, 
 and overall it represents the Star Wars universe extremely well. One highlight is the level where 
 you're on an organic planet embedded with vegetation, the trees and plants all move or wiggle really 
 nicely and even the ground moves by your footsteps. Animations are phenomenal, thanks to the real 
 time events, but just like in Stranglehold, Starkiller's movements could look and feel alot better.
 
  
  A game coming from LucasArts will always automatically tell you, Great Sound Desgin. And that reign 
 holds true here, voice overs are excellent, explosions and your force powers offer enough crisp 
 and bass boom to make your ears bleed, and of course the musical score is always satisfying although 
 I'd like to hear some new original scores, aside from the Main Menu music, I couldn't hear anything 
 else new.
  
  Overall this game is a solid 8 out of 10, the same score I gave to Ninja Gaiden II, mainly because 
 where Unleashed lacked in gameplay it fulfilled with a good story, better presentation and graphics. 
 
  
  But Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast is still the game to get if you want to wield a lightsaber, its 
 probably 10 dollars now!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohan_anirudh
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  storyline-
  
  an amazing story which will keep fans and non-fans of the series keep wanting for more.
  
  
 graphics-
  
  amazing and very lifelike.
  
  gameplay-
  
  Amazing but short. amazing because its like everything reacts to the way you react and short because, well 
 ........ its short? camera angles are very irritating at times and very lacky at times.
  
  sound-
  
  Sound can be a bit dim at times but has very good voice acting.
  
  value-
  
 
  this game certainly does NOT give u a bang for your buck. Too short, too repetitive, bad camera angles........
 
  
  Overall expereince-
  
  Had a lot of potential which was not used to its fullest , strays from what it does best, repetitive, irritating 
 camera angles but very fun at times, certain points at the game will make your eyes popout, amazing 
 story ,lot of variety and finally an overall positive expereince. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_King
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  This game has gotten a lot of hype, even a launch centre from Gamespot, which to me is a bit surprising. 
 I suppose that given the new Force mechanics, this is the game Star Wars fans have been waiting 
 for. I guess the Star Wars name still carries a lot of weight. Not being a big Star Wars fan, but 
 rather being one who simply finds it enjoyable from time to time, let's see how this game fares 
 with me. In otherwards, the tilt is at a minimum here.
  
  The Pros
  
  Indeed, a lot of attention has been put into the Force here, moreso than any other game. There 
 are tons of lightsaber combos and moves to be learned, the force blast has a really cool looking 
 ripple effect, and lightning can be used more than in perhaps any other Star Wars game to date. 
 
  
  At it's best, it truly is satisfying. Charging up a force blast and watching the screen drain of 
 color before unleashing a hellish hadouken is magnificent. Running into a horde of storm troopers 
 and killing them all with one scatering of lightning or simply tossing men and wreckage this way 
 and that with the Force grip is truly satisfying. More satisfying still is when you're able to 
 use all of these abilities in tandem. Force blast through a door, shock three storm troopers, and 
 toss the last one over the edge of a cliff all in the space of 5 seconds. Tell that that isn't 
 cool.
  
  With all this talk of tossing people around, special mention must be made of the physics in this 
 game. It's hard to believe that this game was made using the standard Havok engine, considering 
 how good it is. Tossing and lifting things feels as it should, and despite there being so many 
 things flying through the air at some points, the engine never hiccups. Things never get stuck 
 in the air and they never disappear. Tossed items are slow on the incline and fast on the decline. 
 The physics are a beautiful thing in this game. It makes using the force grip so enjoyable, that 
 you may find it to be your preferred weapon. It's just so much fun tossing guy's over balcony's 
 simply to see how far they'll fly. 
  
  Special mention must also be made of the your character's dash/side-step. You'll actually WANT 
 to dash, perhaps more than necessary. It simply feels Force-y. I don't know if i've ever seen a 
 cooler dash in any game. It truly makes you feel empowered and invincible with it's satisfying 
 "woosh" noise and blurring/rippling of the air around you. Oh, and you can air-dash as well.
  
  The same goes for how you're character jumps. Instead of standard jumps, the game has placed 
 a moment of delay after each jump, giving a brief portion of a second where it feels like you're 
 floating. In other words, it's apparent that you're jumping with the force, Jedi-style. Granted, 
 veterans of platformers will have to get used to this. Indeed, I did mistime some jumps at first, 
 but once you're acclimatized, it's a cinch.
  
  The lightsaber combos are nothing to write home about, but are more than serviceable, as are the 
 boss fights. While it is sadly true that you can get through the game lightsaber-wise simply by 
 hammering the attack button and using no other combo, there are options available to spice things 
 up. Being able to infuse your lightsaber with lightning mid combo adds flavor and looks great. 
 Air combos however, in my experience, are difficult to pull off and utterly unnecessary, which 
 is unfortunate. Also, lightsaber combos have a nasty tendency to keep going when you don't want 
 them to as well as pushing your character forward, which means that until you get used to things, 
 expect your combos to carry you right off edges.
  
  The graphics are overall pretty solid. Your character looks great and generally speaking, so do 
 the environments. Felucia's organic setting deserves special mention. It's also great seeing steel 
 doors deform under the power of the force, as is seeing the forest on either side of you ripple 
 when you summon a blast, as though the game world had been hit with a strong gust of wind. It's 
 a decent looking game with a good set of character models, boss-wise and with regards to your character, 
 the environments look good and react well to your powers.
  
  Lastly, as a Star Wars game, the story is actually pretty good. Considering the overall brevity 
 of the cutscenes as well as the shortness of the game itself, many of the characters are enjoyable. 
 Your main character, stupid name aside (Starkiller? Really?) is relatable and likable in a plot 
 that could have easily led to him being a mopey whiner. Your robot buddy Proxy is also great fun. 
 It's a good story for a game simply because it's your standard Star Wars tale. That said, that 
 level of quality is pretty good as far as games go.
  
  
  The Cons
  
  This game is loaded with cheap deaths. When I say cheap deaths, I don't mean deaths where the game 
 is simply difficult and in need of being mastered. Rather, I mean that it feels as though you are 
 fighting the game itself. By that I mean, rather than fighting obstacles or the enemy, you are 
 fighting poor development, poor design, and poor quality assurance. 
  
  Time and again, you will fall dead due to bugs. Twice, I have been shot dead while stuck in the 
 opening between two doors I had blasted open with the Force. I have been killed by larger enemies, 
 Purge Troopers notably, who simply would not lose that last sliver of health regardless of how 
 hard I pounded them. Worst of all, I have been struck dead by things that I dodged that didn't 
 even come close to hitting me. 
  
  For example, in the Shaak Ti boss fight, three times a tentacle would be coming down on top of 
 me. I dodge. Tentacle slaps the ground three feet away from my character. I take damage/die. Another 
 example. I'm hiding around a corner. A purge trooper shoots and I dodge. The shot hits the wall 
 two feet to the right of my character, even leaving a burn mark where it hits. I take the damage 
 and fall dead. Right.
  
  That's the thing too. I said I was 'hiding' around a corner. That doesn't sound very "Force Unleashed" 
 to me. Hiding around a corner and leaninig out to take quick lightning potshots? Really? Well, 
 the thing is, with brutally damaging and annoying long range troops such as the afore mentioned 
 Purge Troopers and their loads of health and homing missiles or the ever irritating Scout Trooper 
 snipers, if you try to play it "Unleashed," you'll die. Single enemies, notably the Purge Trooper, 
 also have a nasty ability to attack just fast enough so that once you're hit, they'll hit you several 
 more times before you can get up. This is the same with many of the bosses. This is doubly bad 
 if you're assaulted by several EVO troopers and, God help you, get hit with a stun shot. Chances 
 are, you'll get hit with several stun shots in a row, totally helpless as your character slowly 
 dies.
  
  Compounding this all, is of course the much discussed problem of so many enemies being "force immune." 
 For a game that is so "unleashed," it sure is very interested in limiting and tethering the very 
 thing it says it's unleashing. Long Range troops, weird bugs, and force immune troopers mean cowardly, 
 cagey gameplay.
  
  The other major problem that cannot be stated enough is the AWFUL targetting in this game. Theoretically, 
 you automatically target the nearest object, though sometimes the targetting system doesn't even 
 seem to obey this rule. This is obviously a problem, particularly because you're stuck with what 
 the game automatically targets for you and you can manually move around among viable targets. The 
 only way to do that is to move your actual character around, exposing yourself to gunfire, hoping 
 that eventually you'll "automatically" target what you wanted to. Cheap deaths here I go! So many 
 times your character will end up targetting the hell out of an innocuous rock three feet away, 
 ignoring the guy in front of you whose blasting you in the face. Joy.
  
  A few more minor grievances. The menu system and interface looks ugly, cheap, and budget and could've 
 used more work. Worse still, the game has a lot of loading. Even moving from the pause menu to 
 your stat allocation screen requires loading. Of course, moving back out of your stat allocation 
 screen requires more loading. Want to change your lightsaber color? Takes more loading to get there 
 too. Outside of basic options, pretty much anywhere you'd want to go on the menu/interface requires 
 loading. Come on.
  
  The game also does experience a little bit of slowdown here and there. Also, some of the enemy 
 character models seem unimpressive, lacking detail or texture. It's really strange and stands out 
 quite a bit considering how everything else looks pretty nice. 
  
  The Force Unleashed is also a short game without much replay value. It's around ten hours, maybe 
 less. There's no multiplayer to speak of. I suppose you might want to play through the game again 
 to get the second ending, but beyond that, I can't see any reason to replay it again. What's worse 
 is that even in such a short game, three of the levels get re-used. Granted, the levels appear 
 much altered and you don't go to the EXACT same locations, but it's still disappointing.
  
  Finally, special mention must be made of the famed Star Destroyer section. This might be possibly 
 one of the worst portions I've ever played in a major release. It is unfun, boring, and totally 
 unlike the rest of the game. It is also totally riddled with bugs. The directions are incorrect, 
 the prompts to pull down the Destroyer vanish, and worse still, you can only move left and right. 
 The problem with that, is that if you're caught in a blast, you'll still be knocked back, leaving 
 the game totally confused as to what to do with your character now that you're no longer on that 
 "left right" plane. Chances are, you'll end up sliding off the edge to your death or locked in 
 place until you're shot dead. Did anyone even playtest this section? What makes it worse is that 
 pullind down the star destroyer was supposed to be a flagship moment for this game. What an anti-climax.
 
  
  
  The Conclusion
  
  It has a good story, it looks pretty good, and it does things with the Force that no other game 
 has done. Given this, it CAN be fun despite also often being an exercise in frustration. Given 
 this, I totally recommend giving this game a rent. That said, given the game's bugs, little replay 
 value, and it's often sloppy gameplay, I would not, under any circumstancs, recommend purchasing 
 this game full priced or even budget priced. Anything more than 20 bucks probably isn't even worth 
 considering, even if you're a Star Wars megafan. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFairbanks2983
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  There have been alot of mixed reviews out there about this game and although I am a die hard Star 
 Wars fan, I'll still give an honest review.
  
  Graphics - Excellent
  The previews were what snagged me. The worlds offered a new feel to the story and pulled the movies 
 and the game together. The landscaped were well detailed and put together but did get a little 
 repetitive. The characters had a good feel to them.. not the blocky characters from earlier games.
 
  
  Story - Again Excellent
  The time gap between Episode III and IV just got a little shorter. The story was a great new direction 
 for the Star Wars saga. New characters, new motives, new background to the story... the only thing 
 that killed this was how short the story was for this. A few more levels would have made this an 
 unbelievable game.
  
  Music/sounds - Classic
  Not much to say because all the Star Wars have great music. The new communications between the 
 clones and their reactions to what you do to them was a big upgrade.
  
  Excitement - Excellent
  Having the force at your fingertips was a great new aspect. Being able 
 to control most of everything in your environment was something that was needed. Hurling Stormtroopers 
 over ledges or into eachother, smashing them against walls, or letting them hang onto ledges and 
 hand rails before their utter demise is a fun factor of this game. The total feel of having the 
 powers you build makes playing more fun watching your player evolve. Also the lightsaber upgrades 
 make it a neat combination to see what one works best for you.
  
  Replayability - Moderately high
  
  Overall - Instant Classic
  Some of the story both with 
 the speed of the game and the details do feel rushed especially with a short story but any Star 
 Wars fan or somebody who loves action will be into this game and respect it for what it is... a 
 fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgreen79
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Lets review the aspects of the game...
  
  Story (Excellent) : Short but an excellent experience for any Star Wars fan. It fits pieces together 
 that havn't been revealed before, which for me... made playing this game like watching a new Star 
 Wars movie.
  
  Graphics (Above Average) : Some things look amazing, and then some things look like a bit rushed. 
 The environments look nothing short of amazing -- by far some of the best to date. Charactor models 
 though seemed a bit rushed... thankfully not your jedi.
  
  Playability (Average) : Yes, targeting is somewhat of a pain in this game. At times you find yourself 
 picking up... or not picking up things. The camera view isn't the best, but how many other good 
 games have this issue? It's somthing you get used to and in the end, really isn't an issue.
  
  Music (Excellent) : It's Star Wars...
  
  Fun Factor (Excellent) : This is where the game 
 by far excells. There is nothing more fun than tossing a storm trooper straight down off a bridge 
 into an undending abyss, or force pushing 5 enemies off a ledge. The "finish him" type combos never 
 get old. There is very little this game could have done better to make you feel like a complete 
 bad a**.
  
  Overall (Above Average) : The glitches and unfinished feel to the game is dissapointing, but ultimately 
 its all about beat'n the crap out of people with awsome jedi powers... which the game allows you 
 to do very well. Don't dwell on what could have been, and instead focus on what the best way to 
 cream any lesser mortal that stands in your path is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SandboxAddict
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  As a star wars fan i was so much looking forward to this game, and i wanted to believe Euphoria 
 was a cool thing. Plus the Moleculair Engine. thingamabob. 
  
  What a bummer.... "i have a bad feeling about this"...
  
  The game looks great indeed, but 
 is too short, i couldn't care less for the Euphoria (I 10 times as much love the ragdoll phisics 
 in SR2) and the Moleculair stuff Lucas Arts was raving about is a JOKE. REad my lips again: A joke!!!
 
  
  I bet the current generation of consoles couldn't pull of so much technology, because i have seen 
 glass shatter more beautiful, trees break much more believable in pre-animated graphics, then this 
 overhyped cr%p game.
  
  Oh, can you guess i am angry? Yes, i am, and entitled too: how much footage have i seen about how 
 revolutionairy this game would be.... One word: NOT!
  
  And the story, in retrospect, wouldn't fit that great in the star wars universe, to be honest. 
 
  
  Lucas Arts: do us all a favour and concentrate on the Old Republic, and leave The first 6 titles 
 of the Canon alone. 
  
  For once and for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy415
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  **** SPOILERS IN THIS PARAGRAPH ****
  That's exactly what this was. A great story about one of the last Jedi in the galaxy. The story 
 is fascinating in that it turns the normal jedi tale on its head. Instead of a Jedi being turned 
 to Sith, we see a Sith apprentice slowly "corrupted" by the light. We also get to see how he sacrifices 
 himself to start the Rebellion. 
  **** SPOILERS IN THIS PARAGRAPH ****
  
  I really loved this story and it really made the game. Not that using a Tie Fighter to crush an 
 AT-ST isn't fun. But without the story it would not have seemed like a true Jedi Tale. The story 
 really immersed you in the setting and made you feel more like a Jedi than any game I have yet 
 to play.
  
  Having said this, the camera sucks. I'm not sure if they could have made it any better though. 
 It is tough to work a camera around some of the physics and powers they are giving you. They did 
 a decent job, but after a 4 hour spree on this game, you might need some Advil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodeen80
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  The idea of finally being able to fully realize the power of the force in a video game is something 
 every Star Wars fan has been waiting for. If that is essentially what you're looking for in this 
 game then it's definitely for you. The force powers are many and they are very fun to use all the 
 way throughout the game.
  
  As far as the gaming aspect of The Force Unleashed goes; it leaves something to be desired. The 
 camera in this game is not the greatest, especially in tight areas. The targeting system leaves 
 a lot to be desired as well, but this seems like something more and more developers are struggling 
 with these days. The story is a Star Wars story: easy to follow with a few plot twists. I would 
 have liked to see a few sub plots going on to create a more layered story arc. The main character 
 seemed very out of place as a Sith apprentice, and as a protagonist in general.
  
  The gameplay is fairly forgiving, but challenging at appropriate times. There was one level, however, 
 that was intensely irritating. The "pull the star destroyer down" board. This should have been 
 the climax of the story, but instead was an hour long exercise in repetition. 
  
  Anyway, I love Star Wars so I do have a somewhat biased opinion on this one. I loved it.... now 
 I'm looking forward to The Old Republic MMORPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hey12389
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  A game review by Chris Lacey
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed
  
  When I first picked up this game I thought, "dude this is going to be sweet, I'm going to be one 
 bad arse lighting abuser and shock everything in my path". I was more like a Jedi that cries a 
 lot.
  Let's start off looking in to the story line. You play as Darth Vader's secret apprentice who is 
 to help him take over the empire. He gives you a ship and a crew to carry out his work for him 
 while he sits there and acts like a hot shot. He tells you to kill some Jedi Masters. Then the 
 story line takes a wild shift and before you know it you're at the last mission and you get you 
 make your only choice of the game. The story over all is very predictable but it runs smoothly. 
 The level design is very limited in this game. They use each level twice and only make minor changes. 
 With the whole Star Wars universe in their hands, they could have done a lot more.
  However, each mission has hidden unlockables called Jedi Holocrons. There are at least 5 of these 
 in each level and each of the give either exp, light saber crystals, new outfits, or 1 point to 
 upgrade your character. Most of these are easy to get, but some of them are harder to find.
  Let's continue to controls and how the game plays. When I first started playing the game it was 
 very easy to learn the controls and play, and with such a great level up system it was fun to grip 
 people and toss them a couple hundred feet. 
  Every time you kill someone in the game ,you gain exp [experience] and some of you health back. 
 When you get enough exp, you level up and get 1 point in each of the upgradeable categories: Force 
 Powers, Force Talents (your stats such as total health you have and attack power and etc.) , and 
 Force Combo (button combinations your character can learn that do more damage to an enemy rather 
 than just swinging your light saber around) . As you gain levels your character becomes stronger 
 and it gets a little easier to complete the missions you have to do.
  This game is a lot of fun and I would have recommended it, but it has a lot of glitches. For those 
 love getting achievements for the Xbox 360, the first profile you make will be corrupted and you 
 will not get the Jedi Holocron achievement and you will have wasted your time like I did. Another 
 is randomly falling though the map at any random time. That's just the tip of the iceberg. 
  So over all what is my conclusion? I would say if you know someone that has the game like I did, 
 then borrow it off of them. But I wouldn't recommend spending any money or going out of your way 
 to play this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: car023
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  The Good thing about this game, you get to play a jedi that has a interesting character with a 
 good story, some interesting force powers and a funny dress sense! you fight in a nicely animated 
 world against some interesting opponents that can be fun over and over again. Also when playing 
 this game particularly in the first few levels you get the sense that you really are there, the 
 way that you leave a trail of destruction behind you is very satisfying, Blasting through doors 
 and frying everything with lightning is very fun.
  
  The Bad thing about this game is that the story lasts about 3 hours if your fast, and the sometimes 
 weird bugs that can lead your character to be stuck in the walls or fall through platforms, the 
 camera can also be frustrating with limited view of your surroundings, mashing the R button can 
 become a habit when unable to see much.
  
  However, despite the bad things about this game the positive things highly outnumber the bad things 
 play it and enjoy watching your enemies get torn to pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shannydanny
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is unsatisfying; it does not deliver what you want it to, and where it does 
 deliver you find yourself thinking, 'why couldn't they do the same thing before?' Your character, 
 despite being an over-powered Jedi, fails to move quickly enough in combat; a single knock by an 
 enemy will render you unable to do anything for several seconds, meaning painfully slow enemy combos 
 connect every time. This also happens when knocked to the ground; you find yourself shouting at 
 your videogame avatar to 'GET UP!' as the distant missile gets closer and closer, eventually smacking 
 you straight back down again. This isn't the only example of getting stuck in a loop; melee enemies 
 have an odd efficiency for combat, especiall versus a Jedi, and clashing weapons with them will 
 result in a deadlock and you bouncing backwards. If then, you try to swing at them while they are 
 busy, you will receive the same animation over and over again. You quickly learn to stop attacking 
 someone when they're standing still.
  
  Throughout all this I hoped the boss battles would live up to the rest of the hype produced by 
 this horse, but, alas, they didn't. Bosses are mostly unfairly deadly and swift, using a very powerful 
 force attack in the blink of an eye. One particular character's lightsaber throw occurs in a flash 
 and is unblockable, cutting your health up dramatically in the process.
  
  Unfortunately, the game is actually fun to play in most parts, but the negative points are just 
 that annoying that you quickly forget how much fun it is to throw someone over your shoulder with 
 a flick of the analogue. It's such a disappointment.
  
  Please, don't buy this game. Rent it, at the very least, but don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chasgn1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed has taken a lot of heat over relatively few things, NONE of which are nearly 
 enough to overshadow the myriad things this game did well.
  
  The biggest targets of criticism I've seen include: difficulty in targeting, poor physics and graphical 
 problems.
  
  The combat, while a bit clumsy at times, is by no means this flawed monstrosity I heard it to be. 
 The melee/force system was done brilliantly for a first time around and while not without flaw, 
 it delivers a fierce experience that puts you into the shoes of a viciously powerful Force wielder 
 with a very unique set of moves. The character himself is a testament to what this game got right 
 beyond any shadow of a doubt.
  
  Starkiller (Vader's secret apprentice) is a fascinating character who you quickly grow attached 
 to as a person. He is young, loyal, yet impressionable, and not without humanity as opposed to 
 his master. Above all else, however, he is unimaginably powerful for someone his age, and this 
 is a key factor throughout the game as he proves himself. Through him you experience a violent 
 aspect of the force and an outstanding, tragic character is unfolded for you.
  
  The Force Unleashed may have needed more tweaking in the balance and combat department, but its 
 gorgeous visuals and environments coupled with a well done (for the most part) combat system and 
 gripping storyline make for an unforgettable experience that will also reveal an important bit 
 of information as to the era between Episodes 3 and 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Ah Star Wars, one of my favorite movies. Ah Star Wars: Forced Unleashed, one of my favori- wait 
 did I say favorite? I mean one of the biggest letdowns ever for me in gaming! I really wanted to 
 love this game, I really wanted it to be good, but no, wanting isn't good enough. 
  
  I'll point out the only good things about this game. Story, Sound, and that's about it. The graphics 
 were decent, nothing special, the gameplay is fun at first but then just gets repetitive and boring, 
 repetitive and boring, repetitive and boring. 
  
  In the boss fights, you usually have to finish them with a stupid combo which gets annoying after 
 a while, and the game [on medium] is a bit of a challange. The achievements aren't to bad for 360 
 owners, and it's a shame their is no fight mode in the 360/PS3 versions. If you like Star Wars 
 it's a good rent, other than that, for everyone else, it's a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naylor182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  From first hearing about this game, I thought it'd be everything that Star Wars games needed. Since 
 Jedi Knight II, there hasn't been a Star Wars action game (KOTOR is an RPG, after all) that has 
 blown me away. The premise was immediately promising; superpowered force powers, Vader's apprentice 
 being introduced; basically a good-looking next-gen SW experience.
  
  However, the more I heard about it, the worse things got. Firstly (and I know this is a bone of 
 contention among the Force Unleashed [hereafter "TFU"] forums) , there is no multiplayer. All that 
 would have been required would have been a simple duel system for quick drop in, drop out multiplayer. 
 Think the duel system on JKII, but more specialised. However, LucasArts felt it fitting to deny 
 360 and PS3 users any form of replay value. And therein lies another problem - this game is a simple 
 "play once" game. I am a huge SW fan, yet have felt no impulse to play TFU again. I played KOTOR 
 about 3 times (at least) despite it having no multiplayer. So perhaps rent this game...
  
  Thirdly, the story is predictable. Evil dark Jedi. Has a revelation. Becomes glorious light Jedi. 
 I would REALLY like a SW game with a dark story behind it. When I heard of this game, I thought 
 that due to the fact that the main character is a Dark Jedi, it would buck the trend of the "good 
 guys winning" SW template (save Empire Strikes Back, of course) . But no, it's another one of these 
 happy endings games... I'm at a loss as to how a boy raised with the dark side (and who knows nothing 
 else - quite like Darth Maul) can turn to the light quicker than I can turn on my Xbox. It doesn't 
 make a lot of sense.
  
  I suppose a fourth gripe would be the story, but I can't really elaborate on this without littering 
 this review with spoilers. So, for the sake of unchristened TFU players, I will hold my tongue.
 
  
  Do you want the positives? Well it's awful fun, especially the first level. Playing as Vader (and 
 feeling like you are ACTUALLY controlling Vader - not just someone who looks like him) is very, 
 very fun. Throwing  2m Wookiees about like they're made of feathers is excellent. 
  The set-pieces are good, too. The first boss battle as the apprentice is very well done and feels 
 cinematic. 
  I suppose this game's main success is that it keeps you occupied for a good few hours. You are 
 having genuine fun, but:
  a) don't expect it to last too long;
  b) don't expect great replay value;
  c) don't expect this to be the defining SW experience; and
 
  d) maybe rent this unless you're a die-hard SW fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seriousjoker93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  After following this game for about a year, I picked it up off pre-order from my local EB Games 
 and I can tell you right now I was not disappointed. The game looks absolutely beautiful with it's 
 different worlds and with the integration of DMM and Euphoria, it also makes for some fun gaming 
 as well. 
  
  Some people will say that the shoddy aiming mechanism ruined what could have been a good game and 
 I agree that gripping a box instead of a stormtrooper was irritating but really, I didnt mind it. 
 
  
  There are some startling revelations in this game and it spans several years. The problem I found 
 was that it didnt really feel like it went for that long as it seemed you were sent from one mission 
 to the next. The game was over in about 8 hours which left you wanting more at the end but at the 
 same time, I was glad I got the game.
  
  The engines of Digital Molecular Matter and Euphoria had a great effect on the gameplay and it 
 is immensely satisfying to send a stormtrooper soaring towards a metal door and hit it with so 
 much force that he actually smashes the door open a bit. When you are on Felucia, the bobbing and 
 swaying of the various plants looks quite realistic and draw you in even more into this incredible 
 world. 
  
  The different combos and attacks you can gain are fun to watch and quite simple to execute. For 
 example, if I wanted to throw my opponent into the air with the my lightsaber/force then ambush 
 him in midair and completely obliterate him I need only press a few buttons. 
  
  
  All in all I thoroughly recommend this game to all interested in buying it. I loved it and I have 
 not seen a Star Wars story this immersive since KotOR I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Of all the Star Wars games they ever made few have passed the certain qualifications of reviewers, 
 this one is on the line. The game looks good, but has a sense of same quality throughout. Throughout 
 the story you will find different objective's to be repetitive, some you will find to be meaningless. 
 Through the game you will be able to get rewards and bonuses by collecting these holocrons that 
 unlock certain bonuses on certain levels, like costumes, lightsabers, force powers, and points.
 
  The story is kind of short, it will be really short if you rush through it, the control's could 
 be better if they could fill in some of the controls, they sort of feel empty handed at times, 
 the boss fights are okay, you will often find yourself battling against junk monsters, or high-tech 
 soilders, but mostly Jedi's.
  The game is not the vest in the Star Wars franchise, but you have to give them credit for making 
 a new story in between the movies three and four, but they should have just stuck with making more 
 Battlefront games, to me those games are the best in the Star Wars franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAW14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars was good but not as good as the creaters made it look the gameplay was very good but 
 it was a short game and you ended up doing the same combo over and over again. But you do get to 
 upgrade and get new combos but you wont be able to remember all of them so you start pussing x 
 and y (for 360) or square and triangle (for ps3) repeatedly. So there are good and bads but the 
 goods in the mvoie are very good and the bads al though there are not that many still make a difference. 
 The grafics are good but not good anough to make you buy it. So for you guys or girls that are 
 thinking of buying it stop and think first see if you have any friends that could lend it to you 
 or rent it you will proboly beat it the first time you rent it. So for the people that read this 
 review just think if you want to really spend $60 on this specific game. If you want to play a 
 good game go play Dead Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I am a Star Wars fan. A BIG Star Wars fan. I own every movie, own a bunch of the really old action 
 figures, own most every game that is worth owning and I own a little over half of the novels. That 
 being said, I hadn't found a game that completely WOWED me since Rogue Leader and Jedi Outcast 
 in the Star Wars universe. Granted there have been some pretty decent games like Battlefront II, 
 Jedi Academy, Rebel Strike and the mediocre but at least somewhat fun Revenge of the Sith... but 
 they just didn't deliver in the same way some of the older games did. Then I heard about this, 
 learned about the robust physics engine, the hard work going into it, and my hopes went through 
 the roof. I finally picked up the game and I can say, though it isn't quite as good as I had hoped, 
 this is most definitely a much better game then we have been getting out of the Star Wars Universe 
 lately. 
  
  First off, let me get the easy stuff out of the way... the looks and sound. The game looks amazing. 
 The environments are detailed while still keeping a decent level of simplicity, the character models 
 are well done and Juno and Starkiller specifically look absolutely amazing. I admit in some areas 
 the game, while still looking artistically amazing, seemed to fall a little short technologically. 
 Even though some of the environments looked absolutely amazing, they FELT a little underwhelming 
 and I'm not sure exactly what it was that made me feel that way. Specifically Raxus Prime and Kashyyyk 
 made me feel that way, while Felucia and the final stage were high points. Overall though, the 
 graphics do look absolutely amazing and the only detriment is that you have to go to almost every 
 environ twice, and they don't look much different the second time around.
  
  The sound on the other hand, is nothing to gripe about. Every sound effect sounds as amazing as 
 you would expect out of a Star Wars movie. The voice acting is as good as everybody says, with 
 the different voice actors for classic characters (like Vader and Palpatine for example) get the 
 job done pretty well. They are all full of emotion and you will enjoy every moment of dialogue. 
 The music is of course nothing short of amazing as well. The classic compositions by John Williams 
 that are pulled from the whole saga are used perfectly in the most appropriate areas. The original 
 score by the new composer to express the new themes are also well done and blend right in with 
 the legendary score of John Williams... and I tell you that is no small feat. This game will be 
 a game you will want to put the surround sound on max for.
  
  Ah, now for the fun stuff, how is the game REALLY? Well first off let me tell you about the story. 
 It is absolutely fantastic. It is a story about love, redemption and fate. It is very well done 
 and I especially liked that the love story was not played out as a cheesy focus like Lucas did 
 with the prequels. It was subtle, but obvious enough to make it worth something. The story of Vader, 
 his conflicts and changes, Starkillers molding and sudden life changes, and the deaths of important 
 remaining Jedi are absolute enthralling. This is one of those games that will have you on the edge 
 of your seat throughout the whole game just to see what happens next... and unfortunately sometimes 
 that is exactly what will keep you playing.
  
  There are many good and bad aspects to the gameplay. The combination of the 3 physics engines most 
 definitely adds a very real depth of gameplay into the game. From the absolutely amazing use of 
 DMM (which allows for individual parts of objects to behave independentaly, allowing objects to 
 react to destruction realistically) , and the great Havok engine (which basically IS the physics 
 engine, and is THE physics engine of our time) to the fantastic Euphoria engine (which makes sure 
 that when enemies are put into dire situations, they will react accordingly, like screaming for 
 help, grabbing onto railings when force pushed to prevent death... etc.) . By themselves these engines 
 are good but don't really stand out, but together they make for an experience that will be BEGGING 
 for creative playing styles. You will oftentimes find yourself wanting to do things in different 
 ways all the time just to see what will happen.
  
  The combat is also very well done. It plays out, in the most basic sense, like Ninja Gaiden, God 
 of War and Devil May Cry. You start off with a minor amount of lightsaber combos and force powers, 
 and as you play more and more you get points to unlock more combos, more abilities, more force 
 powers and even ways to augment your lightsaber. There is a pretty decent variety of stuff to use, 
 and I never found myself getting bored with the arsenal that was presented with me. The boss battles 
 (and some mini-bosses) also have button mini-games that, like God of War, keep the action interactive, 
 but allow for absolutely elaborate action sequences that you just would not be able to pull off 
 by yourself. Granted, overall I felt these mini-game sequences were not nearly as amazing as God 
 of War, but the last half of the game... especially one jedi and the final two bosses... had especially 
 enjoyable finale action sequences. Being able to use the objects all around you (sometimes you 
 will feel like you can use ANYTHING) is a definite plus.
  
  Now what could possibly be so bad about this then? Well, for one, the camera, though usually pretty 
 cooperative, can sometimes refuse to listen. And even though this doesn't happen all the time, 
 when it DOES happen can be disastrous. I've found that sometimes I will be close to an edge, won't 
 realize it and will keep fighting then will be knocked back... to my death. Also, oftentimes the 
 last half of each stage starts to get boring because the fun and uniqueness you feel when you start 
 begins to dissipate... since you realize you are just doing the same thing over and over again. 
 Lastly, and definitely not least, is the targeting system. You will very often realize that when 
 it comes to throwing things at enemies, you will never target what you WANT to target. I eventually 
 found that picking up whatever object I can, and throwing it in the direction of the enemy will 
 usually get the job done, but the fact that it's difficult to have proper control over such a fun 
 mechanism is a little dissapointing. I've heard people complain more about the targeting system 
 but in all honesty, I never used it outside of force throwing objects, and I got through the game 
 just fine.
  
  I had also heard there are a lot of bugs and glitches in the game. I never experienced any of these 
 during my two playthroughs, so I thought they were hoaxes. Then I watched my friend play and many 
 times he got stuck in areas and would not be able to get out. I would then have to grab the controller, 
 mash buttons, and pray he would get unstuck. Usually he would, but a couple times he fell to his 
 death into invisible areas or would appear on the wrong side of where he was stuck and die. I don't 
 know how to activate these bugs because with my play style it NEVER happened, but with him it happened 
 at least once per level. My brother never had any problems with bugs either when he played... so 
 that's 2 out of 3. I don't know if these bugs are quite as common as people say, but they ARE there. 
 
  
  Another problem is the length. Normally this would not be a problem, since these types of games 
 usually ARE short. Short and sweet. Just how I like it. The problem here is the lack of reason 
 to come back. God of War offers fun, challenging higher difficulties (with different enemy setups) , 
 fun unlockable content and extra play modes. Devil May Cry offers extra unlockable difficulties 
 also with different enemy layouts, and also some fun play modes. Ninja Gaiden offers a plethora 
 of extras and stuff to do after initial completion. This offers... harder difficulties that merely 
 require you to be more careful and more skillful... but don't really offer anything different. The 
 extras are also not that great and you won't really care to play through again to unlock things. 
 The only reason to come back is just to have fun. Now this isn't a horrible thing, but with so 
 many good action games that offer so much, they could have done the same. I hear there will be 
 DLC, and if it isn't too expensive I suppose it'll make the replay a bit better, but as it stands, 
 there isn't much to do upon completion.
  
  Complaints aside, this is, overall, a very amazing game. You will be wowed all over the place, 
 you will feel powerful, you will yell at the TV at certain story sequences, and you WILL have fun. 
 From moments like Proxy's attempts to kill Starkiller (which are very amusing) , to tense exchanges 
 between Starkiller and Vader, to using the Force to bring down a Star Destroyer (absolutely AMAZING 
 sequence) , this game will have you enjoying every second you play, even with the flaws. If you 
 are into action games, or are into Star Wars, or even better... both... then you should not pass 
 up the opportunity to play this fun game. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Value: 6/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GerardoHV
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  I dont underastand the game in the movies Darth Vader dies and now he is in the game again!!!!!!! 
 and all characters died and there are in the game.
  I dont understand Darth Vader is true or Proxi is Darth Vader.
  Why Proxi is all characters???
 
  thats why I dont like the its a waste of time.
  I am waiting for star wars the clone wars lightsaber duels.
  That game is interesting like the 
 movie.
  And why there is no movie of Star Wars the force unleashed????
  if I see the movie I understand better the game.
  But there is no movie.
  What a waste of time!!!!
 
  I dont know why but the only good game of star wars is llego star wars.
  All the others are a waste of time.
  why proxi is Darth Maul and a lot of others characters??
 
  I dont understand the game.
  Do we can play of 2 players?????
  thats my most impotant thing.
  I want to play of 2 players and I cant why???
  For me the game 
 is a star wars copy.
  Its horrible and waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjaman5531
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  It was pretty good the first time through but it was way too short (beat it in 8 hrs) Soo much 
 hype was wasted on this crappy game. They need to make it longer and harder. I was really dissapointed 
 in this. The story is sadly the only good part of the game. Lucasarts next time dont waste your 
 time on crap like this!!! The next step for star wars games should be KOTOR 3!!!! Now that would 
 be a game worth $60. Im still crying about this game and how terrible it was. (sob) The only gameplay 
 i did like was the prologue when you played as Vader. Now that i think of it they should make a 
 Vader game!!! That would be fun force choking every one in sight. It would be much better as a 
 Vader based game. I mean c'mon every ones favorite character is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muppen
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  When I first saw Star Wars: The Force Unleashed I immediately thought of the Devil May Cry stylish 
 combo gameplay, but with Force powers instead of guns. In other words, a mixture of two great universes. 
 So how does it fare in practice?
  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed takes place between Episode 3 and Episode 4 of the movies. You play 
 as Darth Vader's secret apprentice, Starkiller, and it's up to you to do your master's dirty work.
 
  
  This game is all about "use the Force Starkiller!" - you have a number of Force powers to inflict 
 havok on your enemies and they are all a blast to use whether it's zapping them with lightning 
 or gripping them and throw them around like ragdolls. 
  
  You also have your trusty lightsaber and as you progress through the game you'll unlock different 
 combos and if you collect the many Holocrons scattered through the game you can give your lightsaber 
 a new color and/or a power up. There are also different costumes you can unlock.
  
  The gameplay it's pretty straight forward, you kill enemies and collect EXP so you can level up 
 your character to be the ultimate bad ass.
  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed delivers a great action adventure which I would recommend you to 
 play.
  
  The Good
  - Force powers are insanely fun to use
  - Good variety of levels
  - Unlocks will make you come back for more than one playthrough
  
  The bad
  - Targeting system 
 when using Force Grip can be difficult to handle sometimes
  - A couple of more levels wouldn't hurt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pr3DaToR92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  First I couldn't decide if it was going to be Brothers in Arms Hell's Highway of this. Well, I 
 picked Star Wars, and I can say I don't regret it! A great game from LucasArts! Though there are 
 some bugs and glitches, but never the less, a huge story and amazing gameplay which brings you 
 devastating combat you've never seen before!
  
  What surprised me most, were the new, unique psychics engine they brought us, but the targeting 
 system, as mentioned before, were frustating... The story simply played the game all the time, 
 you started as Darth Vader's secret spy, later you became one like your father, a Jedi!
  
  By making decisions, you could also decide to kill the almighty Emperor, or continue knocking out 
 Darth Vader! I ofcourse, slayed the Emperor, which were my first quest, and I kept following my 
 old orders from Darth Vader. Vader wanted to overthrow the Emperor so that HE could rule the Galaxy 
 by his own hand, which never happened ofcourse...
  
  That's it, and may the force be with you.
  
  Great thanks to George Lucas for giving us the 
 Star Wars Universe!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Star wars the Force Unleashed while not a perfect game, it's pretty damn great. The graphics are 
 stunning, gorgeous stages, great character designs, every aspect is just beautiful to the eye. 
 The gameplay is tight, a tad frustrating at spots, cheap even, but there is big fun to be had here. 
 The soundtrack in a word, "awesome", the sound effects best ever, and the engaging story line are 
 all worthy of "10" status. Hard to believe, but this games story is even better than "Knights of 
 the old Republic" which says volumes on how great it is, deserving of moving to the big screen, 
 and blows episodes I-III right out of space. I can feel myself wanting to go through this game 
 several times, so replay ability is very good, only time will tell if I'll still be yearning to 
 play though this game a couple dozen of times like I have with both Kotor games over the years. 
 The Force Unleashed is must own game, not just for Star Wars fans, but people who love great games. 
 Bottom line is, this game blows away the competition in almost every category Buy this game you 
 must! AM I NOT MERCIFUL?!?!?!? tEE hEE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoldFlame0
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  While the game may be short, and it may leave you wishing you could spend another 5 hours playing 
 through greatly designed levels with more cool action sequences, unfortunately, you don't get to.
 
  The Force Unleashed (TFU) is a great Star Wars game. Acting as a filler between episodes III and 
 IV it describes the story of Darth Vader's secret apprentice, dubbed "Starkiller". With George 
 Lucas giving details to the team about what he wanted and didn't want, it tells a great story, 
 which surprisingly for fillers, is interesting and doesn't seem too far fetched. The visuals are 
 all great, and the levels are designed famously. Some colorful and immersive, others dreary but 
 still not dull. The costumes are also greatly detailed and the fact that you can change them whenever 
 you like is something I enjoy in games, because in my opinion, you can never have too many costumes, 
 and changing the look of your character is sometimes just as important as getting the combat or 
 story right. Customization is always good.
  The combat is always fun, either throwing your enemies through the air only to hit one of their 
 allies, or by zapping a few of them, or just by taking them out the old fashioned way with a few 
 swipes of your lightsaber. Your lightsaber, by the way, can also be changed by getting different 
 crystals you find hidden throughout the game.
  Havok engine helps run the physics, which everytime I see the Havok symbol I get excited, because 
 they do great work in any game, and this one is no exception.
  All-in-all I believe this game is thoroughly underrated, and if you're a Star Wars fan this is 
 a definite, even if you're not, it's a good rental. The only problem being that it's too short, 
 and that the combat can be a bit repetitive because there's only so many ways to kill your enemies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Ace92
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The game was not all its cracked up to be. I personelly did not care for it much i beat in 1 day. 
 I think the story is too short, the targeting system could have been better, and the should have 
 let u walk around cities and be able too choose when to start a mission. The game should be more 
 like the Older Game Star Wars The Old Republic, but newer and more free play. A suggestion or opinion 
 of mine would be in addition to the free play, you should be able to walkthrew the cities associate 
 with mere people walking around and buy your own clothes and outfits. The game however did have 
 a pretty good story line. Also I think more finishing moves would of been cool. I have not played 
 the online part of the game although i still wouldnt think it would be good. Well these are my 
 opinions and i wouldnt recremend buying it i personely traded it for gamestop credit and got a 
 new headset. Hope this helps people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emblem_2007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  This game is really good worth the wait some parts where funny and it was fun playing the game 
 to using the force to throw them to the sky then shocking them using lightsaber throw the holocrons 
 where hard to find them and i really like it that they put the black lightsaber crystal in their 
 i had a feeling that it was on the death star but i didnt really like that their was not that much 
 levels but what made me laugh was throwing the ugnaughts but i dont like killing jawas so i left 
 them alone and it was the best starwars game but only if you chould pick who you want to play either 
 vader or star killer to bad he died at the end though but it didnt say what happend to juno and 
 kota but a twist that star killer turned out to be the one that started the rebels and the part 
 i didnt like was that proxy died but hope to see if their are easter eggs but other then that if 
 they do make a movie out of this i hope to see it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  If you look at all the Star Wars games there is you will see that there are quite a few of them 
 out there. And for the most of them they are good but The Force Unleashed it is great and a lot 
 of fun and my favorite out of all of them that there is.
  
  At first when you start playing and stuff it'll take a little bit to get used to the controls and 
 what not. But once you get used to them you'll start having a lot of fun and the next thing you 
 know hours and hours have passed by. And you don't even really want to stop playing because you're 
 having so much fun. The game just keeps your interest in it because of the different upgrades in 
 the game like combat upgrades and appearance upgrades to your character.
  
  It's really fun when your doing the Jedi battles the one of the thangs that I like the most about 
 the game. But also the game looks good not the best ever but its good. When you first start off 
 you should play the game on the hard mode first because it really makes it so much more fun as 
 like with just about any other game out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theWanderer80
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  What a generous score from Gamespot for an unresponsive bug-ridden heap of crap! I know I'm being 
 a bit harsh but the whole thing feels like a work-in-progress to me. 
  
  It's true that the story is the first truly deserving Star Wars installment since the original 
 trilogy but I would have bought a DVD if I wanted a good story to watch. Don't get me wrong I like 
 the direction the developers have tried to take the game, they just didn't quite get there. 
  
  It bugs me cos since the game was announced all I've heard was how SW: TFU is implementing cutting 
 edge tech like Emotion animation, Digital Molecular Matter and Havok physics, it'll be like "nothing 
 we've ever experienced before". But once you've loaded the game up you realize that you've seen 
 this half finished sh! t dozens of times before. The animation although just noticeably more natural 
 is still rather rough. Starkiller doesn't always do what you tell him to and I've seen more impressive 
 physics in 4-5 year old games (Psi-Ops had similar gameplay mechanics) . And what's with the googly 
 eyes on all the character models? Or the no-go areas that scream "come over here"? How about the 
 controls that don't do what you tell it to? It controls almost identically to Conan (not Age of 
 Conan) and Beowulf, where certain animation frames last way too long and can't be cancelled with 
 blocks or jumps and just leave you wide open to attack. Simply not good enough! I could go on and 
 on about how this game is not up to scratch: even with things as simple as the user interface i. e. 
 menus, they're reminiscent of decade old games like Deus Ex and System Shock 2. What about the 
 retarded targeting system that locks onto where the character is looking and not where the camera 
 is pointing?!? Or the camera that too often misses all the action?
  
  What the game does get right are the upgradeable force powers and lightsabre combos although a 
 little more depth would have been nice. The backdrops to the levels are some of the best I've see. 
 Ummm... Have I said I enjoyed the story? 
  
  For a game that has some of the latest tech it feels like, NOT looks like, a budget last gen title. 
 Perhaps other developers should take note. Before trying to make your games all flashy and cutting 
 edge get the basics right first like responsive controls, clear boundaries for players and menus 
 that don't take 10 seconds to load. A disappointment. At best a 5/10 for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walker1846
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Star wars games are rather fun while playing as jedi hacking **** with your lightsaber and the 
 previous Star wars games before did not concentrate as much on the force powers which has kind 
 of undercooked TFU.
  
  For example as Starkiller ( the games protagonist) you will feel like some super duper badass with 
 incredible force powers, you will be untouchable for most of evry level at the start of the game 
 until you reach the levels boss and you will feel that it is pointless having these powers as they 
 can block nearly every attack not to mention the saber combat which is rather clumsy. The force 
 powers are awesome but when it comes to the saber combat its a mess and all enemies you encounter 
 later in the game seem indestructable.
  
  But enough with the ranting about the bad points i gave this game an 8.5 it deserves the credit 
 and it does. TFU is an impressive technical achievement with various physics engines working in 
 the game which help enhance the power of your force attacks and not to mention the graphics which 
 are AAA qaulity which is great along with the story that has lots of twists and turns to keep you 
 on your seat, my advice dont skip cutscenes as the voice acting is very good and the plot presented 
 is better than any of the prequels.
  
  TFU is a great game but is far from perfect but will please fans of the saga and it is another 
 excuse to sell merchandise for the kiddies.
  
  GOOD
  + Engrossing storyline
  + Awesome force abilities
  + voice acting is top notch
  + high qaulity graphics
  + umm..... 
 punting jawas??
  
  BAD
  - Can be glitchy and buggy
  - Subpar lightsaber combat
  - Force powers are literally pointless when you reach a boss.
  
  TFU had loads of potential 
 but it does look good for future star wars games but maybe the developers should focus on both 
 arts of the jedi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Empty319
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  After growing up with the Star Wars Saga (not counting episode 1-3) I came to view the force as 
 a mystic force that acts alot like the gravity gun in Half-Life 2. But, then comes the Force Unleashed 
 and now we see what we all wanted to see Luke Skywalker do in the movies. I mean if Luke could 
 use the force like the apprentice does he would be juggling stormtroopers for fun. 
  
  But, enough ranting on to the game. Force Unleashed is a good game that could have been so much 
 better. The difficulty isn't much to talk about, even on the hardest difficulty I find myself breezing 
 through the hordes Troopers and whatever then getting to the big fight at the end only to discover 
 that all you need is Force Push, Force Grip, and Force Lighting. With thoses abilities you can 
 pretty much take down any of the bosses. But, the game does have some good design qualities that 
 do draw me in such as the power torture stormtroopers to no end never seems to get old and the 
 droid who travels with adds some of funniest lines second only to HK-42.
  
  With great force powers, numerous enemies to mess with, some environment gliches and a diffculty 
 system that isn't all that diffcult Star Wars: the Force Unleashed is a good game that could have 
 been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LewyDeng2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I've played just about every Star Wars game out there. But never have I experienced an SW game 
 like this, or any game for that matter.
  
  It starts off a little slow, takes a while to get used to the controls. Once you get real familiar 
 with the controls and the story line thought, it'll suck you right in. Next thing you'll know, 
 your up literally all night just mesmerized with it all. And it just keeps getting better with 
 all the upgrades you can make to your character such as combat upgrades and appearance upgrades, 
 this alone does a great job of keeping your interest. Another great thing is just how rewarding 
 this game can be. Nothing beats just annihilating everything in sight with force shock waves and 
 huge lightning storms. 
  
  I recommend starting off on the hardest level you can, in my opinion the challenge just makes it 
 that much more addicting. You may get frustrated from time to time, but its hard to get tired of 
 it, you'll keep having fun no matter how many times you die. The checkpoint system is one of the 
 best I've experienced.
  
  The thing I like best about this game has got to be the boss/Jedi battles. They are just so incredibly 
 epic. It often time feels like you're actually in one of the movies when dueling it out with Jedi 
 Masters.
  
  So all in all, if you're a Star Wars fan and you haven't bought/rented this game yet, you're seriously 
 missing out on some amazing epic Dark Side style gameage. Seriously folks, its GOOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeromeerome
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  PROS
  Great story worthy of being a mini-movie for fans of the series.
  Inventive level design that fits in the Star Wars universe.
  Realistic physics engine that affects 
 nearly every object in the game.
  Wide variety of combat combos and force powers.
  Upgrade system for lightsaber crystals and force powers.
  
  CONS
  Targeting objects and enemies 
 is too imprecise and indecisive.
  Too many glitches for a game of this caliber.
  Poor camera controls, especially in close combat.
  Fixed camera in boss battles makes it difficult 
 to see the action.
  Abrupt changes between gameplay sequences and cutscenes.
  Unnecessary quick-time event button presses to finish boss battles.
  Long load times. Even when 
 switching menus.
  
  Star Wars The Force Unleashed was one of the most hyped games this year. That is probably what 
 set itself up for failure. Don't get me wrong. There are a lot of things this game got right. They 
 just don't outnumber what the game got wrong. I think with some more development time polishing 
 this game up it could have been so much more fun than it was.
  
  This game is set in the Star Wars universe between Episode 3 and 4. You play as Darth Vader's secret 
 apprentice as you work your way through a wide variety of levels on numerous planets around the 
 galaxy. The graphics are top notch in this game and it is clear that Lucas Arts spent a large percentage 
 of their time on this and the story line. The story progresses through cut scenes as you complete 
 each level. This is where the game shines. In fact one of the only reason I kept playing this game 
 was to see the end of the story.
  
  The combat system is pretty solid. You basically have melee combat using your lightsaber for close 
 combat and your force powers for all other attacks. As you defeat enemies you earn experience to 
 gain levels and upgrade your attributes. You also unlock tons of combos that can be used with both 
 your lightsaber and force powers. There is a lot of fun to be had with your enemies mixing and 
 matching different combos and attacks. While your force powers affect your enemies they also interact 
 with the other objects and environments in the level. This is where the game starts to fall apart.
 
  
  The Force Unleashed allows you to use force powers on your enemies, nearby objects, and in some 
 cases even parts of the level itself. With so many objects on screen at one time for you to lock 
 on to and only one button to control this the game quickly gets confused of your intentions. It 
 is too easy to grab the wrong thing. Of course even when you have selected the correct object, 
 manipulating it in the games space is completely unpredictable. You may try to pick up a box and 
 throw it at a sniper across the room using your force push power but there is no clear indication 
 of where you are aiming this projectile. It may hit its target or it may fly off in another direction. 
 This quickly becomes frustrating. Especially when you are in the heat of battle with several enemies 
 at once and have little time to react, let alone guess where your aiming.
  
  To complicate matters further the camera angles can hinder your ability to see off screen threats. 
 You are constantly fighting the camera manually with the analog stick while trying to control your 
 character at the same time. In wide open levels like the Tie Fighter Factory at the beginning of 
 the game this is not as much of an issue. In the latter levels that have much tighter spaces and 
 more enemies it can mean life or death.
  
  Speaking of life or death there are several glaring bugs and glitches in this game that are absolutely 
 unacceptable. For instance. In the middle of a boss fight on one of the harder difficulty settings 
 I used a force based attack while the boss was pinned to the wall. Suddenly the game forced me 
 through the floor into a void in the level design and I was left to watch my character fall to 
 his imminent death. Another frustrating bug was for the last 5 levels of the game there was no 
 record for any of the enemies I killed or secrets I had found. The game would simply show I had 
 completed the level with 0 kills and 0 secrets which meant 0 experience points and upgrades for 
 me. This nearly caused me to quit playing completely.
  
  The last point I will make is the long load times you have to suffer through. I am not talking 
 about each new level you load up. That is to be expected. I am simply referring to the delays of 
 simply pulling up a menu to upgrade your force powers or lightsaber. Even switching to a different 
 section of a menu brings up a loading screen. Seems like sloppy programming to me.
  
  To summarize if you are a fan of Star Wars you owe it to yourself to experience this game at least 
 one time. Even with all its frustrating short comings it is worth it to experience the story. There 
 is over 1 hour of cut scenes to watch in the entire game. For casual fans or those simply interested 
 in the hype surrounding this game you are probably better off passing this game by. I hope LucasArts 
 learns from their mistakes on this game and incorporates that into their next projects. Perhaps 
 Knights of the Old Republic 3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderfist
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  If you are a Star Wars fan and would like to bridge the gap between Episode III and Episode IV 
 of the Epic Saga, then this game is right up your alley. This game tell the story of how the Rebel 
 Alliance was formed and how Princess Leia got involved with the resistance. You start off with 
 very basic dark force skill but by the third stage you are hurling enemies in the air or shocking 
 them to death. The controls are simple and there are no strolling through options to execute an 
 attack. The problem that I had with this game and many like it is that you are not allowed to skip 
 through any of the cut scenes which for an impatient gamer can be a real problem. During game play 
 enemies don't get much harder just more numerous which at allow you for more force points, more 
 upgrades, and cooler ways of disposing of your enemies. There is nothing new to this game it is 
 much like it's predecessors, but worth trying out, especially since it follows the story line so 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaPenguinAta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed at first glance is awe inspiring. The game is loaded with content, 
 brutal light saber action, and the ability to bend the entire game environment to your every whim 
 via your force powers. The game has what every Star Wars action fanatic was waiting for. Unfortunately, 
 bugs and game imbalances detract from this otherwise superb display from Lucas & Co.
  
  Positive notes: Where to begin? The lightsaber battles are awesome. When I get home from a hard 
 day at work and want to unwind by slashing hundreds of stormtroopers to ribbons, TFU delivers. 
 The light saber combos are alot of fun to pull off. The throw moves, which are in reality a blur 
 of force powers and light saber attacks delivered to your unsuspecting foe, never get old. Lastly, 
 locking sabers with a rival Jedi in a duel style fight really adds to the depth of the game play 
 experience
  
  But hey, this is the FORCE unleashed, its not all about the light saber action. The Force powers 
 are intense. Star Wars games have tried to capture the full feeling of having Jedi force powers, 
 but this time they really nail it. Almost everything in the game can be interacted with via the 
 Force. From flinging an Imperial Slaver into a bottomless gorge to prying open enormous steel doors, 
 the Force sure is fun to play with. Even more fun and impressive, is that the developers allow 
 the player to mix and match both light saber and force attacks to pull off devastating combos. 
 There is nothing like charging your light saber with force lightning and then slashing/electrocuting 
 enemies in a variety of different attacks.
  
  The story line is extremely well conceived. Unlike Jedi vs. Sith games of the past, this story 
 is fresh and fits very well with previous Star Wars dogma. Playing the role of Vader's apprentice 
 is ominous enough, but what happens as they story progresses is awesome. The story line also gives 
 you the ability to make choices that dictate the direction of the ending. No spoilers. Customization 
 of your character allows to to choose the apprentices light saber color, visual effect, costume, 
 and even the power crystal used in the saber itself.
  
  All of these great features are overshadowed by several significant design flaws and bugs. The 
 largest bug being the one in the Raxus Prime level later in the game. The game for no real reason 
 locks and the player is forced to restart the system. Personally, I got past it the third time 
 I played, but some have reported not being able to complete the game at all.
  
  Enemy imbalances are also abound in the final cut. The regular stormtroopers are easy to dispatch 
 (as they should be because you are cutting them with a sword made of pure energy) , but some of 
 the later enemies are abnormally hard to kill, or they at least are harder to kill then they seem. 
 For example, The stormtrooper captains can take quite a beating before they go down. The developers 
 add no visual difference in their armor aside from some coloring. Why does it take 3 slash combos 
 to finish them when it takes one strike to their lesser brethren to finish the job? Also, purge 
 troopers are a menace to kill. I had an easier time finishing a few bosses than I did taking down 
 a pair of these guys.
  
  Make no mistake, this game is great. Everything about the visual aspect has been detailed, the 
 action is intense, and the intractability with the environment makes it not just your average beat 
 'em up adventure. The game however could have really benefited from a few more weeks of developer 
 tweaking to make sure that the game was in balance and bugs were fixed. I can't say I was disappointed 
 because the game really was quite fun. It really could have been a hall of famer if a little bit 
 more attention to detail was paid to final tweaking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgrady
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed has a lot of potential and is a lot of fun when you are fighting the common 
 enemies. Unfortunately, there are a few points in the game that are annoyingly tedious as well 
 as some bugs that really detract from the game.
  
  First, the graphics are very good! The game looks good all the time, and the graphics especially 
 shine during the cut scenes. They got Vader's walk almost perfected in the cut scenes. The downside 
 of the graphics is that some objects will completely disappear based on their location (for instance, 
 I was moving a crate with force grip, and it disappeared while I was still moving it and then reappeared 
 when I got it a bit further, and that was a repeatable bug) and some areas have very short draw 
 distances that make it more noticeable when textures pop in and out. Facial animations for the 
 main characters were excellent, and the voice acting to go along with those animations was very 
 well done.
  
  The story is wonderful and adds a bit of information about what was happening between Episode 3 
 and A New Hope. It is a well written story that takes a few turns and leaves the player with two 
 possible endings, one that fits with the story from the original movies and one that does not. 
 One of the reasons this story is so enjoyable is that it blurs the lines between light and dark 
 sides a bit more than other Star Wars games that I've played and definitely more than the movies. 
 But even with a great story, that is only enough to warrant playing the game a single time, or 
 maybe twice if you missed some of the details the first time through.
  
  The part that will get some players coming back for more beyond that first and second time is that 
 it is just fun to play most of the time, especially once the higher levels of force powers are 
 unlocked. That is made even more enjoyable by combining abilities like force grip and lightning 
 just to see what happens. But that fun is occasionally interrupted by mini-bosses like AT-STs that 
 require a severe beating to get them low on health, but then the action switches to a scripted 
 set of attacks that rely on the player hitting certain buttons when prompted at the bottom of the 
 screen. The scripted attacks are awesome, so it is too bad that you are likely to be watching the 
 bottom of the screen for the next button and will miss the actual fight. The annoying part of these 
 is that some give you about half a second to press the corresponding button before you fail the 
 finishing move, so if you happen to be in the middle of a combo when prompted for the first button 
 press, you automatically fail. Furthermore, there is no warning whatsoever of when the prompts 
 will come, and they can even come when you are not doing any damage to the enemy. In a few encounters 
 with AT-STs and rancors, I found it easier to hide somewhere only peaking out to use lighting to 
 slowly kill them off because that somehow allowed me to skip the finishing move (I was also able 
 to skip it using explosive objects thrown from a distance on Felucia) . I was very annoyed to find 
 that some opponents could not be killed without doing the finishing move. I managed to get one 
 mini-boss, a shadow guard, down to no health and continued attacking and impaling the guy while 
 he struggled to get up off the floor, but he would not die until I let him stand up again so that 
 I could perform the finishing move.
  
  The finishing moves are also part of fighting the main bosses, and it can be just as annoying with 
 them. But the main event that detracts from this game is the rather anti-climatic scene where the 
 player gets to yank a star destroyer out of the sky as seen in the trailer. That battle is the 
 primary reason I am not buying this game! I spent 45 minutes of shear boredom throwing explosive 
 objects at tie fighters and trying to man-handle the star destroyer to the ground to no avail. 
 I finally looked it up online and found that force lightning was a much faster and easier way to 
 go, but it still took another 40 minutes of horrid repetition to bring the ship down. Even though 
 I know I could do it faster if I played it again, I have absolutely no desire to do so. Some of 
 the boss fights were also tedious (namely fighting a bull rancor that would have only taken about 
 20 minutes of further repetition and monotony if you were only dealing with the rancor, but you 
 also have an invincible dark jedi attacking you while you fight the rancor) , but those alone were 
 not enough to convince me that I do not want to own this game. Those boss fights combined with 
 the star destroyer scene pushed me over the edge and saved me $60.
  
  Another thing that needs to be mentioned is the camera and targeting. The camera is generally controllable, 
 but it does not follow where the character is looking. Since the targeting is based off where the 
 character is looking and not the camera, it is quite common to target something that is not even 
 on the screen. Alternatively, the camera is not controllable during boss fights, and it does not 
 always keep both the player and the boss on screen at all times, so you might need to target something 
 off the screen in those cases without being able to see what you are targeting. To add to the targeting 
 mess, there is no vertical control of the targeting, so targeting a rocket trooper flying overhead 
 when there are crates around you will be almost impossible until you either relocate to an area 
 clear of crates and other objects or push all those objects out of the way. Fortunately, the targeting 
 does not slow the action down much, but it can be a bit of a nuisance. The biggest problem that 
 I had with the camera was that it dropped below the floor in one boss fight so that I could not 
 see anything, but I was still taking damage. By itself, that is only a minor inconvenience, but 
 looking at all the different frustrations of this game together leaves me severely disappointed.
 
  
  It is sad that a game combining such a great story, solid voice acting and character animation, 
 impressive graphics, and remarkably fun action would fall so short. The game clearly has potential 
 to be excellent, but a few bugs, awkward targeting, and horribly tedious boss battles brought the 
 game down to something merely average. So I enjoyed the game enough to recommend renting or borrowing 
 it for a week, but it was not quite good enough to keep me entertained much longer than that.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  ok so i was asked to write a review of this game and here it is. i bought this game on the release 
 day and have been playing it every day since then. i just can't get enough of it. really addicting 
 game. so i have been playing it alot and i am close to finishing it. i have seen some great action 
 in it. lots of fun. new worlds to discover and new enemies to beat. the game is simply fantastic. 
 i have played alot of games, everything from space invaders to crysis. this game deserves a 10 
 and here's why. the gameplay is exceptional. there are so many ways to kill an enemy it's unbelieveable. 
 my trusty light sabre has worked flawlessly. you find yourself working for vader on a secret mission 
 to kill a jedi. but more and more you find yourself aiding that person you were supposed to kill. 
 your girlfriend in the game is confused. she says you are working for vader and you don't care 
 anymore. but i have a feeling you end up killing the emperor in this game. it's just a feeling. 
 and i think you end up fighting for good instead of the emperor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adakin01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Awesome graphics and enhanced game-play with a massive amount of combos and force powers to use 
 on your begging at your knee's enemies.
  
  The graphics are brilliant as so is the game play and storyline of the uniquely one of a kind game.
 
  
  The game is not a let down or any other shamble but is the first type of game in the star wars 
 series when you are a complete stranger to the star wars campaign but is probably one of the best 
 characters in the star wars galaxy. I mean he nearly kills Vader and totally defeats the emperor 
 but then decides to be a hero and save his friends and die in the game so he is a total Jedi knight 
 in the end as you start of as the secret apprentice of Vader on the verge of overthrowing the emperor 
 himself.
  
  So i recommend to all that you get the game as it is a massive hit in my life and am going to complete 
 it another 2 more times each on harder difficulties.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masaru_Kato
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  I'm going to make this review short and sweet. I simply don't agree with Gamespot's score, sure 
 there are a few things that keep this game from being perfect, but it is so fun and so ambitious 
 that I was easily able to look past most of it.
  
  the damage/physics engine, while not integrated enough (and by that I mean that not everything, 
 or even the majority of things can be bent, broken, and manipulated) when it is there, which is 
 a lot, it's awesome. the first level where you play as Vader, sweet baby Jesus; what's better than 
 launching 50 Wookies into trees and off cliffs just because you feel like it? the answer to that 
 is the game's voice acting.
  
  in short the voice acting is perfect. the facial expressions are great, and the story is the best 
 Star Wars story since KOTOR. 
  
  playing this game is fun and satisfying. 
  
  solid graphics, amazing AI, and the a decent control scheme.
  
  the only thing about the controls 
 that I don't like, but didn't have THAT much of a problem with is the auto target, which locks 
 on to where the Main character faces... not the camera. but other than that, it was good. I mean, 
 yes I would have liked to be able to move while force lifting, but its simply asking too much.
 
  
  the game also has a lot a replay value, as it has plenty of things to unlock, and level up. so 
 despite being a bit short, you can play it for a while. 
  
  
  do I think this game was over hyped? yes, just a little, but I wasn't really let down at all by 
 the game, I just had to settle for one or two things that I felt could have been better. which 
 is by no means a 7.5. rating because I had a ton of fun playing this game, but an 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hajjjustin
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Star wars the Foces unleashed is a good game but there is a few things holding this game back. 
 Lucas Atrs Studios should have just kept working on this game for another 6 months and made this 
 game polished as hell or took a year and made this game a full rpg Like KOTOR.
  
  this game has a great basis for a story polt but the way it was put togeather was slopy the cut 
 scenes sceam foreced, the voice acting was good and music is what i would have exspected for a 
 starwars game. I would have like if this game took more of a RPG elemanet to it a little exploring 
 people you could talk to a story plot that made you realy put your self into the game. but thats 
 not what i got. 
  
  The true gem of this game was the fighting system, this is were the game really shines there is 
 no other game like this that allows you to contol power in this form. its hard to discribe but 
 lets put it this way once you get a handle on the controles its a hell of alot of fun. 
  the only let down it the physics are a little of sometimes and the graphis are a little week in 
 the later patrs of this game. like i said the should have spent a few more month with this game 
 before they let be released.
  
  Its a good game it just need some work i think this engine they used will be used again in a game. 
 this game needed more time. i also think they could have taken this game in a more RPG world style 
 game with the same fighting systme and made this game better. but its still a good game and its 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  "Impressive... Most impressive." is what many Star Wars fan peoples are probably saying to this 
 game. I must say that I had pretty big concern when I first learned about this game. Much like 
 the prequels, I was worried that this game would be plagued by poor acting, bad dialog, and a lame 
 story line that would further push my dislike for George Lucas' once great galactic story further 
 to the "dark side". That being said, I have to give a standing O to the writters, and the voice 
 actors in this game. The story is compelling, it alone will make you want to complete the adventure, 
 maybe more then once. The new characters are surprisingly deep and interesting. You will find yourself 
 rooting for them and have compassion for them as the game progresses. The voice acting is surprisingly 
 good, in fact since there is no line that begins with "Hold me like you did..." it already is better. 
 None of the original cast make an appearance here, in fact you can really tell that Vadar isn't 
 voiced by James Earl Jones, but the impersonator doesn't disapoint. In fact this game turns Vadar 
 back into the supreme Galactic Bad Guy that we all learned to fear back in the late 70's. That 
 all being said the game does have some really good and some poor aspects that it brings to the 
 table. 
  
  First off, along with the story and acting the graphics are top notch. The Star Wars universe has 
 never been so colorful, detailed, or animated like this video game. The music is of course top 
 notch, and John William's score is priceless bringing new themes to the table and making good re-mixes 
 of the old. The music really sets the mood in this case and is rarely just tacked on. The sound 
 effects are another strong point, nothing feels out of place here, this is vintage Star Wars sound. 
 Blaster blasts, light sabers cracking, force jarring wonderful sounds. In other words like most 
 of Lucas Arts work, the estetics are the best part of the game. 
  
  Now for the other side of the coin. It appears that Lucas Arts focused too much on the outershell 
 of the game. Many of the issues with the game comes from it's play control and camera work. The 
 camera is difficult to adjust and doesn't center back on The Apprentice very well. The targeting 
 scheme can be trying at time, mostly while using the force grab, it can be difficult to manuver 
 the obejects around because the game is focusing where you don't want it too. The fight system 
 is limited as there is a whole lot of new combos you will get through out the game. That's not 
 to say that the controls don't always work, there will be times when you feel like the all powerful 
 sith. Particuarly the first level when you get to play as Vadar himself!!!
  
  While the game needs to provide a challenge, there are times where you feel like your lightsaber 
 is a dull butter knife. Some enemies take many hits. Also the game counters your demi god force 
 abilities by manufactoring abilities for normal thugs by granting them through technology. I feel 
 that these are lame ways of making the game challenging and takes away from the awesome idea of 
 The Force. 
  
  The Force Unleashed is a good game that is worth a look for the action adventure gamer, and a must 
 for a Star Wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  The story happens between Episodes III and IV, and before Dark Forces as well. Basically darth 
 Vader is hunting the remaining Jedi, and he founds this kid, called Galen (you only know his name 
 in the book, the game never quotes it) , he takes him as his secret apprentice and send syou off 
 in in many important missions as a SECRET agent, the game begins with your veryu first Jedi hunt 
 mission. The really important point in the game however is that it'll show the very birth of the 
 Rebel Alliance WITH Leia Organa and Bail Organa.
  By now fans must be striving to get their hands on the game. But hold still, the story, as told 
 in the game, is ridiculously POOR, it has a lot of blanks and very badly explained things, true 
 fans MUST buy the book The Force Unleashed, since that's where the story is reall told, with all 
 points well explained. The game is just an action game where you conrtol a Sith, that's very bad 
 since you'd expect good storyline in a Star Wars game.
  The controls are good, however you'll get very stressed at grapling thing cause the game doesn't 
 consider the way the camera is looking, but where your character is... Still it plays very well.
 
  The game brings many Jedis and inmportant characters in general, the cool thing are the fights 
 against Force users, it plays like Mortal Kombat, and by the end of the battle you are prompted 
 to use a series of buttom pressing in order to finish them, and that part is VERY cinematographic, 
 that also happens when fighting certain enemies.
  The Force however, became too strong, and it's not like YOUR character is the strong one, every 
 Jedi and Sith is incredibly strong, And even though that's the fun of the game, for fans like myself 
 it's also the biggest defect. If Vader or palpatine was as strongf as they are in the game, the 
 UNIVERSE would have been destroyed, everyone would be slaves to Force Users, it's simply to big 
 an ammount fo Force and it runs far away from what we see in movies. To make matters worse, if 
 you're playing in the harder levels you'll be stressed at the fact that even though you're Mr. 
 Sith does all, you'll be getting killed by a bunch of Stormtroopers (?!) ...
  The biggest defect however are the glitches, many people have been facing problems when facing 
 a certain boos in the Imperial Raxus Prime: the game stops and the videogame with it, you have 
 to rebbot it. Just awful!
  All in all the game is good, but very short and relatively disapointing to big fans of the series. 
 Fortunately the books isn't as half as exagerated or faulty as the game, in a matter of fact, the 
 book fits perfectly with every other book and even the movies of the series. play the game for 
 the graphics, design and action (those are really gorgeous) , read the book for the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hexgod1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 13, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  so it is natural to be a little let down, but I felt that Lucas Arts is capable of turning out 
 something a little more polished and a bit longer. However, they did get some things very right.
 
  
  Pros: 
  
  The story and writing were very good. I became immersed in the story, which is important to me.
 
  
  The visuals were great splashed across my large screen tv-Oh yeah!
  
  Voice acting was very good.
  
  Missions were mostly fun-not too much jumping and dying, which 
 I hate.
  
  The force powers were great once I got a hang of the button combos. I play more pc games than xbox, 
 so I am not as nimble on the button mashing.
  
  Cons:
  
  The game was too short!
  
  I did not like the ending (that is very subjective, of course.)
  
  There were numerous bugs 
 which caused the game to freeze and forced me to start the level over. Aaarrrgghhh!
  
  A small picky thing -- the characters walked funny. Sort of a cross between goose stepping and a 
 mincing walk. Some other games, such as Mass Effect or Assasin's Creed show the characters walking 
 like real people. I suppose I have high expectations on games turned out by Lucas Arts, so I am 
 mentioning it even though it is a small but distracting thing.
  
  I have finished the game and I am now going back at a leisurely pace to pick up all the holocrons 
 I missed. That says a lot if I am willing to go back and replay a game. Now, if they could just 
 change the ending...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GyspyDevil
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is seriously fun. It has some flaws and bugs, but I don't care about flaws or bugs so 
 long as I am having fun and this game delivers.. in spades.
  
  I will preface by saying the camera is weird and combat isn't perfect. That being said, I love 
 the boss battles in this game. Light saber dueling, force clashes, light saber clashes, super force 
 push a jedi boss and watch them ragdoll across the screen... so satisfying.
  
  Level design, tie fighter factory, in the assembly line area... where you can grab the manufacturing 
 Lasers and spin/aim them to vaporize people.. that's freakin fun.
  
  I don't know about other peoples experience, but with me, this game made me feel like a jedi. Jumping 
 into a room with 100 guys shooting at me, force pushing, jumping, force dash, lightning, sith flurry 
 light saber ( a combo where you hit all surrounding opponents.. it's cool) , throwing people through 
 windows into space, the whole room being destroyed around you while you reflect laser fire back 
 at the original shooters!!
  
  This game can get crazy. Not the best game in the world if you like to nit pick. But if you play 
 video games to have fun, you should pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  The Star Wars franchise has proved to be one of the most successful franchises currently out there. 
 Anyone can make any sort of merchandise and people will buy. A developer can also make a purely 
 crap game, slap Star Wars on it, and sell it for full retail value. Luckily this is not the case 
 here, for the most part.
  
  What really stands out about force unleashed is the story, and how it works within the Star Wars 
 universe. It is rich and immersible. Everything flows nicely, from the characters to the music. 
 The experience is definitely feels Star Wars. Fans will not be disappointed.
  
  Graphically, the game is beautiful in my opinion. The early stages were definitely a sight to see, 
 although there are some very strange issues with pop in even at very close distances. The atmosphere 
 and environment is done very well and it is easy to get plunge in the stages and feel as if you 
 are part of it.
  
  Gameplay-wise, the game is a bit on the weak side. The force controls are a bit clunky and I felt 
 frustrated that I had to be stationary while gripping something, only to be open to attacks and 
 constantly shot in the face. overall it feels cumbersome and clunky, but when it does work right, 
 it can be fun. Also, objects disappear, but the remnants of that objects will remain in the gameworld, 
 causing you to sometimes force grip invisible objects instead of gripping what you wanted in the 
 first place. 
  
  Through most of the levels, I found myself dashing through and passing most of the enemies. I was 
 also able to exploit most of the AI by getting in certain situations where they would just stand 
 there while I unloaded Force Lightning on them. Some of these issues really took away from the 
 experience.
  
  It's not a terrible game, it's just hard to dish out 60 bucks for a game that I expected not to 
 have such high level issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This is my first game with the 3rd incarnation of my review system, and im just gonna get an average 
 and say what i think the game is, great or whatever as well as a numerical value. So here we go:
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  About 3 years ago these graphics would have been awesome, top of the range even. Unfortunately 
 they have not really went with the times so to speak and with games like COD4 out and Fallout 3 
 coming out, they will show there age quickly. However, they do have some really good special effects 
 as well as some totally fantastic lip syncing and large environments that do look pretty good. 
 The character models, repetitive level design and limited number of enemy models just ruin what 
 is a pretty decent looking game. On a side note, most of the boss battles are epic and awesome.
 
  
  SOUND
  
  Since this is a STAR WARS game, you would expect, and receive a great musical sound track. On top 
 of the great music is the awesome awesome voice acting and sound effects. No character over acts, 
 or under acts but hits the nail on the head perfectly. My one nit pick is the fact that Darth Vader 
 talks and breathes at the same time... which just sounds stupid. Its probably in the movies... but 
 there ancient :P 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  SW: TFU is a a hack n' slash with some RPG stuff tacked on for good measure. And it is in fact a 
 VERY good hack n' slash. The diverse levels (although its only cosmetic) add a sense of a epic journey 
 of mass slaughter of several enemy types and bosses. On the subject of bosses, they rock. You spend 
 a good 5 mins or so fighting each one, usually with changing arenas as you go and at the end you 
 get some totally awesome God Of War reflex button press thing that shows off some kick ass force 
 that kills the person out right... and it rocks. The force is also used to great effect, from picking 
 up 3 storm troopers and throwing them as bombs into a AT: ST and watching it crumble under your 
 might to using force lightning to kill every1 in sight, there are no ends to the amount of ways 
 you can kill your enemies... and with a minor RPG system added on, it makes the game pretty fun. 
 Put multiple endings and a story so good it should be made into a film and you get a winning combo 
 until... Boredom strikes. This game is very short, and has loads of unlocks that you just don't 
 care about. You have little to no inspiration to go through multiple times and if you do they game 
 length goes down by about 5 hours... considering its only a 7 hour game its not good. On top of 
 this, it does get pretty repetitive before the end and the Star Destroyer level can get on your 
 nerves if you don't no how to do it.
  
  OVERALL
  
  A good game that is worth a rent, but no more... until it come down in price. 
  
  Score: 7
 
  
  I good game that just seems to fall short of being great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolas95
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a pretty good game, despite the fact its way too short. The story is very well done, good 
 enough for regular gamers and star wars fans alike.
  
  The game play is great, with plenty of force powers such as lightning, repulse, push, light-saber 
 throw, lightning shield, and of course grip. you'll probably find that grip is the main power you'll 
 use, and its probably the most fun. Throwing guys off cliffs, picking them up and chucking your 
 lightsaber into him, pickin' him up electrocuting, trowing your lightsaber into him electrocuting 
 him again etc. all at once is very fun. And all the powers are fun and are there at you command, 
 with the press of a button. (or in Repulse, lightning shields, and saber throw hold LT and press 
 b, y or x.)
  
  Theres also a lot a costumes to wear, many obtained by beating levels, one you get depending on 
 the ending, and two are in holocrons. The costumes can be worn anytime during gameplay. Upgrades 
 will aslo be available to purchase by level- up or by some holocrons. Lightsaber crystals can be 
 found in holocrons too, power crystals and color crystals. There are different shades to the color 
 cystals includeing: Unstable, Compresses and regular. the colors are: Black, Yellow, Gold, Blue, 
 Violet, Green, and of course Red. The power crystals do different things such as increse damage 
 or extra lightning damage or even a death aura.
  
  The combat can go ether way for people, but on my opinion it's fun. It consists of an attack button (X) 
 and the rest are combos. But thankfully the combos are flashy and easy to do, even the x (pause) x (pause) x (pause) x 
 combo. The rest of the combos are mixed with a little bit of force (xyy, xxb etc.) Without useing 
 the combos tho, the combat can get repetitive. But theres plenty of force powers, combos, and environments 
 to keep you busy for a while. The boss fights are well done, but they kinda remind me of the Revenge 
 of the Sith game. After you defeat each boss you have a "button pressing sequence" to go through. 
 Those are all cool and don't really disappoint. Most of the combat is on the ground, altho there's 
 plenty of blasting the enemy in the air combos. Theres also 2 grapple moves, both are different 
 depending on the enemy your fighting.
  
  
  But the one major flaw with this game is the targeting system you actually have to face a guy to 
 force him. Its kinda annoying but you get used to it. Now to the purchasing, and I think you should 
 rent it first because like I said its short. you might end up buying it if you love it, but 1000/1000 
 gamer points is easy, but it makes the game last awhile. But even if you don't buy it its definitely 
 worth a rent. I bought it the first day it came out and I love it, but like I said it may not be 
 for everyone.
  Gameplay: 7.5
  Graphics: 8.4
  Sound: 8.0
  Overall: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mangaminx
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  I'll say it now, Force Unleashed is a bad game. It's buggy, it features an awful cast, it feels 
 rushed, incomplete and in general compared to franchises like Jedi Knight and KOTOR is the weakest 
 Star Wars title in a while. "But why!" I hear you cry. "You get to be a Sith and kick ass with 
 force powers!", yes, yes you do but it's executed in such an appalling way that all appeal is quickly 
 removed.
  
  In Force Unleashed you play Darth Vaders secret apprentice Starkiller, and accompanied by your 
 ever irritating droid and obvious love interest from the first few moments of the game Juno Eclipse 
 must help purge the world of Jedi for your master. Not everything goes to plan mind and the story 
 begins to throw twists and turns at you from an early stage. Unfortunately though the cast let 
 down an otherwise reasonable plot by having all the appeal of a rotting sheeps carcass that happens 
 to have been chosen as a home by a whole colony of maggots. The characters with a few minor exceptions 
 (one being good ole Vader of course) really, really suck. I hated pretty much all of the major 
 cast members and despite giving them a chance to increase in likeability they didnt manage to improve 
 at all. 
  
  But the story and cast aren't my biggest gripe with this game, it's just the general unfinished 
 bugginess that fully condemns it to gaming hell. Picture the scene, your deep in a mushroom filled 
 jungle with all your enemies slain, suddenly from out of nowhere a Rancor burts into view growling 
 with rage and thrashing it's claws around. You aim at the Rancor about to give it a viscious burst 
 of force lightning, you press the button to do so, and all of a sudden you shoot a blast of lightning 
 at a nearby non-threatening toadstool, or maybe a passing insect, or occasionally randomely into 
 the sky, at the same time getting hammered across the map by the Rancor as you utterly missed this 
 huge target for some obscure reason. The horrific targetting system is even more noticable in boss 
 fights which often take place from a zoomed out perspective which on a SD-TV is retina destroyingly 
 tricky to follow as it is, but when you attacking a pillar instead of the boss while he or she 
 is swiftly inserting a lightsaber into your backside things get frustrating quickly. It's unfortunate 
 as when force powers do connect (at least with lesser creatures) the results are impressive and 
 you feel appropriately badass. Unfortunately when a boss is chucking you around an arena like a 
 ragdoll as the camera has decided a chunk of metal is more threatening than the jedi master your 
 battling you feel less so.
  
  Jumping is also a major issue in Force Unleashed aswell as the "platformy" aspects in general. 
 Leaping from platform to platform is all well and good put too often the platforms are fairly undefined 
 and you find yourself falling once more, also the camera has a nasty habit of deciding to be in 
 totally the wrong position for platforming most of the time, making things even more annoying. 
 The games combination of platforms with no edges combined with monsters who often knock you back 
 with their attacks is also a stupid design decision, at one point this drioid flicked me off a 
 cliff repeatedly in about nine attempts at beating him and because your quite often rendered useless 
 by knockback. Your character also staggers once youve been hit so you cant stop the onslaught before 
 falling to your death.
  
  Theres a plethora of other FU issues out there, I fell through the scenary on a few occasions, 
 other times items I picked up randomly flew out of my grip and into the air. Perhaps the most annoying 
 thing here is the game does have potential to be amazingly good fun but the bugginess ruins every 
 last piece of it. The Force is pretty damn weak with this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: syntary
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars the Force Unleashed has been a well anticipated game. Most die-hard Star Wars fans and 
 game fans have been crazed and ready to get their grimey button-mashing paws on it, but how does 
 it live up to all the hype? SWTFU (which looks one letter off from an offensive internet slang 
 acronym) is a very lovely game which as times comes in many different flavors. Running through 
 the cleverly designed levels has its perks and lets not forget collecting those hidden holocrons 
 and completing those hidden objectives. TFU (not part of the aforementioned acronym) is amazingly 
 fun at times because it offers a new approach to the Star Wars video game franchise that has never 
 been done before. It allows the character to assume a relatively powerful and at times brutal role. 
 However as there are no decapitations, no loss of limbs, and no blood the player can be left wondering, 
 is this really the unleashed force they though or are we still in the land of contemporary evil? 
 Another problem with TFU is that the replay value is nothing short of sad. LA threw in a last minute 
 decision which most player skipped right to via the use of the chapter-selection option. Many may 
 feel that this game plays much too great a role in reaction and alignment to allow the player a 
 mere one choice to make. Though throwing stormtroopers is great fun sometimes it gets old as the 
 player will encounter the same foes over and over and over again. On the upside TFU was crafted 
 with a very interesting story, a great new way to form emotive character through facial expressions, 
 and a new and interesting game. Throwing stuff around is a load of fun and lets not forget all 
 those lovely cheat codes for those of you out there having trouble finding the holocrons. TFU is 
 definitely a game worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejeric
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The grafix are great, the sound is great, and the gameplay is amazing. So why did i give it a 8.5? 
 lets put it like this. There are better games, but this one definitely cuts the cake as far as 
 Starwars. U get to do all the things u always wanted for so long. Sometimes u just want to pick 
 some trooper up, put your saber through him, charge him with lightning, and throw him against a 
 wall. well U finally get to do that in a starwars game. Now for the not so fun part. Although U 
 have crazy force powers that were not in the other starwars games, its kind of a handycap. The 
 force grip is way too powerful leaving u using the troopers as things to hit the bigger things. 
 or lightning for that matter. since you can hit mutiple people and its very strong, any tuff guy 
 wants to bother u (even bosses) u just use that lightning with a couple of saber attacks and thats 
 that. This is the Force Unleashed after all, but It makes the saber look very underpowered. don't 
 let me discourage u from getting this game, If you are a starwars fan, U must get this! It goes 
 perfect with the story and is so fun U might even play It twice. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cthulad
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I have heard many things about this game, and how ambitious it was. I really enjoyed the game until 
 around the end of the game. At the beginning you have a limited amount of powers, (grip, and push) 
 even with these 2 powers it feels really good, and allows your power to really mow through the 
 storm troopers. Once I found that I started out on the 3rd chapter I started to realize how much 
 the powers are starting to get useless. All I found was that I would be using Force Lightning so 
 I could stun the creatures, and get in with my lightsaber. It was not too bad, but once they introduced 
 the Chieftans that need to be sought out so that you can kill the other creatures, that just made 
 the Force feel like it was secondary to a fighting game. 
  
  Even after that you get storm troopers that have shields that prevent force powers to be used on 
 them. Now I'm not sure about anyone else out there, but isn't the force everywhere in the universe. 
 Can you really shield yourself from this type of power. Playing further into the game I still had 
 a lot of fun, until the Star Detroyer portion. Trying to bring down the Star Destroyer, and you 
 get assaulted by the Tie Fighters. This really started to detract from the probably one of the 
 most over sought after parts of the game. Watching all the videos out there they always liked showing 
 that you could bring a Star Destroyer down by yourself using the force, but having to do it so 
 many times and failing, it gets frustrating. Finishing this game last night I was just determined 
 to get it done, and after that part it seemed that nothing could be as hard. Boy was I wrong. 
 
  
  You start the last chapter in the Death Star, and with no way idea provided of where to proceed, 
 you have to fight through a lot of storm troopers, and various other foes. At the same time they 
 throw an AT-ST, and an AT-AT right after at you. This was getting really frustrating as you take 
 hits from all sides, and from things not even in sight. After clearing the room, with no indication 
 of where to go, I wandered aimlessly taking out the storm troopers that would appear from doorways 
 already cleared. Finally after just happening to use my force push in the right spot I found you 
 go down. After that making your way to the center fuge, and the 3 rings you receive information 
 of what to do. 
  
  Even with the frustrations, and mostly missing a lot of extra's (needs second play through) I still 
 had a very enjoyable experience. The last fight was something you would not expect, and really 
 explains more for the 4th (first in the series) movie than the 3rd movie ever did. This really 
 should have been the movie, but I'm very glad it was not, because we then would have received a 
 substandard game then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshuaM55
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Force Unleashed: Is the force really back with a vengeance?
  
  Now, I love Star Wars as much as the next guy, but the games haven't really been up to the films 
 standard, bar one or two. This time, Lucas Arts have really made an effort to give us a game that 
 not only gives us the force, but gives it us on an extreme level.
  
  The story, you play Starkiller (Galen Marek) , a Jedi apprentice of Darth Vader, apparently being 
 secretly trained during the period between episodes III an IV. Your job as a loyal apprentice to 
 Vader is to take out all the Jedis left in the galaxy, to finally earn your chance to challenge 
 the Emperor himself. Your pilot, Juno Eclipse, accompanies you in between the levels, providing 
 refreshing and involving conversations and you feel compelled to do nothing but listen to what 
 is being said, as a truly deep and involving story unfolds, all at your control. The quality of 
 the graphics in 'half' cut scenes are dodgy, but when you get a shot of the planet you are arriving 
 on, or a Glimpse of Starkiller talking to his droid PROXY, it is a brilliant sight to watch. 
 
  
  Of course, graphics aren't everything, and neither is story, gameplay is essential, and with no 
 forms of multiplayer, Force unleashed has a lot to prove, and it almost pulls it of, almost When 
 you first take hold of the game, you play Vader, although slow moving, obviously extremely powerful, 
 and this level is basically a tutorial to get to grips with the games controls. They are straight 
 forward, button for force push, for force grip, for lightsaber, and for jump, with a special ability 
 button too, and the power of Force lightning when you get back to playing Starkiller. The key to 
 the game is unlocking combos to perform on your enemies, to get a more stylish kill with the force. 
 The lightsaber works brilliantly, and with a lock on system if you want to use it, makes this a 
 brilliant representation of the lightsaber from the films. The force push is also good to use, 
 however, with Starkiller, probably not as powerful as it should be, even with upgrades. One of 
 the most fun methods of attack is the force grip; however, you don't always get the guy you want. 
 This is not as big a problem as some reviews have made out, not by any means, but of course, a 
 little more work on it would have been nice. The most fun attack however, is the force lightning, 
 which is truly the way to enjoy this game! Not only can lightning be summoned at your finger tips, 
 but it can become infused with your lightsaber, so not only do you slice the enemies up; you shock 
 them at the same time!
  
  Playing the game as the creators want you to play it is one thing, playing the game how you want 
 to play it is another. That is a really great part about this Star Wars game, it's up to you how 
 you take on all your enemies, and therefore your fault if you die. When you do (and you will on 
 the higher difficulties) it makes you actually think and try and work out how is the best way 
 to take these guys out. On the easier levels, you can just run in and you probably will succeed, 
 but on the hard and extreme difficulties, don't expect to be able to do that. However, there really 
 isn't enough incentive to play the game again on harder difficulties, unless you are on 360 for 
 the achievements. Because you can get everything on your first run through, it's a shame there 
 isn't more of a reason, like an extra level on the harder difficulties, or special rewards like 
 concept art or videos, or anything like that. The other reason you may want to play the game again 
 is there is two ending, however, simply reload your save, to watch the other finish, kind of defeats 
 the point
  
  One thing that definitely deserves praising is the fact you can change your character to look the 
 way you want to. By finding Holocrons on the levels, you get to change your costume, get more spheres 
 to power up yourself, and change the colour of your lightsaber. All brilliant touches, let down 
 by the fact there are cumbersome loading times, and if you want to quickly change something during 
 battle, it might not be as quick as you want. 
  
  Finally, the quality of music that accompanies the game is typical Star Wars, but that really is 
 not a bad thing, far from it. When you hear that legendary music, you relieve the films, and you 
 relieve the greatness of the Star Wars saga one more time. The right music is always there for 
 the right scene, and it really adds something to those special moments of the game.
  
  Putting this all in to context, there is just nothing to escape the fact this is one of the most 
 fun games I have ever played, and definitely should be tried on either the 360 or PS3. However, 
 as much as I love this game, because using the force really has never been so fun, it just isn't 
 long enough to part your 40 hard earned cash
  With really only 8 hours worth of gameplay, unless you are intending to replay this game, it may 
 only be worth a rental, but man, what a rental it is! Brilliant gameplay, with cool upgrades, and 
 a story that is truly compelling, this IS the best star wars game there has ever been, whether 
 its 8 hours long or not
  
  Hope you enjoyed my review :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethan111111
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok it was at blockbuster and i rented it poped it in and this happend. your darth vader at kashhecikk 
 knowing no controles but to test it out. then after killing a boys father you take the boy because 
 of his powers. training... then your the apprentice years later on missions to kill jedi to train 
 on killing the emperer, like assassains creed, then your on vadars side but then the emperer comes 
 out and vadar stabs you with the light saber. and left you out at space to die. pics u up and brings 
 you back to health, then you go free and i forget. ok the story is good definitly one that fills 
 answers and not just tosses around. There are A LOT of glitches in this game. very frusterating 
 at parts when falling to your death is common or if your getting completly bullet r@ped you cant 
 move... most your moves look B-A but it gets plain after a whial. after finishing it the * (spoiler) * 
 appentece dies and the rest of the rebels live on your name by making the rebels flag his familys 
 symbol. i think. * (DONE) * anyway i diddnt whant to play it again after that so i just finished 
 the game with none of my powers not fully lit but hey. anyway this game isent that forfilling in 
 its name, but its good so. hey. this game is SOOO glichy, it knonistly needed more time in making 
 it. still good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkilnik
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed 
  -Game Review-
  [Warning: Contains Spoilers]
  So it's been about a month or so since the release of The Force Unleashed. And I must say, it was 
 a game I am glad I got at midnight. Though, if your not a hard-core Star Wars fan to begin with, 
 you might want to consider renting this game, rather then buying. I say this, because I doubt those 
 who are not huge fans of the sci fi extravaganza, would have enough patience to play this game 
 through twice, and much less on a higher difficulty. 
  After beating the game about twleve times, and only once on the hardest difficulty, for reasons 
 I'll explain later, I am at liberty to rate it.
  
  The Good: This game is Star Wars at it's best. The graphics, the physics, the new "Euphoria" system, 
 it all just comes together great. And for once in my life, I feel... like I can use the force. 
 Other games like KotOR had a nice feel to it, but not like this game. The story, the voices, the 
 game play, ALL IN ALL, I love this game and is without doubt one of, if not my, favorite game (s) 
 of all time.
  
  In saying this, they're where some moments, where I wish I had a jawa to punt in real life. Especially 
 in the higher difficulty, though I guess I asked for it playing on Sith Master and all. 
  
  The Bad: Oh my goodness, some of the boss battles....
  And Sith Master wasn't only a presentable 
 challenge... it was almost stupid, after the sixteenth slice with a lightsaber on a Shock Troopers 
 shield.. and then it goes down... I mean... *sigh*.
  BUT, I realize perhaps it was meant to be darn near impossible, it just took away the whole 
 
  "Yay, im a sith, and now you die" It was more like 
  "Yay, I'm a sith and that doesn't mean anything! I wish I was a Storm Trooper." 
  Other then 
 that, just terrain issues, like the ramps you can't walk up, and if you land wrong, you just slide 
 down and get shot. And also, many times in Raxxus Prime.. I'd get stuck in little areas, where 
 Starkiller couldn't do anything. OH, and don't let me forget, the WORSE checkpoint system EVER. 
 So there is this room on the last level... near the end of it.. I mean.. huge room... you go into 
 it.. and the chick you travel with.. talks for five minutes. So you go, destroy two AT-STs... fourty 
 purge troopers... dodge three million snipers... then you get to the Emperor's door. Then six dudes 
 with lightsabers.. and a boss come out... so I was a little unprepared.. so I die..... Then you 
 spawn and the chick talks for five minutes again.... and then the past 20 minutes you just spent.. 
 yeah, all wasted. Be careful with that. Last but not least, you get a pretty worthless power, Lighting 
 Shield, that could have easily been replaced with force choke.
  
  
  D: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beto05
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  When Lucas Arts began producing its Star Wars franchise games, we knew they were doing games the 
 right way. Dark Forces, Jedi Knight, Jedi Academy, these are names we remember easily.. Instant 
 Classic games
  
  The Force Unleashed is one of these games you'll appreciate playing if you previously played the 
 ones above and also newcomers from the series.
  
  Despite being short, Star Wars TFU is an incredible game, with astonoshing graphics and costumizable 
 settings which gives you the desire to play the game again. The Story is pretty good and adds a 
 new chpater for Star Wars. You will notice some well known characters in the game, such as Princess 
 Leia, Emperor Palpatine, Darth Vader and many others. 
  
  Music, as usual, is perfect, You can expect John Williams Orchestra with known themes such as Imperial 
 March and other old school themes.
  
  One of the cool things is that you can updgrade force powers, change light saber's colors, clothes 
 and so on..
  
  The gameplay is a little difficult at the beginning, but nothing impossible to handle all the combos, 
 since you'll have the possibility to use them against the enemies many times.
  
  Despite all these good factors, the game lacks for being short and having some camera problems. 
 Also, you'll notice some instant lag problems. 
  
  SW: TFU is an aewsome game, unfortunately, due to the absense of multiplayer and being short, we 
 cannot say it's an Instant classic. 
  
  If you really enjoy Star Wars and like adventure games, I'd recommend, it's really worth it. But, 
 if you are one of these people who only cares about money, rent it before playing.
  
  Sound = 10
  Graphcis = 9.0 
  Gameplay = 9.0 
  Replay = 8.5
  Fun = 8.5
  
  Overall = 
 9.0
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syrenz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  TFU gameplay is addicting and fun. The targeting system is weak and you will very likely get annoyed 
 or die because of it numerous times. The story is excellent and if you are a Star Wars fan you 
 will not want to miss it. The mix of powers and combos that you can execute will make you feel 
 more powerful than both Vader and Palapatine. There are a lot of puzzles that will have you want 
 to throw away your controller, but if you take your time you will get past them (some puzzles will 
 just have you groan) . The boss fights are both challenging and very fun and the boss finishers 
 will play like a movie. Killing enemies can be done very cruelly and is very enjoyable (a personal 
 favorite is to force grip someone then make him grab another person and cannonballing them) All 
 in all TFU is a very fun game and if you can look past it's minor problems you will surely enjoy 
 this game. This game is must for all Star Wars fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasjr20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Well for the most part everyone knows alot about the game, so Im not going into assive amounts 
 of Detail.
  For Starters to me this game is very worthy of being Cannon to the rest of the Star Wars films 
 it ties everything together really nicely and introduces new characters which have become some 
 of my favorite's.
  
  The game itself is just a blast to play on the lower difficulties especially which is one the reasons 
 its so much fun to play you really feel like a Jedi on Steroids, its when you bump up to Sith Lord 
 then Sith Master the game gets drastically harder but still enjoyable.
  
  Now the things keeping this game from a perfect 10 are there. Most notably the many glitches I 
 myself have run into and from reading through the forumns Im not the only one, mainly the Defualt 
 Text Glitch is the main enemy. THis glitch will stop tracking your progress through levels (i. e. The 
 amount of force points you get from a level, Holocrons you goteen in levels, an your bonus objectives) 
 which is a real pain since the only way to fix it is t start a all new file. Another glitch Ive 
 run into is where enemies will just become impervious to my lightsaber so far its only happened 
 when facing a regular old stormtrooper while not as bad as the above glitch its just annoying.
 
  
  The last few things that keep it down the lenght of the single player campaign just feels to short 
 I think I few more missions thrown in would have made it just the right length, and in my personal 
 opinion the games could have done with a few more Force Powers. 
  
  Lastly, I know alot of reviews have compline about the Infamous Star Destroyer Battle but after 
 playing through the game quite a few times I honestly do not see what they are complaining about 
 so far the only I died during that fight was because I jumped of the Ledge by accident, though 
 I will say it could have been done a bit better.
  
  Well this is my review for Star Wars-The Force Unleashed hope you enjoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerX500
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 4:26 am PT
Review:  Ive' waited for this game for 2 years now and its finnely out in stores ! but i was dissatisfied 
 about the reviews.. i though thia be a HUGE step to the star wars genre! of course it did.. but 
 not THAT huge.. I love this game and its really fun, but in the begining its a little tough when 
 you just have a lightsaber and one or two forcepowers but if you make combos, you will get "force 
 points". With "force points" you can upgrade your force powers, combos, and for exampele your health 
 bar and force bar. This game is a very addictive game that make you just play for hours and hours. 
 In this game you can also unlock very much, like: Lighsabers, Lightsaber Colors, Costumes which 
 is fun after you've betten the game. the graphics is really amazing and same thing for the sound 
 and gameplay, but its buggy in some places and that can be annoying sometimes. This game reminds 
 me about Star Wars Episode 3: Revenge Of The Sith, Not in gameplay, gameplay in this game is WAY 
 better and MUCHbigger, but it have almost same "combo-buttons" and same "force upgrade" system. 
 The story is awesome. I think this is the first Star Wars game in history when you playing as powerful, 
 evil sith and having Darth Vader as master , which is really cool. Ive had Star Jedi Knight 2: 
 Jedi Outcast for a long time and i have got that game as a favorite in the Star Wars genre, But 
 i think i got a new favorite :) Well DONT miss this game and dont listen to gamespot ;)
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Value: 8
  
  Story: 10
  
  Difficulty: 
 Hard
  
  easy to get achievements on XBOX360.
  
  With best regards..
  
  //GamerX500 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrashMacKenzie
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  When I first started reading the previews of The Force Unleashed (TFU from here on) , I remember 
 thinking to myself that if they nailed at least some of the things they were talking about doing, 
 this would be a hell of a game.
  
  Luckily, they did.
  
  TFU tells the story of Darth Vadar's secret apprentice who the Sith Lord sends out to hunt the 
 last few Jedi. From the premise alone, the story doesn't sound like much, but it's actually one 
 of the best Star Wars tales since KOTOR.
  
  The story is helped alot by the great graphics, voice acting and facial animations.
  
  The 
 game's money will ultimately be made with the gameplay. TFU definitely gives you control of the 
 Force like no Star Wars game before it.
  
  You can push, grip, throw and fire bolts of lightning. Force Upgrades are unlocked as you level. 
 Using the Force to throw one Stormtrooper into another never gets old.
  
  Of course, if good old fashion saber slinging is more your thing, there's plenty of cool combos 
 to unlock as well.
  
  The game is flawed, though. There is some slowdown, some surprisingly long load times and the game 
 isn't really very long. Then of course, there's the Superstar Destroyer part, which totally sucked.
 
  
  All things considered, TFU lived up to it's hype reasonable well. It's a fun game that any Star 
 Wars fan should get a kick out of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedemon32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a star wars fan ever since i could talk but i also dont like to show that iam a star wars 
 fan but this game made me talk about star wars with my freinds thats how good it is. The main thing 
 is this game is the story, this game probably has the second best star wars story the reason being 
 is how attached you get to the main character. This game has all the makings of a great star wars 
 story. The graphics and pyhsics are amazing as well and i was really impressd by them. the voice 
 acting was almost perfect it would be prefect if i didnt have the odd glitch with the voice acting 
 at times. the gameplay wa fun and frustrating at the same time this game with make you swear alot 
 at times espcially the star destroyer part. the combat in the game isnt shallow but at the same 
 time is deep. overall this is game thats worth a rent if your not a star wars fan but worth the 
 buy if you are a star wars fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSilverArrow
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Between the Euphoria engine, the Havok engine and the DMM tech. under the hood, yes - this game 
 is easily considered a step forward in gaming. 
  
  Look - when you force push on metal, depending on where you aim is where the metal will bend. Despite 
 what any of you younger gamers may say, this is NEW to gaming. 
  
  DMM is new. Got anything to say to that? Nope.
  
  Graphically, you'll be very impressed. Ive 
 seen some textures in this game like i've never seen. When you're in the Sarlac pit, notice how 
 theres like 2 or 3 texture layers in the muscle - thats crazy! AND its new, for the most part. 
 
  
  Actually, theres more NEW things implemented graphically and gameplay wise for this game to be 
 considered downright awesome. I rarely play action games like this twice, and gladly did so. 
 
  
  This game features the best physics in any game. If theres one that has more intensive physics, 
 feel free to let me know. But i guarantee there isnt. Not on a console. Theres more objects that 
 fly around for instance after a large force push that other games simply could not handle. 
  
  Therefore, there are MANY reasons why this game alone is a step forward for all of gaming. 
 There's many things they did right.
  
  And no - Im not a fan of Quick Time Events - BUT.... in this game, they're quite fitting. Even if 
 the QTE's are easy, kids, and they are, they show a very dramatic and cinematic way of dispatching 
 a Jedi or mini-boss. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark1003
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, it is good. You play, you kill a wookie, you want to play some more. It is just that 
 simple. Although it is not very often you die and if you do it is normaly from falling off something 
 rather then getting killed, it isnt too easy. That said it is by no means hard. The story is very 
 good too, if you know who the hell the aprentice is. Although you do kind of feel that it is a 
 real fan game. The enemies get reapititive but that just means new ways to kill them. It is though 
 way more fun to play after you have got all the powers because you no longer have to bash X to 
 stay alive. The graphics, WOW!!!!!!!!!! It is really like the people (and aliens) are alive. The 
 story, no matter how good it is, is fairly short. Ten (or nine not counting the first as darth 
 vader) fairly short missions means the game can be finished in 6 or 7 hours. But thats not the 
 end! You like achievments, right? Well even if you dont you will probably play it again so you 
 can enjoy having all the power and knowing what to do rather then running around like a headless 
 chicken. If you do like achievments however (we know you do) For each time you play through on 
 a different difficuty you get from 75 to 100 achievment points! Nice. Very nice. Another fun idea 
 is the force, which you can use to lift an enemy and then shock him, throw him, hit him at his 
 mates or drop him from height. Sorted. But that leads to two of the games problems. One is that 
 ememys disapear after being killed. It might not seem bad but it would be fun to use a dead startrooper 
 as a bomb on another startrooper. But maybe it isnt that bad because if the did stay this problem 
 would be terrible! Heres the problem, when you want to lift an enemy you usually just pick up rubbish! 
 But any way the cut scenes, Wow. They look like real life! Lastly I want to say the apprentice 
 needs to buy proper clothes!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CageSpot
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves more then this Everyones Hateing on it! WHY!!! this game is fantastic best starwars 
 out Graphics our fantastic and everything else
  
  Now ive only tryed the 360. PS3 verisons but still i bet the others Our Fantastic aswell dont hate 
 on it Thank it!!!! Best in series and will stay that way for a long time!.. Kotor Is still my second 
 favorite but if they make a ForceUnleashed2 then Move Aside ive got a new Favorite 
  
  The Darkside Ending Is Rubish the way he Is turned in a robot CRAP but that Gets a 6 out of 10 
 for me
  
  the Lightside Ending: I find it easiy to belive he died to save The Republic but he did not kill 
 DarthVader or DarthVaders master but it could mean that later on He Has a restruction affter the 
 Starwars Movies? who Argrees? Anyway This ending gets a 10 out of 10 For me
  
  and the Hole Videogame is a massive 1000/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  I'm not a Star Wars fanatic, but I've seen all the movies and enjoyed most of them. This game has 
 some very interesting qualities. I think, by far, the story is the best part of this game. But 
 having said that, you have to get almost to the end of the game to realize that. The game play 
 is cool for what it is: using force powers to kill hundreds of enemies, but that isn't sufficient 
 to keep your attention for a long period of time. I guess my main problem is I found myself basically 
 just pushing through the game so I could get to the end. As immersive as it tries to be, I really 
 had a hard time getting immersed in it. The story takes a long time to develop and the characters 
 are fairly flat and the dialog somewhat stilted. The facial renderings are great, very detailed 
 and expressive. Unfortunately, the expressions aren't particularly meaningful or helpful to the 
 story. As I said, the story is the best part and about three-quarters of the way through the game 
 you start getting interested. Once you get to the end (which I will not give away) you think to 
 yourself: That was a really cool story. The problem with that being the main reaction is that you 
 could have spent $8 on a book instead of $60 on a game and had the same overall reaction. But in 
 the end it's Star Wars, so you have to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phhstom1
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Well i made the good decision to rent this game before buying it. Boy am i glad i did that. I finished 
 the standard difficulty in a little over six hours.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  It has it's extraordinary moments however these are few and far between. The force powers do give 
 you a sense of beng extremely powerful but the enemy AI sucks. Sotrmtroopers often stand there 
 facing walls without shooting you. However it must be recommended for an outstanding story. Which 
 has multiple endings, one of which will have fans confused. Seeing the three engines in action 
 at once is a sight worth seeing (DMM, Euphoria and Havok) The collectables are fun to find however 
 the extremely linear level desig ensures you should have fund them all by the second lay through.
 
  
  Graphics 7/10
  Good graphics however they don't stand up to the scrutiny of other games. 
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
 
  The voice acting is superb. The exclamation of your apprentice and Vader saying "you have done 
 well my apprentice" are extremely moving and sound just right. As do the sound of whirring sabers 
 and blaster fire.
  
  Overall a great game if only it were longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_K-lashy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really a huge fan of star wars, i know a few characters but thats it. So i wasnt really 
 waiting for this game, but got it anyway. And my reactions were mixed.
  Overall, it is a good game and is pretty fun to play, but, and a very big BUT, there is some flaws 
 that some people wont be as forgiving as i was for. A big problem most people are talking about, 
 and thats the aiming, its pretty terrible some times, when your trying to Force Shock the big metal 
 thing trying to kill you and the game feels the little barrel beside the metal killer is more of 
 a threat. And then theres this little bug that some times make the enemies invincible? Yeah it 
 can get annoying at times. And then theres a level which i have forgotten the name of, but players 
 of the game will know which one i mean when i see it looked and felt so unfinished you have to 
 wonder what its even doing there in the first place, there is objects on certain parts of the level 
 that are half floating on the ground and you character spends a lot of time jumping over invisible 
 bumps and little hills. Just a very poor level and some thing the game could of done without. Having 
 said all of that stuff. Its still quite fun. The moves are good [when they connect] and theres 
 plenty to upgrade and you can find and unlock costumes and different colour lightsabers, and i 
 suggest that you start on the lowest difficulty so you are aware of the flaws and bugs before you 
 start the higher diffuculties, my friend jumped staight ahead and got really annoyed and ended 
 up wanting to get rid of it before he even finished it. And yeah the story is great and you dont 
 have to know loads about star wars to understand it. But yeah, this makes you feel like a powerful 
 person at times and its a good feeling to just tear apart a group of Stormtroopers, kind of makes 
 you wonder why the game missions didnt revolve around that sort of thing, most of it does, but 
 theres a few bits of the game that question the point that the guys making the game were trying 
 to make. 
  Basically, its a fun and exciting game. If you can forgive the flaws and look past some obvious 
 stupidity, then you have yourself a pretty cool game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iced_Earth_Rulz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game ever since the game informer cover. Every time I read about it, 
 I kept on getting more and more pumped about the game. Then I played the demo on live and thought 
 ok, maybe theres a few things they need to work on, besides its just a demo. I get the game and 
 it just absolutely falls flat. The force powers, fighting style and level up system were all great. 
 But the one thing that destroyed it for me was the targeting system. I like how it automatically 
 locks on for you but its too loose. And when you finally throw whatever you want to throw, it goes 
 the exact opposite way you wanted it to go. Just these few problems destroyed my expeirence with 
 it. The story is great though although I would have liked a little more backstory. Even if though, 
 the loose controls were fixed, I would still only give this game a 7. It just simply did not live 
 up to ANY of my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petruvai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  First of all, I love Star Wars and would likely try just about any game that comes out. Not all 
 Star Wars games are good, but this is the best one that I've seen yet. Yes, it's short, but the 
 story is amazing, the visuals are incredibly deep and well designed, the fighting is fun and immersive, 
 and despite a few problems it is incredibly fun. I confess that I've always wanted to be a dark 
 Jedi in these games and kill good guys using force lightning and such. That is a definite plus 
 for the game. The force powers are really fun and easy to use and while people complain about the 
 aiming mechanism not working properly in confined spaces, it really isn't that big of a deal. If 
 you keep control of the camera angles, then the aiming is pretty easy and while you do occasionally 
 pick up something that you did not intend to pick up, it really isn't a problem. For one thing, 
 when you die you come back just a short time before you died. It may be short, but it is really 
 really fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlewnix
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:27 am PT
Review:  This game was very frustrating from the beginning to the very end and was, unfortunately, a disapointment!! 
 The targeting system in the game was bad, there was lag and bugs throughout, and there were so 
 many enemies coming at you, it was hard to get a grasp on playing this game and actually feeling 
 like a jedi or sith apprentice. Throughout the entire game, it is obvious that the developers focused 
 on giving you a game that you could play using over the top force powers, but lightnig and levitation 
 are nothing new in a game nowadays; this game simply has the license going for it, which is the 
 reason for all the hype. If they'd combined the lightsaber combos from ROTS, then I could have 
 gotten into this game more. m I mean, when I think of a Stars Wars game focusing on using lightsabers, 
 then those moves should flow!! ROTS sucked in alot of ways, but when I play it, I feel like a jedi 
 knight at least.
  
  Pros ----great graphics, star wars license
  
  Cons ---buggy, bad frame rate, repetitive gameplay, does not make you feel like a sith apprentice, 
 frustrating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoooth95
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  This game had so much potential. I mean when I first played the demo I thought, Wow a 9.5." The 
 first two levels of the game were wonderful. But that's when the annoying bs started. If it would 
 have just been pure action without the messed up glitches, button combinations to beat bosses or 
 big opponents, figuring out where to go and what to go with misled direction. It's too bad because 
 this game also has flawless action, awesome moves, and a great story. I would say Luca Arts killed 
 there own game, but since it was still good (not excellent like it could've been) so I'll say they 
 paralyzed it._______ ___________ _______ _______ _____ _____ _______ _______ _______ ________ ______ 
 _____ _______ ________ _________ ________ _______ ______ _______ _____ _______ ________ ________ 
 _______ ______ ______ _____ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staypuft52
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Alright now this is a fun game... for a while. I mean you can only force grip so many storm troopers 
 before it gets old. The story is so well done but it is almost overshadowed by the constant long 
 range blasts from the purge troopers and snipers. Only having to really use one of the force powers, 
 force lightening, throughout the game. It's the basic weakness to all enemies in the game. The 
 enemies you can't use it on are impervious to other force powers anyway so you have to just hack 
 and slash until they die. The force dash can't be upgraded which is a let down. You go about 10 
 feet in the game, that's it. On a positive note there really aren't that many glitches in the game 
 to be annoyed with. The annoying this is how hard some of the bosses really are, and how lack luster 
 some of the bosses really are. Vader is almost unbeatable. While Shaak Ti, one of the later bosses 
 is so easy it's not even funny. All in all it's a pretty good game. Maybe more of a rental than 
 a 60 dollar splurge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micc98
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  First off let me say I really wanted to write a great review. As a big Star Wars fan, I was ready 
 to forgive minor annoyances even before I first fired up the disc. And right out of the box Force 
 Unleashed impresses. The players animations are good, and it so much fun to toss stormtroopers 
 around and just be a general bad-a**@
  
  But I have to say, it is totally unforgiveable when a "finished product" ships with game-crashing 
 bugs. The worst one I've encountered so far: Imperial Kashyyyk, when I find the purple lightsaber 
 holocron... if I try and apply it to my l/s - the game crashes and completely corrupts my save game 
 file. I literally have to restart the game from scratch and run Vader around bashing Wookies. 
 
  
  The other problem I have: the wonky camera and the times when the game totally eliminates that 
 feeling of controlling a unstoppable warrior because your dumbbutt Sith walks off a ledge.... or 
 having to worry about the angle of your attack against a bad guy because the momentum from your 
 finishing flourish might carry you over the edge and to an insta-death and an annoyingly long respawn. 
 I mean come on, on second I am this ultra-powerful buttkicker wading through a group of enemies 
 and the next I am controlling Robbie the down syndrome sith who cannot save himself from his own 
 two left feet. 
  
  The painful thing is the programmers put an easy fix for this on the Vader prologue level.... he 
 CANNOT walk the edge. Why can't Starkiller be given the same courtesy? I am not saying put an invisible 
 wall there to prevent any deaths, but heck, maybe a teeter animation, or have him grab the ledge 
 and flip back up - SOMETHING!!!
  
  Its a shame that these little things can ruin what is otherwise a HUGELY entertaining experience, 
 with a great story that makes players feel like part of the official Star Wars story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a star wars fan for years and i really wanted to like this game, i really did. But behind 
 this star wars brand lies a laundry list of problems that just bog down what could have been an 
 amazing experience.
  
  Pro:
  - Gorgeous graphics
  - A new chapter in Anakin story arch
  - Interesting concept
  - The physics
  
  Cons:
  
 - Archaic game design (endless waves of enemies that just appear out of nowhere??)
  - Having to constantly babysit the camera
  - Horrendous AI
  - Graphical glitches (entire levels 
 just flash in at times)
  - Sound cuts in and out at random times
  - Clipping is in full effect (enemies glitched into floors and force powers go through solid walls)
 
  - Frustrating scripted events that aren't clever and just annoying
  - Endless load times everywhere 
  - Targeting system is next to useless
  
  Again i love star 
 wars but i cant even really recommend this to fans. I rented this game and am thoroughly glad i 
 didn't purchase this. With so much potential, Lucasarts once again disappoints fans with a mediocre 
 star wars game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthJavelin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  At first i thought this game was going to be a huge letdown, but i was soon proven wrong. I liked 
 most aspects of the game, such as the great story, the amazing graphics, the great physics engine, 
 the soundtrack, the voiceacting. But the part I loved most was that the game really made you feel 
 like a sith warrior with so many force powers and combos. Some things that turned me away were 
 the cinematic camera in boss battles can be frustrating (especially in the harder modes) and you 
 either have an enemy that is super strong or extremely weak (for example you think the stormtroopers 
 would have been amped up other than be cannonfodder) (Also their are noticable glitches if you look 
 for them, but if you dont distract yourself from the main gameply just to look for glitches you 
 should be fine) . Over all The Force Unleashed is a great game for starwars fanboys and the starwars 
 illiterate alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylio_55
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  i rented this game thinking i wouldnt like it. my guess was right at first after i used darth vader 
 i became bored, that is until i started getting more force powers. i got into the story and started 
 using the force powers just to shock and throw people around. Its fun but not enough to actually 
 buy it i recomend renting it first and if you still like it then go out and buy it. There is some 
 collectibles like lightsaber crystls and holocrons which houses costumes and information. They 
 might be hard to find at first but when you begin to look around you can easily find them.
  *SPOILER*
  
  The endings are cool to watch but dont go much in to detail. The difficulties 
 are pretty balanced but the hard difficulty seems impossible at first. and if you dont pay attention 
 you can get lost pretty easily.
  Deafeating the final Darth Vader seems almost impossible because you need to figure out which attacks 
 are most suited to defeat him. The Sith Lord is pretty easy but he can deplete your health very 
 quickly but luckily he sends in enemies that you can defeat for health. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sagri7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  You never get bored of using the force.
  The New Game+ feature is good for people who like to collect.
  Great graphics
  Good story, 
 ties in seamlessly with the films.
  
  The Bad:
  Some parts are a little buggy
  Bosses are way to easy, on any difficulty.
  Lacking a multiplayer/coop mode.
  
  The Ugly:
 
  Perhaps a bit too short.
  ------------------------------------------------------
  
  There is a lot to say about this game, and for once, gamespot review is almost correct.
  Of course 
 the game is focused around using the force to kill your enemies. While it's possible to finish 
 the game without, where is the fun in that?!
  The force powers add a new dimension to this game, allowing you to pick up pretty much everything 
 in the game and tossing it about. Infusing your saber with lightning and even shooting it from 
 your finger tips.
  For the people who enjoy finishing the game completely, on this game it includes collecting all 
 the jedi holocrons and unlocking costumes and unlocking lightsaber crystals and colours. Dont expect 
 them to be easy to find however, the new game+ allows you to start a new game with all your unlocks 
 and upgrades still intact, adding more fun.
  As i just said, you can upgrade your character in 3 different ways. Unlocking combos, unlocking 
 talents which increase damage, health etc. And unlock more powerfull powers. With leveling up being 
 easy and getting 1 orb for each upgrade aspect, it is easy to get fully upgraded.
  The boss fights are at the end of every level against made up bosses, with the exception of 4. 
 They are all relatively easy but when they are nearly finished you do an impressive finishing mini 
 game, very similar to the mercaneries 2 high jacking. You need to hit the right button at the right 
 time to unleash an impressive flurry of attacks.
  A main thing this game is missing in my opinion is a multiplayer mode. I really want to play this 
 game online with a friend. But i can keep hoping i suppose!
  
  Thats all for this review, this game is great, its fun and will keep you hooked for a long time! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCatastropher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  PERFECT..... except for maybe a few texture pop-ins and minor glitches I honestly think this is 
 one of LucasArts best games and extremely hope they continue to make games as good as this one. I'd 
 say an additional 5 hours for every difficulty starting apprentice with 5 hours.
  Great display of leverage for each level (Purge troopers while they were fun also were very tough 
 on the wrong diff., the easy stormtroopers scattered with the harder enemies to give the player 
 their "last breath". Plus you can't say that the black lightsaber didn't look awesome with the 
 sith robe or sith stalker armor (both of which are extremely bad-ass) . Holocrons were a great additional 
 aspect to the game as well. Sad but very well played ending for the light ending (spoiler!!!) Also 
 did very well in allowing the players to experience almost all the powers with Darth Vader in the 
 first level then give the apprentice a new ability every level or so. All in all, one of the best 
 games I've ever played and am still playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazing_Beard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Force Unleashed, in my personal opinion, lived up to all the hype that surrounded it. Action packed, 
 challenging gameplay, amazing story line (not to mention the whole playing as darth vader thing 
 at the beginning which makes the game worth a play in itself) , just all around well rounded game.... 
 however.. one MAJOR complaint, the aiming system SUCKED!! it becomes VERY annoying, especially 
 while playing on the sith master difficulty when the inability to control what your attacking becomes 
 fatal and you will die.. ALOT. But all that aside, still a sweet game. One more thing that needs 
 to be said is STOP COMPARING IT TO KNIGHTS OF THE OLD REPUBLIC, apples and oranges people, apples 
 and oranges. The two games are completely different and should never be compared, RPG and Action 
 Adventure. Besides any game looks bad compared to knights of the old republic, that games was deadly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-GrimReaper-X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars The Force Unleashed sees you in the roll of Darth Vader's secret apprentice, which is 
 absolutely awesome. You can go and pick up a stormtrooper and throw him at an explosive barrel, 
 or vice versa. By playing on the dark side of the force it probably sucks you into the game even 
 more. the force powers are great, you can throw your lightsaber at a group of enemies or you can 
 pick on up and impale him with it. there are so many ways to kill your enemies that every time 
 it is different.
  
  the only problem with this game is that the story line is too short and there is no multi-player 
 or co-op to lengthen it out. Aside from that this game is great and you will play through it more 
 than once.
  
  I find going through a mission just to feel the satisfaction of destroying a bunch of stormtroopers 
 fun, even when there really is no point to it.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who is looking for a short game to fill up their time. 
  
  
 Playing the bad guy has never been so much fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nagru
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Fun but nothing to get excited about, the force unleashed spews out another ridiculous story-line 
 that only a casual SW 'enthusiast' could enjoy.
  
  Filled with cliches, inaccuracies, and shameless hyperbole this game can only be taken as 'shallow' 
 fun; no deeper experience lies within to create a lasting memory.*
  
  While some features, like DMM/Euphoria, are interesting and innovative, they are also limited. 
 Do not expect what you saw in the trailers. A limited version of them are presented, obviously 
 do to hardware restrictions. The environment's destructibility is limited to the obvious, and even 
 then it's only a taste of what was promised. Anything you destroy quickly fades away, robbing your 
 destruction of a feeling of power sometimes.
  
  Even so, Unleashed is enjoyable. If you don't pay too much attention to the storyline (somewhat 
 difficult as cutscenes cannot be skipped until half finished) , and merely have fun throwing Stormtroopers 
 around, the game can quickly redeem itself.
  
  My verdict: This is not a 'must have' game. Wait for a month or two, for it to drop down to bargain 
 bin prices and buy then.
  
  *Details were left out to ensure no spoilers, and that I wouldn't start ranting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: se_dude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Turning my Xbox on and loading up TFU, I am immediately confronted with a loading screen. One thing 
 you will notice about the force unleashed is that Lucasarts have spent a lot of time and care on 
 the main menu, so much so that it requires its own loading screen. However, loading is not the 
 main problem with TFU. Somewhere between starting the game, to about 30 minutes in, you realize 
 you are not enjoying yourself enough as you should. You've spent nights dreaming of euphoria and 
 dmm and not being able to wait to throw incredibly intelligent stormtroopers into dmm material. 
 In your mind there was no way this game could have been scored less than ten. It was perfect. 
 
  
  Picture the scene, you are Darth vader, looking very next-gen, impressive even, walking through 
 a vibrant and lush kashyyk spanning the camera round you realize just how good the graphics are. 
 Advancing you encounter your first stormtrooper. They seem lackadaisical to say the least, especially 
 for someone infused with biomechanical A. I. you pick one up and chuck them at a tree and the bark 
 turns into dmm and flakes off, ok..... Unlike the jedi knight series, the stormtroopers don't really 
 seem all there....... as if they are more parts of the environment than actual characters. ignoring 
 the first anti climax, you know it can only get better, they must stick some dmm in somewhere. 
 Fighting wookiess is fun, and its even more fun when you realize that the wooden canopy above is 
 dmm, HURRAH! flinging everything you can at the dmm wood, you watch it break realistically and 
 then disappear so quickly you cudnt even analyze the damage. Now, gone are the images of all this 
 broken dmm wood lying around. replaced by, nothing. Air? 
  Fighting the boss at the end of this introductory level brings on another frustration, why am i 
 fighting this guy side on? Something you will have the bare with throughout the entire game. At 
 the end of this first level, there were somethings on my mind; The destructible environments disappearing 
 is sooooo annoying!
  Somehow it would be just as fun flinging rock around as it is stormtroopers?! You realize that 
 this game just isn't as fun as it should be, its just not.
  
  This game really is a rent first, it is very fun flinging stormtroopers and the like around and 
 watching euphoria do its magic. However to much of the time you will be bored and frustrated. Not 
 so much at a specific part of the gameplay, but at the fact that this game just isn't as good as 
 it should be!
  
  Play it, you will love parts of it, but the replay value isn't great, and the feeling that theres 
 nothing you haven't discovered already nags you until the point of depression. its fun, its beautiful, 
 but you really might as well watch one of the movies. everthing is explained on the box, theres 
 basically a chapter selection and it is fun to replay, but don't expect anything new 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  This game equals to chaos and destruction. With the force in your side and all fury like techniques 
 SWFU is one of the games where you would want to desrtoy everything. This game itself is really 
 awesome in terms of how you can manipulate anything, how each unit has it's own script, etc. Unleashing 
 powerful combos and mixing them up with Sith like powers. Make your enemies suffer or simply throw 
 them like a ball, or ram them agasint anything. This game is bound to make the player to develop 
 "evil" thoughts (evil laughter) . Aside from that, the graphics are amazing, the music never bores 
 one and the action is awesome to the fourth power. Difficulty can vary, you can djust the setting 
 anytime you want during the game.
  
  Overall this game is worht picking it up, as there is alot of things to discover. I rally enjoyed 
 this game and hope that there is a sequel to it. Trust me on this one. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjk1981
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed Has Got To Be One Of The Most Hyped Games In Years and Probably 
 The Most Delayed Hence Giving It The Nick Name: Star Wars The Force Unreleased, But Now After That 
 It Has Finally Been Unleashed Worldwide; It Begs The Question: Has It Been Worth The Wait Or Should 
 It Stay In A Galaxy Far Far Away.
  
  The Story Of The Game Is By Far The Best Star Wars Story In Years Which Is Centered A Character 
 Called Starkiller Who Is Darth Vader's Secret Apprentice At The Start Of The Start Of The Game 
 But You Can Lead Him Down The Path To Redemption. The Game Gives Us Many Unexpected Plot Twists 
 Which Make You Look At The Characters And There Relationships From A Whole Different Prospective 
 Then When You Are First Introduced. The Story Is Backed Up By Solid Acting By The Actors That Where 
 Not Just Recorded, But Actually Shot On Camera Using The Tech At Industrial Light And Magic (ILM) 
 To Bring These Characters To Life And So You Can Be Immersed In The Apprentice Character. 
  
  The Game Itself Looks Just Gorgeous, I Mean The Levels Are Filled With So Much Detail And The 
 Light And Shadowing Look Perfect And So Real! 
  
  The Gameplay Of The Force Unleashed Is Solid And Really Addictive To Play, Its Also Very Realistic 
 eg; If You Force Grip An Enemy And Throw It Into a Tree, It Will Grab Onto The Tree In a Futile 
 Attempt To Preserve Its Life, But Because the Enemy Was Thrown At High Speed; The Part Of The Tree 
 That It Grab Onto Brakes Off a The The One Or Two Seconds After Impact. We Can Thank Pixelux Entertainment 
 And Natural Motion For Supplying The Force Unleashed Team With: Digital Molecular Matter (DMM) 
 And Euphoria; Which Are Simulation Technologies Which Make Objects Act And Brake Like They Do In 
 the Real World And Give NPC's A Sense Of Self Preservation. Thanks To These Technologies; We Can 
 Slay Foes With The Force Like Never Before. The Star Destroyer Sequence Is Hard, But Accurate As 
 Pulling A Star Destroyer Out Of The Sky For The First Time Is Never Not Going To Be an Easy Task.
 
  
  The Force Powers Truly Feel Unleashed And Truly Live Up To The Full Potential Of The Force As I 
 Have Always Imagined. There Is Also An Upgrade System Were You Can Level Up Your Force Powers, 
 Force Talents And Even Buy New Combos. You Also Unlock You Powers As The Story Goes On; Like: Lightning, 
 Repulse, Saber Throw And Lightning Shield. 
  
  The Force Unleashed Is Stuffed With All Kinds Fun Of Extra's; Like A Data Bank That Stores Information 
 On All The Things You Have Encountered, You Can Customize Your Lightsaber By Changing The Color 
 Crystel And The Power Crystel That Are Found In Jedi Holocron's All Over The Game That Gives Your 
 Light Saber Special Abilities, You Can Also Get New Costumes To Put On The Apprentice That You 
 Unlock Through Progression Or Jedi Holocron's, You Can Use These Costumes When You Replay Missions 
 Using The Mission Select, You Can Look At Concept Art Which Unlock As You Progress Through The 
 Game, There Also Lots Of Fun Cheats That Don't Affect Achievements Though Some Do, That Unlock 
 Skins Of Other Characters That Then Pop Up In The Costumes Section And Many Other Cheats That There 
 Just For Fun.
  
  All The Levels In The Game Are Great, But The Best Level's Would In My Opinion Have To Be Prologue 
 Kashyyyk Because You Get To Play As Darth Vader And Imperial Felucia Because You Get To Explore 
 The Belly Of A Sarlacc And Fight The Fierce Bull Rancor And The Surprisingly Sexy Maris Brood
 
  
  So Was The Wait Worth It; You Bet! It Definitely Looks Like The Bom Bad Days Of Star Wars Gaming 
 Are Over And The Days Of Kicking Ass With The Force Have Began, Now All We Need To Wait For Is 
 The Downloadable Content From Xbox Live!
  
  So Until My Next Review May The Force Be With You All 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grendel313
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 2:15 am PT
Review:  to start, its the best star wars story since empire. it starts off pretty friggin dark and has 
 a great twist with lots of moral ambiguity. thems my favorite kind of morals in films. the game 
 looks beautiful. one of the best looking games out there. visuals in this game are jaw dropping 
 at times. like buttah, only better! 
  
  now, gameplay, i had lots of problems with controlling the camera. it seemed to do exactly what 
 i wanted it NOT to do. the mechanics are a little off, but i got use to them. out of 10, i would 
 give it an 8, losing points for camera and controls, and length. LENGTH! come on people, will it 
 kill you to make a game longer than 8 hours to beat?? do i have to spend 60 bucks for 8 hours of 
 gameplay? i can get prostitutes for cheaper! ... so i hear. 
  
  anyhow, its a total blast to play through and the announcement of more characters and single player 
 campaign missions to come via download... makes me a happy guy. one last note, the boss battles 
 are a TOTAL blast! these are close to mgs boss battles. most are not the same and require different 
 means to beat. goood times. 
  
  
  -cresendo
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sin-Thesis
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Well, the targeting and camera issues would make this game a 7 for me like the GS review, but I 
 happen to be a sucker for great story telling. I'm not a huge Star Wars fan, but I am a fan to 
 a lesser extent. The story in this game is better than episodes 1,2, and 3 put together, and if 
 you can push aside the classic status of the original trilogy you can see that TFU's story even 
 rivals that of episodes 4,5, or 6. This is the Star Wars movie they SHOULD have made after the 
 original trilogy. Starkiller is a gripping protagonist and his story is intense. The quality of 
 the story makes it regretable that it is so short.
  
  However, back to the gameplay. The combos are simple without being lackluster. Your force powers 
 and your trusty lightsaber are both incredibly satisfying to use, now if only the targeting worked 
 better. You are guaranteed to have frustrations regarding force gripping the wrong object or enemy 
 (or possibly nothing at all) all too frequently. The camera tends to position itelf at an awkward 
 angle, and while you can center it yourself, this can be quite a nuisance during a heated battle.
 
  
  If you love a good story and satisfying (for the most part) gameplay, buy this game. If you are 
 a Star Wars fan, you HAVE to get this game, especially for the light side ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colbster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting a great review from GS after playing the demo, but could understand their criticism 
 of the repetitive gameplay. That is my only complaint as well. If they could have broken up the 
 pattern of hack and slash and boss battle pattern recognition with some vehicle levels, this might 
 have been one of the greatest Star Wars games ever. I've always been a huge fan of the Rogue Squadron 
 games, and every time I saw a vehicle on the battlefield or in a cutscene I had a desire to get 
 inside and pilot it. The production values of the game are amazing, and it takes you to some of 
 the most breathtaking corners of the Star Wars galaxy. It has some amazing action and a lot of 
 great force powers to use at your disposal, so I have to highly recommend this game. Even the Destroyer 
 level is not as bad as they make it out to be. Give it a try! Sorry, there is no try. Do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Numb094
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Rarely do I pick up a Star Wars game, and rarely do I even watch Star Wars. Due to the lack of 
 entertainment recently, I decided to check out Pure, which I found had all been rented out, so 
 I grabbed The Force Unleashed, having heard from a friend it was good.
  
  [1] One step forward, one step backward. The game mechanics are nothing special, and can probably 
 keep a child's attention for many hours, however it's nothing I haven't seen or experienced before.
 
  
  [2] The character development was average at best, and over-the-top cliche at times.
  
  [3] The story would be difficult to follow for a fan new to the franchise.
  
  [4] The system 
 was deliberately designed to make the AI a tough challenge, however the developers don't entirely 
 understand the word "challenge", making it a sometimes tedious, frustrating experience in combat.
 
  
  [5] The best portion of the game was as Darth Vador, walking and blasting weaklings away with the 
 force power in pursuit of his first Apprentice.
  
  [6] The death of the Apprentice was probably the worst thing that could've happened in this game, 
 in addition to the context, and absolute nonsense of it all.
  
  
  There is nothing very addicting about the gameplay, it is entertaining for awhile, but I don't 
 see how anyone could play this game a second time through, with the amount of frustration some 
 of the mechanics may cause the player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlwood830
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a great game... excellent even and that's in spite of a few bugs. 
 It's just a lot of fun. I enjoyed playing it on both the normal and hard difficulties. And my young 
 9 year old son enjoyed it just as much if not more than I did; he played on easy. In fact, he finished 
 the game a few days before I did. Obviously, the game can be a little difficult at times, but it 
 never, ever stopped being stupendously, insanely fun!! That's due to the wonderful gameplay, the 
 beautiful graphics, the enticing storyline and need I say more? I'm serious. The game is that good. 
 Was it difficult on normal? Yes, but most of the save points were appropriate. It was just frustrating 
 enough to make me want to get it or figure out what I was doing wrong. And good games are supposed 
 to be challenging without driving you insane. 
  
  I had never completely finished a Star Wars game before The Force Unleashed, even Knights Of The 
 Old Republic which I thoroughly enjoyed. I wasn't trying to finish this game. I was just enjoying 
 it so much that I ran out of game. This game really did make me feel like I was part of the Star 
 Wars Universe, growing in power and stature to meet some unknown destiny and did it deliver.
  
  So what were the bugs? 
  
  The targeting system you get used to pretty early on so I wouldn't 
 call that a game changer. However, there was one sniper/stormtrooper late in the game that caused 
 the game to lock up if you got physically close to his semi-"hidden" position when taking him out. 
 Also, the Force Points stopped tallying for the final two levels of the game. Fortunately, by this 
 point Starkiller should have all of the points and skills that you'll want him to have (actually 
 he will have almost every ability that he can have unless you've virtually ignored force points 
 up until then.) When the Force Points stopped tallying, the bonus objectives stopped showing too. 
 Yeah, the developer should have just corrected that screen since the info was really moot at that 
 point. Seeing zero points out of 500,000 or whatever can be disconcerting at first. It made me 
 think that perhaps I had accidentally stumbled onto some kind of cheat that was going to mess up 
 my game, but that wasn't the case and it really didn't matter at that point in the game. But hey, 
 a little polish there folks would have taken away a lot of "criticism" for a truly great game.
 
  
  Even so, this is still excellent game-play with a beautiful story and wonderful graphics. The Force 
 Unleashed is well worth owning because a rental is just no good with a game that keeps you coming 
 back for more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knuckln_Futz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a game even regular gamers have been waiting for!
  
  
  Players take the role of Darth Vader's Secret Apprentice, named Starkiller for his Special Operations. 
 He his armed with a Lightsaber and Force Powers. Starkiller isn't the main attraction in the game 
 though, he has a droid companion named PROXY whom provides the humor of the story and information 
 on certain problems along the way. Going in-deaph, PROXY's programing has him being a training 
 droid that simulates real danger, therefore trying to kill Starkiller. Ahhh we move on to Juno, 
 Juno Eclipse the pilot of Starkiller's Ship "The Rogue Shadow" and is the love interest for Starkiller. 
 Juno was born on Corulag and was leading the Black Five in bombing Callos.
  
  
  The Gameplay puts the Force in your hands and gives you unpresidented power. But control issues 
 are a really big problem. In many games, when jumping your character does squat but for a slight 
 time before jumping no problem. In the Force Unleashed, you can actually see Starkiller preparing 
 for a jump, making you get shot because you didn't press A early. When getting knocked down, he 
 takes a VERY long time to get back up, and having you get shot by a Dark Trooper's rocket 3 times 
 by the same guard, therefore making him have the worst recovery time in any video game. In other 
 words, delay is a really big problem in this game.
  
  
  There are major bugs in this game too! I find myself getting knocked down but then start sliding 
 across the floor! I can't get up until I stop but I can still take damage when getting shot, making 
 me helpless as a kitten in a tree. I've fell through the level and was seeing recorded images of 
 me everytime I moved (Halo 3 had the same problem on the last level) . About 20 seconds later, I 
 saw so many Starkillers, I thought I was doing the Naruto Chapter Book Attack to a Sarlacc! The 
 last level had this "DEFAULT TEXT" thing and the Force Points and Holocron objectives didn't record. 
 I thought that since the level was glitched, the achievement was glitched too! I did my Sith Master 
 game and burned through it, collecting any Holocrons I spotted along the way. I make it to the 
 last level and it says "NONE" for my first bonus objective and the Force Points and Holocrons actually 
 recorded! Now I had to go and collect every Holocron I missed without getting shot up by chainguns 
 and dying! I did eventually though.
  
  
  The Force maybe in your hands but the increasing enemy types makes you powerless. What the hell 
 is it with 4 Snipers, 3 EVO Troopers, 2 Stormtroopers, 4 Dark Troopers and 2 AT-ST's?! I understand 
 Halo, Chief has a whole army on his side and vehecles and cover. You, on the other hand have enemies 
 everywhere you want to cover, no army or shield, and no vehecles, in fact, the vehecles attack 
 you! All Lightsaber duel bosses are resistent to your "unleashed" force powers almost all the time! 
 You can only Grip someone mainly after using the Aeriel Assault combo. If you beat up a Jedi too 
 long, they will get up and while your still attacking, you are damaging them but they're not staggering. 
 That always have me hacking a combo but then they give me a "C-C-C-C-C-C-C-C-C-Combo Breaker!" 
 all because of the no stun. I beat Kota easily in Stage 1 but dies like 9 times on Kazdan Paratus 
 in Stage 2.......... Stage 2!!!!!!!!!! Something you'd expect from DMC but Hayden and Lucas pulled 
 it off here.
  
  
  A wealthy experience dumbfound by bugs, control issues, camera issues (which I forgot to mention 
 in this review) , and crazy difficulty. Jedi Academy is still the Star Wars King of Games in my 
 book, but there's 1 Trial this game did not fail in, and that is getting the Force right! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sa1isbury
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  This is the kind of game you want to rent and have a blast with, then return. In that light, it's 
 a great game. I don't recommend buying unless you are a hardcore fan into collecting or something 
 b/c it's short and there really isn't a whole bunch to do after you beat it, but play it on a harder 
 mode (if you dig that kind of stuff, then have at it)
  
  Upsides:
  
  Graphics: Stunning scenes, really, the attention to detail is fantastic. One of the most visually 
 pleasing games I've played.
  
  Story: Arresting stuff. A little on the short side, but anyone who is into SW will appreciate this 
 game... its like an added dimension to the movies.
  
  Gameplay: It's actually pretty good. Not outstanding, but fun and definitely challenging during 
 the boss battles.
  
  Sound: It's SW, so the sound is every bit as good as it was in past SW games.
  
  Downsides:
 
  
  Longevity: This is an 8 hour game, perhaps 12 if you look for all the bonus items. I started at 
 1 pm and finished around 9 pm. For that reason, it's hard to suggest that you should buy this. 
 It's a fun ride for a rental, but not worth a purchase imo. There as some glitches here and there, 
 but nothing that stopped me enjoying it. Like I said, the gameplay is fun, not amazing, so don't 
 expect Ninja Gaiden here. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsiris101
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  This game had one of the best star wars storylines to date. Starkiller is a kick a** jedi and sith. 
 All the characters grow on you and you really get drawn into the game. It really ties up the loose 
 ends between Ep 3 and 4. All of the force powers were really functional and over the top and I 
 loved them all. People were saying that the lightsaber wasnt going to be good, but I thought it 
 did its job. total score 9/10 great game. the only flaw I found in it was the length and a few 
 minor glitches that I found throughout the game. To mention a few, in the 2nd Kashyek level the 
 giant gate disapeared on me while I was shooting the AT-ST. Also I got stuck behind a rock and 
 couldn't move. However, I would really recomend this game to and die hard star wars fan who wants 
 to learn more about the universe in genreal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saggerpance
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  The Gamespot review is right on on this game. It's just kinda ok. The first warning sign was when 
 the thing had to load to go to the in game menu. I mean, come on! You really want me to wait for 
 the in game menu? No, check that the first warning sign was how lame the loading screen looked. 
 It looks like they realized that since they put so much unnecessary fluff in the menu that it needed 
 a load screen, they had to bare bones the actual load screen.
  
  Anyway, it starts out ok. You're running through the thing as Darth Vader send wookies to their 
 deaths. You've got all of these powers and no idea how to use them. And eventually, no matter how 
 much you suck, you'll stumble into a boss battle where it becomes obvious that you can't die. And 
 here's the 3rd warning that this game might suck: the camera in boss battles is fixed 3/4s side 
 view of the entire area or most of it in some cases. This is fine except that there are objects 
 you get lost behind and its quite common to find yourself as a rather tiny figure in the upper 
 corners. I can't imagine playing one of these battles on a regular sized TV. And as you'll find 
 out later, the aiming system, and its bad normally, it near impossible to use in some areas of 
 boss battles.
  
  So lets get to that. The aiming system sucks. It just blows. you kinda look at something and back 
 up and go forward or side to side and try to get the distance right for the computer to put your 
 aim on it. Seriously, it's dumb. And the lock on option might be useful if you didn't have to spend 
 so much time getting your recticle on that object. Truthfully the aim stuff isn't always a problem, 
 but its enough to have you throw down your controller a few hundred times.
  
  The rest of the gameplay is ok. Its fun to throw stuff around with force grab and push and chaining 
 combos together is nice. The only problem is after a level or two you've really unlocked everything 
 dramatically different. So you just do the same stuff over and over and over.
  
  The unlockable stuff is kinda dumb. You upgrade the force powers you have, and you'll have all 
 of the combos unlocked halfway through the game. Which isn't even necessary since most of the combos 
 are the same as some of the other combos, just with a slight twist.
  
  The costumes are useless and there was only one, maybe two that I ever wanted. They do the horrible 
 thing of showing you a bunch of locked slots where costumes or lightsaber crystals would be if 
 you had unlocked them. Which is warning number 4 that its gonna suck. In level one you see how 
 few customization options there are and its kinda a let down for those of us who like to earn these 
 things. And no matter what lightsaber crystal or outfit you have on, the cutscene will show you 
 in the one that was unlocked by getting to that level.
  
  the cutscenes are good, as are the graphics, but they really only give you 4 different environments 
 to play in... which was a let down. You have no choices whatsoever in any portion of this game. 
 You go through a cutscene. It drops you onto a level. You fight. You do it again. And if you get 
 far enough, you go back to different parts of the same environments as before. You'll have goals 
 within levels but after the first two, they drop off nearly altogether. You're told to kill everyone 
 you see in the first mission you do as the apprentice, but there's no penalty for not doing so. 
 It doesn't change anything.
  
  Which brings me to the bugs... other than disappearing/reappearing objects and characters, falling 
 through floors, and the typical stuff you see in any unpolished game, you will experience the height 
 of developer laziness. on some of the levels instead of getting a bonus objective, you see the 
 word nil. The first of these objectiveless levels doesn't even give you credit for the stuff you 
 got done. You could see from the display that something was going to be screwed up when you finished 
 the level. If they even had one tester play through this game all the way, they would have seen 
 this error. This game reeks of don't give a sh**. Because thats apparently the attitude of the 
 developers. They didn't give a sh**. And it shows.
  
  This game is shallow, repetitive, hard to play, difficult, and the story is overrated. But its 
 still kinda fun. Just do your stress relief exercises first... and afterwards... and during. Just 
 try to beat it quickly before its trade-in value dries up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tertius2347
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  A disclaimer first: the less than 10 hours was two play throughs on Normal and a half play thorugh 
 on hard. That's all I could stand before I was crying.
  
  I think a friend of mine described this game better than anyone else I've talked to about it.
 
  
  "They reskinned Psi-Ops. They took out all the cool powers like pyrokinesis and mind control and 
 the one where you can move outside of your own body. And substituted a half ---ed Star Wars plot."
 
  
  Painstakingly, ridiculously simple. No bonus content to speak of for 360. It's very frustrating 
 to see all this cool stuff you can unlock and codes for all of them and then wait.... its for wii. 
 I'm stuck with the pile of suck I started with. Game play was a stunted and malformed parody of 
 that which was up until now a genre worth looking forward to: Jedi Knight is something to be proud 
 of. This should be the step-child locked in the attic never to see the light of day. The force 
 powers were atrophied and were really very dull to use. The saber controls were silly. With the 
 control scheme maybe you could turn this around and sell it as another installment of Soul Calibur 
 for some God-forsaken reason they can't seem to make enough sequels for that game.
  
  It really is unfortunate that I can't rate this lower than 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theclint
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 5, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  wow i have to say i was really looking forward to this game, i rented this game a week ago, cause 
 alot of people said that the game is only a rent, ok. when i first started playing it was ok, good 
 story line and all, then it all of a sudden got frustrating. the enemies were retarded and you'll 
 get killed in a second if you dont watch out, even if you try your hardest. the starship scene 
 was just flat out retarded
  dont waste your time, even if your a big fan of star wars. the only thing going for this game is 
 the physics and the graphics other than that the gameplay is fun, but the game gets too frustrating 
 with too many glitches and its just not fun after a while. the story line is really ambitious though, 
 but the dark side/light side doesnt give you much option, only in the end. if you like games like 
 dynasty warriors but also dont mind playing levels over and over again to try to find the best 
 way not to die
  go ahead
  and rent it
  dont even think about buying it
  
  its a total piece of crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  While it's always good to be cautious about the amount of hype that surrounds certain games, it 
 wasn't unfair to expect a lot out of this one. All we've heard about since 2005 were all of the 
 advanced game engines that were being thrown in, and how it would be truly story-based as it further 
 developed the events between Star Wars episodes III and IV. Let's face it, this one was beyond 
 big; it was huge, especially for fans of the series. Sadly, the game only manages to achieve average 
 thanks to several problems that Lucasarts never saw fit to address.
  
  For starters, the Force unleashes in about eight to nine hours. This would have been okay if the 
 entire game constantly put you in new locations and situations, but it doesn't. You end up visiting 
 the same locales and fighting the same enemies over and over, which doesn't exactly make for exciting 
 gameplay. Legions of Stormtroopers are to be expected, but I was about to lose my mind if I had 
 to fight one more AT-ST or Rancor.
  
  There were also several bugs that needed to be worked out prior to release but weren't. It would 
 seem that the Euphoria engine gives the A. I. a sense of self-preservation, but doesn't equip them 
 with much of brain. There are times you can literally stand out in the open and just pound an enemy 
 with flying objects, and they'll just stand there and take it. One particular AT-ST remained so 
 frozen that I blasted it with Force Lightning just to wake it up, because I figured a lightning 
 bolt should get just about anything to move. Strangely, it didn't work.
  
  Speaking of enemies, your worst one in this game is the camera. You're going to fight with it pretty 
 much from start to finish, and it adds a layer of frustration that's almost impossible to describe. 
 It's incredibly maddening when something out of your range of view is beating on you to the tune 
 of three-quarters of you life bar, and you can't see where the enemy is to take him out. There 
 are even parts of the game where you're getting hit from all sides, and the camera won't follow 
 you around where you stand a fighting chance against the eighty or so enemies that are on-screen.
 
  
  It isn't all bad, though. The graphics and sound are of the incredibly high caliber that you'd 
 expect from Lucasarts, and the storyline is certainly worthy of the Star Wars name. Actually, the 
 storyline and presentation is pretty fantastic, and even offers a few twists along the way.
  
  The Euphoria and Havoc physics engines are a blast to play with, especially when you have a 
 limited number of enemies on screen to toss around and can actually see how they react to certain 
 situations. More than once I tossed a Rebel Trooper into a Tie Fighter just to watch it explode, 
 and it's moments like those that save the game from being a total disaster.
  
  While the game has its great moments, it also has a lot of problematic ones which makes my recommendations 
 on Force Unleashed a little tricky. Fans of the series should definitely play it for the storyline, 
 and anyone willing to put up with the bugs and shorter length will still find the game at least 
 somewhat enjoyable. Just wait to pick it up used or until we get the inevitable price drop; it 
 sure isn't worth the full price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentluap
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  With not being a big fan of the movies at first I was uncertain if I wanted to buy the game or 
 not. Then the Dark Side took over and I went and got the game.
  
  THE GRAPHICS: Straight away as soon as you start the game you will see that the game is visually 
 impressive and you are instantly drawn into the environments and surroundings. The character models 
 are great as well as the fabics which move realisticly. Then the graphical prowess of the game 
 is further improved by the way the surroundings and environmets react to the physics. You can cetainly 
 tell a lot of work went into the making your jaw hit the floor as soon as it starts.
  
  THE SOUND: The sound in The Force Unleashed is what you can expect in a Star Wars movie. The sounds 
 are in keeping with the sounds in the movies, which is obviously important in this situation and 
 what you would expect. The voice acting is also really strong and the characters are certainly 
 given a personal touch due to this.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY: The gameplay on The Force Unleashed is like a hybrid of two of my favourite games 
 Devil May Cry (my favourite game series) and PSI-OPS, which is a great mixture for someone like 
 me. Anyway I thought the game would get pretty boring and become force, lightsabre, repeat. But 
 then when you start to level up and use the points to unlock new skills and attacks the game becomes 
 even better, with the Sabre Throw being a personal favourite. The force is obviously a main focal 
 point in the gameplay and parts of the game use this to great affect, there's also some great endings 
 for fight sequences, but going back to the upgrades and skills you can unlock make sure the gameplay 
 doesn't get repetative.
  
  THE LIFESPAN: The Force Unleashed is a short game but it's something you can certainly play through 
 again. The story is something you could sit through and happily play again.
  
  OVERALL: Overall The Force Unleashed is a certain must buy and a great experience for gamers. A 
 game that both Star Wars fan and people who dont like it could enjoy. It uses it strenghs well, 
 so you dont really notice it's weaknesses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon-chan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Searching for a new and exciting game to play, I went down to the local Game Stop of coarse for 
 a due scrutinizing; I saw that Star Wars the Force Unleashed was out; and to be honest, I'm not 
 much of a Star Wars fan, I've watched the movies and know some of the jargon that comes with it 
 but I thought it'd be worth a shot and to see what the game was like from an unbiased point of 
 view rather than a fans. 
  
  The game starts up and lo and behold you get to play Darth Vader himself in the Prologue stage; 
 he has himself a confident march and bends people to his will with force throws that are awesome 
 and entertaining; who wouldn't love to watch people flung helplessly off cliffs and into giant 
 ravines? Here you get a taste of what you're going to experience throughout the rest of the game 
 and are given a small amount of time to adjust to your powers now completely at your fingertips. 
 Least to say, there's always a satisfaction to be found in blasting your enemies (Sometimes allies, 
 oops) away and it never wanes its welcome. 
  
  Don't worry, even if you don't have an inkling to what you're doing Proxy, Star Killer's helpful 
 yet homicidal robot friend will guide you through some basic steps in training stages, which you 
 can access any time via the main menu as well. 
  
  You're set up on a hunt of the Jedi, this game bridges the cannon universe rather well and lets 
 for a bit more exploration into the story; which is Vader finding himself a young apprentice during 
 the prologue, training him until adulthood. Starkiller, as he's been dubbed, is a fresh face to 
 the series but even in the game end left a little bit more to be desired on his character; he seemed 
 somewhat underdeveloped and shuffled from here and there with little to no personality changes. 
 There's a few moments where he seems emotionally charged but this lasts very shortly and it doesn't 
 seem like to much comes of it. To be honest, it's hard to identify with the character and a little 
 more could have been done with him. It was hard to feel for him until the last wire and by then, 
 it was a little to late. 
  
  Each mission has a cut scene before it that informs you of your main objective, throughout the 
 level there are also secondary objectives that make no matter on the story but do give you extra 
 force spheres, which allow you to allocate your abilities and make a stronger character, in a way 
 giving you power of customization over him and a way of leveling up as well. Say you depend more 
 on Force Throws, all you need to do is add to that and you'll be able to pick up multiple enemies 
 and shuffle them around anywhere you want. It's all a matter of preference, and eventually you 
 can max out all your stats but its great to focus on the ones you abuse the most. 
  
  Each foe you meet has strength and a weakness to it, some might be more easily taken out by a well 
 placed lighting bolt while others need to be hacked and slashed to bite size pieces by your trusty 
 Light Saber. Whichever you decide, some of the bigger enemies entail a timed button mash to defeat 
 them, which leads to a cut scene-esque attack that hollers back toward Assassin's Creed's cinema 
 style fighting. Especially in the boss battles with other Jedi which has an artistic flare to it 
 that's never tiresome to witness. 
  
  There are little extras throughout the game and you'll be acquiring unlockables as you progress; 
 new costumes, new Light Saber Crystals and if you utilize the password option on your menu you 
 can unlock other characters to play as. 
  
  It's really fun trying to get all the bonus stuff and fooling around with it; and with the ability 
 to return to missions you've done before with a powered up Starkiller, you feel like a waking force, 
 literally. 
  
  Kicking it to the masses, 
  
  Based off the George Lucas Star Wars Universe and given his blessings as well, Force Unleashed 
 makes a decent entry into the Star Wars video game library. It opens and closes a small side chapter 
 in the saga that for any fan is a worth while look. 
  
  Graphics: A lot of nice appeasing looking backgrounds and creatures to look at here, everything 
 comes together in spectacle and it's cool to watch the environments effected by the wave of your 
 Force powers; all the little things that coincide with one another in this game come together and 
 make a fine appeal. 
  
  Sound: Some familiar tunes here and the overall feel is epic and inspiring throughout the missions; 
 calling for desperation and motivation all at the same time. 
  
  Playability: The controls are rather smooth though the targeting system is a bit awkward at times, 
 as Starkiller will only seem to focus on the target he's facing toward at the time and makes it 
 harder to employ a counterattack to the foes approaching at his backside. Getting to extras sometimes 
 feels like a matter of trial and error and figuring out which objects you need to move in order 
 to get to the next platform, or if for that matter the platform you're aiming for is able to be 
 jumped on or not; though it's to be expected that some things are harder to get to than others, 
 the limited camera tilt makes it a bit more difficult to even be aware of what's higher in your 
 surroundings. Other than that, combat is relatively easy and combos are a cinch to pull off. 
 
  
  Replay: Extras! You gotta have these, for those completionest that need to have every little thing 
 there's objectives that haven't been completed, Holocrons to obsessively collect, not to mention 
 achievements. Also a plus it's an awesome feeling going through the earlier missions you've possibly 
 struggled through and blowing them away with your force powers that carried over. Try out the different 
 difficulty levels, show off a bit. Also, there's two endings to be had; both equally disappointing 
 in some manner, but fun to watch. 
  
  All in All: Good game, worth the time and effort put into it; though if you go at it at once rather 
 than spreading out your gaming experience the whole of the story will feel rather short winded 
 and leave one wanting a bit more action to spruce it up. It'd be great if they could have gone 
 through Star Killer's adolescent years and explore into his character more, but I'm afraid this 
 one will have to be put to rest. Fans pull out your wallets, this ain't Yoda Story failure; this 
 is The Force Unleashed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: d00shleet
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  After seeing the mixed reviews for Star Wars: The Force Unleashed... i was feeling iffy regarding 
 whether i should actually get this game at all but after buying the game and playing through it 
 i must say that i have no regrets purchasing this game. 
  
  it is not an easy game and you can expect to die quite a few times running through it on the first 
 time on sith warrior difficulty. But it provides a fun challenge and fulfillment when levels are 
 completed and bosses are eliminated
  
  The game itself does have a few bugs here and there but none that break the game. For the people 
 who would usually complain about the camera.. i did not find it to be an obstacle after playing 
 for 5-10 minutes.. the controls themselves are a bit unfamiliar but once they are familiarized 
 then it only feels second nature as to which combos to use in different situations.
  
  The story is indeed very colorful and provides a very good link to episode IV: A New Hope... Characters 
 in the game are also very varied and the character development is also very effective in understanding 
 each of the characters especially the protagonist starkiller... who has become my favorite character 
 in the star wars canon
  
  I have always been a very big fan of star wars and this is a def must buy for all star wars fans 
 out there who desire a good story to be told.. this is also the only game out there which i felt 
 captures and visualizes the power of a jedi/sith very well.. 
  
  so for those ppl who are looking for a bit of fun and being extremely bad-ass with force powers 
 and lightsaber combos.. this is probably the best choice
  
  Throwing stormtroopers... eliminating rancors with sleek finishing moves... laying havoc to military 
 militias with the environment... it never failed to bring a smile to my face 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwa3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Quick Capsule review:
  
  Action/Gameplay: Like Jedi Academy/Outcast meets God of War and Ninja Gaiden
  
  RPG Elements: 
 Ninja Gaiden meets TOO HUMAN meets Marvel Ultimate Alliance
  
  Story: Takes place between Ep 3 and 4. Showcases how, when and why the Rebel Alliance was formed. 
 Really interesting and engaging story.
  
  Graphics: Awesome. Textures, bump mapping are quality. Motion capturing is superb, although they 
 walk like robots during cutscenes.
  
  Sound: Pretty Standard Star Wars stuff. Voice acting is top notch. However, Starkiller (Apprentice) 
 the protagonist either over-acts, or under-acts. Just like his character is either disturbed and 
 evil, or cool and caring. 
  
  Difficulty: Easy (Is challenging but not frustrating) , Most difficult (Will have you throwing your 
 console out the window)
  
  8.5 for sure. Almost a 9, but lacks multiplayer aspect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karmazyn
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  ... game. If you are looking game with great story, good graphics this is a title for you. The only 
 problem with that game is that it is too short. But on the other hand you can play it many times 
 and it will never get boring. I have finished it two times so far now but I still want more. This 
 is this type of a game that has great gameplay value. The location and artwork are mind blowing. 
 The designers put so much effort to create realy great looking environments. Being in each level 
 is satisfying and justify the purchase but if you add the fantastic gameplay value, cool enemies 
 and force abilities it becomes more than a great purchase, it becomes the Legend!!!
  
  
    
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r0gue_w0lf
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 5, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  I beat The Force Unleashed on Sith Lord difficulty without much trouble. Overall it was a good 
 game, some targeting and occasional camera issues aside. However, when replaying at Sith Master 
 difficulty the minor targeting issues become huge problems, especially during boss fights. 
  
  Take for instance the second giant scrap droid you have to fight. 3 out of 4 times I would 
 try to target it and use force lightning I would end up targeting a tiny object right beside it 
 or - even worse - something not even near it. To me that is just unforgivable, especially when 
 the boss takes up the majority of the screen.
  
  Then there's the fight with Kazdan Paratus. I know he is small and agile, but even when I am 10 
 feet away and looking straight at him, for some reason the game will not target him so I end up 
 wasting force energy shooting at nothing.
  
  As I said before, I played through Sith Lord difficulty and the problem wasn't nearly as severe 
 as on Sith Master. I thought maybe the targeting was made more difficult for the higher difficulty 
 setting, but it's not even done in a way that makes it challenging but fun. It's just made to be 
 so frustrating that you want to hurl your controller directly at the screen.
  
  Clearly this is a game that could have used a little polishing before it was released. It's still 
 a good game, but these flaws prevent it from being truly great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 1 Hour
  
  Score: 2 out of 10
  
  I have many Star Wars games for past 
 systems, I like to think that my favorite Star Wars Games were: Kotor 1 and 2, Republic Commando 
 and Star Wars Battlefront 1 and 2. So when I found out awhile ago they were making a game where 
 you played Darth Vader's Apprentice and to top it off it was going to be on the XBox 360 I was 
 stoked about it, After all the last 5 games that I have for the XBox were all winners. So I went 
 to target and bought this game for the normal $59.99 I got home and poped it into my trust yet 
 unreliable (Does that make sense?) 360 and I started to play. I could tell you from the beginning 
 I knew there was going to be problems, the camera was severely twitchy I couldn't do anything without 
 it jumping all over the place. The control system for the game is also way too complicated granted 
 your working with different force types but still it shouldn't be this hard. The only saving grace 
 that kept this from getting a 1 out of 10 is the story, I feel that this is one if not the best 
 stories in the SW universe the story has everything Jedi's, Sith, flying wookies what more do you 
 want? Now I'll be honest I didn't finish the game I got stuck on the level where your pulling down 
 the Star Destroyer after 30 minutes and constantly dying due to the Tie Fighters I called it quits, 
 I'm going to return the game when I get done doing this review. I wish I could have given this 
 game a 10 because there was so much hype for it but this game fails at almost everything. A horrible 
 control system, a spazed camera, a over complicated system of powers just pulled this game down 
 too far, a 2 out of 10. If your into punishing yourself for buying a lame duck I suggest you get 
 this game if your a normal person avoid this game like it's the plague.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pittfan666
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  They call you "Star Killer" but "Stormtrooper Killer" seems more appropriate, considering the huge 
 number of hapless stormtroopers that you will obliterate within the short singleplayer found in 
 Star Wars: The Force Unleashed. 
  
  How is the plot in SW: TFU you ask? In my opinion; the plot was a disaster. No matter how many 
 times I watched the cinema scenes before a level, I still had no idea why my character was visiting 
 planets and annihilating everything. So if your not into shallow plot, run while you still can! 
 
  
  The targeting system also can become a pain in later levels where you are fighting numerous enemies 
 at once. You cannot simply select a target by moving a joystick or button. The game forces you 
 to try to move the right camera control stick towards the object you wish to lift, so if there 
 are enemies or objects bunched together then expect to lift the wrong object with your force powers. 
 
  
  The graphics are great and some of the worlds you visit are really beautiful, unfortunately I experienced 
 numerous glitches whilst playing. One time after I defeated a mini-boss I accidentally ran into 
 a wall, became stuck, and had to restart from my last save, and redo the entire mini-boss battle. 
 Also in one of the later levels, the terrain was shaped as little hills and I could not walk over 
 the hills to my objective. 
  
  Fortunately, the boss battles and force powers make up for some of these minor problems. Boss battles 
 are fun, intense, and often times crazy. Although you face really the same enemies over and over 
 again, destroying them remains fun throughout the game. Throwing wookies, shocking stormtroopers, 
 and listening to your enemies whine and beg for mercy provides for most of the hilarious moments. 
 
  
  The game successfully captures the Star Wars universe and the tougher difficulties will provide 
 some replay value. However, you can beat the game in a single setting on the second difficulty 
 level which is still fairly difficult at certain points. If your not a die hard Star Wars fan that 
 most own everything with the Star Wars name on it then I suggest you just rent this game. It'll 
 provide you with some limited entertainment as long as you ignore the minor glitches, plot, aiming 
 system, and repetitiveness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  One of the great things about the Star Wars universe is that almost anyone can get into it. It 
 has just enough "magic" fantasy to overcome the stigma that makes so many people get turned off 
 when you say sci-fi. It has elements of a western with the stand offs and shootouts. It's a war 
 story with its epic battles between rebels and an evil dictator. It's a love story. Its all of 
 these things and the newest Starwars game fails to capture any of them.
  
  The story is very good and would have made a very good bridge between the abysmal episodes 1-3 
 and the superior episodes 4-6. The characters were interesting and there were a few "Oh Cool" moments, 
 but if you know the stories then its easy to see how its going to end.
  
  Visually the game wasn't to bad, but the contrast was aggravatingly sharpwith garishly bright 
 colors broken by infinitely black shadows and very little in-between. The characters had great 
 animations although I found it annoying that they gave the main character this awesome reverse 
 lightsaber stance that looked really unique, but right before you attack he would just switch they 
 way he held his light saber and would attack normally. Very disappointing.
  
  The technology was all they talked about for a very long time witch made me worry for the game 
 play. They spent so much time making the DMM, Euphoria, and Havoc work together that they didn't 
 spend enough time making the game fun. And as cool as it all was, there is only so many times you 
 could toss a box through a window and be excited about how cool it looked or how realistic the 
 debris bounced around like it would in "real life". In the end you see the same doors getting blown 
 open in the same way, the same plants getting bumped and moved in the same ways, and the same rag 
 doll enemies getting tossed into walls. Very rarely do you see anything new that makes you feel 
 like the hype was worth it.
  
  They tried to brake up the monotony of killing armies of bad guys by having several "Big" fights 
 along the way to the final boss of a level, but that became formulaic with roughly 3 AT-STs or 
 3 Rancors, or 3 Junk Bots per level. But that became predictable and stale the second or third 
 level. Speaking of stale, the map shows the obvious path you must take to complete your next objective, 
 but it only points out the fact that you are on a rail with no where to go but forward, killing 
 the illusion that you are on a massive alien world.
  
  One of the best parts of the game was the ability to spend points in Force Powersbut very quickly 
 that fell short when all of your cool new powers were nullified by Storm Troopers with "Force" 
 Shields or lightning immunity, cloaking armor, and Jetpacks. What made it even worse was the boss 
 fights, where they were immune to all your force powers except oneso it involved using that one 
 ability over and over until you knocked them down and then you beat on them with your Lightsaber 
 until you get to the end of the battle that involves a completely contrived "God of War" style 
 button combination cinematic that ends the fight. Don't get me wrongit looks cool. its very cinematic, 
 but pressing buttons at just the right time means you aren't watching the cool movie, your looking 
 to see when you press the next button, so miss all they cool stuff.
  
  In the end it was a cool story and some great ideas but it all fell just a bit short for me to 
 recommend it. If you are really interested I would recommend you rent it first.
  
  Final Score: 6
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariuus
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  I spent a year looking forward to this game, and sadly I was very disappointed. The game looks 
 great, and the story is fun. Playing as a Sith also rocked rocked. It was great to play with kick 
 ass powers from the start. Those things aside it's just a disappointment.
  
  The controls are very tricky, which is doubly damning when you are playing a fast paced action 
 game. The camera was absolutely horrible, I was constantly trying to find my enemies while they 
 wailed on me. The puzzles were completely unintuitive which left me running around trying everything 
 to move along in the story. 
  
  The enemy were actually too good. Specially the canon fodder. You are suppose to be a kick ass 
 Sith, yet quite often I was barely keeping my head above water. 
  
  In the end I found the frustrations overwhelmed the good aspects of the game, ruining what I was 
 hoping was going to be a great gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esgi7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  I rented this game the day after it came out, and played it through. I was quite impressed. The 
 story was epic, with some cool twists and turns, and really ties Episode III and Episode IV together. 
 The graphics were really amazing, with incredible level design and character models. The controls 
 worked well, and if played correctly, you really could haul with the Force. There were some glitches 
 here and there, but nothing to worry about too much unless you get enraged at the fact that you 
 cant always fit through doors that are blown back. (The only really bad glitch I had was when I 
 faught the second boss. He completely froze and was invincible. I fixed it by doing a training 
 mission from the pause menu then going back to the fight. The fight restarted and the glich did 
 not occur again.)
  
  There are two disappointments I had with this game. The first one -- too short. I beat the game in 
 seven hours, and I really wanted to see more of the story! The second one -- the DMM and Euphoria 
 tech really isn't used much. If Lucasarts makes another game with this tech, they really need to 
 use it WAY more often in the game. 
  
  Other than some few minor glitches and a short story line, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a 
 great game that deserves more credit and at least a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardydude3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  The last i remember buying a Star wars video game Was Revenge of the sith. But lucas arts is back 
 With even more awsome star wars Fun. Lately In games you start off as a jedi and work your way 
 to becoming a sith or stay as a jedi. Finally In this game you get the awsome powers of a sith 
 at the very begining of the game. This Is a game about starkiller. You go around Assasinating A 
 bunch of jedi and woop Stormtrooper butt and that sort of thing. The story is great with a bunch 
 of Plot twists. Now i shuold get to the problems before you start thinking this is a perfect game. 
 First the dmm. Some times You cant tear down EVERY Thing. Like for example you blow down a huge 
 wooden door but try to rip out a little tree and it just Flops around like a dead fish. Also the 
 euphoria isnt always Working. You can chuck a barrel at a stormtrooper and he will not even try 
 to grab it. Thankfully Your Awsome force powers Cover up for that. Now for cheats it actually knows 
 your cheating so it will disable saves. With tons of unlocks to find And crystals to change colour 
 with This Game is pretty awsome. Also if you really miss KOTOR you will be happy to know it has 
 a Similar Level up system. And with further a due This game deserves a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  For starters, any fanboy of this game, and you know who you are (the one who will say this game 
 has NO flaws) , should hit the back button on their browser because this honest review will probably 
 offend your ignorant fanboyistic mind.
  
  For anyone who wants to know what this game really is from an unbiased perspective then read on 
 and this will surely help you understand the force unleashed.
  
  We've had plenty of Star Wars games in our time undoubtedly from movie licensed games to games 
 that are thousands of years set before the movies a la knights of the old republic, yet only a 
 mere handful seem to be anything worthwhile.
  
  In the beginning, Star Wars the Force Unleashed was already being hyped as the best star wars game 
 to ever be made simply because people wanted to "Unleash" the force, go figure. I initially was 
 skeptical and thought it would be too short and not live up to the hype, but i, as just about every 
 other male, like star wars and i also am a videogame addict, so i left my skepticism behind me 
 and began to eagerly anticipate this game a couple weeks before launch. 
  
  The only reason i state that is so that you can understand that i was excited for this game, but 
 didn't have too high of expectations, and therefore was able to keep an open mind while playing 
 the game and accept it for what it truly was, not what i wanted it to be, as many people are doing.
 
  
  Star wars the force unleashed is not the best star wars game to come out, it's not even remotely 
 close. In fact, the force unleashed is a tedious, redundant, annoying action game that can't stand 
 up to other good titles in the same genre. It's only saving grace is it's epic story, which is 
 arguably better than any of the 6 star wars films.
  
  The first two levels in the force unleashed are great as you essentially are in a state of awe 
 since you've never been able to use force powers like this before, but sooner than later you realize 
 issues such as the poor camera, controls, and enemies truly hamper gameplay.
  
  The camera in the force unleashed is completely controlled by you, the player. You constantly have 
 to adjust the camera with the right analog stick. Your thumb cannot be in two places at once, and 
 so often times this affects combat as you cant control the camera and effectively work combos at 
 the same time. The main point is that in this day and age of videogames i should not have to baby 
 the camera and consistently be moving it, it should stay behind me and be virtually unnoticeable. 
 
  
  The controls don't help the game either. The targeting system is spastic and you will regularly 
 pick up objects with force grip that you didnt want to pick up, and then throw them in places you 
 didnt want to throw them. You will frequently lock on to an enemy when you wanted to lock on to 
 another. Add these issues on top of the already problematic camera and you have very cumbersome 
 controls that ruin the flow of gameplay.
  
  But the main problem with the force unleashed is in it's enemies and how annoying they become. 
 A perfect example is the big metal ironman looking guys whom have shields to block your lightsaber 
 and rockets to shoot you with from afar if you try throwing something at them with force grip. 
 Take 4 of these guys, 6 stormtroopers with chainguns, a few guys flying around on jetpacks, a couple 
 snipers, and an AT-ST all shooting at you at once, that's what star wars the force unleashed is 
 like.
  
  You have an AT-ST blasting you with lasers and as you are trying to take it out you are getting 
 cheaply shot by snipers from a distance, meanwhile ironman guy is shooting rockets at you and deflecting 
 your lightsaber, then you have guys flying around you shooting you with pistols and chaingun bullets 
 being shot everywhere. Somewhere in all that chaos you get knocked to the ground. You would figure 
 as a jedi that you would be quick and agile and get back up fast, but no, instead you keep getting 
 shot and shot and shot by everyone, and every time you go to get up you get shot again which knocks 
 you back to the ground. So, you are stranded, unable to get up, watching your life dissipate because 
 dumb Starkiller wont stand.
  
  See i am all for a good challenge. Heck i play ninja gaiden for the challenge and the great, visceral, 
 combat, but the force unleashed is not in any way a good challenge. It is a frustrating and irritating 
 experience that at many times is overwhelmingly cheap and unavoidable. 
  
  The scene where you are must pull a starship to the ground with force grip (which makes no sense. 
 you can pick up a starship but you cant pick up some of the smaller enemies? hmm ok) is overly 
 long. You will grab the starship, pull it down for a couple seconds with grip, then another wave 
 of tiefighters will come after you. So, you have to stop, kill the tiefighters, which is annoying 
 because the targeting system is horrible, then pull the starship in ever-so-slightly closer. Rinse 
 and repeat, rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat. This process takes what seems like forever.
  
  I played on normal and died maybe 4 times throughout the whole game, 2 of which were because 
 of dumb platforming. This just goes to show that even though i only died twice due to the difficulty 
 i was still extremely annoyed by it.
  
  What makes things worse is that you see the same enemies over and over and over again. On top of 
 that, you visit the same levels twice. This makes the already aggravating experience even more 
 tiresome. 
  
  After 3/4ths the game i was ready to call it quits, but i just spent $65 on this game and was going 
 to force myself to finish it. The reason i bring that up though is that in my eyes it's fairly 
 sad when you are ready to quit and frustrated with a game that is only 7 hours long... yes, only 
 7 hours long.
  
  Truly the only saving grace to the force unleashed is it's epic story, which really kicks in toward 
 the end. Honestly, the game is worth a rental and a play through just to watch the story play out, 
 but note i said a rental. I don't want to give away any spoilers, but just rest assure that it's 
 a very good story and should be seen by any star wars fan.
  
  Overall, the camera, controls, enemies, platforming, recycled environments and enemies and mediocre 
 action make for a very poor gameplay experience, save the first 2 levels. The story warrants a 
 rental, but only to fans of star wars. There are far too many good action games, such as ninja 
 gaiden, to give the force unleashed praise. On a scale of 1 to 10, if a 9-10 is an A, 8-9 is a 
 B, 7-8 is a C, 6-7 is a D, and anything below a 6 is an F i would say that star wars the force 
 unleashed is a solid D. Some may be able to overlook some flaws, but this game is undoubtedly no 
 better than a C. Worthy of a rent but not a buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enelodem
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  After reading several reviews, I believe that the high expectations do not help the low score this 
 GREAT game has received.
  
  This is a VERY GOOD game, of course there are a few things which can be improved, but very very 
 few games are perfect (I venture to say that only one per year, if we are lucky) .
  
  If you area a fan you must have this game and if you like to play good fun videogames you should 
 have this game.
  
  Great story, great soudntrack, and great graphics.
  
  I am a fan, so I am trying to be as objective as possible; but this game is a keeper, you can play 
 this game put it away and then play it again in a few months and have the same a mount of fun you 
 had the first time.
  
  To be the first SW game on the new consoles (without considering the lego games) , it is a promising 
 beginning!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obis051
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 4, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  Out of all the games i have ever played this one has been the worst, 'n' that includes 50cent's 
 craptacula game. it's not that it's a bad game, it's more mediocre than anything. if they made 
 the game 2ce as long and allowed you to make more than 1 light/dark-side choice. the single choice 
 that you make, is stupid, attack Vader and become evil or attack the emperor and stay good? WTF?! 
 we were lied to, you will be able to bend any object at your will" ****. the hype over this game 
 was far too huge and when you played it, you felt like you just kicked a retarded puppy. overall 
 this game doesn't offer anything but a single storyline; the only storyline that is vaguely accurate 
 to the movies is the light-side ending.
  
  Summery: Don't buy this game you will regret this money grubbing attempt at a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stoopidmonkey49
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the best games I've played in a long time!!!! Sioagiosreg seigsg asewrgfioe wrgjwgio 
 qwrgi oqgfq iotqi ohrgio iohioion khgiuhg jhuhui bjui g buigiou g iug efgh trh trh rw hert hr jhey 
 je jhs dghw ga erg segs eg sed g sh seh sth sth sth sdh st dht hs dhs dfhsklndhki setkl sneih snteisr 
 skjtre hnseh sihrh sweiohw ioeewtr hiowe rioteh teotreh srehsrewhsk rdhsers dhuser sdnfhb seurdh 
 guierh suiofdn hasre afduion asreuhr huir ehuir hgs ;orhare shkj rehnuisreh jhr sio renhseh twtiue 
 wwutgh uirh ret re yew ytewy tewyy y shd shd t hgfd gfd l sgdsg duh ji r d g jhg ytf yug trt ckhg 
 t fu ygyut fyg f4edtf65e sg67r d6 f6t f5 duigytrsd yr ffc yub ytf gui gbyt 8hyu g6tr fu nuiog t 
 f yu nyu g ui nyu g fdgh fh tg jhgfhg jdf jdr j sr j srtj ekj drj rduj dr jhdr j d j dr j drj djs 
 drtgqa wtrq yte uktui ly ltykjd bzs dgzs dgsr tjhtr fyj rdth tdh xdth dth yfj dy jsw etqw trq gfh 
 dgfjh dgfj ftg gfd sd st yst ht h fj dj fjhj df dfj dfj h j djs dj s sda rdgs th ytk i lgji l; ptuo 
 usr gs rtgs th dt jyj ch cb g fdh bvn ff rq wq w hg gh hj gk cgfujcygf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  There have been many Star Wars games over the years but there were only a few based on jedis like 
 Jedi Academy and Outcast (and KotOR, but I haven't played that game yet) . Now, LucasArts gives 
 us an addition to the Star Wars timeline with The Force Unleashed and not only is it the best jedi 
 game yet (again, haven't played KotOR) , it's also one of the best Star Wars games.
  
  The story takes place in between Episode III (Revenge of the Sith) and Episode IV (A New Hope) . 
 Darth Vader hunts a jedi on the Wookie homeworld, Kashyyke, and he discovers that the jedi had 
 a son. He takes the boy (who he calls Starkiller) away with him and for the next couple of years, 
 trains him to become his "secret apprentice" so he can take down the Emperor (I won't spoil anymore 
 than that) . The story in this game is actually one of the best Star Wars stories in years and the 
 voice acting is quite good as well.
  
  For the gameplay, of course, as a jedi you run from one end of the level to the other and kill 
 storm troopers (and many other creatures) with your lightsaber and the force. When you kill an 
 enemy, you earn a little bit of experience and eventually, level up. You get points toward your 
 force powers divided into 3 categories (power, talent, and combos) . Power upgrades your basic force 
 powers like lightning or grip, talent helps your status like more maximum health or more saber 
 damage, and combos gives you, well, combos (push buttons in a certain order) . Also, this game is 
 actually quite hard. I even had trouble in normal (sith warrior) .
  
  You start out with a red light saber but throughout the game, you can find crystals that change 
 the color to blue, green, purple, orange (it says "gold" but it looks more orange) , etc. as well 
 as your costume.
  
  The graphics are pretty good but the physics are incredible, some of the best I've ever seen. Wood 
 breaks like real wood, glass breaks like real glass, and even the stormtroopers (or whatever) react 
 well.
  
  There are a few glitches and there are other things that annoyed me (like the load times) but The 
 Force Unleashed is a great addition to the Star Wars saga and a great game all around. If you like 
 Star Wars or just like action games all around, then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HalcyonJedi
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Over the past year or so, I've snapped up any little piece of info for this game that I could find. 
 As a huge Star Wars fan, I couldn't wait for the game that I thought Jedi Outcast and Jedi Academy 
 should have been. Now that the wait is over, I must say I was somewhat disappointed with the mediocre 
 reviews and complaints that this game received from almost every single magazine/review site.
 
  
  Let me start by saying that any Star Wars fan needs to play this game - we have all dreamed of 
 just totally kicking someones ass with the Force and a lightsaber - and this game delivers. It 
 has the fast paced action of Jedi Academy, but on a grander scale. Force powers are completely 
 over the top and awesome, lightsaber swings and combos have the ability to send enemies flying 
 into the horizon, and The Apprentice is just a flat out badass.
  
  The graphics are the first thing I will mention - and they are outstanding. Incredibly detailed 
 and destructible environments immerse you in the game and allow you to see locations that we have 
 only seen hinted at in the films and novels. Stormtroopers, Wookies, and Felucians alike will flail 
 realistically in the air when picked up with Force Grip, trying to cling to anything nearby to 
 try and prevent the inevitable fling into a canyon, the horizon, a wall, or even a passing TIE 
 Fighter. However, there are some issues worth pointing out - occasionally it appeared that Starkiller 
 would be walking on air when crossing some environments, and there is some occasional clipping 
 and artifacts when the camera will automatically rotate in some situations.
  
  The sound is what anyone who has seen a Star Wars movie or game would expect - practically flawless. 
 From the high tempo orchestra when in frantic combat, to the slower, darker tones during cutscenes. 
 Combined with the sound effects - which come directly from the movies; you have yourself an absolute 
 authentic Star Wars experience in this regard. 
  
  The story is very interesting (not nearly as good as KOTOR in my opinion; but good nonetheless) , 
 and despite some gaps in the plotline it provides a new and unique story that does a good job of 
 tying the end of Episode III into the beginning of Episode IV. Starkiller is exactly what you would 
 expect from an incredibly powered Sith, but at the same time he has retained some of his humanity 
 and compassion; though he hides it well at first. 
  
  There are 2 endings to the game, and the story sets everything up so that you have the option to 
 decide which path to take near the very end of the game. One choice provides you with the "light 
 side" ending which tells a tale or redemption, and the other is the "dark side" ending. I did not 
 finish the dark side ending, though I have seen it and it is indeed interesting; but it is not 
 canon. The light side ending is what George Lucas approved to be considered canon, and it provides 
 some very good insight into the beginnings of the Rebellion.
  
  One of the most criticized parts of the game was the controls. Erratic targeting, poor explanations, 
 and seemingly cheap deaths were common complaints in the reviews. The targeting can be finicky 
 at times, though it is no where near as bad as it was reported. When you need it to work; it does 
 - but when attempting to pick up objects and throw them with precision it can be quite frustrating 
 at times. There are some enemies in the game that seem to have an attack pattern that matches the 
 length of time it takes Starkiller to get back on his feet after a knockdown. What this translates 
 into is a great deal of cheap hits and kills, because enemies will hit you again right as you get 
 to your feet before you have an opportunity to block or counterstrike. Again, these are no where 
 near as bad as it was reported; but you will notice it (particularly in the later levels)
  
  The game can be quite difficult at times, though it is not so frustrating that you will give 
 up entirely on the game. Fortunately, checkpoints are frequent - so you never have to travel far 
 to reach your previous point if you are killed. The game ramps up the difficulty steadily as the 
 game progresses, and by the time you are getting swarmed with tons of enemies at once you will 
 be powerful enough that you can dispose of them with ease and finesse. 
  
  The upgrade system is a nice addition, though not anything new for those of you who have played 
 Jedi Outcast or Jedi Academy. You gain experience points by killing enemies and locating Holocrons 
 that are hidden across every level. You are able to spend Force Points on improving quite a large 
 list of attributes and abilities - things such as increasing your max health or max Force power, 
 to learning new lightsaber combinations, stronger Force lightning, and faster health/force regeneration. 
 
  
  In summary - despite its flaws, this is still a very good game and no where near as bad as some 
 of the reviews led people to believe. It is somewhat short (clocking in at about 7 hours) , but 
 it is an enjoyable experience from start to finish. For those of you on the fence, its definitely 
 worth a rental to check it out. It's a great game in its own right, and will likely be lost in 
 the flood of high profile games coming up soon (Dead Space, Fallout 3, Fable II) , but it will certainly 
 give you an entertaining ride while waiting for those titles. The Force is strong with this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stappy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  The main thing about The Force Unleashed is the engine. It has to be the most innovative engine 
 since Tetris. If you throw an enemy through a piece of glass, it'll shatter and most likely kill 
 him. If you move the enemy close to the ceiling, he'll try and grab onto it.
  
  While this is a good thing, it also brings a few glitches with it. Sometimes the enemies will completely 
 stop moving, and just ignore you for no reason. Other times, they seem to do no damage to you at 
 all.
  
  The difficulty is pretty "meh". Sometimes, it's too easy as you can just use lightning. At other 
 times, the game just gets too hard. At one point where you have to flick both sticks while getting 
 shot at, i had to go through it 5 times before getting it right.
  
  All in all, a good game with some replayability. Getting all the lightsabers, costumes, and holocrons 
 can take days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaMOi1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  What can be said of STARWARS: FORCE UNLEASHED?
  
  
  Well, as a game it plays it safe. 
  
  After incorporating new technologies under the hood; Euphoria and Digital Molecular Matter 
 (DMM) , it appears Lucas Arts didnt want to get anymore ambitious than this. Rather than redefine 
 the action genre, they have chosen to stay well within the comfort zone of the genre's tried and 
 tested staples. The Force unleashed never stretches beyond formualic level design and hack and 
 slash action we have come to expect from the genre. 
  
  However, the ability of STARWARS, as a back drop, to inject life into what would be a standard 
 affair is evident. The story, charcters and dialogue are well above par. Rarely do we see this 
 sort of quality outside of a movie.
  
  The Force powers are well done, and throughout the game the player feels suitably powerful. The 
 ability to pick guys up and throw them into metal doors and see the door crumple on impact realistically 
 is great. You can certainly get very creative with the Force powers available.
  The combat is nothing particuarly ambitious but nonetheless looks cool, and is deep enough for 
 you to reach a level of competance where you feel like a badass Jedi. The boss encounters are epic 
 and fun, and the mini games that initiate the final finishing moves work well enough, although 
 ive never been that fanatical about the whole God of War 'quick time button pressing'. I hope this 
 mechanic is something that is rapidly going out of fashion.
  
  The AI is ok. It does nothing amazing, and GTA4 certainly implemented the technology better than 
 Force Unleashed did. 
  
  The art direction in this game is to be applauded. Since GOW, I cant remember a game that bewitched 
 me with its rich sumptious scenes and backdrops as much as this game did. The graphics are a little 
 hit and miss, but some sections of the game are so evocative of the STARWARS universe and so richly 
 created, that it is hard not to stand there in awe.
  
  This games main failing is that its just not ambitious enough. Whats here is good, but you cant 
 help feeling that if Lucas Arts had been a little braver in their design, they could have created 
 something truly special. I would have liked the ability to holster my lighsaber, and then rely 
 of my acrobatic prowess to dodge my enemies, whilst using my force powers to deal the damage, only 
 taking out my lightsaber when I really wanted to get down to business..
  
  In conclusion, Force unleashed is a charmer. Having very little ambition, it still manages to pull 
 you in and be a completely enjoyable experience. And with DLC on its way, new playable characters 
 and levels, it will be interesting to see how strong the Force remains with this one.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  In this age of gaming, where most games just copy off another game, it isn't often you can play 
 something that makes you say "Wow! I've never done this in a game before!" Star Wars: the Force 
 Unleashed is one of those rare games. 
  Yes, the graphics are awesome, the music is great, the animation is top notch, and the story is 
 interesting. But the bottom line is this game is a lot of fun. 
  My own personal story is proof of how fun this game is. I normally trade a game in as soon as I 
 beat it. 
  But after trading away The Force Unleashed, I got an incredible craving to play the game again. 
 So, unfortunately, I went out and bought the game at full price again. I've only done that for 
 2 or 3 games in my lifetime.
  There are flaws in the game, no doubt. At times, there are small bugs, where you might get stuck 
 on something, or the game may freeze. The frame rate can slow down at times. But none of these 
 things are huge issues, just minor annoyances. My biggest complaint is, towards the end, the game 
 doesn't do a good job of explaining exactly what you are supposed to do. The final level could 
 and should have been awesome. Instead, I found it frustrating and not as fun as the other levels.
 
  That said, this game is awesome. Graphics, music, animation, gameplay, the story. Everything. 
 In my opinion, it's the funnest game for the xbox 360 since Gears of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jediprince
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it was something that the developers of LucasArts shouldn't have done in the first place. 
 The number one rule of success in marketing a product is never to create so much expectation because 
 the end product will NEVER please. And yes, this applies to absolutely everything. So what we had 
 was a build up in hype and expectation so huge it fell on them and kicked them in the ass.
  
  The Force Unleashed premise was, as Haden Blackman said: "To kick someone's ass with the force". 
 And they managed to do so great. The problem was that in order to give you the really Unleashed 
 experience they had to give you everything from the beginning and that is where the game chokes 
 and ultimately dies in the first playthrough.
  
  While you play the game from start to finish, your force powers are contained, much of what you 
 could do in the demo is gone until you can unlock it. This happens through an upgrade system that 
 increases experience based on how stylishly you decimate your opponents.
  
  These upgrades come in the form of making your force powers, lightsaber combos and player stats 
 increase and make them more powerful.
  
  The combo system is not really too large, and the bottomline is you'll probably spend most of your 
 time gripping and using force lightning on every enemy and basically forget about everything else, 
 not that that's a bad thing because it actually seems like that was what the developers intended.
 
  
  When you actually get to the boss fights, the early enemies are ridiculously easy but once you 
 get to the other some are really broken. So you'll die in later fights but the checkpoint system 
 isn't all that bad since it doesn't make you start over from the beginning but rather very close 
 to where you died.
  
  The missions get a little tougher and some of the locations are beautiful but the levels themselves 
 sometimes are too frustrating and you start wishing they were over already.
  
  Now while it seems I have said a bunch of bad things about it, the game actually comes to life 
 when you've finished it. Your force powers, stats and combos are all now truly unleashed and you 
 decimate your opponents like the true force wrecking ball that you were supposed to be from the 
 beginning.
  
  And I can't stress this enough, this game fails in the sense that it really does what it promised 
 once you're through with it.
  
  There's costumes and lightsaber crystals of different colors to obtain through gathering holocrons 
 in all the missions, mostly all levels have 15 in total.
  
  The absence of a multiplayer and extra features hurt the game greatly, but I rather not have multiplayer 
 at all if it was going to be as the one in the Wii, which really totally blows.
  
  Also, the targeting system isn't as frustrating as the Gamespot reviewers say, it only takes a 
 little getting used to and you'll be able to flip and target everything you want once you remember 
 that the direction the apprentice is facing is what the targeting reticule will target.
  
  If you are a Star Wars fan or just a fan of a good storyline then you'll most definitely enjoy 
 The Force Unleashed, if you are just a fan of action games and you know a friend who's finished 
 it already and has everything maxed out, go to his house, play it through and you'll most likely 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhireStorm007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  If your a star wars fan, stop here. just go buy it.
  
  This games is fantastic if you enjoy picking up a game and causing destruction. The graphics are 
 great, the three engines seem to meld together nicely. I just can't wait to see the full power 
 of it. There's no multiplayer, so if your in it for that, looks elsewhere. I was kind of hoping 
 to duel or co-op, but after playing the campaign you forgive it, or at least understand why it 
 would have been difficult
  
  Graphics: very good, I can't complain
  
  Gameplay: Camera gets in the way, and sometimes I feel like tossing my controller at some moments. 
 I think combat needs to be a little more fluid. Other than that, the combos and abilities are very 
 satisfying.
  
  Story: It's not bad if your not a starwars fan, unlike past games. The level design is similar 
 to past games, but the ability to interact with it really help the immersion. 
  
  Replay ability: It's not really here, but I can see myself playing in the future. I won't sell 
 this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkelf
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed was one of the most highly anticipated games of the year getting 
 great reviews and pre-insight from game developers promising a solid game that would sweep Star 
 Wars fans off thier feet.
  
  Lucas Arts has been there and done that especially when it comes to Star Wars games, and they do 
 know their business.... I mean old man Lucas freakin created the idea! Bioware and Lucas Arts have 
 formed a bond that have put out one of the best role playing games of all time out on the xbox.... some 
 of you are quite familiar with the titles KOTOR and KOTOR 2: Sith Lords. The games that were suppose 
 to be the prime of representation of the Star Wars genre developed into the norm of what players 
 expect from Lucas Arts and Bioware when they team up and tackle a huge game that needs to satisfy 
 the tuffest of Star Wars fans. 
  
  TFU became the newest thrill and fling for Star Wars lovers when breaking news came out about a 
 new Bioware project coming out in Q3 of 2008. Most already expected a KOTOR 3 as the first 2 games 
 in its series were surpassing the needs and wants of Role Playing games out at that time by players. 
 With this anticipation, most imediately tracked the game and watched the reviews and the sneek 
 peeks revieled by multiple game reviewing websites. As the game came into development, players 
 started to see how TFU could be the next hit and top selling game offering a top of the line physics 
 system, and built from the ground up story line that promises to be sufficient to that of a movie 
 set between the 3rd and the 4th series movies in both trilogies.
  
  Bioware already has earned an unmatched Role playing game reputation especially when creating choice 
 based systems that changes the outcome of the ending in the game giving the player a full grasp 
 of the games content and feel. TFU in its early stages was expected to produce a similar feel as 
 its already earned Bioware a hands down no rent and buy pattern by seasoned gamers who know thier 
 product. TFU developed nicely giving a great view in graphics and stunning video reviews talking 
 about how the game is the next best seller. TFU also released a first in its kind motion acting 
 sensors for the Xbox 360 giving a more in depth view in the "face area" displaying emotion and 
 "real" look to facial expressions. If you ask me it was starting to already look more like a movie 
 game then anything else, but I still kept my hopes up and relied on Biowares famous Kotor series 
 to hold me through the anticipation.
  
  With game release day set for September 16, anxious players got a taste of what TFU was all about 
 letting players explore the environments and stunning graphics along with its built from the ground 
 up physics engine. To draw more suspecting players you also star as Darth Vadar in the tutorial 
 given what it seems unlimited force powers and surprisingly new cool features never before seen 
 in a Star Wars games eliminating the turn based system all Kotor fans are used to and giving them 
 a more real time battle control and view. Most of us were inmpressed, as the game itself was solid 
 and pressed the player to find out "what more can this game offer if you get all this at the beginning!" 
 But, and yes there is a but... the more you played the game the more it seemed to have a "repeat" 
 feel to it, giving you that devil may cry feel.... just keep shooting the shotgun and youll win!!!. 
 
  
  TFU is a great game toping any game numbers sold for the 360 in just the first week! 1.5 million 
 copies were official sold and more in production to satisfy the Force-hungry fans of the Bioware 
 Genius fanchise. As far as gameplay goes however it was a little harsh and unsuspecting. The storyline 
 is what really does it for the game introducing cut scenes and movie lines that look and feel real... kinda 
 like it was an actual movie that could pass as episode 3.5 =) . Gameplay is fun letting you pretty 
 much destroy anything you want to and throwing tree truncks and R2 units at storm troopers... not 
 to mention flying around and beating the enemy to a pulp with a 15 combo strike.... then of course 
 throwing him to the ground and stabbing him in the stomach with your partially customizable lightsaber. 
 The graphics are stunning offering a great view of the Star Wars galaxy and numerous planets with 
 flora and fauna that could pass as real species. The one thing I really didnt like about the game 
 is its amount of content. Bioware spent more time making the game into a blockbuster hit and less 
 of a freedom based choice making system that could of made this game an excellent KOTOR 2 successor 
 in aspect. 
  
  In hindsight the game is a great work that captivates the realism and understanding of the Star 
 Wars story and really hits home with the over fetish fan, adding another notch on the old belt 
 for bragging rights to say ive been there done that. The game in itself is a little disappointing 
 and feels almost as if they tried to rush out the game leaving similar level design and quick fix 
 kill sequences. The storyline, however extremely extremely, and um extremely short, is the only 
 thing that holds this almost great game together and gives the player the well it was a good game 
 but a few things needed to be added feel.... other then that it was pretty cool.
  
  THX Monkelf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandleheim
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed was surprisingly better than most would lead you to believe, but your opinion 
 may boil down to how much you love the original trilogy. I was amazed at how varied the reviews 
 were at different gaming sites. Die-hard fans will certainly appreciate the wonderful story that 
 LucasArts has inserted into canon. The combos and dark-side power let you experience, if for only 
 a moment, that you could be a Sith. It is obvious that LucasArts spent a great deal of time working 
 on the physics and blending the John Williams-inspired sound track to deliver a engaging experience. 
 Perhaps I was fortunate, but I encountered none of the serious glitches that others reported. It 
 was occasionaly difficult to lock-on to certain targets, but you quickly learn how to use the system 
 without thinking. I highly recommend that you at least rent this game and try it for yourself. 
 Better yet, purchase the game to inspire LucasArts to develop this into a series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenSilence87
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to lie. I was more than pysched for the Force Unleashed. This was the game that would 
 let everyone relive those childhood fantasies of driving a burning red lightsaber through some 
 suckers throat. 
  
  And while it has its quibbles, gripes, and haters the Force Unleashed lets you do it. It also has 
 a gritty story, memorable characters, and stunning graphics and enviroments. Sadly, it's also plagued 
 by some twitchy controls and some "Why the hell would we WANT to do that?" gameplay sequences. 
 
  
  But first the good: 
  
  The Story: A tight, well paced (and most importantly, well WRITTEN) narrative about a Sith Assassin. 
 There are plenty of memorable scenes and the story does not dumb its self down. It's also enjoyable 
 gritty, and has some decidedly darker undertones. That being said, it's not the epic of Old Knights 
 of the Republic. 
  
  It's also a good deal more violent than any of it's direct descendents (ie the Jedi Knight series) . 
 
  
  I enjoyed every cutscene. 
  
  
  Graphics: The Force Unleashed is absolutely breathtaking. The graphcis are stunning. Literally 
 stunning. The enviroments (sprawling from Kashyyk to the Death Star) are absolutely unbelieveable. 
 Your foes are varied (The stormtroopers in the game look indistinguishable from their movie counterparts) 
 and pleasantly challenging. The bosses also are fantastic. You can tell that LucasArt has some 
 talented artists with the way the early bosses are portrayed. 
  
  Sounds: Pure, unabashaedly Star Wars. Star Wars theme music is ageless and perfect. LucasArts has 
 also added some new tracks for the darker scenes and they work well, too Star Wars effects: The 
 nerd in me coos everytime I hear the distinctive snap-hiss of a lightsaber and the bwaaang of a 
 deflected blaster shot. 
  
  Gameplay: At times, absolutely brilliant. Like I said, when this game is going good it will never, 
 ever be matched. I will never EVER grow tired of infusing a pipe with Force Lightening and tossing 
 it through a space station window and watching the vacumn suck the stormtroopers out. Bloody brilliant. 
 
  
  And of course, on the flip side, it can also be terribly frustrating. GameSpot has complained about 
 the more horrendous scenes far better than I ever could so I'm not going to bother. I do have one 
 bone to pick: LucasArts should have ditched the boss fighting engine for far more intuitive over 
 the shoulder camera. 
  
  Bosses: I created this sub-section of my review simply because the Force Unleashed's bosses are 
 very, very well done. They all vary in appearance but there is very little doubt that they are 
 Jedi (Or Sith) and they all can really kick ass. The game does a splendid job with the controllable 
 "finish" scenes. They look like just like George Lucas's fondest dreams. Superb. 
  
  In the end, there were times where I felt I was actually playing a Star Wars movie. I felt as if 
 I truely was a Sith Assassin hunting Jedi. And at others... it simply felt like I was playing a 
 rather pretty action game with twitchy controls. 
  
  Still: if you adore Star Wars, or lightsabers, or great boss battles do not miss this game. 
 
  
  Word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldyspud
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I expected another Jedi Outcast, and it's plays a lot like it. But there is 
 something about this game that makes it worth playing, and it could be the great graphics, or the 
 solid controls, or maybe it's just the acting... It might be the awesome sound effects, but I can't 
 be sure. 
  
  If all that isn't enough, you've got the ability to grab hold of storm trooper and toss him into 
 the sky hundreds of feet. You can drop them in puts and send them into fiery or lasery deaths. 
 Later on your force powers get stronger or vary... then you can electrocute different enemies or 
 push them hard into walls. This isn't a joke either, the get shoved hard into these walls with 
 lots of destruction and sparking satisfaction. 
  
  The force powers are a lot of fun, but eventually they seem limited. Yet there are combos you can 
 do to get creative, like force grip a wookie, impale him with your lightsaber and then force push 
 him off into a chasm of rocky death. Or electrocute them and toss them into their buddies, or pick 
 up explosives and drop them on the heads of your enemies. But even after all that... there is only 
 so much you can do.
  
  Unfortunately... the game is short but still satisfying... the sound is awesome I could play all 
 day and listen to the lightsaber whooshing around and making contact. The troopers are funny, the 
 voices are great... 
  
  The trouble is it doesn't always work out so well. Sometimes you can get stuck being bombarded 
 by knockdown moves from enemies or bossfights because there isn't much of a limit on what they 
 can do. There should have been a better regulation for boss fights because a lot of the time I 
 found myself being murdered on the ground and I couldn't even get up no matter how many moves or 
 jumps or blocks I attempted. The story is pretty predictable, but the apprentice character is great, 
 kind of reminds me of the Pitch Black character that Vin Diesel plays... except with a lightsaber. 
 Being that it's so short, and so predictable, leaves you with only the gameplay to look forward 
 too. So I can see how it would get old for someone who isn't too creative with the controls or 
 doesn't really care to be.
  
  For me I had a lot of fun playing, I didn't get much from the story, but I enjoyed the graphics 
 and the sound effects as much as I loved to impale stormtroopers with my lightsaber. I just wish 
 there was more to do other than that. Like fly a ship, or drive a vehicle, or more force powers 
 to make the possibilities endless. 
  
  It's a good game, it doesn't blow you away, but it is worth the time to play it. It's more for 
 the casual gamer though. Hardcore gamers should look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretcheese
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The force Unleashed was okay. It was pretty fun to play through it, unleashing the force 
 on people for the first time, and leveling it up, and finding light sabers. The first time through 
 it is pretty fun. It is also fun to beat it both ways. However, after beating them the only thing 
 you can do is replay it and continue leveling up you force powers, find costumes, and find lightsabers. 
 Other than that it is pretty boring. I was also hoping for a longer storyline. It was way too short.
 
  I was also kind of dissapointed with the sith ending.
  I was expecting you to kill Darth Vader and the Emporor and become the new Sith Lord or something. 
 Something very exciting and cool. But it wasn't, it actually kind of sucked. I personally liked 
 the origanal ending better.
  I gave Star Wars: The Force Unleashed an 8.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngonyam
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is easily the best star wars title i've ever played. Although that 
 doesn't mean its perfect.
  The gameplay is at most times quite thrilling and very satisfying, but unfortunately is broken 
 up by moments of pure frustration
  that may ruin the experience for some. This mainly comes down to the sloppy targeting system which 
 often finds you picking up or throwing 
  objects which you did not intend to grab. However this is my only major gripe as the rest of the 
 game is pure joy to behold.
  The graphics are superb and fully capture the look and feel of the star wars universe. All the 
 right sound effects are in place, from
  the sounds of stormtrooper blasters to the swish of your lightsaber to the emotional musical sound 
 track of John Williams, which moves
  the action along perfectly. Add to this a brilliantly executed story and the most cinematic jedi 
 boss battles i've ever seen, and you have a title
  that every star wars fan is sure to love. If you like star wars, get this game... It never gets 
 old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bark00000
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  first point i would like to make is about the games main strength... forcegrip. Being able to lift, 
 throw, etc. anything i want in the game was a TON of fun. that being said, i can recall another 
 game that had this same feature but actually pulled it off better! Psyops: the mindgate conspiracy.
 
  
  As i played through THE FORCE UNLEASHED i found myself saying "this game is just like a splice 
 between psyops and the revenge of the sith movie game!"
  while it stood out in its own way MANY time throughout my playing it, overall i found that it became 
 repetitive and tedious any time something major wasn't gong on just like the two above mentioned 
 games.
  
  The storyline in the game was about on par with one of the starwars comic books or novels in that 
 it never strayed far from the original story but did fill in little holes here and there and once 
 in a while threw you in with a major event that shapes the galaxy.
  
  unfortunately i found that the greatest moments in the game were spread far too thin. I personally 
 enjoyed wading through squad after squad of stormtroopers rather than dealing with all the "advanced 
 forms" like the EVO trooper or the ever-resilient PURGE TROOPERS...
  
  They also did a good job of making the lightsaber essentially a glowing stick... multiple hits 
 to kill and NO dismemberment EVER! now im not one of those gamers who crave violent videogames, 
 nor do i expect a starwars game to go over the top. But in light of the story and overall gameplay 
 i would kind of like the lightsaber to feel a bit more like the ones from the movies and not like 
 a light-up stick that you beat your enemies to death with...
  
  
  all in all i liked the game, but once again a starwars game has made me wish they would actually 
 ASK what a potential customer would WANT in a game rather than just dishing us out some more generic 
 sludge with a nice garnish to try and cover up their sad attempts at pleasing their fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoJimmyGo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  Most people are buying this game because they are Star Wars fans, same goes for me. I have to tell 
 you though I've not been a huge fan of the games. Mostly in terms of their look as it always felt 
 a step behind other games. TFU is the best looking one so far BUT waaaay to short, and lacking 
 the xbox live feature I thought was totally odd.
  
  The cut scenes were the best by far hands down in any Star Wars game I've ever seen. At points 
 of the game I was just trying to get past levels so I could see the next cut scene. The controls 
 where pretty simple to master in that you only needed to remember a few key things. Once you do 
 that you can pretty much mow through the game. I think the more complex moves could have been implemented 
 alot better. Rather then just something you can unlock and never have to use. 
  
  With all the unlockable characters and lightsabers, I felt it was really odd that in a day and 
 age where social gaming is so huge that the Xbox Live feature would be missing. So on that side 
 of I was pretty disapointed, because once you are done with the game you only have 2 things left 
 to look forward to. Being even stronger the second time through where you can slice and dice with 
 ease and the DLC stuff that comes out. I can only hope for a multiplayer patch.
  
  All in all if you are a big fan of Star Wars get this game, if not rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I might as well pee on myself and call myself a little kid again. This game is utterly amazing. 
 Now naturally you would think I would love this game just because I am a hardcore star wars fan. 
 However if you read my past reviews you know that I am a tough critic with the star wars games 
 simply because I expect perfection.
  
  Now when it comes to this game, it delivered on every aspect from graphics and gameplay witch is 
 hard to come by now adays. Normally you sacrifice one for the other. Also there are many critics 
 who dont like the game and well thats there opinion cause this is mine. The game is a flat out 
 masterpiece. From the way you can control pretty much everything in the game from force to level 
 and costume selection. Now if thats not enough. This game offers eye popping visuals that will 
 definitely utilize your 1080 p lcd television to its fullest. Offering an array of details that 
 only this game and the new graphics engine could deliver.
  
  However this game was not just all about looking pretty as it delivers some serious solid gameplay 
 available and should be appealing to all members of people. The game is of moderate length. I would 
 say about 8 hours long. However it offers a ton of replay value and loads of secrets and unlockables 
 that will have you busy for many more hours. This is a fine game and definitely worth the 60 dollar 
 price tag. I recommend this game to anyone and everyone who enjoys games. Especially if your a 
 star wars fan. Even if your not this game still is a solid game that you will love and enjoy. This 
 has been another exclusive from your king of review. I have to go now and play this for the 3rd 
 time through and I am not even bored of it yet. Great game and is absolutely beautiful. Go get 
 it while you can. This baby is one hot chicken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejmfilho
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Presentation : 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Story: 10
  Replay Value: 10
  Length: 10
  
  Far better than any previous Star Wars games.
  All the bosses fights rock.
  I hope that someday 
 in the future exists Force Unleashed 2!
  I just didn't like the name Starkiller because it copies Star Wars Knights of the Old Republic 
 bounty hunter Bendak Starkiller.
  If one day exists Force Unleashed 2 there has to be some additional implements and a few corrections. 
 Bellow i list some i would like to see.
  
  List of possible changes:
  
  1) More DLC content;
  2) Story mode more lengthy;
  3) More character customization;
  4) More 
 combos using lightsaber or not;
  5) More planets to visit;
  6) More gameplay locations;
  7) Better counterattack system;
  8) Better use of the action camera;
  9) Add some RPG characteristics;
 
  10) More exploration in locations rewarding special items instead of finding holocrons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars : The Force Unleashed delivers what an Xbox 360 game can. Nice graphics, good story line, awesome 
 gameplay, and easy controls. This isn't the best Star Wars game, but it is a lot of fun. It is amazingly 
 fun to use many different force powers and combos. It is also great to use the "end force combos" 
 as I call them, where you get to press buttons to destroy AT-STs, Rancors, and other Jedi's! The storyline 
 is amazing but too short. There are about 8 levels which are very long, but thats about it. Both 
 endings are awesome and have suprises. The Jedi battles become harder as you progress further into 
 the game. I would recommend this game to Star Wars fans, or people with time to spare. It's not 
 worth the buy though, because it occasionally freezes and gets quite boring after you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aero629
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  This game starts out introducing a new character to the Star Wars universe. Starkiller, they call 
 him. After playing the intro level as Darth Vader you take on the galaxy as Vader's apprentice, 
 essentially assassinating appointed targets. This includes Jedi for the most part. The greatest 
 part of the game for me was the ability to continuously upgrade Starkiller's abilities, costume, 
 and lightsaber. Who can't appreciate running around with a black lightsaber? Besides the interesting 
 storyline and upgrades, the gameplay is solid. I had very few problems with any glitches and the 
 game in general ran very smoothly. This always makes me happy. All the mechanics like the force 
 grab and force lightning worked well within the game and were easy to control. There was no trying 
 to throw a storm trooper one way and actually throwing him in a different direction. The CGI cutscenes 
 looked very nice and the voice acting was very good. I think this is a very good game than anyone 
 will enjoy and star wars fans will drool over until they make another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCN-beats-PS2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Overview:
  Let me just start off by saying I loved this game, Until I beat it. The demo really was awesome 
 and I HAD to buy this game once I saw how fun it was (that was a mistake i should have rented it) . 
 You can basically use about 5 force based attacks to completely destroy your enemy in anyway you 
 want.
  
  Features:
  only a story mode. no multiplayer no online no nothing, this is definitely the single worst con 
 about this game. Once you beat it your done. its only 6 hours long so that makes this game's value 
 TERRIBLE if you paid 60 hard-earned dollars for it.
  
  Attacks:
  force lightning- you can stun/kill your enemy 
  force push- hurl enemies into the air and break 
 through walls with this surprisingly satisfying attack
  force grip- grab and enemy with the force and do what you want to him... stab him, shock him, or 
 just throw him around the room its definately the most fun force power you get.
  force repulse-blows all enemies around you away
  lightsaber-you can do combos impale people and 
 do awesome air attacks but it works the same as any other sword fighting mechanic.
  
  Pros:
  - the ragdoll physics really improve gameplay. It takes a while for hurling a storm trooper 
 into the air or watching all enemies fly away with your force push to get old.
  -Compelling story.
  -Amazing boss fights.
  
  Cons:
  -no replay value.
  -only 1 mode (unless 
 you count training)
  -terrible value
  -its really short, only about 6-13 hours is all you will spend with this game.
  
  Overall i 
 suggest you RENT this game not buy, because if you play atleast 2 hours a day your gonna have this 
 game beat in 3 days. and i regret getting this game for that very reason.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshuaquixx
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This is actually the first real next-gen game we have seen for the 360, ever. The game is incredible 
 and has 3 new technologies never see before. The environment and character interaction does have 
 it's challenges, but keep in mind this is the first of it's kind. 
  
  Every game that has been released for the 360 so far could have run on an old Xbox (minus 1080) . 
 TFUL's interactions are really tasking the 3 cores of the 360; as will Fracture and Indiana Jones. 
 Lucasart's will perfect their new programming methods to improve upon their future games I can 
 assure you. 
  
  Go buy this game and revel at hanging storm troopers like a long chain from the ceiling and then 
 watch them attempt to shoot back at you. Master the controls and you can enjoy flinging them through 
 glass that breaks differently and life-like every time. 
  
  Master blocking and you will own whatever comes your way. This truly is an amazing game and the 
 first of many amazing new games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigDawgSteve420
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, this game is fun, but man do the bugs and glitches keep it from being awesome. From 
 sound crashes, to frame rate lag, to total lock up having to reset, you think of a bug, this game 
 has it. I patiently waited for this game to come out, and honestly, could have waited longer for 
 a polished product.
  
  Still, it is fun when it works, albeit cheap.... VERY cheap... talkin' about old school MK2 trap 
 you in the corner cheap. There's a difference between making the game difficult and cheap, and 
 apparently these developers forgot that. Overall, would be nice to see another such Star Wars game 
 like this in the future, maybe based on the EU or something, except they need to leave out the 
 hunting for holocrons to level as that just added unnecessary, and totally un-fun, play time.
 
  
  All in all, if ya got some spare change and no games to play, give this one a look. Probably rent 
 it though, as the bugs kind of take away replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trogdor_twogdoe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  So I could care less about the reviews done by gamespot or anywhere else. After seeing the "reverse" 
 trailer, I knew I had to get this game. 
  
  So being Darth Vader's secret apprentice is as fun as you think it would be. There are some moments 
 that I mean even trying to type about them and not smile is hard. Walking around a corner to find 
 a group of stormtroopers with rifles pointed at you and just charging force push and sending them 
 careening out the window into the nothingness of space. Or stealing a troopers turret and beating 
 him to death with it. Or when a trooper grabbed a railing and after trying to shake him off for 
 30 seconds I decided to throw my light saber at him instead. Or taking the lasers used for making 
 tie fighters and using them to incinerate troopers. Or throwing trooper after trooper into laser 
 walls can be so damn satisfying that you can't help but love this game.
  
  The story first of all in this game is surprisingly good. I won't go into it because if you lack 
 a somewhat greater than basic knowledge of Star Wars then it will sort of be lost to you. But nothing 
 is cooler than charging through the Death Star firing corridor and just zooming out of the way 
 before a laser that can annihilate planets skims by you. (It's also fun to use force grip to leave 
 a trooper helplessly dangling in front of it) Visiting classic Star Wars like Nar Shaddaa, Felucia 
 and Cloud City can't help but make you feel nostalgic. 
  
  The game looks and feels really cool. Watching force push tear through the environment is really 
 satisfying. Force lightening looks like it would indeed hurt and seeing a rancor for the first 
 time definitely scared the living s*** out of me. Speaking of which the finishing strings are really 
 cool and fun to watch as well. The environments are really nice to look at and the subtle homages 
 the LucasArts team throws in places is really fun. (Submerged X-Wing, Gungan in carbonite) 
  
  Then there is the sheer FUN of this game. I mean I gripped a trooper and tossed him and the 
 action cam in this game is beyond awesome. He flew through 2 squad mates, 2 panes of glass and 
 then out a window into a giant pit. And then watching rancor's writhe in agony as you hurl felucians 
 at their face is so enjoyable for a Star Wars fan. 
  
  In closing this game is highly enjoyable and if you do or don't like Star Wars, regardless you 
 will have fun playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxxGothic
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  For some fans a long awaited Star Wars game. First time round seems worth every penny or cent. 
 Working you way through the force powers then unleashing a merry hell on anything that gets between 
 you and your goals seems fun until you reach your goal.
  
  The boss fights are a pain. The fixed camera position is a good way not to lose the boss shame 
 it makes it real easy to lose your character.
  
  Aside from that and the occasional staring at two inches from the back of your characters head 
 situations it filled in the hours. Force jump is and will always be frustrating, just be glad that 
 they haven't brought out Bombad Racing for the 360. 
  
  After this I kinda feel sorry for Lucasarts. In a nutshell this is a great action game where you 
 get to do things with the force you are not usually allowed to do. I look forward to seeing what 
 Star Wars game they have to follow this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyslavik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been better but was still way awesome. Choking people out with the force was 
 fun. Throwing people out windows into space, way too much fun. I would have enjoyed the game being 
 longer and perhaps some cooler weapon upgrades. The levels were beautifully done, but in some cases 
 they were a little too distracting from the game. i found myself lost on occasion by the jumble 
 of background while i was getting stomped on by bad guys.
  
  The story was great. I found myself getting through the levels just to see where they were going 
 with the plot. Not to many games draw me in with the writing, but this one did. Star killer was 
 kind of a wuss about Juno, but he made up for it by being able to throw his lightsaber through 
 someone's chest.
  
  All things considered, this was great fun. I'm looking for a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vengefulwill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with 
 great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely 
 best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its 
 a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with 
 great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely 
 best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its 
 a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with 
 great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely 
 best in the series. Its a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its 
 a brilliant game with great gameplay - definitely best in the series. Its a brilliant game with 
 great gameplay - definitely best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonnyHomicide
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  I first got Star Wars: TFU on the day it came out. The prologue was a bit odd after playing the 
 demo, and having been able to use the apprentice, Darth Vadar was odd to control. But after that 
 the game ran pretty smoothly. 
  The different aspects put into Star Wars: TFU are amazing. For example, throwing around a freaked 
 out storm trooper is always fun, esp. running him into a Tie Fighter. Also the story line, with 
 all of its twists and turns, makes you want to keep playing and find out what happens at the end, 
 with both the light side and dark side endings.
  There were some parts of the game that the graphics would get kinda glitchy and the aiming for 
 using the force was very tricky. Also there was inconsistency in gameplay where the game seemed 
 extremely hard and then at other points too easy, and this was in Sith Warrior mode. 
  With the story and the different force abilities, this game is an amazing game with just a few 
 minor difficulties. It is one for the masses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DamienBloodlust
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Good: Terrific art direction, an excellent story filled with solid character development and well-executed 
 voice-acting, epic boss battles that test your reflexes, great physics that bring the force to 
 life, compelling ending (s) , lots of costumes.
  
  Bad: Glitches, some hit-detection and platforming issues, repetitive combat, cheap deaths, frequent 
 loading screens, unreliable targeting, disappointing level-up system.
  
  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is not a game for everyone. It is a game that will generate lots 
 of angry debate amongst the geekiest of science fiction and gaming fans. On the one hand, its well-written 
 story (an unusual occurrence when dealing with LucasArts) , well-designed force engine, and great 
 boss battles will have Star Wars fans flocking to its defense. On the other hand, more casual action 
 gamers who are more detached from the series will condemn it for its grievous glitches, sloppy 
 platforming, and repetitive gameplay. Regardless of any reviewer's individual opinion, both viewpoints 
 are accurate. It is just a matter of what you expect to find yourself in the debate that should 
 determine whether this game is worth shilling out full sticker price to own or a mere fraction 
 just to rent. Either way, any action gamer or Star Wars fan should at least give it a chance.
 
  
  I don't want to spend a lot of time repeating much of what has already been said, so I'll be somewhat 
 brief. The art direction is fantastic. It immerses you deeply in the Star Wars universe, but is 
 so endearing that even gamers who lack an affinity for the series will be taken in by it. Blasters, 
 explosions, alien words, and detailed characters make it a joy to behold. The story will appeal 
 mostly to fans, as it does not bother to fill in gaps that non-fans will likely have in their understanding 
 of the sequence of events. However, the story is absolutely fantastic. It has character development, 
 intrigue, love, hatred, loyalty, and betrayal. Its canon ending ties the gapes in the series together 
 so well that it's hard to imagine the Star Wars history without it. As for the non-canon ending... 
 well, it may not get the Lucas Seal of Approval, but it does deliver a potential character that 
 easily rivals Darth Vader in mechanistic vileness. As the main character, you will find yourself 
 surrendering to the powers you control as you make playthings of your enemies. The game's best 
 moments come when the player learns to combine multiple force powers and interactions with the 
 environment to create some truly chaotic moments. Never before has the force felt this fluid and 
 powerful. Perhaps the best moments in the combat come from the boss battles, which in contrast 
 to the rest of the in-game combat, require strategy and forethought. Trying to bulldoze through 
 the game's bosses on anything but the easiest difficulty level will quickly have the player tucking 
 his/her proverbial tail between his/her legs and slinking away in shame.
  
  Speaking of shame, the game does have its flaws, as others have stated. Glitches... yes, glitches. 
 Despite millions of dollars, a big team, years of development, at times the game feels more like 
 a beta than a finished product. Hit detection issues (e. g. stormtroopers no longer responding to 
 lightsaber attacks) , physics clipping and unusual bugs that may even force a restart can definitely 
 mar the experience. Such problems are intensified by the fact that the environment is so immersive... 
 being jarred out of the fantasy feels even more so of a violation. The gameplay has some flaws 
 as well. Combat can get repetitive, and although bringing down a Rancor is jaw-dropping and riveting 
 the first time you do it, the fifth time begins to feel a tad ho-hum. On top of that, in contrast 
 to the clever strategies required for bosses, fighting regular enemies usually leaves the player 
 relying on a few choice moves over and over again, despite the large repertoire of combos available 
 to player. Enemies can gang up on you and strike you when your down, and considering how long it 
 can take your character to return to a standing position after being felled, this could mean the 
 end of your journey. This cheap gang attack tactic becomes a real issue in the final stage, in 
 which you begin surrounded by a selection of the most difficult foes available. It's during these 
 times when the player is frantically using force power. But these crowded situations usually make 
 the user misaim and use up all of his/her available force energy, leaving the main character vulnerable 
 to inevitable death. Finally, the leveling up system is somewhat underwhelming. Despite the ability 
 to unlock new moves, the actual leveling-up process feels very gradual. Non-existent are those 
 "wow" moments from other games when the player surpasses that invisible threshold and passes from 
 a fleeing victim to an unstoppable killing machine. Especially by the later levels, the player 
 is constantly trying to keep up with the steepening challenge of the game's enemies. Granted, replaying 
 older levels can help place the leveling in perspective and show the player how much power he/she 
 has ascertained, but considering the point of the game is to make the player feel powerful, the 
 development team could have made this point better. I would cite The Darkness as a game that executed 
 the "unstoppable killing machine" theme more effectively.
  
  So yes, the game has both its good points and bad points. Both sides of the incredibly geeky argument 
 over this game have viable support for their claims. Overall however, in this reviewer's opinion, 
 the game is worth at least a look for anyone who considers himself/herself an action gamer. This 
 holds even truer for Star Wars fans, who will be wondering how they were able to close the gaps 
 between the trilogies before this canon chapter of the story came along. Star Wars: The Force Unleashed 
 is far from perfect, and it will not gain (nor does it necessarily deserve) universal acclaim, 
 but it is worth at least a moment -- or weekend -- of your time. Star Wars fans will be able to say 
 that they've added a fun and powerful chapter of their favorite science fiction series to their 
 video game collection. Everyone else will be able to say they flung an electrically-charged Jawa 
 into a stormtrooper and made it explode. And that, my friends, is what geeky action gaming is all 
 about.
  
  Happy Jedi hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOADToTheMax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Force Unleashed.
  
  I rented this bad boy a week or two ago and I enjoyed to to a pretty good extent.
  
  Story: 
 To take this famous franchise and add more into it, a feat which has been attempted numerous times, 
 and actually pull it off is astounding. I found myself thinking how this story would have made 
 a better CG movie than that crap that was on theaters a while ago. A secret apprentice to Darth 
 Vader that hunts down Jedi during episodes 3 and 4. Pretty good start and then it twists and turns 
 with terrific voice acting and lovable/hate-able characters. I liked this story, a lot.
  For all the game play flaws this story held them together and let me over look them.
  
  Graphics; 
 it's a love-hate relationship. The felushia or feluchia.... (I don't know) jungle was superb and 
 the space stations look all technical and nifty. As well as the junk yard. But whenever those levels 
 opened up to an open massive scale... it felt bland. I mean bland in the sense that there wasn't 
 enough there to fill the land in. Random rubble for junkyard and some trees for Felu-place, kinda 
 yawny. I'm not saying these little pieces didn't look bad, I say the whole game is actually quite 
 pretty. But there could have been more filler you know? All in all though the character facial 
 animations, the bosses, moves, lightning, force push, are all fantastic.
  
  Sound is well... Star wars, so it's pretty epic even though I notice some hiccups when things got 
 hectic in battle but I was too busy fighting to really care. Good epic score.
  
  Gameplay was refreshing albeit repetitive but still fun. The combos were varied enough along with 
 force gripping and pushing to mix this game into a Psi-Ops/God of war hybrid. A damn good hybrid 
 too. Through in lightning into the combos of grip and push, some explosive stuff to toss enemies 
 into and a couple aerial combos and grabs made the game play sail along the course of the game. 
 Some times though when I was in tight spaces I did grab some barrel instead of a dude but I put 
 that barrel to good use anyway. Throwing that barrel I didn't mean to grab at 3 or 4 guys is just 
 as cool as electrocuting them. Also the combat would slow down a tad during the bigger battles 
 against Jet Clones and robots and At-Ats, but I didn't mind because it wouldn't last too long. 
 All in all, Fun, surprisingly violent boss finishers, and varied force moves all mixed enough to 
 barely surpass some repetitive behavior and made the game enjoyable.
  
  OVER ALL, Star war nuts, it's a must buy.
  Normal people who just like Star wars it's a damn 
 good rental.
  Let it blow your mind... to an extent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfCmnder
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Good: Great story, intense battles, the abilities of using the force.
  
  
  Bad: The camera, glitches, the problem getting something targeted, and no multiplayer.
  
  
 
  
  Overall this is a good game. First this is Star Wars, so what is there to not like. Sometimes this 
 game can be a little easy, then there are times it gets a little difficult, and you have to work 
 to get through a spot. The graphics are great and the powers that you can use are wonderful. But 
 there are disappointments, the glitches, some are good and work to your advantage, some are just 
 frustrating that you want to drop kick the game. Another disappointment is the ability to lock 
 on to one thing with the force especially when there are many objects in the area.
  Problems aside, this is still an enjoyable game and if there was some multiplayer function the 
 game would have a good replay value. I still recommend this game, especially if you are a fan of 
 Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shoelessrat
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Game had good content, but I experienced so many bugs in the game it was ridiculous. Several times 
 during boss fights, the boss locked up and I was forced to kill myself in order to retry the boss 
 fight. Also, the last three levels stopped tracking my experience points, didn't show my total 
 experience on that level, and didn't keep track of the Holocrons that I had acquired so far.
  
  The controls were a bit touchy and hard to learn (not intuitive) .
  
  Single-player gets 
 boring after all the content has been discovered.
  
  No multiplayer detracts from overall replayability of game. 
  
  XBox 360 version should include 
 all the additional content in the last generation consoles (extra storylines, etc...) .
  
  Wrap up:
  
  Good content / story-line... poor execution from something with George Lucas' name 
 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerobeam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I do this review with mixed emotions. I'm a Star Wars fanboy and love just about everything Star 
 Wars. However, I'm also a gamer, and one that doesn't take to kindly to games that aren't adequately 
 tested before being released. Let's get the good things out of the way. The story (although way 
 too short and condensed) is acceptable. It begins to tell of events that took place in between 
 episodes 3 and 4. Without giving anything away, it does a good job of laying the groundwork for 
 the upcoming events in the saga. On the first level you get to experience Vader's power first-hand 
 against waves of Wookies (sure wish the Apprentice had that Force Choke) . The game itself does 
 a great job of letting you see what the force can really do. I Force levitated two guys, threw 
 my lightsaber to impale both of them, used force lightning on them which charged em up, then I 
 force pushed them both into a group of enemies causing an electrical explosion, suffice to say 
 I felt pretty badass (so much in fact that I stopped running and slightly tilted the analog stick 
 to walk into big battles instead) . The game gives you many opportunities to feel that way. Hell, 
 you get to pull a Star Destroyer right outta the sky. The game encourages you to use the wide array 
 of your powers to take down your enemies. That is until you get into boss battles where you'll 
 find that all of you force powers except for one or maybe two are completely useless. And how can 
 I force pull a Star Destroyer out of the sky or force lift an entire TIE fighter but I can't lift 
 a robotic storm trooper? Those gripes aside, the powers you get are pretty satisfying. The game 
 takes you to different locations in the Star Wars universe that any Star Wars fanboy could tell 
 you about as well as a couple new ones like inside the laser firing chambers of the Death Star 
 and new mechanical planet Raxus Prime. All locations look the way you would imagine them to. Sound-wise, 
 the game remixes old faves like the Imperial March and the Throne Room theme and amps up when you 
 get into a fight. Maybe its just me but it seemed like on a couple of planets there were times 
 when no music was playing at all and you could just stand in utter silence. Sound effects are in 
 line with the movies, laser fire and lightsaber swings, all good. There are two different endings 
 (y'know be a good guy or be a bad guy) , but seeing as how this is part of the official cannon only 
 one of em is the "true" ending. The bad guy ending is pretty macabre. Okay, now that that's all 
 done let's talk about the bad (read: the bugs) . Why didn't anyone test this game before shipping 
 it out? Enemy A. I. is downright laughable, two guys standing next to each other, I force levitate 
 one and send him flying backwards and the second doesn't move. I figured "hey, maybe he just didn't 
 see me" (yeah right) , so I run and stand directly in front of him and still he doesn't move, just 
 stands looking around (guess he was on his break) . The level layouts might need to be reworked, 
 on Felucia I think it was, as guards were running to approach me, they all just began dying, when 
 I got close to investigate I died to, the game thought I stepped of the map even though we were 
 all clearly on the map. Then there's the time I jumped and got stuck in the air with my ligtsaber 
 out preparing to strike the ground, but I never came down. The game gives you objectives for each 
 stage and bonus objectives that warrant extra goodies for completing, but on the last few levels 
 you don't even get credit for completing the objectives and some just say *Default Text* instead 
 of what the objective actually is. On the last part of the game, I chose to go for the good guy 
 ending. During my fight, I was knocked into an area where I couldn't even see where I was (because 
 the camera wouldn't go there. I spent 7 or 8 minutes getting myself killed so I could restart the 
 fight, but when I finally restarted I was on the bad guy ending!!?! There are plenty of other issues 
 like the horrendous camera which doesn't let you see larger enemies lifebars if you're too close, 
 sketchy targeting, and collision detection that lets enemies facing away from you actually hit 
 you. I really want to like this game but when a game, that had this much hype around it, releases 
 with this many bugs, I can't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight52501
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Lucasarts does it again with the Force Unleashed. the game takes place 2 years before Star Wars 
 as you play as Vader's Apprentice. you hunt Jedi as a Sith with barely any background at all. the 
 game is fun and has a lot of nice locations from the Star Wars Universe such as Nar Shaada and 
 Raxus Prime. you get to fight a few Jedi Masters not seen in the movies and the combat is nice 
 and different as you progress in the game, you meet new enemies and face a few familiar faces from 
 the Star Wars movies. the game is not perfect as combat can repetitive and the game has it glitches 
 as well. the storyline is amazing though and will keep you interested and it is what makes the 
 game worth playing. so if your a Star Wars fan, i suggest you try this game as soon as possible. 
 if your not a Star Wars fan, but you want to try it any way, you should try it as you will enjoy 
 the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiMyNamesNick
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying that I am not a Star Wars fan/nerd/boy/thing. I do enjoy the movies, and 
 by that I mean all movies made prior to the 2000's. Realize I write this review as not an advocate 
 against Star Wars, nor someone in love with the universe of it, but someone well informed.
  
  The game starts you off on a level where you play as Vader and march about stomping Wookies. 
 Moderately fun, but nothing exceptionally attention grabbing. The level ends with the discovery 
 of Vader's soon-to-be apprentice, whom you play as for the rest of the game.
  
  Let's break down what happens from there:
  
  The Good: Spot-on controls, somewhat intriguing 
 usage of the force, good voice acting and score, decent graphics, and moderately varying enemy 
 types.
  
  The Bad: Loads of glitches and errors (got stuck against invisible walls or in midair 12 times 
 on one play through) , confusing difficulty (one moment you are breezing through five or six troopers, 
 the next you're pinned down by explosives with no possibilty of scrambling back to your feet, shoddy 
 AI (half the guys won't even see you) , a poorly executed story, and ABOVE ALL, the HORRIBLE, HORRIBLE, 
 level that was meant to be the single most epic moment in Star Wars History. I refer to the level 
 in which you pull a Deathstar from the sky. Disappointing. Boring. Frustrating.
  
  
  Whats there really to say? If the glitches were gone, the game would still be repetitive and jumping 
 back and forth between too easy and too impossible. The controls and ability to use the force feel 
 very natural, but constant targeting issues keep that from helping you in many cases. Skip it, 
 it honestly isn't enough play time to be worth 30 or 40 dollars, much less 60. If you're a hardcore 
 fan and can't live without it then RENT IT. An okay game with apparently very little game test 
 time gone into it. A 5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safy_soldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  star wars is a very good game which can promise you entertainment and an excellent storyline, loads 
 of unlockables and things to find so you can go back to previous levels and play them again. but 
 the downful is that it is too short and has no multiplayer. the game sets place in between the 
 3rd and 4th star wars film so to play it you need to have watched the star wars franchise. your 
 character is a peron called starkiller who is the scret apprentice of darth vader and does his 
 bidding. like killing remaining jedi's. but while you are doing your missions you seem to develop 
 a freinship with the rebelion and then you must face the decision on which to carry on being vaders 
 slave or fight for what is right. this is an awesome game and if you are a fan of star wars then 
 this will solve all the mysteries between the 3rd and 4rth film. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andurilmat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  Star wars the force unleashed, just the title gives this game big shoes to fill, and sadly it doesn't 
 quite fill them. lets start off with the good points, it's star wars, anyone who is a fan of the 
 saga will appreciate it. the story line, amazing worthy of a movie, answers many questions fans 
 have had about the time in between epIII and epIV. another good point, force powers and lightsaber 
 combat, these are great and easy to use, weather picking up a crate and throwing it at a storm 
 trooper or picking up 3 storm troopers and throwing them off a cliff. the level designs are great 
 and they seem to get bigger as the game progresses. the plot also leaves you guessing, it has more 
 twists and turns than beggars canyon. now the bad points, the main one for me was the enemies, 
 ranging from easy to near impossible, this really gets annoying 4 missions in. another bad point 
 is the terrible voice acting, in fact out of the whole range of actors doing voice overs in the 
 game to only noteable performances were by Jimmy Smits and Sam Witwer (bail organa and the secret 
 apprentice) all of the others were laughable. another downer, is game length, the game just feels 
 too short, by the last levels you think right now the game starting to kick off and then it ends, 
 if you played crysis and finished it you will recognize this feeling.
  
  it's a fun hack and slash with limited replay value
  you can complete the game in one sitting, 
 the only thing that will probably keep you playing is the acheivements and collecting all of the 
 holocrons.
  
  graphics 8/10
  gameplay 8/10
  controls 9/10
  story 10/10
  replay value 4/10
  
  if your a star wars fan i recommend getting this game just for the story, 
 if you not play the demo - this is a good indication of the rest of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twentymooseman
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  the force unleashed is a really good game. you play as darth vader's secret apprentice who he's 
 trained intensely. basically you go around killing everything in sight with devastating force powers. 
 the force powers are really one of the only things that separate it from a typical beat em up.
 
  
  good
  force powers make you feel unstoppable, customizable lightsabers, multiple costumes to choose from, 
 very satisfying boss fights, good story, good replayability, good physics and ai, very good characters, 
 story has all the basic elements of a starwars movie, some crazy awesome moments.
  
  bad
  multiple glitches, crappy targeting system.
  
  bottom line
  great game that any starwars 
 fan should play. if you aren't a starwars fan you'll most likely enjoy it too.
  some people may want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstclair1
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  OK, this game is frusturating. Most of you have seen the reviews and know what the major flaws 
 are with game; i am going to inform you, they are all true.
  
  It really stinks that you do not feel as powerful as a Sith lord should. You have robots in this 
 game that will kick your ass before you know it. I was originally playing on the harder difficulty 
 and I had to back off and play on normal because I was getting very frusturated by all the CHEAP 
 SHOTS that the AI takes at you. It is FAR too easy to knock your character down. When he is down, 
 the AI comes over and either, 1. hits your character while he is on the ground (and you cannot 
 get up) or 2. Waits for you to get up and immediately knocks back on the ground. 
  
  Also, the camera does not focus on what you want it to. Enemies will literally appear behind you 
 and start kicking your ass. The quirky camera will eventually spin around to show you who is hitting, 
 but only after, you guessed it, you have been knocked down.
  
  This game is a huge dissapointment because I am a Start Wars fan. I was really looking forward 
 to this one but I am really thinking about selling it without completing it. I am sick and tired 
 of the cheap AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockking123
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly incredible the first moment I saw it on a demo a little man in my head said 
 "this one's gonna be huge" so at that moment I asked for it for my birthday and I made the right 
 choice. It starts of it's coolness when you first start the game, you get to play as Darth Vader 
 (Warning: Major Spoiler Alert) But it is as much fun to kill him in the end of the game, knowing 
 how much you have progressed in the game when you face him and win. Also the upgrades are as much 
 fun when you level up by killing Jawa's by kicking them and blowing everyone away with force Repulse. 
 Plus the controls feel the way they are ment to be. And lastly the plot is perfect and the twists 
 and turns fit right In with the story. I would Recommend this game for it's fun, plot, excitement 
 and just for the entertainment of electrocuting Jawa's. May the force Blow your mind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: entorphane
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  Almost everything about this game is a huge let down. The much-hyped Euphoria engine barely functions 
 properly. The camera is awful. The auto targeting system is even worse, as it is very difficult 
 to ever grab what you are trying to grab. The story was alright, but this is certainly no KOTOR. 
 The graphics are buggy in parts. I experienced a lot of flicker, and at one point a huge enemy 
 installation just dropped right out of the scene completely. 
  
  Gameplay is ok, but nothing groundbreaking. The force powers aren't really that fun to use, and 
 get old very quickly. Enemies are cheap, boss fights are underwhelming and in come cases downright 
 boring. This MAY be worth a rental for a Star Wars fan, but with absolutely no replay value (barely 
 any one play value) I can't see why anyone would want to pony up $60 for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  TO me this game was good why did it gaet a 7.5? The game is fun, at first you play as Dath Vader 
 where he attacks the planet of Kayshyk (Wookie world) . Vader is hunting down a jedi master in hiding. 
 He kills the master and finds a young child who is going to be killed by Storm Troopers, but Vader 
 kills the troops and protects the child.
  
  The game: After the Vader mission you play as the Apprentice where you do missions for Vader and 
 hunt jedi for almost half the game. You get all the abilities a Dark Jedi would normally get. You 
 do get a light saber yes but to me the main weapon was the force because there are its just a massive 
 destruction power to use. Later you get new powers, talents, and combos. You also get new colors 
 of lightsabers and costumes! My favorite was the Sith Warrior. It was just cool to look at in missions. 
 
  
  The goods: You get to use all of the powers of the Dark Jedi Force powers, Light Sabers, you get 
 to destory a Star Destroyer with the force, cool characters, good story from in between episode 
 3-4, tells how the rebellion starts, Just plain fun, Anything in the room is a weapon for your 
 force powers, and you cant punt Jawaas.
  
  The bad: As the apprentice you dont get choke, some of the enemies are extremely annoying to take 
 down, short story, graphics aren't the best, takes awhile to get where your going or what your 
 even doing.
  
  The game is actually a good starwars game and usually starwars games dont get good scores : ( Well 
 this one does! 9.5/10 It was under rated THANKS GAMESPOT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissMorphine
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed. one of the most anticipated games of the fall. either if u a SW fan or not. 
 u will prolly enjoy this game. specially if u a Fan of Button mashers like Devil May Cry. and Ninja 
 Gaiden 2 This Game Reminds me alot of an old game PsyOps. in this game u use the force and unlike 
 any other SW game u shouldnt be afraid to use it. its hella fun to kill your enemies in diferent 
 and creative ways. the more you play the more powerfull you become unlocking combos, your force 
 porwers grow stronger and u can gather power ups for your Light Saber. so Yeah. this game makes 
 you feel powerfull and a tottally Bad @SS. specially when u get the black Sith Robe + Red Light 
 Saber = tha Sex. so by now u will be thinking well this game looks awesome. well yeah. and not 
 at all. confusing huh? well the game is fun. but its flawed. specially the Target System. sometimes 
 its really hard to lock on an enemy thats right next to you cuz the target keeps locking on something 
 else. and it can be really irritating sometimes. specially when u are overwhelmed by lots of stormtroopers 
 and AT-robots.
  
  The Story. to be honest i was expecting a really deep and immersive Story since Lucas Arts Said 
 that this game would get the "Movie" treatment. what does it mean? that it would be a new entry 
 in the saga. yeah it would be foolish to expect something like MGS4. but think again it would have 
 been awesome to get tons of cutscenes. i mean after all its a new Entry in the saga so it would 
 make tottall sense to get tons of plot twists, tons of OMG I NEVER SAW THAT COMING moments and 
 a really deep n rich story. instead we only get a cutscene at the beggining of every level wich 
 are really short kinda dull and uninspired. and whats even worse the story is really lame.
  
  the controls are surprisingly good. its so easy to use all your controls. the combos are easy 
 to pull off unlike someother games where u have to be uber skilled of uber fast to press the buttons 
 at the right time n stuff. the game can be kinda glitchy sometimes. u get stuck where u shouldnt. 
 and sometimes your enemies appear to be invincible.
  
  The boss fights are not as great as the ones in DMC or NG2. u just face 4 "bosses" and they are 
 really easy to beat. the rest of the missions u face a bunch of enemies and when u beat them its 
 done level complete.
  
  in one of my previous blogs i said that this game would be great if u could dismember your enemies 
 with your light saber kinda like in NG2. expect that without all that blood. but i mean come on 
 lightsabers are awesome and u cant cut throu flesh in the game? bad really bad bad move.
  
  like i said this game is really short. so i would say this game is nothing but just a rental for 
 most ppl. unless u a uber SW geek. so do yourself a favor and rent this game. u can beat it in 
 less than 10 hours. 1k in 2 days and give it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symphonybeast
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This game does a great job capturing the classic Star Wars fights that have a million dude on screen 
 fighting each other. Visually this game rules, the only problem is there is one of you and the 
 other 999,999 guys are trying to kill you. Each enemy, when faced one on one is easy, but when 
 you throw in all one million of them, the game gets pretty hard. There are ome pretty cool puzzle 
 parts to the game but it gets really frusterating when you're trying to figure out a puzzle and 
 getting blown by enemies. The best part of the game is thefact that you can force grip. It may 
 not seem like that big of a deal at first, but wait till you have a boss battle against a star 
 destroyer, and no you aren't flying in anything. All in all, the game is pretty good. The combat 
 is simple and predictable but the story makes it so you want to keep going and not trade the game 
 in the same day you got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: accretia27
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Starwars: The Force Unleashed is an action game. It sets after Starwars Episode III when Darth 
 Vader finds an apprentice and uses him to hunt down the last remaining Jedi. You play as this apprentice 
 throughout the game. There are many plot twists which I won't spoil. The graphics of this game 
 are stunning in the cinematics and the gameplay it self. The gameplay is just like any action game. 
 You have many force powers such as push, lightning, and grip. Force grip is one of the most important 
 ones. It allows you to use your telekinetic powers to move objects and enemies. You can slam enemies 
 against the ceiling or walls, but what I like to do is force an enemy over a edge and force them 
 down rapidly. I really enjoy this game because it has so many hidden holocrons and replayability. 
 There's two ending.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlomHellscream
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, to get some facts straight for anyone hoping to buy this game: yes start the game off as 
 Darth Vader, and no you can never use him again. Now that we got that out of the way... This game 
 is, possibly, the quickest Lucas Arts game that I've ever played (I've played quite a few of them, 
 might I add) , and the coolest. You have INCREDIBLE Force flexibility, ranging from throwing s*** 
 at Storm Troopers to moving a Star Destroyer; it's wide amount of moves will have you perplexed 
 in utter amazement. The style of Star Killer's (the main character) Light Saber is pretty F'ing 
 awesome. While, his running speed is... limited. This game's physic engine is, like... beyond crazy. 
 The only flaw, to this single-handedly craziest game of the year, is that when you are getting 
 attacked you have to wait for our opponent's moves to be finished. If you in a tight spot, this 
 is very impractical and life devouring. While not the highest of background stories, it's graphic 
 level is quite formidable. The amount of glitch in this game are very few, there are still some 
 out there. Anything more of this game then I'd be telling you all about it, and this isn't a Walkthrough. 
 I hope you enjoy this insanely awesome game as I enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatfoodhavestuf
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to The Force Unleashed (which I've affectionately titled "Star Wars: 
 Destroy Everything") for probably a year, watching interviews and clips.
  
  In the end, despite some major frustrations, I rate it at 7 because it is an action/adventure game, 
 and I can appreciate it for that. It was very beautiful. Very, very beautiful. The wide variety 
 of costumes and lightsaber colors were a very nice touch. Force powers  built on the basics of 
 push, lightning, and saber throw  got quite creative and were fun to use. Level design was appropriate 
 to the landscapes. Cinematics were beautiful, and even live-action animation was quite nice  with 
 motion capture from live actors providing an extra degree of believability.
  
  However, see my frustrations below... I would suggest waiting until the price drops or even renting 
 this game, since, at 8 hours (even while dilly-dallying and pursuing optional objectives) , it's 
 not very long. 
  
  
  EXPECTATION: With such a rich pool of creative material (movies, books, comics, games) , I expected 
 the story to be much more engaging and meaningful in the "Star Wars Universe."
  
  REALITY: The story was really very short and, lacking much character development, I am shocked 
 by some storyline developments in the game... shocked only because they seemed insincere, not because 
 they were surprising. This game, much like the most recent trilogy (IMO) , very heavily relied on 
 cliches for the general storyline.
  
  EXPECTATION: With so much attention to making the gameplay fun and unique, this would be an unrivaled 
 gameplay experience.
  
  REALITY: Yes, the game has its moments. I was impressed by the true intelligence of enemies, and 
 hope to see this in more games in the future. For example, enemies dodge and run away, screaming 
 very realistically as they do so. Also, your force powers' interaction with the environment is 
 beautiful and fun, no doubt. However, there are bound to be bugs with so many variables. At one 
 point, metal beams I had blasted back continued making loud noises even though stationary and, 
 when I progressed and returned, the beams were WAVING in the air, still making their noises. Camera 
 controls were horrid. Frustrating. Disappointing. At times, too messy to justify playing -- and 
 resulting in my unwittingly running off ledges or getting blasted by unseen enemies. Come on, games 
 have come a long way with camera control... and this was unacceptable. Checkpoints were sometimes 
 poorly executed, so you would be taken back quite far if you died (which usually happened while 
 sliding great distances after being blasted, as if every surface is buttered... or while trying 
 to reach a holocron and the controls cannot register the subtlety required for double-jumping onto 
 thin pathways) . Enemies occasionally run off ledges and kill themselves. Most frustratingly, there 
 was a major bug in what could have potentially been the most awesome scene of the game. I spent 
 an hour trying to pull a ship out of the sky (you've seen the trailer!) , only to read online that 
 the game had a bug. The controller directions were wrong. FURTHERmore, I was certainly awed at 
 the awesome finishing moves, but continually frustrated by their lack of forgiveness. A careful 
 eye on the next button to press meant attention taken away from actually watching the beautiful 
 finishing move.
  
  The ending was predictable  what else can be done when the original trilogy is to precede it, 
 and we well know who is in these movies and who is not? I just would have appreciated the ending 
 more if the game had been more engaging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shenmue_Pro
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  When The Force Unleashed was first announced many people were skeptical as to whether or not the 
 gameplay would work out. Now it's out and I can say that for the most part, yeah it does. The game 
 is very God of War inspired, using timed events and combos to defeat most enemies. Now the part 
 everyone wants to know about is the force gameplay elements. They are just as fun as you would 
 imagine. Most people cited the gameplay as getting repetitive but I never had that problem seeing 
 as I could constantly change things up between combos and force moves. At first the gameplay is 
 a little stale and repetitive. Mainly because a majority of your force powers and combos have yet 
 to be unlocked. As you go you will unlock these powers at a moderate pace. The gameplay, while 
 incredibly fun during regular enemies, can be a little restrictive on bosses. Some of your moves 
 become completely ineffective during boss fights, and you'll find yourself doing the same combo 
 over and over to defeat them. The game is supposed to be all about unleashing the force, but when 
 it comes to boss fights the game suddenly becomes "Star Wars: The Force Limited." That may sound 
 snarky, but it really begins to wear on you towards the end. Now as I said on the review deck the 
 story is truly great. It does a fantastic job of filling in the gap between episodes III and IV 
 together. In some ways I wish this had been a movie instead of a game. The characters are all very 
 interesting, and for the most part provide great drama for the story. To me the game is worth playing 
 just for the story itself. Now I can't say run out and buy it if you're not that big a Star Wars 
 fan, but it at least deserves a rental. For the most part the game is fun, but there are times 
 where it is just flat out bad. Some of those "what could have been great moments", are turned into 
 tedious, gaming nightmares. Like I said though, it is still more or less a good game and deserves 
 to be played at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Starwars: The Force Unleashed is an action game. It sets after Starwars Episode III when Darth 
 Vader finds an apprentice and uses him to hunt down the last remaining Jedi. You play as this apprentice 
 throughout the game. There are many plot twists which I won't spoil. The graphics of this game 
 are stunning in the cinimatics and the gameplay it self. The gameplay is just like any action game. 
 You have many force powers such as push, lightning, and grip. Force grip is one of the most important 
 ones. It allows you to use your telekinetic powers to move objects and enemies. You can slam enemies 
 against the ceiling or walls, but what I like to do is force an enemy over a edge and force them 
 down rapidly. I really enjoy this game because it has so many hidden holocrons and replayability. 
 There's four difficulty modes and an achievement for completing each of them.
  
  Story- 10
  Graphics- 10
  Gameplay- 9
  Enjoyment- 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S3Jon
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Easily on Par with KOTOR story wise, solid gameplay created by a variety of enemies that allow 
 to both unleash the force upon the weak without being to easy. Difficult boss fights provide a 
 feeling of accomplishment and thrill when you finally beat them.
  
  Force powers are easily the best they've ever been in this game. Between filling the sky with lighting 
 and snapping the necks of wookies there is some form of power that will appeal to your dark side. 
 And with the unique leveling up system you can tweak your character to what compliments your playing 
 style. 
  
  I haven't experienced any glitchs or freezing up and the targeting system works more often then 
 it doesn't. 
  Easily one of the Star Wars greats alongside the likes of KOTOR, Jedi Knight, and the classic N64s. 
 Despite critics I urge you to play this game for yourself. You won't be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perds
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The game was a lot of fun but had its bad times
  most of the time
  
  the game had a great story, almost as good as the movies. the physics were absolutly amazing and 
 has really risen the bar for futur games.
  
  however the game was full of flaws, as well as glitches. when i played the game, many times i would 
 freeze up going through a door or jumping through a hole. 
  
  the beginning of the game was a lot of fun, until the point where darth vader disobeys you. then 
 it just becomes fustrating. playing on sith warrior difficulty, i would be attacked by 2 creatures 
 and i would automatically lose. first one hits me and im paralysed, second one hits me while im 
 paralysed and im paralysed again. not being able to do anything i just have to watch myself die 
 and load the last save point. 
  
  also i think comboc should do more damage. facing a boss or mega creature with 100x the health 
 and having to hit it 4000x before it dies. if thats not hard enough then they add clones or creatures 
 to attack you at the same time, making it that much more lovable. 
  
  all in all the game was amazing yet anoying but overall it is fun and addicting to play, when the 
 xbox dosnt freeze. so until the next paatch comes out this game only gets an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laxdaddy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  If you classify this game as anything less then revolutionary then you obviously don't play games 
 enough to know a good one. Yes this game was revolutionary in its new Euphoria technology and it 
 did have amazing game play. Everything about this game makes it worth the price you pay. 
  First off i would like to say that if you are a true to heart star wars freak then you must buy 
 this game or you have been faking your fanaticism. The story is definitely the best part of the 
 game and was primarily the point in making it to be completely honest. The game play is of course 
 the most hooking that has come out this year. You cant say that the new DMM graphics are not simply 
 eye popping. The handle on the game is easy to use but you always end up getting stuck at one part 
 trying to get by one sequence of fighting. The biggest flaw i could see as i played through was 
 that each jedi or boss you fight at the end has simply one way of being defeated and if you don't 
 do the same thing over and over again you will try a hundred times to beat one guy. To me, i understand, 
 i think for a game that has such different styles of fighting you should be able to take out your 
 opponent that you spent countless hours trying to get to. 
  The game over all was one of the best of the year by far. It had its moments where you just think 
 are stupid but mostly was a great game and had absolute pwnage moments through out the story. For 
 any Star Wars fan, you must buy this game and for people who just want a good third person fighter 
 i strongly suggest buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-David
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed has been waited for for well over a year now and now that it's finally 
 here, we expect it to live up to the massive hype it's been given. Well in most ways it has but 
 to be honest, some parts were a letdown. 
  
  Now don't get me wrong, I loved the game and got it when it was first released, but when the developers 
 said that you would be able to throw a stormtrooper through a pillar and then watch the whole building 
 collapse around you I was hoping for just that but, sadly, I didn't get that. 
  
  The games visuals reminded me strongly of Revenge of the Sith game though much more detailed and 
 life-like. The dazzling environments are beautiful and excellently crafted and, since they are 
 infused with the revolutionary Digital Molecular Matter, sway with every force push, splinter with 
 every trooper thrown and shatter with every explosion. It is a visual banquet and, amazingly, it 
 still gives more.
  
  Moving on to gameplay, TFU does not disappoint. It's combat system is well designed and easy to 
 master. There are many different, powerful and entertaining combos and force powers to use. 
  
  All in all, the game was good with some startling revelations during the course of the game 
 but it was over too damn soon. I had finished it in around 8 hours. But I'm just hoping for another 
 one soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars the Force Unleashed is an amazing masterpiece. It has amazing graphics and the system 
 of euphoria is almost making the game life-like. The bad thing is that some of Starkiller's (Darth 
 Vader's apprentice's code name) and Darth Vader is that their force powers are almost super-powered. 
 They are given new abilities that make the game fun, but gives the player the feeling that the 
 main character is over-powered. It is still fun to throw a stormtrooper at other enemies and 
 see them hold on to each other or something else when they are about to be thrown. Also, whenever 
 the players are watching the cutscenes, it gives him/her the kind of I'm at the movies watching 
 a Star Wars movie feeling. Even though, its an amazing game and you can even choose your ending, 
 light or dark, otherwise, the story mode is a straight path to that point. I recommend it comletely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Offworlder1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  TFU is a great game with a new way to explore different worlds as you hunt jedi and plant the seeds 
 of a rebellion. This is one of the better Star Wars games but lacks one thing: multiplayer which 
 hurts the game as if it had coop, split screen or something online the game would last longer. 
 If you want an epic hack and slash story game this is the one to get as you level up you can do 
 more damage.
  
  If your not a huge SW fan give it a rental as it might not be worth that $60 just for a SP experience, 
 if you are a SW fan then buy it cause its very good and a lot of fun. The graphics in this one 
 are some of the best seen in a SW game and though its lacking MP you can see that they really put 
 time and effort into the SP part. 
  
  TFU has a collection system as wello and the more holocrons you find the more powerful you can 
 become, these also increase the amount of points you get for EXP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrammitTheFrog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I like it. This game packs a lot of fun factor, the storyline is exactly what a Star Wars fan could 
 hope for. It's not the greatest game I ever played, but it is definitely fun just to destroy some 
 guys with the force. There are a lot of options to upgrade giving you a chance to play it in multiple 
 ways. But, There's something about Star Wars games that always seem to fall short though. I can't 
 really put my finger on it. I just think that Star Wars games have sooo much potential to be great 
 games. Like I said before, The universe and storylines created are always top notch. They always 
 seem to start off as a good idea, but there is always something fundamental missing from it that 
 could separate it into a great game. However, I do believe this game is a step in the right direction. 
 They need to do some surveys with fans to get some ideas flowing and find out what would really 
 make Star Wars a great game. My advice is to rent it first, then buy it when the price drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertramp20
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  I was sitting at home when I heard about Star Wars The Force Unleashed. I was so exited about a 
 new star wars game that focused on a dark siths apprentice. But then I got the demo and it was 
 ok but nothing I was anticipating. Glitches here, glitches there. I thought maybe that it was just 
 the demo, but when it came out I rented it and it was just as bad. There were so many glitches, 
 you couldn't appreciate the fight scenes. I think it was a big budget game that didn't do well. 
 The only thing that makes this game ok is that its fun to throw storm troopers over cliffs. But 
 I have to give the game props for the storyline. You can't really go wrong with a star wars storyline. 
 But overall I wouldn't buy this game because a mediocre game and frankly there are too many other 
 amazing games coming out to waste my money and give it to george lucas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel_beck_90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  The good : 
  -Amazing story Line that does not let you go 
  -Mind blowing Graphics and the most realistic Real-Time Cut scenes so far this generation 
  - 
 Fun , Fast and furious Hack and slash Game play that is not hard to master but makes you to invite 
 a friend and show him your Stylish Game play 
  
  The bad 
  - the game is short 
  - Random Bugs and glitches that May or may not happen 
  
  What Can I say , Undoubtedly the 
 best Game I have played in 2008 after GTAIV . Everything in this game seems appealing To me and 
 I just Can not get enough of it . the first thing that Caught my eyes was the Realistic facial 
 movements in this game . All the Actual facial Muscles in Face moves in an appropriate way and 
 therefore results in the most realistic Cut scenes in a video game so far (No even MGS4 had reached 
 this point) . you will remember the story of this game for years and this segment is truly enough 
 to make you play this game .the in Game graphics are really impressive and the game is really good 
 at lighting . when you enter a Room you can feel the metals and irons . Unfortunately the game 
 suffers from random Glitches , random since they may or may not happen . I finished this game 3 
 times but only encountered with 4 Bugs all this time . However there are people out there who encountered 
 with a lot of bugs , well Go curse your luck :P . the first play through take you somewhere around 
 8 hours but the replays will take less (I Myself finished the game second time in 4 hours ) .
 
  Over all this game is one of the best game out there and definitely worth purchase 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Next to card-based fantasy games and something like chess, not many forms of entertainment can 
 boast about being around for decades plus sporting hundreds of variations. With the Star Wars universe, 
 you get that and so much more.
  Toys, clothing, decorations, accessories, and yes... butt loads of media! The movies hold their 
 own standard being known as pioneers within film/uber dorks with excellent sci-fi vision. On the 
 interactive side of Star Wars entertainment, a behemoth selection of learning games, action adventures, 
 shooters, racers, arcades, even an online community outside of forums holds a small foothold in 
 MMO's. 
  All this experience in allowing gamers across the world to enjoy Star Wars in some form or another 
 would lead any Jedi to believe them self a master of their craft. Strangely, if you broke down 
 the numbers and looked at the overall amount of games available compared to the total that are 
 praised and favored... you might feel a slight disturbance in the force. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Like any good game, the first 10 to 15 minutes are crucial in grabbing the gamers interest. Which 
 is done very nicely in SWTFU by opening the story with the legendary villain, Darth Vader, hunting 
 down Jedi. You get to see a familiar planet littered with inhabitants who desperately try to fight 
 off your death march and all the while you get a good taste of what the dark side has to offer.
 
  Wielding a laser sword that is capable of cutting down opponents with ease is fun, but nothing 
 beats Jedi force powers. You can get up close and dirty with skills like lighting shield, force 
 push, and force repulse which all help a great deal in dispatching large groups. Or you can choose 
 to be more methodical in your death dealing by using powers like force grip, lightsaber throw, 
 and force lighting. All equally fun abilities that start off weak and can gradually be upgraded 
 into stronger and more devastating attacks.
  
  For anyone who thought this was a game for Jedi ethics and aiding lost space puppies, you would 
 be completely wrong. Wild loads of violence and mass destruction is key to victory, plus it helps 
 build up skills much faster the more creative you become in linking attacks.
  
  Once you understand the overall purpose of SWTFU; destroy everything in sight with Jedi powers, 
 the more comfortable you'll be in enjoying this game. Which is wonderfully complimented by solid 
 controls that make every power and lightsaber swing a total breeze. Jumping from area to area may 
 be difficult for some, especially with the added double jump and mid-air dash skills, yet anyone 
 who is keen to Tomb Raider games will find it quite easy to explore the open environments.
  Beyond solving minor puzzles (which are mostly chores using force powers) there are some moments 
 where you can follow quick button sequences that allow you to defeat mini-bosses or fend off other 
 force wielding opponents. These few bits really don't do much for impressing, especially when you 
 realize failing doesn't penalize you in the slightest. 
  Other nagging issues like the sometimes problematic camera, which finds the strangest angles while 
 close to walls makes it tough to hone in on incoming danger. Also, the higher difficulty settings 
 are understandable in description form, but when actually in practice you begin to wonder just 
 how capable your Jedi apprentice is against simple men with laser guns. 
  
  
  VISUALS
  Speaking of the apprentice; Sam Witwer, up and coming TV star who has been on numerous big shows 
 like "Battlestar Galactica", "Smallville", and held a decent role in Stephen King's recent horror 
 film The Mist, really gave it his all for SWTFU. He even doubled as the voice of Emperor Palpatine!
 
  Truth be told, not only was the graphics on par with some of the best I've ever seen in a console 
 game, its kind of expected when you're working with visual effects giant ILM. These folks are the 
 same masterminds who brought Star Wars back to the big screen in a big way. In doing so, they've 
 found cost effective ways to bring big Hollywood production values to SWTFU. And it shows!
  
  Watch the opening cut scene and you'll see a major difference in polish compared to other games 
 that struggle with smooth character animation and believable facial expressions. SWTFU characters 
 from start to finish display such a genuine array of emotions and wonderful digital acting, you 
 may even catch yourself mumbling like I did about how much better it is than the actual Star Wars 
 movies.
  
  All nerdy gushing aside, moving through SWTFU's 10 levels begins to show the uglier side of the 
 force. The first level is really a prologue, which is short and limited. So then you have 9 levels 
 to chug your way thru, which quickly takes a negative notch once you realize 3 of them are repeated 
 in different conditions. Now you have 4 original levels to embrace, yet they even suffer from tight 
 corridors and short overall length. All levels do serve a nice dose of authentic Star Wars background 
 and design, but the repetition and lack of variety can be harmful to the observant. 
  
  AUDIO
  If you've ever heard a Star Wars jingle or saw a commercial, there is a good chance you 
 know who John Williams is without actually knowing of him. As iconic as George Lucas is for his 
 creations, Williams is known for creating some of the best space opera music ever composed. Its 
 not exactly a genre booming with rap or pop music, but his tunes have found a way to survive over 
 time and maintain its unique sound. Classical and epic, these same moving tracks fit their way 
 extremely well within SWTFU.
  While transitioning from level to level, you are treated to top notch cut scenes that resemble 
 Star Wars films to the letter. Music is eventful, the voice acting is diverse and robust, even 
 the vehicles and popular objects within the Star Wars world match everything you've ever seen from 
 the movies. Once you rampage through a few levels with controller in hand, there is a good chance 
 you'll hear a lot of the same Storm Troopers barking nonsense; but a few lightsaber slashes here 
 and there and some force grip happily washes away that negative vibe.
  
  EXTRAS
  When you first start a game in SWTFU, you'll quickly notice that menus don't really hide anything 
 from your Jedi perception. Not only are all levels visible from the get-go with small picture boxes, 
 but other areas such as costume selection and the databank reveal silhouettes of characters and 
 objects.
  Being a straight up Star Wars dork, I felt some what robbed seeing everything up front. If I didn't 
 know any better, this approach was nothing more than a ploy for curiosity. One I feel deeply takes 
 away more than it gives. 
  
  Once over this gripe, I grinded to the bitter end which was very exciting; dueling against some 
 serious Star Wars baddies and racking up a fair 500 achievement points simply for showing up was 
 nice. Then I noticed once complete, you can actually take your beefed up Jedi and replay the game 
 from start to finish. With the ability to choose different costumes (which serve no bonus values) , 
 adjusting your lightsaber colors and bonuses, maxing out Jedi powers, and finding hidden objects 
 scattered through out the game which do nothing more than help further advance the above mentioned... 
 there isn't much more left to SWTFU. And that hurts!
  
  OVERALL
  I simply love Star Wars and the universe its achieved over years of crafting. And for that, I thank 
 George Lucas and all his awesomely creative people for bringing that together for my ultimate enjoyment. 
 Unfortunately, with even my tightest pair of love goggles attached, I can't help but feel SWTFU 
 is not the end all, be all definitive Star Wars game I so badly desired.
  Thats okay, because this is a wonderful building block that can't be denied its good points: solid 
 and smooth controls over super Jedi abilities, a very potent "what if" story worth adding to the 
 Star Wars legacy, crisp visuals, exciting gameplay, and a overall good time that can last your 
 average gamer 10+ hours of sweet Star Wars greatness.
  Thats not too much to ask for in my opinion... but then again, at its full price SWTFU really boils 
 down to a fan tribute offering something I believe not many gamers will fully appreciate. Myself 
 being a SW fanatic, I was even left clamoring for more at the end, so I don't think hardcore critics 
 can judge this one fairly. If you seek a worthy weekend adventure, this game will serve you well 
 as a rental no doubt. Meditate on this you must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XLGTDipzy335
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  The game begins with you in cotrol of the Dark Lord himself, Darth Vader. You must fight your way 
 past an army of Wookies, with the help of your allies, the star ship troopers. You take a long, 
 devastating path, full of dizzy heights, rough terrain and unstable bridges until you finally reach 
 what you had originally come to find. A Jedi. Of course, you've come to eliminate him, under the 
 words of your master. You then take place in an intense battle, of which you will experience at 
 the end of each level in even greater detail than any before. Once you have conquered the almighty 
 Jedi, you find his young son, and you save the boys life in order to make you his apprentice. This 
 is the begginning of the untold story of Darth Vader's secret apprecentice, told between Sar Wars 
 III and Star Wars IV. The first level will be more of a sight for sore eyes after your first completion 
 of the game. This is because, you will have been taught the extra moves you can do, like Saber 
 Throw and Force Push. Instead of just slinging enimies into the air via the force or your light 
 saber. As much much as doing that is, it can grow tiresome and you will need some vareity to keep 
 it from getting boring.
  
  This is were the, so far, untold story begins. The boy Darth Vader once saved from death is about 
 to be thrown right back into the mix. After some training Lord Vader beilieves you are ready for 
 your first true test. This involves a Jedi at the end of it all, for you to ... dispose of. During 
 this mission, and all others, there are collectibles on the way, there are force points, which 
 help you gain powers, you can unlock different coloured light sabers and costumes and powers from 
 the force which force points cannot buy. Some, you will find along the way, wheras others will 
 be much harder to discover. And they tie in with the story perfectly, unlike the flags in Assassin's 
 Creed. During the stroy there are plenty of enimies you must defeat, and all from the original 
 Star Wars movies, which makes it all a lot more purposeful and therefore, fun.
  
  The gameplay is ridiculously good the best I have seen in many a year, and despite some graphical 
 issues, which seem to have been over exaggerated (would they have said that about the amazing DOOM?) 
 the graphics never fail to amaze me. The only thing I see wrong with this game is the length of 
 the story. It can be completed in 4 hours, depending on the difficulty. I completed it in 5. But 
 overall, one of the best games of 2008 in my books. And one you should keep an eye on for on for 
 online updates.
  
  Overall score: 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CosmoS73
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Visually, the game is amazing. The graphic details are impressive, the scenery is varied and beautiful, 
 the colors are vivid and very well done, the story is compelling and the characters performed almost 
 better than the real actors in the last three Star Wars movies and that's all I have to say in 
 the positive side of things. The targeting, control and camera issues really make it hard for me 
 to love this game. They came so close but fell short of delivering precise control. It is just 
 too easy to accidentally kill yourself by hurling things and it's just way too easy to grab the 
 wrong thing because as the camera pans, your character tends to still latch on to things in front 
 of the character rather than what is directly ahead in the camera view. By trying to make the game 
 cleaner looking and not having proper targeting reticles, it makes it really hard to control the 
 fast and furious action. KOTOR is still my favorite Star Wars game and as an RPG it cannot be fairly 
 compared to this action game but KOTOR gave the player incredible control and you always felt like 
 you were in control of the force. The Force Unleashed never delivered that level of mastery control-wise 
 but you looked good muddling through it and the force, visually, has never looked this good.
  Graphics - 9.5, Sound - 8.5, Controls - 6 , Replay - 6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit skeptical at first about getting this game and once I started playing and started unlocking 
 achievements one after the other I found myself thinking "waste of timebut it wasn't and this 
 is why.
  
  The graphic in the game looks great the sound is also OK, character moves are to cool to be true, 
 and the fact that you can demolish just about everything in the game makes it more fun. The controls 
 are also well balanced but can be a bit tricky with some of the camera angles (by this I mean the 
 fixed camera during boss fights) but it is nothing that is gonna ruin your day and make you wanna 
 chalk the game up to an ever growing list of failures that have been coming out lately.
  Only grievance I had with the game is that it is not leveled up properly so some of the things 
 you have to do at first few levels seem harder than some of the fights later on in the game. 
 
  Other than that if you want to have just plain old fun, and kick some ... you know what at the 
 same time this one won't disappoint.
  Hope you enjoy it as much as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickblah42
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  You'd think it would be pretty easy to make a Star Wars jedi game: lots of power, throw guys around, 
 be cool, etc. To that extent, FU is a pretty fun game. Unfortunately, they also added a frustrating 
 camera, gameplay mechanics which make you pull your hair out (the repeated rocket hits while you 
 can't get up for the effective one-shot death, for example) , and idiotic physics-based puzzles 
 which are incredibly tedious.
  
  Here's an example: you see a guy, in the distance, with a sniper rifle. You can't clock his attack, 
 you have no range attack, and you can't throw anything at him because the game won't target him 
 because he's too far away. Meanwhile, he's killing you. This is an example of the brilliant game 
 design which ruins what could have otherwise been a really fun game to play.
  
  It gets a decent score because the graphics are good, the physics is good, the sounds are great, 
 and the first few levels before thegame becomes tedious and frustrating are pretty fun. Save yourself 
 some money and frustration and just watch the gameplay videos online; the actual gameplay is a 
 complete not fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeybagodounuts
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw the first trailer for this game I couldn't wait for this to come out. But enough 
 about that. This game IS AWESOME! Except for the targeting system which is absolutly horrible. 
 One thing that found was that Shaak Ti should not have been in the game because she was killed 
 in Episode III by Gen. Grevious (deleated scene) . Another contradiction between the game and the 
 movies is another deleated scene in Episode III where Sen. Organa, Mon Mothma and Amadala are plotting 
 to go against Palpatine. In the game this dosne't take place until many many years after the Clone 
 Wars. I beat the first two difficulties with no problem (Apprentice and Sith Warrior) . Now I'm 
 on Sith lord and it is way harder than Sith Warrior. Which I can understand, but there is a differance 
 between being really hard and being rediculous. Or maybe it's just me. Anyway, I would recommend 
 this game for anyone who loves Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reepeet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  I've been wanting to play this game since I knew of its existence. The excitement of using the 
 powers of a Sith on the next generation console was more than enough to seduce me to the Dark Side. 
 But what about the plot? And also, would the gameplay live up to ALL our expectations? 
  
  I'm happy to say it does. The gameplay is un-parallel to anything in the already wide selection 
 of Star Wars games. Its immersive battles are complemented by a thrilling score and breathtaking 
 settings. The various force powers are more than enough to keep any gamer's imagination to use. 
 And the increase of the powers are quite noticeable and are worth every increment of its force. 
 The levels themselves are well constructed and provide enough visual excitement for any Star Wars 
 fan or apprentice.
  
  Boss battles range in difficulty, however, the Razmus Prime boss is ridiculously difficult, as 
 well as the Emperor or Darth Vader. All other bosses can be easily managed by any skilled gamer.
 
  
  The story itself literally fills all the holes between Episode 3 and 4. Nuff said in that department 
 because I wouldn't want to ruin the fun for any true believer!
  
  All in all, The Force Unleashed was a game that I thoroughly enjoyed playing. My only real complaint 
 was that it was too short. But that can only mean good things for the game right? All I really 
 wanted to do be able to enjoy the ride a little longer. 
  But what a ride it was! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is one of the first games to hold the Star Wars license on the next-generation 
 consoles. Any Star Wars fan will instantly be drawn to this title; purely due to the game's license.
 
  
  TFU puts you in the shoes of Galen Marek (Starkiller) , Darth Vaders Secret Apprentice. As you go 
 progress through the game, The Apprentice begins to show that he isn't all about the dark side. 
 Mareks indifference pushes the story forward seamlessly just as you'd expect from a Star Wars title.
 
  
  The game takes place after Episode 3, and before Episode 4. The Empire has control over the galaxy 
 and the Rebel Alliance has yet to be formed. The Great Jedi Purge is underway; Darth Vader and 
 his apprentice are on a voyage across the galaxy to wipe out the last of the Jedi.
  
  The first mission has you play as Darth Vader on the Wookie Planet of Kashyyyk, hunting down one 
 Jedi Master Kento. Darth Vader then finds a youngling who is quite strong in the force; who will 
 later become his apprentice.
  
  Mareks first mission (the games second mission) is to go to an Imperial TIE-Fighter construction 
 facility to eliminate Master Rahm Kota. From there, you travel to a few planets such as Raxus Prime, 
 Kashyyyk, Felucia and Nar Shaddaa. Now to get into specifics.
  
  
  --Graphics 9.2/10 --
  Every level and every space looks EXACTLY like it should. The character textures are really nice 
 (especially for the apprentice) as are the beautiful particle effects. Even the squeaky-clean helmets 
 of the StormTroopers look exactly like you'd expect!
  
  --Physics 10/10 --
  Ronin. Three high-powered physics engines working together make for VERY interesting physics.
 
  
  Euphoria-
  The enemies brain. While technically AI, Euphoria has to work with the other two engines to create 
 the necessary reactions for your enemies. For example, while lifting an enemy with Force Grip, 
 he may try to grab onto a nearby object or friend to try and stop you from carrying him away. This 
 can catch you off guard easily, and adds to the fun of the game.
  
  Digital Molecular Matter-
  Glass shatters like glass.
  Metal bends like metal.
  Wood splinters 
 like wood.
  Enough said.
  
  Industrial Light & Magic-
  I spoke about the particle effects before. The beautiful effects you see (from the sparks and fire 
 on Raxus Prime to the glow of the apprentice's lightsaber) are all thanks to ILM software. It's 
 simply beautiful
  
  
  --Gameplay 9.5/10 --
  Some may look at this as a hack-and-slash game. The in-depth combo system which almost forces you 
 to combine lightsaber attacks with your force powers really fleshes out what would be a run-of-the-mill 
 action game. Throwing enemies around with the force never gets old!
  
  --Sound 9.0/10 --
  You don't need an amazing sound system to appreciate this great soundtrack and the sound of your 
 terrified enemies while your lightsaber cuts through the air.
  
  
  --Replay Value 9.8/10 --
  I bought the game literally the minute that my local game store opened. 
 I stood outside waiting for the gate to open; and the minute i got home it went into my Xbox. I 
 haven't had a desire to put it down yet. That should say something.
  
  
  --Achievements 8.5/10 --
  The achievements are a little.. normal. Kill X enemies with X power, 
 beat the game on X difficulty etc. It's better than having over-complicated achievements, or just 
 too many!
  
  
  --Glitches --
  I fell through the level once. That is it. All i have run into! It seems it varies from person 
 to person, but are you going to let a few glitches completely ruin your experience??
  
  
  --Overall 9.7/10 --
  I recommend this game to Fanboys, The Hardcore and Casual gamers alike. If 
 you're unsure, rent it, and then make up your mind. Do not let reviews choose for you! Play for 
 yourself!
  
  
  
  If i missed any points, i apologize. This is my opinion of the game, if you disagree, that is fine! 
 If you agree, that's fine too. I hope you enjoyed this review, and i hope you enjoy the game even 
 more.
  
  - Spade103 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMR1904
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Want to have a blast with force powers? This is for you. Want you whale mercilessly on your enemies 
 with a lightsaber? This is for you. Want a well told, interesting story which fills in some of 
 the blanks spaces between films 3 and 4? This is for you. As with Knights of the Old Republic, 
 this game is a much better piece of entertainment than any of the last three films. It cant capture 
 the magic I felt as an eight year old being taken to see Star Wars at the cinema when it first 
 came out, but it is certainly a great deal more enjoyable than having to sit through anything with 
 Jarjar. 
  
  In terms of game play TFU plays owes much to God of War, its mixture of platforming, fighting and 
 force powers (god powers in GoW) is pretty much the same as in that franchise. Where GoW scores 
 over TFU is both those games contained much more interesting and challenging puzzle elements than 
 cant be found here. While I suppose that for many this means that there is little to get between 
 you and that the thing TFU does best, rampaging fights against hordes of enemies, for me the traps 
 and puzzles which lay between you and your goals in both of the GoW games was part of the charm. 
 It also provided a nice change of pace, making for a more rounded experience. They're also considerably 
 longer. I've read some people have had problems with the camera and with bugs, thus far (forty 
 hours+ of playing) i've only encountered one difficulty. It crashed on me once, and once only, 
 and having gone back over that sequence a couple of times since, it hasn't done so again. So it 
 seems to hold up pretty well. 
  
  Graphically it looks pretty good, but you cant help thinking that because it's being released across 
 platform that its not as sharp or as pretty as it could have been if it had been for 360 and ps3 
 alone. Still animations are good and the fighting looks crisp and smooth. One complaint is that 
 the various lightsaber crystals (you get three variations within each colour) aren't more obviously 
 differentiated 
  
  The score is everything you would expect from a Star Wars product. That is to say another iteration 
 of John Williams' fantastic score. Maybe after thirty plus years of hearing it, some players might 
 be a little it tired of it, but I feel it still holds up beautifully. The script and voice acting 
 is of a uniformly high standard. The emotions coming across as natural and apposite to the story 
 being told. 
  
  All told I can recommend The Force Unleashed as a fine game. Now if you'll excuse me have a Jedi 
 Master to go and slaughter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rush4334
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  this game is amazing. the graphics are great. the force lightning has a nice feel and so does the 
 force push. its really neat to see wood actually splinter, and to watch stormtroopers grab onto 
 other objects and even fellow stormtoopers as u hold them in the air with your force powers! the 
 rancors add a nice touch to the game and its really fun to use your force powers to completly destroy 
 them!! the stages and different planets each have a different feel to them. they have stages like 
 razus prime, the droid garbage planet, felucia, the plant-filled planet, and even the death star 
 itself!! the storyline is great!! the story fits in perfect with the star wars story. the story 
 sometimes overshadows the gameplay but its not too bad. the characters all have a different feel 
 to them as you fight against them or with them. the jedi battles are fun but can get frusterating 
 at a higher difficulty. my favorite level is raxus prime, act 2, where you have to actually bring 
 down a empire star destroyer from space with the force!! it is sometimes hard to lock on and target 
 objects but thats minor compared to the gameplay and graphics. you will be playing this game for 
 hours!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triclops41
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  A bit too short and rough around the edges, but the force is used extremely well, control is good 
 and environmental destruction is great. Couldn't stop playing it. Beat it both light and dark side 
 to see both endings, this is the best star wars story since the Thrawn book trilogy. Its a less 
 polished star wars version of God of War, and it delivers on its promises. Even though Lucasarts 
 fired all the people who made this, I hope it gives some inspiration and direction to future star 
 wars action games. The complaints about shallowness of weapon and force upgrades and about the 
 fact that you only make one choice late in the game misses the whole point. This isn't KOTOR3, 
 its God of War in Star Wars. Because of the length, you will want to play through twice, for two 
 reasons. The first is to see both endings, but the second reason is that by the time you get a 
 feel for the solid combo system and force usage, the game is over. My second playthrough was much 
 more enjoyable because I finally knew how to properly unleash the Force. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candilga
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game. With all its hype its physics engine amazing graphics storyline 
 and not to mention of the few action games worth playing on any console system for years.
  
  I have to admit I enjoyed playing through it the first time, force powers are cool though I 
 think the only significant force powers that show off the physics system is force grip and force 
 push. The force lightning, shield, lightsaber throw honestly are a little boring.
  
  I think the first gripe about this game is its length... years in development and done in less 
 than 10 hours? what's up with that. The KOTOR I & II games were about 3 times longer than that 
 and were fabulous...
  
  2nd of all is it gets very repetitive after a while... Its just lift up enemies.... lightning attack... 
 force repulse when they get around you and over and over... I don't know I would have liked to 
 have seen more lightsaber duels as in Jedi Academy and more force power users...
  
  3rd and not least is that the game is full of visual glitches and honestly they could have fixed 
 that for the years of timing they had....
  
  All in all, it's a great story but feels that Lucasarts spent too much time trying to create an 
 innovative game with interesting physics rather than making an enjoyable SW game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j3ster1337
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  The game play may not be the most deep but its great fun to play around with the physics using 
 powerful force moves that destroy helpless enemies with ease.
  
  This game is great for the player who likes to feel "BAD-ASS"
  
  If you enjoyed Assassin's 
 creed then i would recommend this game, even if your not a hardcore star wars fan.
  
  The graphics are slick and the game has some great animations.
  
  I was surprised to see how 
 harshly the game was reviewed by some reputable sites/mags, no other games give you a thrill of 
 such 'god-like' powers.
  
  If this game had a multiplayer it would be one of my favorite games to date.
  
  The story is 
 engrossing and fits well in the star wars universe. The voice acting and dialog is top draw.
  
  My advice is to look past the harsh reviews and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prnstr666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  Way to low of a score given to this game! 7.5 a joke right? It a Star Wars game that alone gives 
 it a 8. I like the game
  This game is a Star wars fans wet dream! You Start the game as Darth Vader and get all the cool 
 powers to play with. How doesn't like to play as Darth? Then you are Darth's apprentice and you 
 have to build up your character as you go throw the game. I think over all this game is worth a 
 good long look at especially if you a fan! I like the game play but controls are a pain but combos 
 are cool. The visuals are good and the story is good. So why did this game get an 7.5. I hated 
 the grand theft series but those got at lest a 8.5 didn't they? I give those a 5.0. I can't wait 
 for this game to come out on PC!! This should be good with a keyboard and mouse. That's how game 
 should be played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsomniacZombie
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  The hype of this game made it really hard to live up to. Hell the game would have had to be perfect 
 to live up to the year long hype this game had.
  
  The story line is great, whats not to love about being the secret apprentice of Darth Vader? The 
 artwork and imagining is great for the cut scenes, however sometime when youre in the middle of 
 a fight, I tend to be reminded of the Battlefront series from the last gen systems. 
  
  You are very down with the Force as your powers grow and evolve. The things you do with the Force 
 are very innovative and original. Crushing a ATST is pretty incredible.
  
  The downside of the gameplay (which is everything) is the very repetitive hack and slash feel that 
 makes it pretty close to a button masher.
  
  The upgrades and costume options are nice, and I know everyones drooling over the black Saber. 
 
  
  For a fan of the greatest story ever told, you were sold before this game was even released, so 
 enjoy it as I do. If your not a superfan, this game may be a letdown for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  I must say ive waited 5 days for this game to come through the mail after i bought it. And oh my 
 god! is this game fun.!
  
  ive never had so much fun with a star wars game in ages.
  the combat and gameplay is great. the force powers are fun to use and feel right.
  
  the Sound 
 is fantastic with all the music from all 6 star wars movies, and sound effects such as light sabers 
 and AT-ST walking sound are all in here,
  
  the Story is fantastic great voice work that really pulls you in and makes you feel like your watching 
 a Star wars flick.
  
  Bad points are that the grahpics engine can glitch out a points. Ive had Dark troopers just lock 
 up and stand there with no animation on me. bosses that get stuck on objects and a few minor sound 
 glitches. also the 360 version has some Vsync issues but nothing Major.
  
  Does this take away from the game not really the bugs aint gameplay destroying and when they do 
 happen it can cause a few giggles :)
  
  I love this game im a Star wars fan to some degree and it is giving me everything that ive wanted 
 from Star wars game for some time.
  
  All in all good game with replay value to make you come back.
  -------
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Sound: 
 10/10
  Grahpics: 8/10
  Story: 8/10
  ------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GRIMSAGE
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  After playing the game from start to finish I have to say this is the best Star Wars Game since 
 Kotor I. It had a fantastic story on par with the original trilogy. It also tied the events from 
 Ep. 3 and 4 together nicely and explains alot. I do not really understand what people are saying 
 about targeting problems because I ran into very few. The only time I had targeting problems was 
 in the Death Star because of the close quarters. I thought the graphics were good and the sound 
 was good as well. I thought the enemy AI was weak but I think the point of the game was to feel 
 like a power dark side sith and I think this game accomplishes it. They also mentioned the game 
 breaks away from what makes it great but I did not get a sense of that at all. If you are a Star 
 Wars fan this is a must play and if your not its a great action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firefox26
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this is star wars God of War style. Except with some bugs. When i started out on 
 this game my expectations were high and they were met. Not only do you get to use AWESOME force 
 powers you get a visual that has not been seen anywhere. Examples are when you force push in felucia 
 the vegetation just sways as they should. Characters are great! My favorite was PROXY. SPOILER 
 WARNING: How many androids do you know who's main purpose is not only to serve but who has an unending 
 desire to kill you? Vader sounded perfect in this game. Lightsaber sounds were unbelievable it 
 went FAR beyond what I was expecting. I have a 5.1 system on this and it delivered. The bugs stopped 
 this game from a 10. the star destroyer scene didnt match the controls. Sometimes on the death 
 star you get stuck in a wall? Didnt understand that. Also targeting was EXTREMELY difficult when 
 you wanted to throw objects at enemies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed in an experience unlike any other. For the first time in the history of Star 
 Wars games you can actually feel that The Force is every bit as powerful as the movies make it. 
 As Starkiller, Darth Vader's secret apprentice you will have powers which will make you feel like 
 a god, throwing TIE fighters at people, compressing AT-STs into metal boxes and killing Jedi filth 
 with a true Sith Lord lightsaber mastery. 
  
  All in all this is one of the best action games out there, and probably the best Star Wars game 
 ever made. The game got somewhat mixed reviews, because of a supposedly bad camera, not good targeting 
 system. Well, I just finished the game and I have to say, the whole deal with the camera and targeting 
 is just a minor inconvenience. I didn't really notice it. There was maybe one point in the game 
 where the targeting system really was an issue, but that's just one tiny thing, surely it doesn't 
 matter that much when you're really into the game. People who say that the targeting system is 
 a great flaw to the game probably didn't feel it as a whole experience. Because this game is not 
 a sum of its parts, it's a whole new, powerful experience. Analyzing every single aspect of the 
 gameplay is absurd, because when you put them all together they work just fine and the action is 
 so intense and enthralling that you won't even notice some minor bugs. 
  Also I have to disagree with the opinion that the game tends to be frustrating. It really does 
 not. Maybe one boss fight is a bit frustrating, but the cinematic after it is absolutely worth 
 it. Anyway, this game deserves praise for many different things, here's some of them:
  1. Face animation. You'll see all the facial muscles moving, the animation is very lifelike and 
 looks real.
  2. The physics of the game. Combining three physics engines in this game was probably the thing 
 that would make or break it. Somehow they did it, and it looks and feels absolutely spectacular. 
 You won't see a game with more realistic physics.
  3. Absolutely incredible story, this does not get said enough. 
  4. Great boss fights. The ending 
 sequences are simply mind-blowing.
  5. A whole new approach to Star Wars. The game is innovative to such a degree it actually redefines 
 some aspects of how we view Star Wars, and especially the Force.
  
  I could go on and on for pages, but the message I wanna get across here is that this game is revolutionary 
 and underappreciated. It is a masterpiece that you can experience on many levels and is really 
 a breath of fresh air, not only for the action genre, but for the whole industry as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The Star Wars universe is one of the most expansive in modern fiction and allows for the creation 
 of games that explore the initial success of the films. The lucrative franchise has given birth 
 to some of the most impressive games but also shows how such a popular entity can be misrepresented 
 and misconstrued. 
  
  From its initial announcement, The Force Unleashed has been advertized as the ultimate Star Wars 
 experience. An experience which will not only let the player control Darth Vader's omnipotent apprentice, 
 but guarantees that the "force will blow your mind". This promise is seemingly fulfilled at several 
 points in the game because of the engaging storyline and the beautiful level design, but it is 
 diluted by unabashedly annoying enemy design and interruptive technical glitches.
  
  Although fans of the Star Wars saga may find it particularly predictable, the story is still intriguing 
 and fills in the largest gap in the canon. The main focus is on the secret apprentice of Darth 
 Vader, but his own journey sheds light on the dissolution of the remnants of the republic while 
 explaining the circumstances surrounding the establishment of the Rebel Alliance. 
  
  While the story unfolds, you will travel to some beautiful locales. Both new planets and familiar 
 places are among the bright and vivid worlds the apprentice explores as he attempts to complete 
 his master's bidding. Many of the levels are made up of wide open spaces that show phenomenal art 
 direction and allow the apprentice to use his full repertoire of force powers. Yet often times 
 the apprentice is contained-both literally and figuratively-in dark small corridors of space stations. 
 
  
  In addition to the story and the level design, the game does a number of things right, particularly 
 at the beginning. Before you take control of the main protagonist, the player has the ability to 
 fight as Darth Vader on the Wookiee planet of Kashyyk. The game gives an enticing preview of what 
 an all-powerful Sith lord has at his disposal as Vader can force grip, choke hold, and throw his 
 lightsaber among other deadly moves. The prologue level is one of the best parts of the game as 
 you are in a vivid world, able to use all the force powers, and technical glitches do not hamper 
 the experience as they do in later parts of the game. 
  It is the initial success of the game that makes the shortcomings of the later levels all the more 
 unacceptable. Almost immediately after taking control of the apprentice (aptly named Starkiller 
 as homage to the original name of Luke Skywalker) it becomes apparent that like in so many other 
 games, the player must accumulate all of the force powers and powerful combos.
  
  The prologue's ease is completely reversed as the apprentice has problems mastering even the most 
 basic skills of lightsaber combat-reflecting laser fire. At the same time, the apprentice has the 
 ability to lift things with the force as monolithic as Tie Fighters but the power is often times 
 rendered obsolete because of the horrid targeting system. In most games where there is an automatic 
 locking system, the way the camera is facing will determine which enemies are targeted. In one 
 of the biggest design flaws, the targeting system in The Force Unleashed is based upon what Starkiller 
 is looking at. This makes beautiful level design burdensome as the confines of small corridors 
 further illuminate problems with the camera. 
  
  In an ironic turn, once the player gains experience and chooses which force powers to power up, 
 the enemy design makes the use of force powers less effective. Throughout the game, the player 
 gains force spheres by gaining levels and finding holocrons which allows player to strengthen force 
 powers, force skills, and force combos. However, once the player attains these powerful upgrades, 
 the enemies become less threatened by the force. Some gain force shields and others can block lightsaber 
 blows with ease, therefore making the most simple of enemies a difficult and frustrating affair. 
 Adding to the frustration, many times enemies will glitch, either not having a health bar or simply 
 stuttering around. This coupled with the fact that the player can only load from specific checkpoints 
 (many times placed before unskippable cutscenes) makes many harder sections of the game simply 
 not fun. 
  
  When Starkiller faces off against Jedi masters, the force powers become almost useless. Many of 
 the fights will feel like they are more based on getting lucky hits with a lightsaber than any 
 sort of skill or strategy. Lightsaber battles, a staple of the Star Wars experience, are never 
 epic ---rather the game relies heavily on the archaic God of War button press mini-game to dispose 
 of bosses as well as the larger enemies such as Rancors and AT-STs. 
  
  The gameplay tends to lose most elements of fun and every sense of being fair due to the drastic 
 changes in character design and the unoriginal boss battle mechanics. Yet there are still sections 
 of the game that will prove awe inspiring to fans and non fans alike. As mentioned before, what 
 really saves the game experience is the overall presentation and intriguing story. The game has 
 incredibly imaginative and beautiful worlds and likeable characters which create a Star Wars film 
 experience. One can argue that some characters mirror those in the films and that some take away 
 from established themes, but they are crafted well and combined with John Williams rousing score, 
 add emotional weight to the story. 
  
  The Force Unleashed is a Star Wars fan service-filling in holes in the canon and allowing players 
 to have control of mystical force powers. It was promised to give the ultimate Star Wars experience 
 and was hyped to be one of the best games of the year. While the game has impressive elements, 
 unpolished and uninspired gameplay mechanics and frustrating enemies do not allow The Force Unleashed 
 to achieve greatness. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: megagood
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  I definitely go into any Star Wars game submitting to the mystique of the universe. Star Wars games 
 are the best example of why licensed products are so prevalent - they get people to pick up a game 
 they may not pick up on its own merits. 
  
  The Force Unleashed has the added benefit of being considered canon, which is rare for a video 
 game. Where TFU really shines is the story. It really is worth picking up just for this contribution 
 to the Star Wars mythos. Has any other character been introduced who so immediately had a major 
 impact on what we all agree is the greatness of Star Wars (Eps IV through VI) ? Plus it gets the 
 *feel* right. The original trilogy movies all hinged on the redemption of a character (Han, Lando, 
 Anakin) , this is where Eps I-III faltered.
  
  TFU plays decently well as a game. The powers and combos are very satisfying. Floating up and curling 
 into a ball and then exploding with power - I can't get enough of that. However, I definitely have 
 tended to use just a few powers (electricity) and combos (sith strike) and have been able to beat 
 almost everyone thusly. 
  
  The biggest gripe I have with TFU is how constrained I've felt a lot of the time. This is especially 
 noticeable during boss battles, when I have consistently felt cheated by not being able to use 
 the whole arena. The worlds in general *look* expansive but are quite limited and linear. Areas 
 that look enticing to explore are consistently off limits, to the point that I've died several 
 times because I thought I could hop explore something and instead dropped into the abyss. 
  
  On top of the gameplay elements, there are lots of random bugs that don't impact gameplay but 
 just feel sloppy, whether it's the missing Starkiller in some of the load screens (leaving just 
 the starburst behind him) , odd sound editing, weird load times (why do things like force upgrades 
 have load times?) , or a few serious game crashes. 
  
  As a game, TFU is definitely average. If it didn't have the benefit of the license behind it, I 
 doubt it would be making any waves in the gaming community. But as a contribution to the Star Wars 
 universe, it's very, very satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klmillis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  I am dumbstruck when I read reviews about this game. The Gamespot review drags the game through 
 the mud for its auto-aim force powers and AI glitches here and there, giving it a 7.5 out of 10. 
 In reality, I've had only a few more enjoyable times playing a game, even with the auto-aim not 
 always highlighting what I'd like it to. The reason: Immersion. The story line is gripping, even 
 for un-indoctrinated Star Wars noobs like me. The artistry is top-shelf, the gameplay is dynamic 
 and quite varied in many facets.
  
  All in all, the visceral conflicts, immersive storyline, and artistry, package up nicely into a 
 great game. All of the described short comings do not warrant the review score at a 7.5. Scores 
 aren't everything.
  
  Listen to On-the-Spot for the week of Sept 16th, where they banter over this game. I think it's 
 Shawn McInnis (sp?) who describes his experience with the game as lacklustre and not quite what 
 he was expecting. He says the 7.5 is warranted and defends the score. However, every time Brendon 
 Sinclair (again sp?) asks him about a specific features like AI or artistry Shawn replies (paraphrased) 
 "Yes, that feature is great". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxpsp
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Aside from numerous frame rate hiccups, randomly vanishing enemies, and sporadic breakdowns in 
 game play controls, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a delightfully quick adventure providing 
 the Star Wars look, sound and feel of the trilogies on one interactive nugget of gaming.
  
  Fans of Star Wars will definitely enjoy the story and twist presented in SWTFU. Developer Lucas 
 Arts has remained true to the low-key romance, story twists and the multitude of destinations traditional 
 to the Star Wars lineage, albeit keeping it short and digestible. Playing through on Sith Lord 
 difficulty took me about 14 hours to complete (which may be 10-11 hours for a seasoned lightsaber 
 wielder) . Visiting worlds such as Raxxus Prime and the ever popular home world of the Wookies, 
 Kashyyyk, will thrill fans but the revisits kill the sense of a seemingly (and quite possible) 
 epic adventure.
  
  The story, which is modeled to take place between Episodes III and IV, involves Darth Vader and 
 his secret apprentice, Starkiller, and Vader's undeniable attempt to rule the galaxy and spread 
 fear amongst the Republic. Various characters true to Star Wars lore make appearances throughout 
 the game. Without giving away too much, just know the story follows the scripting of all the Star 
 Wars films you've come to love and enjoy with its light romantic side, misdirection, and memorable 
 battle between good and evil. You will indeed feel like you are a part of the movie and the added 
 benefit of playing as a new character really makes the experience all the more exciting as you 
 are taking actions that have not been seen or told previously. 
  
  The most compelling and enjoyable feature of the game is of course the art style. Environments 
 such as Feluccia and the final level at times leave you feeling as if you are indeed in the middle 
 of the Star Wars universe. The attention to detail in the foliage and in mechanical assets on levels 
 makes it a wonder to explore and will certainly entice players to want to see it all. There are 
 a few moments where the environment design does appear to be a bit rushed, but these instances 
 are very rare and, during the heat of battle, are negligible. Horizon lines and sky limits give 
 worlds a grand appearance along with action occurring all around you while you're still focused 
 on foes in your immediate vicinity. Interaction with your surroundings are represented well, especially 
 on the Planet of Fellucia where trees, leaves, and plants react to your running into them or slashing 
 them with your saber by bending, falling, bouncing, or even stretching.
  
  Controls in SWTFU are in a word, acceptable. With all you can do as a Sith Warrior, it is a bit 
 to get used to. This game is a button masher for all intents and purposes. Your main form of combat 
 will be achieved by means of moderately challenging button combinations. The inclusion of a talent 
 matrix which is upgradeable as you progress through the game allows you to learn the basics and 
 move up from there. As you advance through the game, the most damaging attacks are not necessarily 
 combos, but rather complex button groupings that involve pulling a trigger and pressing or holding 
 another button. Oddly, when you do feel you have the hang of producing devastating combos (and 
 they are quite destructive) , you have to deal with the frame rate issue. It seems when you chain 
 together a series of awesome attacks the game frame rate drops to maybe a measly 10 fps, but once 
 it kicks back up, your combo is complete but the engine has forgotten what comes next regarding 
 your chained assault and you will wind up getting blasted or thrown into walls by bigger foes. 
 Keeping combos short, simple and to the point relieves this struggle, but definitely minimizes 
 the gratification you'd get otherwise.
  Quick-time events also make their abundant presence in the game. You'll need to participate in 
 them to take down large foes, win lightsaber lockup duels, force push and lighting duels, and boss 
 fights. They're not overbearing in any sense, but for some of the large foes, you'll get a bit 
 tired of the repeated animation when defeating a Rancor or a AT-ST (the Imperial Walkers) .
  
  The game also provides multiple training simulations that are somewhat aggravating due to timing 
 of your button combo within a confined area. This training exercises give you an opportunity to 
 hone your skills and gain force talent point which are used to upgrade your skills (force talent 
 points are also gained through game play; the better you play the more points you're awarded) . 
 Skill Challenges round out the training simulation portion of the game, however, these frustrating 
 feats don't deliver much reward and are best left alone unless you're looking for the achievement 
 that's tied to completing them all.
  
  Other collectibles in the game include costumes, database entries, lightsaber color crystal and 
 lightsaber power crystals. The color crystals are only for show ranging from red, yellow, blue 
 or green and variations of those hues. The power crystals are the real delight as you can fit your 
 lightsaber with a crystal that can emit more electrical damage or better reflect and deflect blaster 
 fire to gain the upper hand in battles. The only downside is only being able to utilize one crystal 
 at a time. Not sure how to go about fixing this, but it may have been nice to at least combine 
 the attributes of two crystals. It would have made a few sections of the game a lot easier to get 
 through.
  
  Targeting in the game is much to be desired. You have the option to either toggle or hold the targeting 
 button, but on either setting, camera issues cause your targets to be either behind you or in many 
 cases right on top of you which cause the reticule to either be invisible and jumping or non-existent. 
 The camera fails again in a lot of mini-boss and boss fights when your character becomes cornered 
 and unable to dash out of harms way or reposition your attacks. On the reverse, if you cornered 
 any enemy, the majority of the time, they'd disappear and in one very importance boss fight, never 
 come back and force me to kill myself in order to restart the section.
  
  The sound is another triumph of the game and why not  it's Lucas Arts. Blaster sounds and the 
 swinging of your lightsaber carry the presence apparent in the movies and in 5.1 Dolby Surround, 
 you will feel as if those blast are hurting. The sound of your use of the Force is a great pleasure 
 as well. The musically score in The Force Unleashed is a mesh of new and old music from the trilogies 
 and really gives the game a sense that it is indeed it's own chapter in the saga all while making 
 it believable that it does fit. The music that plays after finishing off a boss is thrilling and 
 makes you want to continue as that sense of accomplishment is perceived after every hit, boss, 
 and level.
  
  At the end of the day, Star Wars is a compelling adventure with a few annoyances that can be overlooked 
 given the visuals and what it's trying to do with the game play. Something new is always desirable 
 and Lucas Arts' release has accomplished the feat of bringing lightsaber action, graphics, and 
 an original story to a next-gen system which I personally wanted for a while. It's something about 
 not knowing what's going to happen and being involved than knowing how the story goes and just 
 acting it out. That's where the value in this game lies. Unfortunately, after one playthrough, 
 that joy is diminished as it becomes just another hack and slash adventure. Still, the faithful 
 Star Wars fan and the adventure game enthusiast will find Star Wars: The Force Unleashed a delight 
 if they are willing to overlook its shortcomings.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  So what is Force Unleashed? An action game? A beat-em-up? An action-adventure? An action-RPG? Well, 
 it doesn't really do any of these things well, and feels like it was created without a strong sense 
 of direction.
  
  So-called "cross-genre" games achieve one of three things:
  
  A. Brilliant mix-breed gameplay that busts out of being classified in any one genre. Examples include 
 Half-Life 2, Bioshock, and Nicole Kidman.
  
  B. Quirky, fun title that does a few genres lightly, but well enough to be a really fun title. 
 Examples include Fable, Castle Crashers, and the Pontiac Fiero.
  
  C. A slightly schitzo title that doesn't know exactly what it is, and doesn't really excel at any 
 one thing. Examples include Force Unleashed and Kevin Costner.
  
  So yes, Force Unleashed is the Kevin Costner of videogames. Flawed (has a fair number of bugs) , 
 repetitive (same feel to just about every level) , and uninspired (despite using the very cool premise 
 of being a Sith and not on either the Jedi or Empire side) . The game tells a good tale through 
 cutscenes, but that same drama and mood doesn't really carry back into the action very well. It's 
 like you're watching a movie on your TV and playing the movie-based action game on your GBA at 
 the same time.
  
  You get to use dark force powers "on steroids" -- you're more powerful than any Star Wars character 
 in any game past, and that aspect is a total blast. However, after playing 4 or 5 identical levels, 
 you're left wondering if anything new is ever going to happen. 
  
  Even playing as THE Darth Vader on the opening level, you feel like you're working a Vader puppet 
 -- there's no personality to ANYONE or ANYTHING in the entire game. It almost feels like a stand-up 
 coin-op arcade game.
  
  That all said, I don't know that the developers/designers were necessarily going for anything more 
 than a straight up Star Wars themed beat-em-up, and if so, we're all being very unfair to the game. 
 However, if you're going to take on the world of Star Wars, be prepared for universe-sized expectations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casperaiki
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  From the beginning till the end Force Unleashed keeps you interested. The main character's battle 
 and struggle is great. This should be a movie as it has all the parts needed! As always, Vader 
 and Emperor all full on intense and completely dark.
  
  Graphics, game play, and storyline are all phenomenal. Just another phenomenal storyline in the 
 SW universe. To use the original name 'Starkiller' was perfect. The betrayal, deception, and violence 
 of the dark side is truly evident in each chapter. As well as the struggle to do what is right. 
 Best storyline I have seen in a game since Halo 3. Best Jedi simulator yet! Hands down an awesome 
 experience. The only con: need more variety in enemies and force powers... just a minimal complaint. 
 Look forward to the next one if they have it! Thank you again to Mr. Lucas and Lucasarts team! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ternet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  This game had me on my feel sweet in my palms yelling I am the greatest sith lord to have every 
 lived. Then ten minutes cursing the heavens for every giving me the original trilogy. Frustrating 
 parts brakes The Fore Unleashed from an amazing Star Wars game into a what do I do, eh, I don't 
 even care kinda game. Flinging a Tie fighter into a squad of men, amazing fighting a boss and not 
 being able to tell who you are, not amazing. The targeting system is frustrating and will occasionally 
 cause you to die. It's amazing how at times you won't be able to target a rancor right in front 
 of you. But don't despise Lucas yet, because this game gives the player a feeling of true power. 
 Force lightning, flinging enemies out of the way pulling open huge doors will satisfy your nerdy 
 lust to control the force. Solid story and great voice acting, except for the screams (sounds like 
 a five year old boy) had me saying goodbye private whatever in The Mist hello Starkiller. It's 
 fun, it's compelling, it's the Star Wars game I've been waiting to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMULLAN81
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  I will say that both consoles look very good for this game but the achievements just give me more 
 reason to play the game and kill everyone with just the force push, lighte saber throw, etc.
  
  Just a very enjoyable game.
  I will there were some glitches, such as me getting stuck in 
 invisible walls which happened once whe i fell through some crack.
  But Just being able to use the force and be darth vader and especially some of the costumes are 
 really amazing.
  it's a great game to own!!
  Also its amazing to see how certain people get thrown around with the force grab.
  I feel that 
 what I just said is without really being a huge star wars fan. I've seen all the movies but haven't 
 read the books and my friends have told me they enjoy the game way more because of the books. ( 
 even though the game misses out on some key things)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  I want to chop a stormtrooper in half, and it's not letting me! Star Wars raped my childhood. Lucas 
 is only in for the money. Flannel-man will rue the day he started wearing flannel! Juno is a slutty 
 bimbo! It goes against canon! Learn to write Lucas! Jar Jar Binks is behind everything? GLITCH!!!
 
  
  STOP
  
  What's your problem with the game?
  
  GLITCH!
  
  huh?
  
  I said Glitch, It's glitchy, glitches suck.
  
  Anything else?
  
  Juno's stupid, she's showing 
 cleavage! oh and. The camera sucks, targeting is broken. THE GAME IS BROKEN TOTALLY UNPLAYABLE! 
 Game is Glitch!
  
  There are people who don't know what there talking about they sound like this. 
  
  It's a fun 
 game there are problems with the camera that could have been fixed had they had an option to lock 
 the camera onto something, instead they would often zoom out and try to work it that way. With 
 mixed success of course. But most of the time I found the camera easy to work with. The game locked 
 up on me all of once. I occasionally saw transparent texture, where what I was standing on was 
 somehow invisible, which was solved by rotating the camera. Your mileage may very but I didn't 
 find them to break the game any. 
  
  The targeting only gave me trouble when I fought Vader other wise not really, again mileage. 
 
  
  The game includes some very nice platform puzzles and challenging boss fights. Crazy good graphics 
 and sound and a story that maybe should have been a movie, or at least an episode of the proposed 
 live action TV series. 
  
  A fun game and great story both of which left me wanting more. The game does not take long to beat. 
 I didn't feel shorted on the experience though I just wanted more. That's a good thing. 
  
  Play it. Enjoy it. I only wish there were more of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars the Force Unleashed: The Force Unleashed, developed by Lucasarts, places you in the boots 
 of Vader's apprentice and bridges the gap between Episode 3 and A New Hope.
  
  As previously stated, you play as Darth Vader's secret Apprentice, Starkiller. You are given the 
 orders to hunt down hidden Jedi and "bring them to justice". The story is pretty solid and enjoyable, 
 even if you're not a star wars fan.
  
  The game really focuses on one thing, force powers. You start out with force push and as you progress 
 through the game you'll unlock more force powers such as lightning and repulse. While there isn't 
 a huge variety of force powers you're bound to have a blast throwing enemies around and shocking 
 people to death. It's always fun to watch a stormtrooper dangle helplessly in the air, as a friend 
 clings to his foot. Then, you send them bouncing across the map. You can unlock more abilities 
 as you upgrade Starkiller and by the end of the game you're wreaking some serious havoc. Too bad 
 the game is plagued with Anti-Force units... There are plenty of things to unlock like costumes 
 and lightsaber crystals. As you fight, you build up points. When you have enough points you level 
 up and you come closer to completing an objective. With multiple endings and a bunch of achievements 
 there's a nice amount of replay value to keep you coming back as well.
  
  The graphics are pretty and there are plenty of different environments. The cut scenes however 
 are pre-rendered and this can be kind of annoying when Starkiller is magically switching between 
 his costumes. The audio combined with the graphics really deliver a kind that star wars feeling.
 
  
  The targeting system in this game is horrible. It's always changing it's mind making things very 
 frustrating. There's also the dreaded Default Text glitch, which causes the player to start a new 
 save. Some times you (enemies included) may drop through the level. Enemies die, you don't. The 
 menu is a pain to navigate since every time you want to upgrade or change your costume you have 
 to watch a loading screen. This is very annoying since you'll be constantly going into the menu.
 
  
  Needless to say, if you're a star wars fan, buy it. It answers some of the questions you might 
 of had at the ending of Episode 3. If you're not, rent it first. It's a fun and enjoyable game 
 but it's just too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Being a huge Star Wars fan, I've been excited for this game ever since I heard Lucas Arts would 
 be making it. The game has been getting mixed critic reviews but good player reviews, I wasn't 
 really quite sure on what to expect before I began playing. Fortunately, the game is good, but 
 disappointing, considering how long we've been waiting for this game to come out.
  
  STORY: Most people who purchase this game will hopefully be familiar with the Star Wars stories, 
 and if you aren't, I won't be filling you in on episodes 1-6. You play as Starkiller, Darth Vader's 
 secret apprentice. You are assigned to kill the last of the remaining Jedi that are still scattered 
 in different parts of the galaxy. Starkiller interacts with Vader, but he mainly spends his time 
 with a droid called PROXY and the pilot, Juno Eclipse. The dialogue is just as good as any of the 
 last three Star Wars movies, so the story will definitely satisfy you. Score - 9.1
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are quite incredible. The art design is rich and beautiful, depending on 
 which planet you're on. The cinematic cutscenes can at times look real. The game has some high 
 quality lighting and shadowing as well. Starkiller looks like a real person, but the other character 
 models (even though they don't look excellent) are still good. However, there are some occasional 
 slow-downs and bugs that prevent it from being excellent. Score - 9.2
  
  SOUND: You probably have an idea of what the game sounds like. From sounds of battle to Starkiller's 
 lighting and force powers, it all sounds great with the great voice acting. Score - 8.5
  
  GAMEPLAY: Being a Sith, you have lighting, force push, force pull and lightsaber attacks. It's 
 a blast to wreak havoc among the stormtroopers, whether you be slicing them with your lightsaber, 
 electrocuting them, or throwing them or objects into them. You'll be able to upgrade Starkiller's 
 abilities, and you can replay missions while having full upgrades to cause even more destruction. 
 The targeting system can be a bit frustrating in tight or enclosed spaces. You lock onto an object 
 by where Starkiller is facing and not by where the camera is facing. Some of the enemies, like 
 bosses, can be challenging and require a bit of strategy. One problem I can't stand is how often 
 you accidentally die form falling off a ledge or something after you just beat a mini boss. The 
 checkpoints really need to be more frequent. The gameplay is all-in-all entertaining, but, considering 
 that you'll be playing the game for around 8 hours, it will probably be a bore after the first 
 few levels, especially with no multiplayer. Score - 7
  
  ENJOYMENT: The game will probably take you around 8 or so hours to beat, depending on which difficulty 
 setting you play on. There's basically no point in replaying the entire game except for achievements, 
 and there isn't any multiplayer, and that makes it the weakest point of the game. Score - 6.5
 
  
  FINAL SCORE - 7.7 - A very good rent and probably a must buy for Star Wars fans. The game is genuinely 
 entertaining, but it feels to me like a bit of a missed opportunity, especially with no multiplayer. 
 The Force Unleashed is a good action game in its own right, but still a bit of a disappointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eckokid8301
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  What can i say ? this game is very, very cool. I'm slightly disappointed that this wasn't an actual 
 movie, and then made into a game because it's just that damn good. The flaws are there, but nothing 
 is ever truly perfect right ? The voice over is right on, i enjoyed the cast of characters, the 
 game itself played very smoothly (camera was a little funny) but the motions, and the force powers 
 and the lightsaber antics were just right. i knocked off a full point because i feel the ending 
 could have been better, but it was great overall. The game made darth vader lose even more cool 
 points than the first three films... he's a buster now in my eyes. Starkiller is the most powerful 
 jedi i have seen to date... pulled a damn star destroyer out of the sky, WTF ? Extremely high replay 
 value as well, once you've got all your force powers leveled up, u gotta play through it again 
 and destroy stuff with no care for human life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benzo396
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I read the review and sorry guys I have to disagree with the rating Star Wars: The Force Unleashed 
 received. I think it deserves better than 7.5, so I gave it an 8.5. I understand some of the issues 
 that were discussed in the review; however, I don't think it took away from the play value of this 
 game. I mean when you can Sith Punt a Jawa who needs targeting. The story of SW: TFU fit perfectly 
 in to the SW movie series. It fills a few gaps that desperately needed to be filled because SW 
 fans wanted to know and see it for themselves. I think the designers got it right. I read on here 
 a comment from someone who was upset that Starkiller became a Jedi. Well after going through the 
 game I understand why they made him a Jedi. Having the game end with Starkiller as a Sith would 
 not have made much sense and in my opinion it would've destroyed the integrity of the SW series 
 seeing how it's always been Darth Vader and Darth Sidious. I like the portrayal of Vader in the 
 game as well. He was always one step ahead of everyone in the original movies and it was no different 
 in this game. Not to mention, the developers stayed on target with the conflict within Vader which 
 was good to see. The Storyline was great. I thought the controls were really good. I think the 
 targeting would have made things a lot easier, but I really don't think it was that much of an 
 issue to the point it made this game a bad one, come on let's be real. I can't really speak for 
 anyone on game glitches because I only experienced a few which were at the beginning of the cinematic 
 and one major glitch while in Imperial Raxus Prime. Other than that, I didn't experience any others 
 after that. The levels were a little confusing because if you were attacked by enemies you lot 
 sight of where you were going in some places if you weren't paying attention, but I got through 
 it. Plus I bought a strategy guide, so I could unlock everything and you can't cheat because if 
 you do you can't save. I love the Jedi ending, but the Dark Side ending didn't do it for me and 
 I'll leave it at that. I don't want to spoil the endings for anyone. I thought the game was OFF 
 THE HOOK and I recommend those of you who haven't picked it up to go out at some point and purchase 
 or rent this game. Buy it because I've beaten it and I'm playing it a second time already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhelljack
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Glitches and Lock-ups galore with no fixes or patches in sight! This is the one game I was really 
 looking forward to this year and it's plagued by Imperial glitches. The Sith were out to make this 
 one a flop apparently. They must've used the Mind Trick to tell Lucasarts that they didn't need 
 to run it through a quality control process to make sure the game worked before releasing it. And 
 they are still using the Mind Trick to keep them from acknowledging the problem and working on 
 a patch. The best Star Wars story in years and extremely fun gameplay is marred by tons of glitches, 
 a couple of system lock-ups, gameplay text issues, delays in combos/moves, and the list goes on. 
 Read the forums on Gamespot, Xbox. com, and Lucasarts to hear all the issues. Don't waste your money 
 until Lucasarts releases a patch! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Graham
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  well this game is awsome but the only this is that is is way too short. i got it at the midnight 
 release and took it home and i beat it in a matter of days and when i say days i mean i got up 
 went to school and came home and played for about 2 hours each day, so you do the math. i do recommend 
 this game to anyone who likes star wars but i think if you do not have a lot of money or just don't 
 like to spend money on games with no replay value just rent it i am very sure you can beat it with 
 in the rental time. ingnore the next stuff because it is a filler aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaurabhAV
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Lucas Arts did a nice job of creating a star wars game that stepped up its game. For once the graphics 
 are absolutely magnificant. The force lighting looks awesome and wielding the force can be quite 
 fun. Now there is a plently good but I have to agree with Gamespot about the game being incomplete. 
 -Plently of glitches and getting stuck if you explore the edges of the map.
  -The transition from action to cinematics are choppy.
  -Very obvious dip in framrate. This occurs 
 not frequently and so far hasnt been too annoying. -Ai could be better. BOSSES ARE THE BEST PART. 
 Super fun and actually challenging.
  -MAPS ARE VERY LINEAR and well as the game.
  
  If you played previous star war games, you will realise similarities but you will enjoy yourself 
 as well. IN CONCLUSION I have very mixed feelings about this game. At times I feel its getting 
 repetitive but then the boss fight just blows me away... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin_651
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  This game had the potential to be something truly amazing and it probably would've been if they 
 hadn't tried to bring it out on every single console, and they had just spent their time making 
 it on two or three.
  
  There aren't any huge flaws with the story except the boss fights are all the same so once you 
 have done one you have done them all.
  
  The graphics on this game are very good but it tends to pause for a bit so you can just be about 
 to do something really fun and then it pauses and you die.
  
  Some people say that the targeting is a problem but it isn't really that hard you just have to 
 try a bit more and then it is easy
  
  The apprentice's force abilities in the game are really fun and easy to use, you don't have to 
 do an enormous combo to use force push it is just one button. The powers quite boring at the start 
 of the game but once you get about half way through they start to get really interesting and powerful 
 so you can kill enemys with one or two hits.
  
  My review score 7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gperryman0973
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this and hoping so much that this would be the great Star Wars 
 game we've been waiting for.
  Riddled with bugs, an awfull targeting system, bad camera, bad voice acting (Darth Vader sounds 
 like Jodie Foster on steriods) , a blasphemous betrayal of the original stories (Anti-Force Shields, 
 W. T. F!) , repetative missions... all these massive flaws pail in comparisson to the games most massive 
 defect...
  Constantly dying from being knocked of some unstable platform and then having to repeat the entire 
 level again and again and again and again. Where are the f**king checkpoints. It's so irrartating 
 it makes playing the game extremly hard work.
  Yet another game massivly hyped and then rushed out before it was completed. I suppose Silent Hill 
 will be the next victim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecrazystud
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars is what it is because of the creativity it harnesses. I really felt that a lot of ideas 
 in this game were stolen from other games. The trolls have similar specs of the trolls in TOO HUMAN, 
 the darkside costume looks a lot like PREDATOR, there are others I could list but I explained the 
 point. The force powers are in standards of the force. The highly interactive enviroment is great 
 and brings a lot more to life. It's really fun when you combine the powers with the enviroment. 
 The force in this game is amazing but I bought it for the story. The story has the Star Wars passion. 
 I was impressed with that, the two different ending were great. I just wish they would have kept 
 Star Wars original like it's always been. The game is a solid renter, if you love Star Wars like 
 me you'll buy it anyways. End result is a good game but I wish it was a little planning on the 
 creatures and specs of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colts99
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Not a great game. look the first level is good (which is the demo) but after that the levels are 
 horribly designed and repetitive. you never truly feel that you are powerful. Well sure you feel 
 a bit more powerful than the stormtroopers and that's it. A very good rent if you have nothing 
 to do but that's it. Graphics are alright, sound is alright, gameplay is alright. Throwing your 
 lightsaber is horrible (you have to hold left trigger and press x) .
  BIG DISSAPOINTMENT. CRAP BUY GOOD RENT
  
  dsafa ed grar r g re rg r rg r rg rg ag reg regrg 
 rar gregarwegregrg regregr r grg grgre agrg rg regreregregre rgr er regr g r s grse esrgersgersgresgres 
 ergerregresgregr ergregreregrergeer ersre resgrrs gf dsgds df f fddf fdsgfsdg sfgs fdfdsgfsdgf 
 dsgfsdgfgs dgsd sfd fdg sdg fdsgf fdgfdsgfsdg dsf sdgfsdgsdgfsdfsd gfdfdsgdsfgfdsgfd gshs5hths 
 vhhte fxvtehst set tesrhgd gdf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off this review, I'm going to tell you I am a Star Wars fan. With that being said 
 lets start with what you want to know, how the game plays out. I can tell you that, Star Wars: 
 the Force Unleashed has its moments and can be pretty cool at times. I can also tell you that, 
 Star Wars: the Force Unleashed, can be very frustrating due to camera and targeting problems and 
 piss you off. The game play itself isn't bad though. It's your basic hack and slash with the force. 
 Your force powers are quite cool and pretty fun to use. Even the standard combat is pretty cool, 
 because come on, who doesn't like to swing around a light saber and murk enemies? The story is 
 most definitely where this game excels. The story is top notch and throws in quite a few twists 
 to the storyline. It's your standard Star Wars story, and provides a little insider on what happens 
 between episodes 3 and 4, and why Darth Vader and the emperor are feared people. As i mentioned 
 up above, the controls and camera are frustrating. What i mean by that is, you can find yourself 
 playing, and then all of a sudden not be able to see where you are at on the screen or what is 
 happening to you. Also, the targeting is (excuse my French) complete **** You will find yourself 
 trying to target the right enemy and completely missing 30% of the time. With that being said, 
 this game is not a bad game, it just could have used a little more work. It's a great addition 
 to the series, and any Star Wars fan will agree, it's not a bad story. With that being said, if 
 you're of little patience and pick up this game, "may the force be with you." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke_lowe1
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  The story of this game is the only positive part of the experience but if I wanted story I would 
 read the book i wanted too be a badA55 sith not a sith who cant even handle taking on a no name 
 Jedi on a droid death planet. Sure there are times you feel like the FORCE UNLEASHES but there 
 are other times that you feel like a weakling due to a poorly made game. Ive been in a boss battle 
 for hours where the boss blocked every attack except for force lightning then had the game freeze 
 on me forcing me to shut off my machine. Also had camera zoomin so close behind me I couldn't see 
 character and got stomped to death between wall and a Rancor. All in all a disappointing experience 
 don't listen to the fan boys anyone giving this a 10 out of 10 needs to get out of the basement 
 of their mom and dads house. Next time work the bugs out before releasing and giving it your blessing 
 George. Make this game more like ninja gaiden next time and it would be awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Despite the fact I wasn't alive for the original trilogy, I've been a long standing fan of the 
 Star Wars universe since I first saw 'A New Hope' when I was 5. Over the years I've enjoyed the 
 films (yes, even the prequels to a very certain degree... just not the script or acting) , and the 
 various games over the last decade. The Force Unleashed acts as the latest entry into the main 
 storyline of the franchise, exploring that vast empty space between Episode III and IV.
  
  At the beginning of the game, Darth Vadar is sent to destroy a Jedi who escaped the dreaded order 
 66, only to find a force adept son. Taking the boy in, the Sith Lord trains him with the ultimate 
 goal of bringing down the Emperor in the only way a Sith can. So, you go into your first mission 
 as 'Starkiller' (see what they did there?) , and it feels great.
  
  The combat in the game is at first glance very simple, due mainly because most of your abilities 
 are restricted to Force Grip and Force Push. After the first level as Starkiller, you acquire Force 
 Lighting and so on and so forth. As the game progresses, you can level up with experience points 
 gained from beating the various enemies the game throws at you. This gives you three different 
 kind of orbs, which, allow you to unlock fighting combos, force talents, and finally, to upgrade 
 your existing force abilities. As the game moves on further, the combat becomes varied, giving 
 you the option to unleash the full fury of The Dark Side in any given manner.
  
  I can't say enough good things about the combat, and how fun and exciting it is. However, sadly 
 it sometimes takes a back seat when you have to fulfill certain tasks in order to move on (i. e 
 destroy certain number of generators etc.) . I felt these objectives really brought the game to 
 a halt. In the opening levels, you push your way through a defensive line until the end boss, though, 
 in the later stages, you're forced to preform these objectives, deferring from what the game does 
 best. 
  
  That said, there isn't much negative things I can add about this game. The music is, as expected, 
 up to par. The twists and turns of the story actually feels like a Star Wars film, without the 
 amazingly droll melodramatic acting.
  
  I'd suggest it as a rental, though, if your big into Star Wars, go and buy it. It won't take long 
 to breeze through the game on a lower difficult setting, but there are some unlockables some might 
 enjoy hunting down and finding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tullistyler
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Unleashed is a good action adventure by its own merits but a few lightsaber swings away from greatness. 
 While it is the best Star Wars experience ever to grace a game system that cannot be missed for 
 any who call themselves fans, the game does not live up to the incredible gameplay it promised. 
 It leaves much to be desired aside from its great story, leaving it miles behind the Devil May 
 Cry or Ninja Gaiden games in terms of incredible action. 
  
  The most appealing aspect of the game is its story. Bridging the gap between episodes III and IV, 
 it chronicles the inadvertent forming of the Rebel Alliance at the hands of Darth Vader's secret 
 apprentice. Starkiller's adventure is a compelling one, arguably more so than any of the three 
 recent prequel films, but the more intriguing moments come when Vader takes the screen. The character's 
 voiceovers, while good, are about on part with the mediocre acting in all the Star Wars films, 
 but the story is strong enough to be labeled Episode 3.5. The graphics of the character models 
 aren't anything special but the environments are amazing and lavishly detailed, looking better 
 than most sets in the movies while staying true to the Star Wars feel. The game is beautiful. 
 
  
  The shortcomings of the gameplay surround its rare but greatest strength: unleashing the force 
 on unsuspecting enemies. It's always great fun to use the force, whether it be electrocuting foes 
 of all sizes or heaving Stormtroopers across huge environments with force push and grip. Aside 
 from that, the combat is pretty mediocre. The game gives you a plethora of combos to make boring 
 lightsaber tactics more engaging, but combat is made frustrating by bolts of lasers and such knocking 
 you down like you're a punk Jedi padawan. For all the amazing feats you can pull off when unbothered 
 by other enemies, the game does a poor job implanting its greatest strength into hectic combat 
 like other games in the genre. Devil May Cry and Ninja Gaiden make players feel unstoppable no 
 matter what enemy forces they face, while Unleashed doesn't deliver on its promise to match or 
 exceed such incredible combat. You definitely get the feeling that the game was both rushed and/ 
 or gameplay development was one-sided to the force alone. I'd wager most fans would agree that 
 combat and lightsaber skill is just as integral an ability for a Sith to possess as knowledge of 
 the force, Lucasarts. Perhaps you're game should have incorporated these elements as well.
  
  Force Unleashed is a very fun game to play if you're playing to appreciate the rich Star Wars 
 experience better than any other to date, but if you're just looking for a great action game there 
 are far better adventures to be had as Dante, Kratos or Ryu Hayabusa. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shalafein
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  The story was good but it was not the best it was easy to figure it out. The graphics were really 
 good some parts were kinda broken, the voice acting was good, i just did not like Starkiller's 
 voice i think they could have done a better job on his, all the other voice acting was great. The 
 gameplay was kind of broken, the force grip was hard to get used to, but all the other force powers 
 were great. I did not really understand the whole lightsaber thing were you could change crystals 
 and stuff i did not know if it was to make the lightsaber stronger or just for looks. I like the 
 costumes they were a great addition to the game. The loading screens were few but when you wanted 
 to change costumes or the lightsaber crystal you had to wait for it to load which took some time 
 but not too much. The thing that this game is missing is a duel mode which would have been great. 
 Most of the time i was playing it did not really feel like Star Wars, i do not know why it just 
 did not feel the same. But all in all this is a great Star Wars game that every Star Wars fan should 
 own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdna514
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I will start off saying this, I was a long-time Star Wars fan until Episodes I, II, and III. I've 
 read tons of the novels, since Splinter of the Minds Eye.
  
  Now with that said, this game's storyline, although a bit short, rocked. I felt like I was rushed 
 a little at the end, then it was over. But any Star Wars fan, will love the twist that this story 
 actually was on the whole plot of Episodes afterwards.
  
  Now to the not-so-good. The graphics, stunning sometimes, were a load of clipping and full on frame 
 rate drops and at times stops, not to mention you see the wrap of the sky in the Junkyard Level, 
 the skyline seam could definitely been hidden behind ANYTHING. Sometimes the art just had a "get 
 it done, already!!" feel to it. Speaking of which, the AI that was supposed to be so groundbreaking, 
 ended up looking stupid. The troopers barely get knicked by something going by and they do about 
 a 5 sec sequence of falling down after trying to balance. Maybe I just killed stuff so quick I 
 didn't get to see how smart they were!! ;-)
  
  The controls were well layed out, but the down time between when you let go of force pull and when 
 you want to put it back on, did lead to some frustration. Sometimes the camera had a mind of its 
 own and would move back or sideways and mess up the control directions. This was especially frustrating 
 with a lot of the boss fights, not being able to rotate the camera in couple fights really was 
 annoying... erm the pretty much from the first boss to the last. The none rotation, points towards 
 the rushed "get it done, already" theory. Finally the God of War type sequences at the end of boss 
 fights were sometimes frustrating due to the fact I wanted to just watch!! The parts swinging from 
 the sarlacc were pretty intense, but i unfortunately needed to button mash  : (
  
  Sound effects and music though were EPIC. They really nailed the star wars feel in a lot of the 
 cut-scenes and the locals music were well placed too (i. e. Bespin) .
  
  This Star Wars fan still can't give it any more tilt. It is what it is, a great action game, but 
 weighed down with bugs and what felt like rushed work. The engine should be great after some overhauls. 
 The story really could have been good if this was an RPG, but some of the characters, including 
 Starkiller, were just really underdeveloped in my mind. All in all worth the play, if you dig the 
 story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DY357LX
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  As a HUGE Star Wars fan I've been waiting for this game for a long long time.
  
  At the back of my mind I had this feeling it was going to be a poor game with fancy graphics... 
 I hate it when I'm right.
  
  
  The Good:
  It looks quite pretty.
  Darth Vader.
  Force Grip is kinda fun.
  
  The Bad:
  FULL of bugs and glitches. How the HELL did this get 
 past QA!?
  Mediocre voice acting. (Especially for Juno. Seriously, what the hell are "scheeeeematics" ?)
 
  Extremely bad "puzzles" that are just plain unfair to the player at times.
  Boss battles don't appear to have been play-tested at all.
  The game attempts to help you with 
 automating certain actions and abilities, but most the time it makes life more difficult and costs 
 you a fair chunk of Health/Force/Both.
  No multiplayer.
  
  Rent it or borrow it from a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marmin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The detail on the maps is great, from the third person perspective the textures and all 
 the models used in the game are beautiful. A few of the in-game cut scenes have some detail issues 
 but I attribute that to the close camera on models not meant to be seen that close. Overall though 
 the game looks great.
  
  Sound: Its star wars, everything sounds as it should. Even the small touches (like on Cloud City) 
 of the ambient noise is great the music swells when it should and the hum of the lightsaber makes 
 be want to build one in my basement.
  
  Gameplay: The basic controls are easy and the learning curve with when and where powers are unlocked 
 add a nice progression to how much you need to remember. Combos are integrated well and while you 
 will have the one or two you enjoy most you can come out looking like a badass with only a few 
 buttons. I will say that the powers mapped to the (LT, button) mechanic aren't as responsive as 
 I would have liked, but overall not a big problem.
  
  I would have to say the story took me offguard. I really enjoyed it and think that it fits in to 
 the overall movie storyline very well and fills in some backstory for the Rebel Alliance and the 
 side characters well enough that if this were made into a movie it would far surpass the prequels.
 
  
  If you have any interest in Star Wars you should have this game already. Its fun, addictive, and 
 is one that I have found a lot of replay value in; replaying the first couple levels once you've 
 completed the game is a blast.
  
  The game does have flaws. Being juggled around once you get hit has made me yell out on more than 
 one occasion, and the targeting system is frustrating. I would have hoped to be able to block while 
 moving, but meh not a big deal since blocking isn't what you play the game for.
  
  The default difficulty is fairly easy, and have yet to try it on harder levels, but hope that a 
 little more tactical playing will develop.
  
  Besides a couple frustrating points, the game is a must own for Star Wars fans and anyone who has 
 dreamed of holding a lightsaber.
  
  -N 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostSoul1974
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  While I wouldn't say this game is as good or better than the games from the KOTOR series (they 
 are really two completely different animals honestly) , I enjoy playing this game thoroughly.
  
  To begin, I do see the problem critic reviewers have pointed out in regards to the targeting 
 issues. It can be a bit frustrating at time when I KNOW I'm aiming for a particular person/ object 
 & can't get a grasped of it. While it was not a persistent, it was occasional enough for me to 
 have noticed & remembered.
  
  I'd already read the novel, so I had a general idea as to how the story would play out, but I still 
 thought the storyline was quite interesting & detailed (especially amidst the Star Wars prequels 
 no one seems to dig..... I thought they were okay myself) .
  
  Graphically, I thought the game was up to snuff, though I did get some flickering & glitching from 
 time to time (what was that all about?) . The amination was fairly fluid. The movements other the 
 characters during the cut-scenes however were blocky & somewhat robotic looking.
  
  The overall fun level of the game I would consider to be very, very high..... and to me, that's 
 THE primary factor for video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoBioN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  In times were story's in games are often dull and boring. here is a story that attract you so much 
 that you want to see the next cutscene and also enjoys the playing inbetween. that deserves higher 
 scores than it has been given in critic reviews.
  
  While they point out its very glithy and buggy. i managed on second time. half through the game 
 (going to see both endings :) . And its FUN) . meeting 2 bugs in total time i played it. One i couldent 
 move. And the other one i already forgot. otherwise it been unproblomatic.
  
  The combat is easy and it has alot of good combo's that also depends on your timing when pressing 
 the buttons to trigger different moves. Its very good way to make you feel more in control. Also 
 its possible to do a strike with the lightsaber and wait a second or 2 and continue the combo. 
 things like this makes you feel more like your in full control of starkiller. 
  
  The story while having too few cutscenes in my opinion. Is very good and beatifull. The story is 
 good. If i feel its very star wars alike i can't really say. But i really enjoyed the cutscenes 
 involving palpatine since hes so freaking awsome in this game haha :P.
  
  I am playing it alot and as said. i am on my second time through it. and still having a blast. 
 This is also duing to that you can keep evolving your Force powers through second time and get 
 more and more stronger. while you might go the same places again it doesent matter that much since 
 the still somehow simple and fun gameplay will keep your focus on smashing and playing around with 
 the force anyway :)
  
  Most users dont agree with the critics. And im 100% with them. They seem to bash down the game 
 on pure tech / gameplay gimmicks and do not vote out from the story being great and the fun factor 
 in the gameplay. it doesent matter if its revolutionary. its about if its fun and variable. and 
 it is. and they say the envoirements are very alike hegother. well a few places but surely its 
 not the same and same places over again. I do not think that. 
  
  And technical wise. the graphics are really great!. The technologies in this game works perfect. 
 The AI is not very smart anyhow!.
  
  Im sure if they had put in multiplayer this game would had much better reviews. but im looking 
 apart from that. and i won't let the score fall down on a silly number because of it. since many 
 other fairly short singleplayer games havent gotten bashed down alot on that fact either
  
  8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  I am glad to see the fans get behind this game because it is really better then most critics are 
 rating it.
  
  I am immersed in the game play and story so far. I look forward to playing and wonder what will 
 come next. The only real drawback is the combat system, which could have been a bit better but 
 honestly it works find once you get the hang of it and it is not that bad.
  
  Graphics are very nice and the sound... well the sound I feel is simply awesome. Using the force 
 is just plain ole fun!
  
  I will replay this on every difficulty enjoying it time and again. I remember going to the opening 
 of Star Wars A New Hope in 1977 and this game gave me the same rush after a few minutes of play.
 
  
  If you are a Star Wars fan I cannot believe you would be disappointed with this game. If you are 
 not a fan you may not appreciate it quite as much, but still it is great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon5180
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  The biggest problem with StarWars games is the writers never really have anything new to work with. 
 Not the cas with the Force Unleashed! Everything in this game is new from the incredible force 
 powers to a compelling story line. It would be possible to even make a movie from this game in 
 stead of the other way around.
  You play StarKiller, Darth Vader's secret apprentice. Throughout the game you hunt Jedi and Sith. 
 It seams from the beginning that you well be a powerful Sith but as the game progresses you see 
 the conflict build in him.
  The only real bad glitch that I have come across is a battle against a droid towards the end of 
 the game. The Droid disappeared halfway through the fight and no matter what I did he wouldn't 
 come back. I finally just killed myself and it just so happened that when I came back I was at 
 the same part and the Droid was there. Strange.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodootree
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  I would love to say that I have never been so disappointed... but I have been. There was that time 
 back in college when I took my girlfriend to a nice hotel at the beach for Valentines Day and she 
 went to sleep right after dinner... What a let down!
  
  This game has had excuses made for it along the lines of "well, it had to dissapoint because so 
 much was expected of it"... LIES! I mean - YES - a lot was expected, and it SHOULD have delivered.
 
  
  I waited YEARS for this game, and I played it for three hours. I will probably never play it again. 
 Anybody wanna buy my copy?
  
  SURE the story might be better than the movies (not saying much, really) and SURE the art and music 
 are good - but the camera is HANDS DOWN the MOST annoying thing I have ever experienced. It makes 
 the entire game feel like herding cats. Big and bad Sith warrior, falling off platforms because 
 he can't (apparently) look left at the moment. Right!
  
  This is not a perceived failure brought on by high expectations - it's just crap. To all you folks 
 making the excuses: THE EMPEROR IS NAKED, QUIT BEING STUPID.
  
  I will lament for the rest of my days the passing of all hope for the Star Wars universe and the 
 rich potential is has for great games, but I am done thinking about it. With all the cash, all 
 the backing, all the ability to make a totally kick-ass game in the entire game developing universe, 
 THIS is what we get? These guys aren't even trying to make art anymore.
  
  This game is definately NOT worth buying... or renting... or sitting near for 30 seconds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10054254
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  Really looked forward to playing this as the demo was a lot of fun and when I started the game 
 (It broke my Xbox Elite grrr red lights of death) I found it to be a perfect virtualization of 
 what the original movies made the force seem like. Took me back to being 10 years old watching 
 the original trilogy and wishing I could use the force.
  
  The story is perfect and makes you think about all the events that happen after it and say "ahh 
 so that's why" and the characters are well put together as well as the main character seeming like 
 a movie should be dedicated to him.
  
  The only down (dark) side of the game is that's its just too short with little replay value, the 
 main game will be over in under 7 hours and you can replay it for some extra content but mainly 
 I will be replaying it to grab 2 storm troopers and bounce them of the walls before throwing my 
 lightsabre at them then throwing them all at their friends, that's 2 troopers, my sabre and a tie 
 fighter being hurled across a cargo bay smashing everything to bits.... yea it is that fun.
  
  In short an amazing game that could have been a bit longer as what it gives is so good I would 
 have wanted more no matter how long they made it. Best star wars game ever. Pitty its over a bit 
 to quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fishbrain8
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  I found the graphics in the Force Unleashed spectacular. Out of all the games I have or have played 
 that this would be in the Top 3 for graphics.
  The sounds in the game are also really good. The explosions sound like real explosions.
  
  
 The environment in this game is the best I've ever seen. You can interact with just about everything. 
 If there's rocks on the ground you can throw them. If theres barrels lying around you can throw 
 them.
  
  The controls of the game are really easy to learn. You can do some combos by pushing tons of buttons 
 on the control. I've barely ever done these because you can do simpler combos which are just as 
 effective. 
  
  Finally, the story. I found that this game really helped fill in the gap between Star Wars 3 and 
 4. It tells you how the rebel alliance started. 
  
  Over all, this is a superb game and was worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashkan_pyro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:06 am PT
Review:  star wars the force unleashed is a fun action_adventure, role playing game to play. maybe have not 
 best movements like gear of war and assassin creed but when you playing it you have several options 
 like choosing your favorite light saber color and changing your costume during every mission. but 
 the bad thing about the costume is the costume wont change for the demos after each level. as you 
 know they spent 4 yr to make this game and to be fair they done a pretty good job but we all know 
 they could have done better. still it is a nice game to play and i am not saying it because i am 
 a ST fan but because i think every one would enjoy sending stormtroopers flying and enjoy the nice 
 story beside it .and i read a lot of things about being a jedi or a sith it's not in your hand 
 it's just depending to the story of curse if you think changing your saber color would change your 
 path it's a another thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garvaos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  I'm not much of a star wars fan. I've seen the movies (kind of) and respect the fact that wielding 
 a lightsaber is fun and flinging things round with your mind is just awesome.
  
  So when it was announced that star wars TFU was coming out I was quite excited. Because it had 
 lightsaber wielding, it had flinging things and people round with your mind. And as I am a fan 
 of devil may cry and Ninja Gaiden it was a 3rd person action so this was set out to be a killer 
 game.
  
  I really enjoy it. It's got the things you come to expect from a good 3rd person action game. It 
 has the challenging end level bosses. It has the variety of slaying your opponents with a selection 
 of techniques. This game does what it was inicaily set out to do which is being a decent 3rd person 
 action game which any body can pick up and play.
  
  On top of the 3rd person action you also have the basic customisation system. Basic it is but small 
 it isn't. By the end of the game you have a good selection of costumes to choose from. And (if 
 you find them) a good variety of different colours and states of lightsaber. There are also the 
 skill trees that you can power up while you play. This all kind of boils down to a simple create 
 your own Jedi system which I love.
  
  Even though I have only played a couple of levels I can tell that the story is going to be epic. 
 Put it this way it's star wars. Of course the story is going to be epic. Starkiller himself is 
 a very in depth character which will no doubt become even more apparent as the story progresses.
 
  
  The core game play itself is pretty good. The environments are stunning paying very good attention 
 to detail. Even though the graphics may slip a little it doesn't really bother me. 
  
  I have yet to play this game all the way though but to my mind first impressions always count and 
 if you are a star wars fan this is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maul_88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  Starting tha game as Darth Vader is awesome cuz everyone always wanted to play as the Dark Sith 
 Lord. The Story line is awesome, it fills in the gaps between ep 3 and 4, no one knew what happened 
 during that time so it actually helps star wars fans and everyone else. When you play TFU u really 
 feel like you are powerful and evryone and everything around you becomes a toy. Even that level 
 with the Class B Destroyer you have to bring down. If the apprentice actually survived he would 
 have been like a new yoda. ooops did i spoil it. No way! everyone knew that he would cuz ep 4, 
 5 and 6 wouldnt have happened the same way but trust me the game is worth it run to your nearest 
 game store and but it!!! The Force Is Strong With You. It actually has so many ties with the orginal 
 trilogy that you feel that it is like a movie but you are actually playing a sith/jedi with no 
 stunts or special effects. There were other games like jedi academy or outcast where you play a 
 jedi but this one is the best star wars game i've played and i've played all of them (well actually 
 Republic commando is second on my list now) I F*cking Love it. Go with the force young padawans 
 and get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalkiel666
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Not since Star Wars : Old Republic I and II have I enjoyed playing a Star Wars game, with the exception 
 of Star Wars Lego. 
  
  I am so addicted to this game. I am on my 4th play through now and am currently doing Sith Master. 
 And beleive me. Sith Master level is no joke. 
  
  I do wish it would of been drawn out longer. But otherwise I love it.
  
  One of my favorite 
 things is to launch objects, robots, or people through the windows and watch them get sucked out. 
 Or Force grip them and fling them around like Vader does all the time. Although I haven't quite 
 got the Grappled move down pat to were I can get the acheivement, I'll get it. 
  
  The story line was awsome, I loved seeing the extra suprise's that were placed in the game. I won't 
 say exactly what do to the fact I don't wanna ruin any spoilers for people who have not played 
 it yet. But it gave me goose bumps when ........ appeared and I had to fight .......... haha. 
 
  
  I hope they have a plan on making some kind of sequal, they can do just like this one and place 
 it in between other chapters of the movies.
  
  And on a side note, I wanna see a Star Wars: Old Republic III.
  
  Buy it. Its well worth the 
 money, especially if your a hard core Star Wars fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fore_runner
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed from the damned Lucas Arts game studio attempts to capture the imagination 
 with the most dynamic force system seen in a Star Wars title, coupled with an engaging story. The 
 game begins with the player controlling Darth Vader as he wreaks havoc on Kashyyyk, taking full 
 advantage of the euphoria physics implemented in this game. From here on, gamers experience the 
 universe through the eyes of Starkiller, a previously unrevealed apprentice of Darth Vader. Starkiller's 
 tasks consist of hunting down the remaining Jedi in the Universe and subsequently eliminating them. 
 Furthermore, as Darth Vader's secret apprentice, the player will be tasked with leaving no survivors 
 on the ensuing missions, allowing the player to enjoy annihilate militia and Stormtroopers. 
  The succeeding story is one that can be appreciated by gamers and Star Wars fans alike. The plot 
 is a cut above the three contemporary Star Wars movies and the recent cartoon release. Epic tale 
 aside, the game possesses a host of issues, ranging from an unwieldy force targeting system to 
 a dumb A. I. The force targeting system can be tiresome because Starkiller often doesn't pick-up 
 what the player intended, this is due to the targeting being based upon the direction Starkiller 
 is facing in the game, as opposed to where the camera is pointed. This takes some getting used 
 to, and can often cause the player to harm himself unintentionally, particularly in tight enclosures. 
 The boss battles can also be on the wearisome side, prevailing against bosses proves to be irritating 
 as the player may feel that they cheated to obtain victory; and the button combo executions prove 
 to be anti-climatic. 
  For the most part, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed can have its better moments, whether your listening 
 to a stormtrooper beg for mercy or pulling a star destroyer out of the sky. The game certainly 
 delivers on what Star Wars fans want, with the empowering use of the force and a story that will 
 surely be considered among the greatest Star Wars tales of all time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmaul1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Maybe too much hype... it was pretty good i just rented it and I am glad i did, cause i finished 
 it in 9 hours trying to find and do everything then played it again in 6 hours (why can't they 
 make this like 30hrs+??, the first few levels are much better the 2nd time around cause you are 
 much more powerful and the enemies are much weaker. The Story was great although I thought the 
 evil ending could of been done better.
  I would give it an 8/10 because of the length (too short) and because you can pick your clothes 
 and lightsaber color (when you get them) but as soon as it goes to a cut scene you're character 
 changes back to the clothes he is suppose to have on that level and the light saber changes color 
 too. this kind of takes you out of the game. KOTR 1 and 2 allowed you to change your clothes and 
 light sabers colors and it changed in the cut scenes too. so i don't know why they couldn't do 
 that here? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phileosophos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I watched the GameSpot review, and I read several other reviews before making the decision to purchase. 
 In fact, this was the game that drove me to buy an Xbox 360, so I was taking quite a gamble on 
 it. I followed the game's development and thought it looked really promising, but the reviews seemed 
 surprisingly negative.
  
  Happily, I can tell you that they got it wrong. Yes, I admit that the controls aren't perfect, 
 but they're pretty good right at the outset, and they get easier with practice. It makes me wonder 
 how much time reviewers spend with the game. After but a few hours, I've gotten a lot closer to 
 mastering the allegedly twitchy/wonky/funky controls, so that I can hurl bits of the environment 
 pretty well.
  
  The basic fighting is top-notch and very entertaining, the mini-boss and boss battles are really 
 quite satisfying, and the game's overall presentation is fantastic. The graphics are beautiful, 
 the audio is superb, and the voice acting is more than passable. In fact, I think this game has 
 the most powerful Star Wars story I've ever experienced. It showed an interesting twist to Darth 
 Vader, and one that helps make a lot more sense out of Return of the Jedi.
  
  The bottom line is pretty simple. If you're a Star Wars fan, this is a no-brainer must buy. And 
 even if you're not, you'll find it quite entertaining. Yes, it does take a bit of effort to learn 
 how to work the controls, but it's not *that* hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyg521
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: the Force Unleashed is a very good game in my opinion. The new technology used is really 
 innovative and makes the game much more fun and realistic. There are a lot of combos and an excellent 
 control system. This game is very addictive and has an interesting an explanatory story line and 
 very good graphics as well. 
  
  It does have a few flaws too though. The camera can get a little frustrating when the player is 
 walking in an area with a low ceiling and close walls, but that is normal in most action games. 
 Also, some boss battles can be very difficult if played on the high/highest difficulty setting, 
 but again that's to be expected. Another annoyance is the particularly long loading screens, both 
 before and during the levels. Luckily these don't take to much from the experience for me.
  
  Overall it is a very innovative and fun game with a captivating story. It does a good job of 
 telling where the Rebel Alliance originates and will keep the player guessing until the very end. 
 Overall I would rate it an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigD
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has quite a few things going for it, great source material, a good story and competent 
 graphics. 
  But, sadly the frustrating nature of the game play outweighs any positives. Overall the game just 
 left me annoyed.
  
  The poor camera is where things start to go wrong, not only do you have to constantly adjust your 
 view, it make using your force powers far more difficult and less useful then they should be. Up 
 next the levels are filled with instant death voids which can easily be fallen into, by jumping 
 to far, executing a combo that moves you pass the edge or having an enemy knock you off. The biggest 
 problem is that the difficulty seems to be all over the place. Numerous scenes are so hard that 
 they force the player into either trial by error, or pray for that perfect run, game play that 
 I find extremely tiring and tedious. You're supposed to be a Jedi but more often then not a bunch 
 of the mini bosses have no problem taking you down if you are not careful, even worse, you can 
 die from enemy blaster fire! 
  
  This game is purely a rental material as it won't take more then a 10-12 hours to beat, even if 
 you have to repeat some scenes numerous times until you get them right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  for all 3rd person action game fans, the new star wars entry is a welcoming title. having beated 
 game in a short time (which is not my usual way) i found a few glitches which are annoying. the combo 
 upgrading system which is the vital part and menu is messy, no training for the combat system or 
 for the new combo moves learned so most of the times we forget upgrading the character or using 
 any new combo moves but rather just power ups to either sting the enemy with lightning or use force 
 shield. the most important move of telekinesis is sometimes messed up due to awful targetting. now 
 for the good parts, well to start of with all the costumes of the jedi in all levels look stylish, game 
 graphics is excellent, great visuals, each level is different, look and feel different, boss battles 
 are just ok with sometimes messed up zooming of cameras which were unwanted, sound of conversations 
 are not balanced with sounds of the environment so feel very feeble at times, but the environment 
 responds well in battles with damage, lighting and sounds. in short this game is not exactly the 
 god of war or dmc in another galaxy but still it is a good game which could have been made better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyromaniac1013
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start? Graphics are amazing, game play is really fun. You get a few force powers that 
 are totally overpowered (A good thing) . The physics engine is state-of-the-art. It's really realistic 
 thanks to their DMM technology. Controls are great, sound is awesome.
  The difficulty is awesome pawsome because there are four different difficulties. You can set it 
 to whatever suits you.
  The main flaw that bugs me is that all of the objects disappear after about 5 seconds. I mean c'mon. 
 Everyone loves playing with bodies in Star Wars games. You can't really do that in this. Another 
 thing is the targeting system. Thankfully this isn't usually a problem until you get to a level 
 with a bunch of enemies in around you and you can't target the leader. This doesn't happen very 
 often so I think it's forgivable. I totally recommend this game to all of the Star Wars fans out 
 there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adaram1050
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: Force Unleashed is a game I've been waiting for, for a long time & honestly it's a great 
 game. So with that said, I'll get right into it.
  
  Story: What to say? It's immersive and fits in the context of the six movies (not counting this 
 summer's animated film) . I'll admit I never saw Episode III but the story is a great bridge between 
 Episode III & Episode IV and kind of answers the question of how *** ********* *** ******* (& no 
 I won't spoil it for anyone) . It's movie quality and really shoud be made into a full length feature 
 film. Score: 10
  
  Combat: Great but the targetting system for force grip/lightning or some of the other powers is 
 a little wonky. The only real flaw in the game. Score: 7
  
  Graphics: Nothing bad to say about them and the cinematics are done well. Score: 9
  
  Sound: 
 Nothing to complain about. Score: 10
  
  Controls: As stated the targetting system is a little wonky at times. Beyond that, there aren't 
 any real problems. Score: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redeer
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  First off lets talk about the light saber. The light saber feels a little weak without man combos. 
 And killing enemies isn't fun with it.
  
  The force- The force had hard controls. Throwing a man was almost impossible without getting hurt 
 from the other enemies and throwing them was a pain in the first place. Not to mention you never 
 pick up what you want.
  
  Graphics and design- this game has great visual design. The levels are designed well. The graphics 
 a poor but the graphic designs make up for it.
  
  Environment- The environment was fun. Slamming an enemy into a wall with force and peices falling 
 on the ground is always fun. Picking up anything you would like with the force is a very fun thing.
 
  
  Story- The story will keep you on the tip of your seat the whole time. Even including jedi battles.
 
  Sound- Th sound is alright. Alot of the sounds get overly repititive. E. I. Light saber slashing.
 
  
  Overall- A fun game. The force has horrific controls. And the lightsaber gets repitive too. The 
 force is fun to use thought if you can control it. So is the environment. I would recommend as 
 a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienhunter187
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  More than 30 years ago, an unknown filmmaker changed the world of entertainment and pop culture 
 with one simple phrase "A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away" 
  
  Never in the time before or since, has there been such a phenomenon as "Star Wars." And while some 
 people may still feel the sting of the prequel films the LucasArts-developed "Star Wars: The Force 
 Unleashed" could finally be that official apology many young Jedi have been looking for.
  
  It took four films to finally see the great power of the Jedi Knights and Sith Lords on the big 
 screen. And it's taken many more games to finally be able to experience that power for yourself, 
 at least in a digital world. "The Force Unleashed' puts you in the role of Darth Vader's secret 
 apprentice, Star Killer, as you hunt down the last of the remaining Jedi Knights in the galaxy. 
 
  
  The game takes place in between "Episode III: Revenge of the Sith" and "Episode IV: A New Hope" 
 and Lord Vader has assumed his role as second-in-command of the Galactic Empire and is hunting 
 down the remaining Jedi in hiding across the galaxy. He tracks one down on the Wookiee homeworld 
 of Kashyyyk. After finding the Jedi Knight, Vader learns of a son. He takes the son as his secret 
 apprentice (which goes against the rules of the Sith) and trains him in the way of the Dark Side 
 of the Force. 
  
  The gameplay of "The Force Unleashed" consists of a cross between a brawler-style game and a shallow 
 action title similar to "God of War." You chain together combos with your lightsaber using the 
 face buttons on the controller. Unlike many action games, you only have one attack button. However, 
 where "The Force Unleashed" differs from other action titles is its use of the Force powers. 
 
  
  As you progress through the game, you can upgrade your powers and gain new ones like the Sith Force 
 Lightning and a Force Push. The most impressive of these powers is Force Grab, which allows you 
 to pick up almost any object or NPC in the game. You can toss them, slam them against walls or 
 even use them as time bombs and throw them into your adversaries. If you hold an enemy close enough 
 to a ledge, he'll reach out and grab onto it, screaming for his life. 
  
  The gameplay is simple, though the controls are overly-complicated and hard to grasp. You have 
 one attack button and three Force power buttons. You can lock onto an object or an enemy with the 
 push of the right shoulder button on both the PS3 and Xbox 360 controllers. You can dash with the 
 other shoulder button. The Force grab is mapped to the right trigger. However, when holding something, 
 it can be hard to direct where you want to throw the object. You can move the object in the air 
 with the analog sticks and then use them to sling the object in the direction you want. But some 
 times it goes in the opposite direction. Later in the game, this unrefinement can pose plenty of 
 problems.
  
  The art style complements the very impressive graphics well. The majority of the game is vibrant 
 and colorful, featuring many of the same environments seen in the six movies including Kashyyyk 
 and Cloud City. The only drawback is the lack of exploration freedom in the game. 
  
  The early levels are laid out in a very linear pattern. You start off in one area, have an objective 
 to complete and a single path to get there. Later on, you're afforded a few freedoms and side areas 
 to explore. However, the only award for exploration a few hidden powerups and unlockables. 
  
  Along the way, you'll fight AT-ATs, Imperial Storm Troopers, alien species and monsters and 
 even Jedi. The Jedi battles are some of the most visually dazzling aspects of the game. They play 
 out in head-to-head duels with heart-pounding music in the background. They gameplay remains the 
 same, except this time, you have someone of equal skill and health to fight against. Remember all 
 those times you watched the final battle in "The Phantom Menace" and the "Battle of Heroes" between 
 Anakin and Obi-Wan in "Revenge of the Sith?" Well this is your chance to partake in battles that 
 rival those.
  
  The greatest strength of "The Force Unleashed" is its "Star Wars" license. If the same gameplay 
 had been reskinned with another franchise or an original IP, the game wouldn't be that impressive. 
 But, with the "Star Wars" story and characters, you feel as if you're really involved in an interactive 
 "Star Wars" movie. 
  
  The production values are high and the soundtrack is top-notch. LucasArts took the best themes 
 from across the six movies and recomposed them for the film. If your system is hooked up to a 5.1 
 digital surround sound system, you'll be able to hear the whole game play out in stunning surround 
 sound. 
  
  Ultimately, "The Force Unleashed" is an experience that no "Star Wars" fan should miss. But as 
 a game, there are a lot of problems. The level-design can be confusing and is fairly uninspired. 
 Many battles can easily overwhelm even a Sith apprentice, especially when you're fighting three 
 AT-ATs and a handful of Rancors in one small area. 
  
  The camera, which usually remains positioned behind your character, can some times get in the way 
 and zoom out when you least need or expect it to. During many of the head-to-head battles, the 
 camera will take a birds-eye view and can throw off your timing and aim of your attacks. 
  
  From a pure gameplay perspective, "The Force Unleashed" contains a lot of cool bullet-point 
 features that just don't quite live up to par. You can play through the entire game and never use 
 the force powers except to solve rudimentary environmental puzzles. And the combat aspects feel 
 week compared to more concentrated action games like "God of War" and "Ninja Gaiden." 
  
  But where the gameplay lacks, the story and atmosphere more than satisfy. The impressive Euphoria 
 physics engine creates many "oh snap" moments throughout the game like when you blow out the windows 
 of a Star Destroyer and watch as the poor Storm Troopers get sucked into space. 
  
  The storyline feels like it's been ripped from a script from a new "Star Wars" film. Lucas oversaw 
 the story, but didn't directly write the script, which would probably explain the great quality. 
 Everything fits comfortably within the "Star Wars" cannon, right in between the prequel and original 
 trilogies. And while there are no "Luke, I am your father" story twists, "The Force Unleashed" 
 does offer a few interesting curve balls. And if that doesn't have you hooked, you can choke down 
 Imperial officers and Storm Troopers with the dark lord himself, Darth Vader. For the first time 
 in any movie or game, you finally see the true ruthlessness of Vader. 
  
  "The Force Unleashed" is worth two playthroughs for any "Star Wars" fan because of the two endings, 
 which depend on a choice you make toward the end. Beyond that, the game is rudimentary, shallow 
 and frustrating at times. There are plenty of unlockables and added content for scavenger hunters 
 that could keep you coming back. But once you've seen the story, as great as it is, you've seen 
 the best of what "The Force Unleashed" has to offer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkrosestar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Hey what's up people, i'd like to start of by saying that this is one of the few games you'll play 
 that gives you free rain to kill and enemy almost any kind of way you want, throw' em, flip'em, 
 hell you can damn near cut through them lol..... this games mechanics are amazing and the graphics 
 are beautiful but if anyone played the demo, oh you will be so mad, especially since you don't 
 start off with anywhere near the kind of power you start of in the demo, you start of with your 
 lightsaber and force push and grip...... that's it..... that's just it...... all you have to survive 
 the hell your about to go through in this game..... this is one of the hardest games i've played 
 in a long time even if your maxed out in all of your abilities you'll still have to deal with other 
 jedi and sith (which are the best fights in the game lol) these specific battles will go to lengths 
 you've never imagined for a boss fight, almost between a mix of god of war and kingdom hearts 2.... just 
 with a force like mix to it, as much free rain as you have to kill them, they have that same rain 
 over you so with the more powerful lightsaber wielders like..... Darth Vader for example you'll 
 have to play the game carefully unless you want to get your neck broke or thrown through walls 
 and pillars lol.... star wars fan will love this game and anyone that's into action will love how 
 this game plays and the freedom you will have.... the only thing about this game that I don't like 
 are the camera angles, they will almost get you killed in normal game play everytime and it's hard 
 to lock-on to a target, especially when there are about 10 enemies and all other debris you can 
 you to take people out, it gets everything all confused and stuff...... I recommend this game to 
 any and everyone.... I just have to warn you, don't get mad when you have to repeat a stage 10 times..... because 
 trust me, it's gonna happen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HD360gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  i am a star wars fan but i am an avid gamer so i am not just going to say it is perfect. while 
 the graphics, sound, and gameplay are really good, the shortness of the game may dissapoint most 
 people. however, while u may be able to beat it in around 7 hours on the easiest difuculty, going 
 back and beating it on the hardest diffuculty will take much more time and dedication. in addition 
 if u r going for all of the achievements, u r looking at around a total 20 to 30 hour game varying 
 on how much u plan everything out. ALso the wii duel mode is exclusive to the wii so there is no 
 multiplayer. Probably the best part of the game is the story and u will undoubtedly be determined 
 to get both endings.
  
  in conclusion, if u r a star wars fan, it is a must buy, but the shortness of the game and lack 
 of the wii duel mode make it more likely a rent for non-fans. However, almost all the blockbuster 
 games of the fall are at least a month away, making this my top recommendation for killing the 
 time between now and then 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is an amazing experience that any Star Wars fan would regret passing 
 up.
  
  However, others may find the game a little disappointing.
  
  The story is amazing, and that's what makes it so fun for Star Wars fans. You play the role of 
 Galen Marek, codenamed Starkiller. You act as Darth Vader's secret apprentice, running around on 
 assassin missions on planets such as Raxus Prime, a planet made out of droid parts and scrap metal.
 
  
  The gameplay, on the other hand, falls short in a few points. Some boss fights are extremely one-sided, 
 where the opponent goes unscathed by half of your lightsaber attacks, and in some cases, your force 
 powers become completely useless. The part on Imperial Raxus Prime where you pull the Star Destroyer 
 out of the sky, while bad-ass, would have been much better off as a cutscene. You have to continually 
 kill TIE Fighters, dodge laser fire, and then do boringly slow analog stick motions. It wasn't 
 fun at all, and it only provided for an annoying mini-game that felt like it was pasted onto the 
 final project.
  
  The game also tends to suffer from glitches and frame-rate stuttering in areas where a lot of things 
 are going on, or when you get an achievement.
  
  As for the good, the game has fast-paced, action-packed fights, and using force powers and lightsaber 
 combos is always fun. Collecting holocrons is suprisingly fun, especially since they provide you 
 bonuses like points for levelling up, lightsaber crystals, costumes, etc.
  
  This is a great action game, and a must-get for Star Wars fans. However, if you're not into Star 
 Wars or action titles, consider passing this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KDogKool
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is an action beat-em-up set in the Star Wars universe. It takes 
 place between episodes 3 and 4, so it fills in the gap between then. The game has its flaws, but 
 they do not stop the game from being an intense, awesome game.
  
  You control Starkiller, Darth Vader's secret apprentice. You start the game playing as Darth Vader 
 invading Kashyyyk, where the apprentice is found. The story goes from there, with Darth Vader sending 
 the apprentice on missions to rid the galaxy of the last remaining Jedi. The story has plenty of 
 plot twists, and is easily better imagined, acted, and written than episodes 1, 2, and 3. It contains 
 two endings, a light and dark side ending. Amazingly enough, though the light side ending is the 
 official one, the dark side ending is better. While most games with dark side endings, like KOTOR, 
 make the dark side seem all-powerful and give you no guilt of your choices, The Force Unleashed's 
 dark ending shows the true evil of the dark side, and shows that in the end, it bears no reward. 
 In short, the story is nothing short of spectacular.
  
  While playing the game, you run around wielding a lightsaber and an arsenal of force powers. These 
 powers make the game fun, as you are able to kill your enemies in many different ways, and the 
 environment reacts differently every time you play. Plus, the force powers are completely out of 
 control, making playing the game a blast. The boss fights in the game are pretty good too. At the 
 end of a difficult opponent, you will be prompted to press certain buttons. When doing this, your 
 character will thoroughly decimate the opponent, and these sequences are extremely fun to watch. 
 
  
  The graphics and audio of the game are great. There is no blockiness of the graphics, and the sounds 
 and explosions will make your speakers rumble. The voice acting is done well too, and even though 
 Darth Vader is not voiced by his original actor, this one does a decent job of imitating him.
 
  
  So the game has an amazing story, stellar gameplay, and super technical aspects. However, there 
 are some problems with the game. One, it is much too short. It can take between 8-10 hours to beat 
 the game your first run through, and this just isnt long enough. Thankfully there are two endings. 
 It also is fun to play older levels with newly unlocked and upgraded force powers and cause destruction.
 
  
  The game also has its frustrating pars. For the most part, the difficulty has a nice curve with 
 the first levels being very easy and fun, with the last one being very difficult. However, around 
 the end, some bosses get very frustrating. I won't spoil them for you, but on a few I spent almost 
 half an hour just sitting there.
  
  Another problem is aiming. When you grab an object with the force, you can throw it at an enemy. 
 However, the throwing aim is kind of frustrating, as sometimes you throw it in the wrong direction. 
 You get used to it, but in the beginning this will make you try to avoid using force grip too often. 
 This is a pity, as mastery of this skill can result in truly awesome destruction. 
  
  One minor problem is cutscene bugs. Very rarely, the audio and video will go out of sinc, with 
 the audio clipping and the video freezing. For the most part, however, the game runs at a smooth 
 framerate and lets you enjoy it.
  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is an amazing game. While it has its flaws, its stellar gameplay 
 and story more than make up for it. The cool moves you get to do, such as lightsaber impale and 
 force repulse, truly make this game pure destruction and fun. Anyone with an Xbox 360 needs to 
 get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jinzai
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Since KOTR 2, I've been looking forward to another release based around the Star Wars universe. 
 When news came out regarding TFU, I was really looking forward to another vast, immersive game 
 from the folks over at Lucas Arts.
  
  Boy, was I disappointed.
  
  Don't get me wrong, by any other standard this is a great game. The things you can do with the 
 force powers are phenomenal, and the action was more than adequate.
  
  However, it became increasingly apparent as the game progressed that the folks over at Skywalker 
 Ranch went through some budget cuts during the making of the game. There was so much more that 
 could have been done with it before release...
  
  Like more gameplay, a longer game, and more gameplay. 
  
  Flashbacks to Fable, anyone?
  
 
  In addition, the game tended to lock up quite a bit, and having to return to autosave points versus 
 being able to save the game at will really made it frustrating to complete certain of the more 
 difficult segments.
  
  Had this been a release from a smaller, independent studio, it would have been a wonder of game 
 programming.
  
  But from Lucas Arts? Well, we've come to expect much better...
  
  And, let's be honest - 
  
  The fans that George Lucas has made a fortune on really don't deserve 
 to be short-changed with a buggy, abbreviated game. (George, buddy - have you been taking notes 
 over Bill Gates' shoulder?)
  
  Next time, guys - let's see a COMPLETE game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Im a huge Star Wars fan and ive been playing Star Wars games for years, since the original Tie 
 Fighter on the PC over 10 years ago. Ive had my fair share of bad and great star wars games but 
 for me the last few years have been terrible what with all the Clone Wars garbage (apart from KOTOR 
 games) that have been passed off as games...
  
  So here we are with the hugely anticipated Unleashed. I played the demo and thought it was nothing 
 special coming away hugely dissapointed. Having read a review saying its the best storyline Lucasarts 
 have produced for years, i splashed out anyway and im glad i did!
  
  Right from the start i really felt like this game was something special as you walk down the ramp 
 as Darth Vader, stomping along slowly and forcefully with Star Destroyers and AT-AT's all around 
 you. The graphics are amazing! Every level i felt really fit well into the Star Wars Universe and 
 the Junk Yard was simply stunning. The textures on the main character really look sharp although 
 the hordes of enemies you fight are a little less detailed but to be honest i never thought they 
 looked bad in any way. The lighting is fantastic and really sets the atmosphere. Sometimes i would 
 stop and look around at some of the huge and wonderous environments. The game just looks great 
 but you need to see it to believe it. The demo really doesnt show off its potential. Lightsabers 
 look as good as ever.
  
  Sound wise they really couldnt go far wrong, ok so they didnt get the original cast back for the 
 usual characters but overall i think they did a great job.
  
  Gameplay, well its a mixed bag here and i know some people expect more than just a hack and slash 
 but overall its been done very well. The force powers are obviously the main point and the further 
 you progress the more powerfull you become. Theres lots of combos and although you dont really 
 need to learn them to go through the game, i strongly suggest you do as theres some awesome moves 
 you can pull off. I didnt like the way enemies sometimes spawned right next to me and the way they 
 dissapear when they died, it really takes away any sense of immersion. The boss battles towards 
 the end of the game were fantastic but the first few kinda didnt do anything for me and the forced 
 camera angle was a bad move, why not just allow the player to use the normal view if they want? 
 The save system was wierd and even though you can save when you want, it takes you back to the 
 last checkpoint anyway which maked the whole system completely pointless. I enjoyed throwing stormtroopers 
 about and force pushing people off cliffs. The lightning never gets old!
  
  The level design on a whole was fantastic with some great set pieces and environments to fight 
 in. Some bits did need a bit more polish though when it came to the platform sections i sometimes 
 felt they were a little rough around the edges and i sometimes died for no good reason due to bad 
 texture placement.
  
  Storyline. Well yes the reviewers were right about that part at least. Utterly compelling and surely 
 the main reason to play through the game. Some of the cameos were great and it really fills in 
 a gap in the star wars storyline that suprisingly was there to be filled! I always preferred storm 
 troopers and darth vader to jaja binks and clone troopers!
  
  On a last note, the game was fairly short and has no real replay value other than to go back through 
 your fave levels. I picked it up for 30 and thought i got good value for money overall as its 
 the first star wars game ive enjoyed for years.
  
  I want more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Star wars force unleashed has had a lot of hype around it and why not the game gives you the chance 
 to use the force like never before so does this game live up to this hype?
  
  (PLEASE NOTE THERE IS SPOILERS)
  
  STORY REVIEW
  
  At the start of the game you get to 
 play as Darth vader himself this is something fans will be gagging to play and why not you get 
 the power of the him and the honour to play as him so you go through this level killing wookies 
 until you get to fight a JEDI the battle is very cinematic and you feel godly playing as vader 
 but the best thing is you have all his powers like force choke which is my personal favourite and 
 at the end of the level you meet the young boy who takes your light saber and this was a very exciting 
 moment that really got me into the story.
  
  The levels in SWFU are not very special apart from some very amazing Art styles like the junk planet 
 and so on and most levels have some good boss fights especially against the JEDI.
  
  The Graphics are stunning especially when you play as vader its one dam pretty game that HDTV owners 
 are going to have a lot of eye candy.
  
  I know i said there are spoilers but im not going to ruin the story but what i will say is that 
 it was very engrossing and i really enjoyed it.
  
  The good
  Very deep interesting story
  endless ways to use the force
  Excellent graphics
  interesting 
 characters
  
  The bad
  After the story theres not much to do
  some uninteresting levels
  the odd glitch
  
  Verdict
  If you love star wars and were hoping 
 for a deep and fun game then star wars force unleashed does it just right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldboy36
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Well theres alot of good but not enough of it and that makes the bad really bad. The game was kind 
 of meh to me. Good for a quick play through but when you start really testing the game and trying 
 to do more things you notice the flaws. Targeting is horrible; well maybe just bad, as you wont 
 notice if you just run through and kill everything on the fly. Once you try more advanced tricks 
 with force grip and using the enviroment it becomes a serious flaw. The story while being cannon 
 is worth knowing, but not really that good. Though I didn't hate the ending it was obvious considering 
 this is cannon you already know how it ends if you think about it for a minute, no huge twists 
 really. The choices or not choices it's A choice which was kind of lame. Seems like it was just 
 written in to sell the game more. Most of the charectors seem unintersting or hollow. The levels 
 reminded me of a suped up episode 3 game, well maybe not that bad. But its still not a good thing. 
 Its like "okay thats cool wait thats it? lame!" Having more enemies and a better sabercombo system 
 would be nice. Most of the time the combos dont do much, once you get your timeing right you'll 
 be comboing dead bodies more than defeating them. It would of gone a long way to throw more enimes 
 at you and let you sabercombo multible enemies instead of one at a time. BTW I hate the constant 
 button sequence actions, once in awhile for a big boss would be fine but after awhile it gets old. 
 Some puzzles or well puzzling as your force grip doesnt target very well. You'll know what to do 
 but walk around to find the sweet spot that well let you grap what your meant to or want to. Griping 
 Tie fighters out of the sky drove me nuts. The graphics are good but a few spots near the end during 
 the cut scences needed a little work. No big deal but with no multiplayer, short play time, tact 
 on RPG elements that doesnt really do much, not getting FMV perfect just seemed lazy. If this was 
 a $19.00 game or Xbox live arcade wow great game. Unfortuantly $60.00 brings a higher standard 
 that Force unleashed doesnt meet at all. Rent for a weekend or maybe a week if you have other things 
 to do; Or if you find it for 19 bucks somewere then have at it. If you like throwing your money 
 away or are just a HUGE star wars or action fan MAYBE buy MAYBE. I like star wars so I probaly 
 gave it a higher rating then it deserved. With all that said I did want to like the game and kind 
 of did. Which says they were on the right track, too bad they didnt finish. This is a pattern now 
 a days but this one was a glaring example of it. It was well polished but the fundementals and 
 length just was not there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  So I waited for a year when I first heard of this game, and it was one of the games I preordered 
 for this upcoming gaming season that is littered with oh so many great titles coming out. But a 
 last I knew this game was not meant for me to play straight through and instead have me beat a 
 mission here and there when I downloaded Galaga instead of playing TFU. So... I suppose you can 
 ask why right?
  
  One reason I enjoy consols over PC is becasue you dont have to worry about updating things such 
 as video cards... thus I feel that issues with framrates should not happen on consols (in my head 
 this logic makes sense, I don't know about a computer nerds though) . TFU framrate is terrible! 
 Every so often if just jumps around... especially in boss battles.
  
  Another issue I had was, for lack of a better word, glitches. I would be running then all of a 
 sudden I would be invisible and find out I fell through the floor... and there was no way for me 
 to get ontop of the floor as the laws of physics (and even the laws of the Force) govern. 
  
  Boss battles is another flaw for me. I feel they were more based on luck and pitty then actully 
 figuring out how to defeat the boss. I would die for a while, then out of nowhere trying to kill 
 the same boss on the 8th try I would beat him or her without even getting hit... so yeah.
  
  The end of a boss fight where you press the buttons I enjoy just because it looks more epic 
 then just the boss falling down.
  
  The game also made you do the same thing over and over and over again. Go here, kill the underlings, 
 then kill boss.... rinse and repeat. Which just started to get boring after the first few hours 
 and no amount of force tricks could save it.
  
  The story is another flaw I feel. The story was the first thing that got me interested in this 
 game... so maybe my expectations were to high, I donno.
  
  So yeah, it didn't live up to my hype so now I am going to go run and get a new "quick" game until 
 the next game of the season comes out. For all who do get this game after reading this... I truly 
 hope you enjoy it more than I did, and don't get me wrong I do see myself beating it... eventually. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eletricunclesam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  there are a few things id change. its not an open enviroment you have a set path, you can only 
 upgrade so much, which sucks cause you are always awarded upgrade spheres but cant use themand 
 everyone wants more power. no cheats can be used or it wont save there arent enough extra in the 
 game, you can change your clothes..... wow! i kid its cool but the just doesnt seem to be enough 
 content. id would like to see another as long as they can mix it up add some stuff. the story and 
 the action are great. i dont think i ever thought that it was repetative. runnin through kickin 
 but takein names and pushin em out the window. ive played a lot of star wars games. and this one 
 was on that realy called out to me. i just hope someone posts a walkthrough soon cause i just cant 
 seem to find all the halocrons 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi081
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: Force Unleashed is set between Episodes III and IV. The story begins when you are Darth 
 Vader and you are seeking to kill the Rouge Jedi. When you make it to the hut, Vader finds his 
 son and for some reason saves him and you turn into his apprentice. There are many levels in each 
 you will have to kill a Jedi, to advance. The story is how the Rebellion starts; the main levels 
 are Cloud City, Kashyyyk and Felucia. During the levels you advances a skill rank where you will 
 be able to buy and upgrade new skills, like force lighting, force push and Sith strike. When you 
 kill Jedi's, AT-AT or rancors you will be able to kill them by using button combinations on y the 
 screen, with saber throws, lighting and crushing enemies, it the best way to finish the fight. 
 With many skills to learn and enhance will you become the most powerful Jedi in the universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: refreak-1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  Every now and then a game comes along that makes you proud to be a gamer. A game that makes you 
 happy that you have that box sitting next to your t. v. that enables you to experience such an amazing 
 creative medium. The Force Unleashed is most definitely one of those games. It allows you to live 
 in the Star Wars Universe like never before, weilding the Force with such prowess that you will 
 truly feel like a Jedi, or Sith, master. All of the drama, exitement, and ambiance of the films 
 is there, every last drop of it, and it's one thrilling ride. Rest assured there are plenty of 
 "holy crap, that's the coolest thing I've ever seen" moments. Now... lets talk gaming. The graphics 
 are top notch. There are games that rival it, but not surpass it graphically in my opinion. The 
 physics are the stars of the show however. They are absolutely breathtaking. They're larger than 
 life, but at the same time feel very real and true to their setting. The environmental effects 
 are extremely well done, and the particle effects are also worth noting. The art design is ripped 
 right out of the films, and you will be blown away by the sheer scope of the gameworld. The levels 
 are massive, and there are plenty of little easter eggs hidden around them for us fans to find. As 
 for the people who criticize the length, it's one of those games that you'll want to play over 
 and over again so it's not as big of a deal as with some games. To it's credit however, it's not 
 THAT short. I've played shorter and equally great games. I'd also like to add this, I trust Gamespot's 
 opinion more than any other game site, but I disagree with them on this one. I've never had a problem 
 targeting something, not once, and you get to use the force in all it's glory throughout the entire 
 game. Isn't that what the game does best... I don't see how it strays from that. Sorry Gamespot. 
 Bottom Line: I would recommend this game to any true gamer, especially the Star Wars fans among 
 us. So what are you waiting for? Go pick up a copy, you won't regret it.
  p. s. Once again, thank you George Lucas for giving us such a clear view of light and dark, right 
 and wrong, and good and evil. For reminding us that hatred, no matter where it is directed, corrupts 
 the soul and in the end, we are no better than the object of that hatred. A lesson this world would 
 do well in learning. God bless you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealMadrid7
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Well I have beaten the game and it is now time for a review. This is a difficult game to review 
 because it does some things so well and others so poorly. 
  So let's start with the good
  Wide range of powers, abilities and combos. Starkiller can really dispatch his enemies in a number 
 of creative ways. Force grip some poor sod, impale him with the light saber, blast him with some 
 force lightning and then toss him into someone elseall while your saber is still in him. Fantastic.. comparable 
 only to Dante and Nero's own wicked ways of killing though still not as cool or hands on.. but the 
 bad is for another section
  Great RPG level up feel to the game. The ability to customize Starkiller to your liking is a welcome 
 boon. One can concentrate on leveling up the abilities that one prefers. Like using force push 
 then power it up, prefer a lightning shield then boost that up.. wanna go into battle gung-ho and 
 in need of high resilience and a larger life bar power those up. At the end of the day Starkiller's 
 abilities reflect your choices unless you go through the entire game and really seek out every 
 holocron and bonus objective
  Excellent bonus objectives that usually involve even more property destruction or loss of life.
 
  Fantastic background graphics, not as panoramic as say Drake's Fortune but scenic in its own right. 
 Take some time off from dangling storm troopers over a cliff and take a look arounddoes a confused 
 force user a lot of good.
  10/10 storyline, voice acting. Lucas Arts really gave us a fantastic plausible story to bridge 
 the gap between episodes. Galen is believable and was well created psychologically.
  The music and sound effects are spot on perfect. Also the ability to change the color of your light 
 saber is great. I especially love my black light saber
  Some really excellent and intense action sequences that challenge you and prevent the game from 
 becoming a mindless button masher. If you don't plan your attacks you will die it is as simple 
 as that. Now the difficulty isn't as steep as Ninja Gaiden or Devil May Cry 3 but it has its moments. 
 There are some moments when you feel like the game is being cheap not giving you time to get to 
 your feet, but hey when I get an enemy down Imma kick the crap out of him so deal with it, you 
 got a dash buttonuse it.
  Getting to see Darth Vader busted upclassic
  But the good must end
  The Bad
  The camera  I mean really what the hellsome battles for example 
 against the Emperor you can't even see Starkiller as he runs for cover. And frankly I think the 
 action could have been much more upclose and personal if the camera was drawn closer to the screen 
 and all character models were a little (or a lot) bigger. I guess the producers were going for 
 that "I'm heavily outnumbered but it don't matter feel" so there are a lot of enemies on screen. 
 Once again I must say no game brings the action home like the original Devil may Cry. Dante was 
 in your face and every skirmish felt like your last.
  The boss battles - Sorry the boss battles were good but none of them really achieve that epic feel 
 as in say God of War, MGS, DMC or Ninja Gaiden. Theya re by no means bad but they aren't epic like 
 they are in the movies. The best one was against PROXY. Fighting Darth Maul was fantastic.
  The set pieces  actually it's just one set piece. What could have been the single greatest moment 
 in gaming and star wars history turned out to be an exercise in frustration. This could have been 
 more classic than Cloud busting up Sephiroth, Link doing in Gandalf, or your first battle with 
 the Hydra in GOW. Instead it is just a pain in the butt and not enjoyable at all.
  Starkiller  Really he's a pretty plain dude, guess that what you get for being a slave to the 
 darkside of the force. 
  Enemies  not much going on here, you basically battle the same enemies in the same places over 
 and over again. Thankfully whooping them is fun because looking at them gets old fast. Again I 
 think the game could have benefitted from larger more detailed less generic looking enemies.
  Force targeting  Next time let me choose what I want to grab. Simple as that. A simple L3 command 
 or whatever the hell it is called on the Xbox 360 for depressing the left thumbstich would have 
 sufficed to cucle through movable items. Too many times I spent an eternity trying to grab a piece 
 of debris but grabbed nothing or something elsesheesh.. The targeting for actually hitting stuff 
 aint much better either but you get better at it as time goes by.
  So there is my review, the game gets an 8/10 because overall it is an enjoyable experience. Hope 
 I didn't rag too much about the bad because it does a lot of good. In reality if gamespot would 
 allow us I would really give it a 7.7
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Temtamperu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  The problem with hype is people get into a frenzy and then all there dreams come crashing down. 
 I actually said, im not getting this game.
  but There was a sale and I got it for 30 euro, not bad as it was down from 75. so I don't mind 
 the length of the game I played through the hard mode and the game lasted me 12 hours, I got all 
 but one holocron, and also stopped playing for a bit at the dreaded star destroyer moment.
  The graphics where good on the HDTV but I did find I got some Frame rate problems with the sith 
 smash move on the second lvl.
  Another problem I got the Sith Robe, again on the second lvl, but it was locked after that so that 
 annoyed me as it was really cool having your whole face in shadow Ala Sidious.
  there are a lot of moves to learn and a lot of upgrades and the leveling system was great. peeps 
 who have a problem with this, are nit picking loading times arent that long at all.
  Some of the Boss fights where annoying as the targeting in this game both sucks and blows at the 
 same time, even though there is only one boss at a time I found my force lightening aiming for 
 debris more than the bosses but It could be overcome again.
  The AI I noticed glitched a few times but it was purge troopers on that last lvl bit so it helped 
 rather than hindered.
  Lightsaber battles where fun, and that proxy fight was a nice surprise, Got my ass handed to me 
 several times.
  The camera got annoying too but fixed it self before I ever got to damaged.
  This game is lacking 
 multi player but thats about it.
  Fantastic story, I even got choked up and it truely was a great bridge between the trilogy's.
 
  Cant wait for the DLC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samsung1996
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  i think that i am amazed at the gameplay in this game. good graphics, great storyline, and neverending 
 battles, plus you get to use the force anytime you want. but like all games, there is a force bar 
 so that when you use the force to much, sooner or later the force bar will run out and you will 
 have to wait awhile for it to gain back. but if you had to play a game, play this one or you will 
 be really bored around your house and you will have nothing to do all day and all night. but you 
 really should get this game!!!! im not kidding!!!!! get the game!!!!!! please get the game!!!!! don't 
 make me come to your house and make you get the game!!!! im seiryous!!! i don't even know how to 
 spell seryous!!!! but if you can understand my spelling, then get the game!!!! please get the game!!!!! your 
 life is not yet complete without the game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: offroadcameron0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:09 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for my kid brother the day it came out. It looked like a lot of fun, so I gave 
 it a try myself. If you like star wars at all, you will like this game. The force powers are awesome. 
 Throwing people against the wall with the force never gets old. It's really a lot of fun to watch 
 for others, as well. 
  To top it all off, the story is movie quality. They could have made a whole new movie ( a movie 
 worth watching ) from the events and writing in this game. 
  
  There are problems. This game is not perfect. There were several parts where the game felt like 
 playing a 3d platformer from a playstation one. Jumping on things with muddy handling just isn't 
 acceptable at this stage of the name, nor are bugs or freeze-ups for that matter. This game could 
 have used a lot more polishing as it seems like they were in a rush to get it out the door. 
  
  That being said, how many other games let you play as Darth Vader, let you grab tie fighters 
 out of the sky, fight rancors, and slice an AT-ST in half? Zero. Give it a try, it's more fun than 
 it seems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lt_Maverick92
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, I believe (and this is my opinion including bias) that many game sites, magazines, 
 ect. gave TFU very underrated grades. I shall go over all the Pros and Cons of the game as well 
 as why it is better than shown. I've already beaten the game twice, and I don't know how people 
 can say it's trash
  
  Pros: 
  -Graphics are amazing. 
  -Euphoria, Havox, and DMM work amazingly well together. 
  -Great story, amazing gameplay. 
 
  -Great voices for all the characters
  -Story length sort of fits
  -Use of PROXY is amazing
  -Great customization of lightsaber/costume
  -Powers really are "UNLEASHED"
 
  -EPIC battles
  -Sith Master is really challenging
  -Story really makes you think that this could have been the in between "movie"
  
  Cons: 
 
  -Sometimes lip sync is off
  -Fell through the floor twice in the game
  -Things you think you can climb are actually slopes
  -Minimap not always accurate (tried to go 
 on a minimap area on Felucia Act 2 Sarlac Pit, and ended up falling in)
  
  
  Overall this game definitely has more pros than cons. I ever experienced the bull rancor health 
 bar disappearing. I never experienced the voices fading away. And for the loading screens in between 
 everything on the pause menu, relax it's just 10 more seconds of your life. Those who also say 
 that the game is too short, think about it; LucasArts was trying to tell the story of what happened 
 in between Episodes III and IV, movies were about 3+ hours. The game was 8 hours long, that was 
 the perfect time in which to tell the story, and had they condensed it into a movie, it probably 
 still would have been more than 4 hours. The game keeps its difficulty true to its meaning. Star 
 Wars: The Force Unleashed is a very underrated game that keeps you coming back for more. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: happyface100
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:27 am PT
Review:  The game is just what Star Wars fans needed! It's the adrenaline rush for every Jedi, Sith, whatever 
 apprentice!
  
  The game runs awesome on PS3 and XBOX360 alike, I know cuz I have a friend with an XBOX and I have 
 the "big fella" ... as for the other versions... waste of time guys ! 
  
  The Good: 
  
  Superb Graphic Engine, love the ideea of three prototipe engines working together, even though 
 they have a few glitches once a while, they work like a charm;
  
  The Storyline is awesome, just the main thought of Vader having an apprentice convinced me to buy 
 the game, not to mention what happens next.
  
  The Gameplay is addictive, it gives you a heck lot of fun.
  
  The Bad:
  
  The Gameplay 
 strays from the correct path sometimes, some puzzles are just stupid, the force can or can't be 
 used in some stupid circumstances, and some parts of the game are really repetitive...
  
  Overall:
  
  It really worth the wait, and I'm playing it with joy.... it's worth all the money 
 !!! :D
  
  END ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raahsnavj
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  
  Where to start... The basic story line is: you are Darth Vader's secret apprentice, off to hunt 
 Jedi in amazing 3rd person. No one is supposed to know about you so your orders are destroy everything 
 and everyone. Pretty good premise if you ask me.
  
  Some things to get out of the way: This game is NOT a Jedi Knight (Outcast or Jedi Academy) . All 
 your weapons will be is a light saber and the force. This game is also NOT a role playing game 
 in the sense of making choices via dialog and actions in the game. The story is linear 99% of the 
 way through with one choice to decide the ending battle and cut scene if you win. 
  
  However, other than your own character, NOTHING will be fleshed out via the standard game videos. 
 Your female pilot is extremely hollow, as is your amazing holographic capable droid. You will run 
 into Princess Leia and her adopted father, the emperor and a few other minor characters from the 
 star wars universe. The story will finally reach its apex when you either kick either ... or ... 
 arse and then the final cut scene will ruin it. I really want to discuss this more as to why they 
 are so horrible, but I don't wish to spoil it. The voice acting for the game is done well as is 
 the facial expressions from the apprentice.
  
  There is customization in what color your light saber and costume is, but they make no difference 
 in the game play. You can put in a customization crystal into your light saber that changes the 
 blade properties though, for example extra damage, lightning damage, better blaster deflection 
 etc. 
  There also is a strong attempt at making you choose how you want to develop you characters attributes. 
 As you progress through the game you will level up giving you the ability to distribute points 
 to three areas. Force powers, saber combos, and basic character modifications. Force powers let 
 you beef up you push, or lightning skills for example. Saber Combos let you have different attack 
 combos for example: hit X, X, Y, and Y to not just swing your sword, but also do two strikes with 
 lightning damage. Lastly basic abilities determine how fast your force power will come back, your 
 base deflection and base combo skills, etc.
  
  It seems pretty cool up-front, but unfortunately a player that varies how they attack and also 
 searches out for 'Jedi holocrons' will be able to max out just about everything by the end game 
 anyhow, so it s all for naught.
  
  Enter the actual game play. There are four or five attacks you will use the whole game. Anything 
 with Lightning is a must as it stuns most enemies as well. Mostly force grip and throw, a basic 
 saber combo ending with a lightning blow, straight up lightning ala like the emperor, jump dashes 
 and force pushes, and for when you get surrounded the force repulse. There are a lot more combos 
 out there, and some might fit your playing style more, but that list right there can you get you 
 through the game with ease. Oh, and DEFEND. If you don't learn how to defend prepare to get your 
 trash handed to you multiple times.
  
  Each level can be played separately, and you can go back to levels you have already played to earn 
 more experience or complete bonus objectives you missed out on. Each level is broken into parts 
 where it will quick save. If you die, you respawn at the most recent quick save. If you exit a 
 level (either by switching or saving to come back later) you will have to start all over from the 
 first of the level again. Unfortunately the cut scene will play again when you go to the level 
 and skipping it appears to be random. You usually have to sit through at least 15+ seconds before 
 it will finally let you skip it.
  
  Most levels will have one place in that can be really annoying to get past until you figure out 
 where all the enemies are hidden. And not saving up a person or exploding barrel to throw into 
 a tough spot will make things harder than they seem if you look at a bigger picture of saving your 
 resources for when you really need them.
  
  The game can actually be fast paced, but usually you are asking for it if you don't pick your battles 
 and eliminate enemies one at a time. As you fight your way through the game secondary objectives 
 will show up. If you complete them you get a free upgrade to your character. There is also a goal 
 for how many points you score in a single level, hit the goal free upgrade again. Then there are 
 the Jedi holocrons...
  
  Jedi holocrons are what will make you angry at the camera angles, annoyed with wall glitches, and 
 show that the game is NOT a platformer... but to get all the holocrons be prepared to see all the 
 rough in this game. Basically they are glowing cubes hidden in the levels that when you touch them 
 you get a free upgrade, costume, or light saber crystal. Most levels have 15, two levels have 5. 
 They are usually put out of reach or hidden on the outskirts of the levels areas thus forcing you 
 to see how poor all the edges are in this game. Really, the developers kicked themselves with this 
 idea.
  
  This reaches me to glitches. While you are off finding random holocrons you will get stuck. With 
 enough perseverance you can find your way out of just about everything... though sometimes it is 
 by falling in the deep bottomless hole just to restart at the last check point. There was only 
 one point in the game where the frame rate dropped so low it was really slowing down, so for the 
 most part it stays pretty consistent and good looking.
  
  The few levels in the middle of the game have major glitches where you can redo the secondary objective 
 over and over to gain another level each time you do it. I won't give you more details than that 
 for the sake of the story.
  
  Another annoying factor is as you will eventually get use to the 3rd person camera, all the major 
 boss battles move to a camera that overlooks the battle field. This was done for effect I'm sure, 
 but it makes the boss fights behave a lot differently. They don't feel right and they force you 
 to learn the game play all over again, which makes them somewhat annoying.
  
  Also targeting can be fickle if the screen is full of enemies or boxes as well. And for some odd 
 reason the camera will not let you target things below your typical feet level very well... though 
 some levels work better than others.
  
  BUT the biggest glitch I encountered was a way to corrupt my save file by playing my own music 
 over the rehashed star wars tunes that haven't changed since before Star Wars became Episode IV: 
 A New Hope. At this point, none of my bonus objectives would show up anymore, it wouldn't keep 
 track of my level score and I couldn't tell how many holocrons I had. I could do nothing but abandon 
 the desire to find all the holocrons and just finished out the game.
  
  The game comes with some 'bonus' stuff to do in it. As you unlock the cut scenes you can watch 
 them again at your leisure. There is also a training mode, for you to practice certain skills and 
 what not. The training is actually pretty horrible and eventually turns into a mess of frustration 
 than enjoyment as the developers cram you in a circular room with a rancor and numerous other enemies 
 at the same time. After you beat the game you get to try out one more awesome skill that makes 
 your saber attacks look really cool, but actually is completely useless. And during the challenge 
 mode you will accidently use the wrong killing move numerous times, forcing you to restart.
  
  There is also a concept art gallery and a databank. The databank is well fleshed out and star 
 wars aficionados will love to read what has been put in it. This is where the hollow characters 
 will be fleshed out, thus redeeming a lot of the emptiness of the in game videos.
  
  For the X360 achievements, there is a combination of standard game progression achievements, beat 
 the game light side / dark side and on every difficulty, kick some of the big mini-bosses a bunch 
 of times achievements, coupled with a find every holocron achievement, all topped off with the 
 worst puke sauce 'kill 500 enemies with a certain type of attack' achievements. And of course the 
 cherry on the puke is 'Worst Day Shift Manager Ever' which still makes me laugh when I think of 
 it.
  
  The actual game play and main story can be done pretty quickly. My first play through on easy took 
 6.50 hours, but finding all the holocrons (without cheating) and reading the database almost doubled 
 that. And my repeat play through was around 6 hours as well. So if you like to play through your 
 games and master them, with 4 difficulties this will last you around 20 hours or more. Despite 
 all its flaws, this is probably my guilty pleasure and will probably get played every time I feel 
 in the mood for some star wars butt kicking.
  
  In short the game is a pretty good ride while it lasts. Between glitches, pretty repetitive game 
 play, and two piss-poor endings that probably couldn't have been done worse if George Lucus did 
 it himself. Star Wars fans should take a look, and probably already have, but unless you love Star 
 Wars I could see this as a pass.
  
  
  PS. If you want to discuss why I hate the endings so much, feel free to PM me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DimmySumHikyio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to sit here and write a long review about this game's pros and cons. Just what I 
 think...
  
  This game in my own opinion is very good, one of the few 360 games I'll sit through and play again 
 and again, just for the achievements. Now I was caught up in all the hype as "THIS WILL BE THE 
 BEST STAR WARS GAME OUT THERE!!!" Now, I wouldn't call this the BEST but, it definitely is up there.
 
  
  
  I feel (as most people do) that this game, needs abit more polish and Spick 'n' Span. I saw a lot 
 of errors that could of been easily fixed if just a little more time was spent on it. Not that 
 it suffers from them (In Example: Alone in the Dark for the XBOX360)
  
  But I'd like to end this review in saying that. In all of it's flaws, nothing is more satisfying 
 than punting a Jawa.
  
  Thanks for reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ray4594
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This is truely an amazing game. the gamespot score might not be the best but it doesnt stop it 
 from being great. Star Wars the force unleashed is just flat out fun. You are Darth vader's "Secret 
 Apprentice" and you have to go on missions that he gives you. So you start the game pretty well 
 with no force powers other than force push and grip, and you only have a few combos. But as you 
 advance in the game, you get new powers, new combos, more health and force. The game also has things 
 called holocrons. They come in either sith holocrons which gives you power ups for a time limit 
 and there are jedi holocrons which gives you new points to spend, exp and lightsaber crystals. 
 Every level in the game, you will start out with a new costume which automatically gets unlocked 
 and saved for you. You can change lightsaber colours and costumes at any given time. The game has 
 3 really great engines working within it. These include Euphoria (A. I in the game act realisticly) Havoc (tells 
 the game how people will react to certain things in real life and how things react to each other) 
 and DMM (which tells us how things are supposed to break) . The pros of this game is that there is 
 a very great story with lots of emotions and good voice acting. Theres alot of cool combos to make 
 up on your own, many things to unlock, cool powers to use, fun to customize your lightsaber, amazing 
 cut scenes, and many more. But there are cons for this game. Some of thse which include it getting 
 kind of slow after you advance to the next few levels of the game, during cut scenes, you don't 
 wear the costume that you are wearing not but the default costume of the level, a few glitches, 
 a bad auto lock on system which gets in the way of using force grip, lots of quick time button 
 pressing, and euphoria can sometimes make the enemy AI's act kind of weird, the A. I can sometimes 
 be horridly dumb (not even attacking when your next to him) , and is a short game overall. These 
 are probably most of the cons. Star Wars the force unleashed may have its bad parts but it also 
 has a very good side to it. This is a game that you shouldn't miss out on. So buy this game if 
 you have the money, but you can also rent it since you can probably finish it in about 2-4 days. 
 So have fun and may the force be with you ( Very cheesy ending for a review eh?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil50thug
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  good from Begining to end but theres something missing. sometimes you well get frustrated but it 
 well be short because you well level up and become more "power full in the force" and that should 
 help a bunge i think it the best Starwars game so far at a story game... other then SWKOTR... anyways 
 the story is good has everything love, comedy, tradric, and has you always thinking. so my final 
 verdict is that if you are a starwars fanboy or was... this game is for you if not im sure theres 
 other games for you and probably cheaper
  
  Jordan P
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  If your a star wars fan you will think Star Wars Force Unleashed is the greatest game on the planet 
 and you'll rate this bad boy a whopping 10. I'm sorry to say but it falls a little short from perfection.
 
  
  The sound breaks up when your in cut scenes but the music is obviously amazing given it's a Star 
 Wars game. The gameplay is horrible considering it's a Star Wars game with lightsabers, one would 
 think the combat system would be more robust and fluid to give you a real star wars like battle. 
 I found myself standing in one spot and mashing the X and Y button. I wondered to myself, why can't 
 I fight like the end boss fights when you have to timely push the buttons to execute combos. Unfortunately 
 it's left for the CPU to do that and we're left with mashing buttons. Let me also mention that 
 it was quite difficult to pick up objects or target a single mob when everything around me is can 
 be picked up. 
  
  I didn't like the fact the game had many bugs. I could say I finished it, but I didn't even come 
 close. I found myself reseting my xbox because my character was stuck falling through the world 
 or simply stuck. I thought about paging a GM and realized this is a console action game not an 
 MMO. 
  
  I'm sorry to say but this game was not worth the money I spent on it because of countless bugs 
 that can't seem to be fixed unless there's a patch on the way. Stay away from purchase and rent 
 the game. I'm sure everyone will enjoy it. It's high action non stop combat with lightsabers and 
 a lot of bad guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USS-Voyager
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  So the Force Unleashed is finaly here and its incredible. Every once in awhile you will run into 
 a very minor glitch, but what game doesn't have them? I have heard about people encountering a 
 game ending glitch that ruins there saved games, but that never happened to me. This games story 
 is amazing. There are many twists and turns during the course of mabey 8 or 9 hours. That said 
 the game is pretty short, but is addicting enough to go through it more than once. The gameplay 
 itself is spectacular. You feel very powerful just flinging your enemies wherever you desire. The 
 controls are good and I've had no problem with them. However the aiming system may take some getting 
 used to, but its not as hard to aim as the gamespot reviewer makes it sound. The most dissapointing 
 thing about this game is the lack of multiplayer, but its still an awesome game, that anybody that 
 enjoys a good action adventure game should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 67gt500
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Those iconic words from none other than Darth Vader himself (Star Wars Episode V: The Empire Strikes 
 Back, rel. 1980) seem prophetically appropriate in describing the over-all Force Unleashed experience 
 on xbox360 today.
  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is an ambitious undertaking indeed. The premise puts the player 
 in the boots of Darth Vader's 'Secret Apprentice' trained by the Sith Lord himself and imbued (eventually) 
 with the full power of the Dark Side of the Force, between Episodes III and IV. Fan expectations 
 would be ridiculously high. The story would either be embraced by purists as a legitimate part 
 of the Star Wars mythos, or rejected as contrived sci-fi drivel. But LucasArts has some impressive 
 tech to play with (DMM by Pixelux, Havok and Euphoria) , and receives story and art direction from 
 George Lucas himself. 
  
  Sometimes, I found myself feeling that The Force Unleashed on xbox360 is almost more of a user-playable 
 tech-demo, than a standard video game. And, it feels as if the technology that drives the game 
 is somewhat ahead of it's time. 
  
  DMM applies simulated 'real-world' molecular/structural properties to various objects in the game 
 world - some of which players will get to directly manipulate either using Force powers or other 
 objects in the environment. It's well implemented in The Force Unleashed and provides an exciting 
 glimpse of the kind of environmental interaction that will likely be more prevalent on the next 
 generation of game consoles. It would have been more convincing if it could have been applied to 
 absolutely every little thing in the game world, but it's impressive nonetheless. 
  
  Euphoria inspires NPC's to react (un-scripted) more 'realistically' and with a heightened sense 
 of self-preservation - it can be quite hilarious at times to observe how the hapless NPC's react 
 to your 'application' of the Force. 
  
  Havok brings the whole package together ensuring that the objects and NPC's that you fling around 
 with impunity react with the right physics to great effect, as always. 
  
  The sound work is up to Star Wars standards and the visual effects are all rendered beautifully. 
 The environments and set-pieces are stunning, and the level design feels solid. Oddly, the cut-scenes 
 which drive the (fantastic) story seem like the weakest link of the over-all visual package here, 
 with some animations looking stilted and silly. The user interface could have been rendered more 
 impressively, but it's serviceable.
  
  Combat feels like it's constantly trying to stand out from the Force Unleashed's stellar story. 
 Targeting can be imprecise, and frustrating. Area attacks can be useful, but only against certain 
 foes. The same can be said of light-saber attacks. There are many instances however, where you 
 will truly feel like a serious Force-wielding bad-ass and it's those moments that define the Force 
 Unleashed's finest moments. 
  
  This game wants you to experiment with your powers. It wants you to practice and refine your combos. 
 It doesn't want to hold your hand to the extent that so many current-gen games do, which I think 
 is a great thing indeed. It wants to show you amazing vistas, tell you a compelling story and dazzle 
 you with special effects. It wants to tug at your heart-strings and try your moral compass. But 
 at it's heart it wants you to let loose without limitations, and experience (to the extent that 
 the present technology will allow) what being a wildly powerful Apostle of the Dark Lord himself 
 would feel like.
  
  Whether or not the game succeeds in that lofty endeavor, I would encourage you to experience for 
 yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ehfef666i
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  The Story; It's good, but you want it to be GREAT.
  
  The Gameplay; Just like the story, a few problems come up to pull you back out of the experience. 
 It only becomes tolerable if you're willing to work with it, and not against it.
  
  About halfway through the game, you get the feeling that the whole thing could still turn out to 
 be epic, or just a piece of garbage. That's how Force Unleashed made me feel. And, even after finishing 
 the game, I couldn't label it as either one. The game is too fun throughout most of the game to 
 be called a failure, but it's those targeting woes that can end up hurting you a bit.
  
  The alleged visual and audio bugs in the game did not throw me, so I really don't feel like they 
 were an issue. Minor glitches at best. Nothing you couldn't expect from the scale of the environments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlefront23
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: When Force Unleashed is at it's finest, I'm not kidding when I say it's awesomeness can't 
 be matched. The ability to twirl a hopeless stormtrooper and inevitably crush his body against 
 the wall can't get old. I also quite enjoy how the lightsaber is employed as it is not a main focus 
 (shocking! :P) , but when you really when to get the to the thick of the fight and slice those pesky 
 jawas, you can. BUT there are some definite problems here. When the camera is in close encounters 
 are zooming out for a boss fight, it tends to be more of a nuisance than a help. And some of the 
 boss fights are not only hard but extremely annoying. (cough *SPOILER* Palpatine *SPOILER* cough) 
 Overall the good outweighs the bad here. 
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  Story: It is the best Star Wars story to date besides KOTOR 1. I was intrigued to know what would 
 happen with Starkiller... It's interesting how he interacts with his companions, especially Proxy. 
 
  Story: 10/10
  
  Graphics: The art design of this game is simply breathtaking. Up close the face models aren't the 
 greatest, but the scenery and backgrounds of the planets sometimes made me get distracted. The 
 explosions all work and react well, as do the environments, and they both look very very pretty.
 
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Sound: This is Star Wars sound... Need I say more?
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Value: This game took me anywhere from 8 to 10 hours to complete. But considering if you were 
 a completest or just a big Star Wars nut like myself, you can easily log 20 to 30 hours into this 
 game. The value truly depends on how big a fan of Star Wars you are. 
  Value: 8/10
  
  Overall: This is not the GOTY I was expecting, but nonetheless, I got 90% of what I wanted. It 
 is definitely worth a play and should not be missed. 
  Overall: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is the latest video game offering in the venerable Star Wars universe. 
 In the game, you play as Lord Darth Vadar's secret apprentice, Starkiller. The game is set immediately 
 before episode 4 and many familiar characters make appearances to give the story weight and authenticity. 
 Many fan services were included in this game, from cameos to the authentic sounds and music used 
 by LucaseArts, the developer.
  
  The Force Unleashed comfortably falls into the category of an action-adventure game. You progress 
 through linear levels defeating waves of enemies earning force orbs along the way which are used 
 to power up any number of skills. Your main source of offense will be your melee attacks via your 
 Lightsaber. The interesting twist to this game is the use of the Force which grows stronger as 
 you progress. A bit into the game you will be able to lift, throw, electrocute, crush and skewer 
 your foes using a number of powers.
  
  Like many action-adventure games, the gameplay becomes very predictable as you go. Enemies tend 
 to fall into one of a hand full of categories. Use the applicable tactics to defeat that type of 
 enemy and you should have no problem getting through the game. Puzzles dot the game, requiring 
 you to bend, lift or shock certain items to progress through the level. At the end of most levels 
 a foe awaits you usually a one-on-one battle between you and a Jedi. These battles are given a 
 good sense of intensity with a different style camera angle but ultimately fall short because most 
 can be won by repeating the same attack.
  
  There is a sort of metagame within The Force Unleashed. While going through missions, you gain 
 points by defeating enemies. You can gain more points by combining your Force skills while dealing 
 with them. Also, using your surroundings as weapons will gain you extra style points. These points 
 are tied to several achievements and also to unlocking artwork, outfits as well as Lightsaber gems.
 
  
  The story in The Force Unleashed is told through well done between mission cutscenes and in game 
 dialog with your sexy female costar or smart-mouthed sidekick robot (who always seems to want to 
 kill you... strange) . It is refreshing to see Vadar factor into the story as much as he did. 
  
  With no multiplayer and about 9 hours worth of game, The Force Unleashed offers little replay 
 value after the first play through. You can start a new game and you will begin with all your Force 
 powers, giving you the chance to deal with enemies differently then before. There are collection 
 items called Holocrons spread across the levels which could compel some to play through the game 
 more than once.
  
  The Force Unleashed ultimately is played for its story which ties into the rest of the Star Wars 
 continuum very nicely. The good presentation values make this games only short coming being the 
 combat which can become repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yourtoast
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  To start off i just want to say i ran into no glitches ever. I beat the game in 4 hours and it 
 doesn't have much replay value. ( u can only do same mission a couple times b4 it gets boring ) 
 Some things weren't explained right like some of the boss fights. In my opinion the story is ok 
 but has flaws. like i can understand him dieing once and getting saved ( like darth vader fell 
 into lava in the movies and lived ) but 2 possibly 3 times is a little over the top. Also the game 
 is incredibly short.
  
  besides that the game was really good. lighting up some stormtroopers with force lightning and 
 cutting some walkers in half is always interesting. Quick and easy to learn controls but a little 
 bit repetitive. I think the game deserves a 7.5 because it could of been great and was fun while 
 it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airmartin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed has been one of the years most anticipated titles, however many think, me included, 
 that it doesn't quite live up to it's potential.
  
  It could well be because my first playthrough was on Sith Lord difficulty so I found many parts 
 frustrating; however I did try to look beyond this and found that most of the issues I had with 
 the game would probably follow suit in the lower difficulties as well. Many enemies were just too 
 overpowered or there would be too many of them. Many times I had the problem of being hit too the 
 floor and spammed by various enemies not allowing me to get up thus dying. As many have mentioned 
 the targeting system within the game is very temperamental, either not locking to what you'd like 
 it to or just not at all, leading you to pick up the wrong objects or throw them the wrong way.
 
  
  The customization system is lacking, but still better than nothing. With three skill trees so upgrade 
 as you progress through the game you can home in on areas you wish to amplify, in turn making your 
 character more lethal, giving you the abilty to throw stormtroopers around, impale them with your 
 lightsaber or just pull tie fighters out of the sky. All of this beautifully executed throughout 
 some amazing backdrops; the level of detail within this game really is something to marvel.
  
  Despite all the technical issues which on your initial play through should try to overlook; 
 The Force Unleashed is a solid game with a fantastic story told through beautiful visual of which 
 are reinforced with well crafted cut scenes and top voice acting. There aren't many games which 
 I'd recommended playing just for story but this takes the bill; even if it's only a rental, like 
 myself the experience is definitely worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardmoen
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I am sure like most Star Wars fans this was the game we've all been waiting for. I too fall into 
 this category, as I have purchased every Star Wars game for every system to date.
  The graphics are amazing and the best that I have seen so far for any Star Wars game. Playing the 
 game on a 1080p television myself, I was in awe of the background and attention to detail.
  The story itself is at times a bit thin, but very interesting to say the least. I won't spoil for 
 you what the entire game covers, you can find that elsewhere.
  The gameplay is fairly simple and easy to get the hang of. As you progress you unlock points by 
 killing your enemies or by finding holocrons. Depending on which difficulty level you choose, the 
 bosses and enemies are fairly simple to defeat.
  My problem with the game is in the various glitches that do occur the course of the game. Several 
 boss fights were filled with the problem of my character going through the boss character. Both 
 times that I fought the end boss, choosing the dark side ending, Starkiller was attacking and going 
 straight through the boss. This happened consistently and made it frustrating as my attacks would 
 send me through the boss and often times open for attack from behind as I was attempting to complete 
 my combo attacks.
  There were several points in the game where the game would freeze all together. The level where 
 you have to use force lightning on the four towers, the game froze over ten times. Meaning I had 
 to restart from the checkpoint and do it all over again. I combated this by not facing the middle 
 of the screen, or where the giant gas balls were being launched.
  I found the game an easy go through. I've already beaten it 3 times and I just purchased the game 
 4 days ago. But I really love Star Wars and plan on playing this again and again until something 
 better is released on the 360 in the Star Wars universe. 
  This game gives me hope for future Star Wars releases. I would have much rather seen another Battlefront 
 or Knights of the Old Republic than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legendaryryanj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is just about everything fans wanted it to be. The story line is 
 right up there with the original trilogy. The game play is, at most times, very fun. And the art 
 design and graphics are top notch. With all the side objectives and achievements to be had, you 
 will log well over 10 hours of game play with this one. Unfortunately, however, with everything 
 this game has going for it, there are also many annoying bugs.
  
  You play the game as Darth Vaders apprentice, Star Killer. You begin by hunting down the remaining 
 Jedi that survived order 66 in episode 3. You will encounter storm troopers, rebel alliance, wookies, 
 droids and more. As you progress through the game you will be able to upgrade your force powers, 
 force talents, lightsaber, and combo moves by completing side missions and collecting holocrons. 
 All of these extra objectives really add play time to the game. Once your character has been upgraded, 
 you will have a blast sabering through enemies, pulling down tie fighters, and just plain unleashing 
 your massive force powers on your foes. You truly feel like a Jedi/Sith in this game.
  
  As said before, the art design in the game is bar none. There are many times that you will just 
 stop and look around at all that is going on in the planets you travel to. From the debris floating 
 around the sky of Raxus Prime, to the jungles of Felucia. The Star Wars universe really seems alive.
 
  
  Of course, with all the great things The Force Unleashed offers, it has one downfall. There are 
 many bugs in the game. Countless times I would pull up my side missions screen and see the words 
 "*Default Text". In the middle of battle I would be thrown back from an attack and find myself 
 inside a wall unable to move. Periodically, the game would lock up and I would have to restart. 
 Also, it would momentarily freeze when an achievement was being unlocked. Fortunately, most of 
 these things can be fixed by a downloadable patch if one is released. Keep your fingers crossed.
 
  
  A few minor nuisances also occur when playing. Even if you have watched a clip, the game will not 
 allow you to skip past it until near the end. Also while in pause a strange loading window comes 
 up when viewing force and lightsaber upgrades. In addition, some of the levels are flat out, tear 
 out your hair, hard. You will be repeatedly knocked down only to be hit again right as you get 
 up. At times, even though they are rare, you will be wailing away at an enemy with your saber and 
 they will take no damage. 
  
  All in all, this game is very good. If you're a Star Wars fan, The Force Unleashed is a must have. 
 Between the epic saber fights, to the never ending thrill of throwing an enemy over a cliff to 
 his death, this game is packed full of enjoyment that will keep you entertained for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  You can come at The Force Unleashed in two ways, you can play it as a fan of Star Wars or just 
 play it because it's a game. Fans of the Star Wars universe will take so much more away from the 
 game than non fans. So you'll either have a game in which is more worthy of a movie adaptation 
 than the previous three movies, or an okay action game with some issues.
  
  By now everyone knows the story. Takes place in between Episodes III and IV and you play as Darth 
 Vader's secret apprentice, Starkiller, the son of a Jedi that Vader killed. As we all know, Darth 
 Vader wants to over throw his master The Emperor and he thinks that it is your destiny to kill 
 him. Very early on in the game some stuff goes down and your loyalties are put into question with 
 the lines between the dark and light side begin to get hazy. 
  
  With a name like The Force Unleashed, it's quite obvious that you're gonna be unleashing some force. 
 Unfortunately though the game can hinder you a little bit. There are just some weird design choices 
 that just don't make a whole lot of sense, like how can you pull down a star destroyer (those REALLY 
 big ships) yet not be able to push a storm trooper who has a "shield." With the ability to pull 
 down a giant space ship, you think you could just go through the game crushing people with the 
 force easily. Aside from weird design choices, the game has its technical flaws. The camera sucks 
 in close spaces, it's just not good period. The targeting system is weird too. You might as well 
 not have one because it targets whatever is ahead of Starkiller not what you're looking at and 
 there's no way to manually switch your target. So with the combination of "why am I not completely 
 kicking this peon's ass?" gameplay, a crappy camera, and a crappy targeting system the game can 
 be a hassle to play sometimes.
  
  Technically the game looks awesome. All the levels are varied and colorful, fear not this game 
 has colors more than brown... and brown. You'll travel through the galaxy going to different planets 
 and just wreak havoc all over the place. As well as the graphics the audio work is great. The voice 
 acting is spot on and the score is par for the epic course of Star Wars. 
  
  But like I said in the first blurb, the story is the best part of the game. This isn't some lame 
 fan fiction, this is 100% pure Star Wars cannon. Man loose ends will be tied up by the end of the 
 game, which has a light side ending and a dark side ending. One ending is true and one is just 
 there to create a sort of "what if situation." The story is by far completely fit for a movie and 
 all I can say is lets hope there will be one, and they dont' screw it up.
  
  Overall the game is a good game, not the best. But with the fantastic story it bumps up the score 
 at least a point.
  
  On the good technical side, the game looks amazing. The environments are varied 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brbotelho
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has one of the best story line in the Start Wars game's saga. If fit's like a charm between 
 Episodes 3 and 4. And fills you in about a lot of details on the gap between these episodes. But 
 just play this game if you're a huge fan of the saga. If possible, rent it first....
  
  from the gameplay point;
  This is one of the worse games ever released from Lucas Arts games 
 studio. Because the game is broken. Prepare yourself to see a lot of bizarre game behaviors, and 
 not caused by the use of the force. Prepare to see you slaying enemies who are still and won't 
 lose ANY life at all. Bad force grip system that seams to catch whatever IT wants, and trow wherever 
 it also wants. 
  
  To get even worse, when you reach the final stages of this game, the challenge won't be the game 
 itself, but the gameplay problems and all the bugs, the gameplay will be your worse enemy and you 
 loose a lot due to these problems, that will make you go angry with all this. So if you really 
 want to check this story, that is VERY COOL, don't let your anger drive you to the dark side, and 
 play it. And may the force be with you...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagr_Zero
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Ah The Force Unleashed. Probably the most looked for game in Star Wars history upon its announcement 
 with Darth Vader's secret apprentice as the protagonist. Being able to use the force in a whole 
 new way is just plain awesome. Flinging hapless stormtroopers across the screen and smashing open 
 doors coupled with some pretty awesome effects just doesn't get old. But like someone steriods, 
 there is a bit of roid rage, but unfortunately, that rage comes at the hands of the player due 
 to some inconsistencies and numerous other problems.
  
  The Force Unleashed is by and large a smash-em-up action game going from one end of a level to 
 the other pretty much annihilating everything and everyone in your way with the help of a nice 
 physics engine and some nifty particle effects. The combat itself is pretty straightforward; take 
 down the enemy in front of you with either your trusty lightsaber or sweet force powers. While 
 some might say that this is a button smasher, with the exclusion of the force powers, you'd be 
 surprised to see that there is some sophistication and skill involved. Combos are the way how you 
 can deal enormous amounts of damage to any given enemy, and these do take a good deal of practice 
 to learn and even test your skills if you want to have a chance of successfully landing one on 
 a tougher enemy. There is nothing better or more satisfying than slashing an opponent followed 
 by launching him in the air before smashing him back down to earth with a lightning bomb, of which 
 I managed to do to a rather unlucky Purge Trooper .
  
  But of course combos and saber fighting aren't the big pull here. Everyone just wants to chuck 
 enemies around the map. The force powers themselves are rather varied. Going from Force Push to 
 Lightning to Force Repulsion each of the powers are a delight to see executed on screen. But also 
 included with the powers is the ability to pick up objects and enemies and chuck them willy nillie 
 around the maps. Between picking up simple object like boxes or explosives to large rocks to those 
 hapless stormtroopers, it is a joy just to watch the effects of them bouncing around or landing 
 into other enemies. Also, you get to chuck a ****ing TIE Fighter. There is nothing as cool as chucking 
 those into enemies or even chucking enemies into TIE Fighters.
  
  With the force powers at your disposal, The Force Unleashed helps these powers look even more grand 
 with the help of some pretty impressive engines in the game. Each object isn't just tossed, but 
 they're literally thrown Randy Johnson style (if you don't know who he is, then shame on you . 
 Watch more baseball ) . Stormtroopers are quite the site as they try frantically to save themselves 
 when they're helplessly being taken for a ride. This can often lead to some humorous scenes in 
 which stormtroopers will try to grab on to ledges, rails, or even other fellow troopers, often 
 leading to two troopers in the air at once. And if you're the destructive type, there is quite 
 a delightful particle engine that loads the screen with fallen debris at certain times. But unfortunately, 
 all of these engines aren't used consistently as some objects can be destroyed and others can't, 
 and the same can be said for the number of objects and enemies that can be launched into the air. 
 It's not a huge deal, but if you're in a destructive mood and that little tree insults you, you 
 probably won't be able to knock it down. This leads into the problems of the game, and there are 
 quite a lot.
  
  Looking at the combat engine, and most notably some of the enemies, nothing is as simple as facing 
 the stormtrooper varients as some enemies have some uncanny abilities that can lead to frustration. 
 For instance, some enemies have the ability to time your saber slash perfectly, resulting in a 
 parry and no damage on either side. While I'm sure this is supposed to create a challenge, but 
 when they keep on blocking and parrying your attacks, it does start to become rather frustrating, 
 especially when you're surrounded by enemies, and in the process of parrying, you're left wide 
 open to attack from the sides and behind. Also factoring in are the larger enemies. These guys, 
 usually the AT-ST varients, love to stomp the ground, causing quite a lot of damage. While they're 
 not tough, but if you somehow land on the ground unexpectedly, you can be hit and land on the ground 
 face down. While there is a recover button, but if you're caught completely off guard, certain 
 enemies will continue to attack you while you're down, leading to massive amounts of damage and 
 in some cases these attacks will knock you back down to the ground once you just get up. Speaking 
 of the larger enemies, they unfortunately are rather immune to most of the force powers and really 
 all have one way of taking them down. This would be a good variety in battle, but when you have 
 to face them in a group, it gets tiring just using the same old trick to knock each down, really 
 disabling the fun a little. Sadly, there are even problems with the force system.
  
  The force system uses a targeting system that at times works perfectly, but at other times doesn't. 
 This mainly occurs in large groups, or facing the larger enemies. It can be difficult to target 
 the right enemy at times and the targeting the larger foes doesn't always help. It's not a big 
 negative, but it factors in.
  
  The bigger problems that I had with the game came with jumping. The apprentice, like all good Jedi/Sith, 
 comes equiped with a double jump. While the first jump works, the second is where all the problems 
 lie. The second jump sends our plucky hero up in a burst of speed, but unfortunately, this burst 
 of speed is still activated when he starts to come down, leading to you falling like a rock. This 
 means that you have to be ****ing perfect in double jumping to get from one ledge to another, or 
 you'll going to have to keep starting over again. Jumping, luckily isn't a big factor in the game, 
 but if you're like me and want to grab all those juicy goodie-filled Jedi Holocrons, then you're 
 going to have quite the frustrating time. To make matters worse, there's a problem in the overall 
 mapping of the terrain. Any angle of about 30 degrees is considered too steep for the apprentice. 
 It doesn't affect the game a lot, but when you can't run up a tank tread, and you keep on slipping 
 down it due to being awful at jumping (which I am) it can lead to frustration. Even if you factor 
 in that there's a stromtrooper raining orange laser on you while you try this. Luckily I got mad 
 enough to say **** it and double jumped and toasted his ***. This mapping problem really becomes 
 prevalent when looking for those holocrons. Some surfaces require you to literally land on one 
 exact spot, otherwise you'll slide right off. This becomes a relative pain. But fortunately, it 
 doesn't affect the main game itself, just all of us overachievers.
  
  Of course, every Star Wars game comes with a story, and this is a main reason why The Force Unleashed 
 gained so much hype. Needless to say, the story is magnificent. The writing, the characters, the 
 voice acting, and the presentation are unbelievable. With all the problems the main game faces, 
 this is its saving grace. Even with me being frustrated at times, I was just ****ing compelled 
 to finish the game just to see what happens. It's rare that a game has this great a story connected 
 to it.
  
  The Force Unleashed has many good and bad things going for it. The force powers and the good combo 
 system are met with the problems of inconsistency and the lack of polish really keep this game 
 from rising to the top. But luckily, The Force Unleashed contains one of the best stories in an 
 action game, making it a memorable play not just for Star Wars geeks (like myself) but for everyone 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistriever
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Camera and "lock on" features will have you in fits. The camera is tolerable but the "lock-on" 
 system is extremely frustrating. Essentially you see a blue icon around the target you currently 
 are "locked-on" to but the slightst movement, to include force power animations can make you change 
 targets. This is unfortunantly crippling to gameplay. On the plus side it does increase the difficulty 
 signifigantly as you'll waste your force bar attacking walls, the floor, and sometimes the air 
 itself even if a Rancor is enveloping the screen directly in front of you. Most battles are extremely 
 easy on Sith Warrior difficulty while a few enemies are hard for no reason other then a wealth 
 of hit points and relative immunity to force powers. All in all a fair game that could have been 
 great if they had built some sort of targeting system in game. Despite all the amazing interactive 
 cut scenes you'll never really feel like a powerful jedi with so many enemies running around that 
 are immune to all of your force powers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  When I rented this, I knew that it was going to be awesome. When I played it, I was right.
  The story is very deep. It involves you (Starkiller) training under Vader. There is some twists, 
 so I will not ruin the rest of the story for you.
  The gameplay is really good. You attack with the X Button, and sometimes, when you are in a combo, 
 the Y Button. To use force powers, you press the different face-buttons. For example, to use force 
 grip, you press RT, and move the enemy with the Right-Analog stick. It's really fun.
  The graphics are pretty good. The animation is pretty good, and the physics are totally awesome.
 
  The AI can some times get really annoying. For example, when you are on the ground, they will 
 still hit you, even if you are tring to get up.
  I also had some problems. The game crashed on me. Now, I don't know if it was the disc, or just 
 the game. Another problem I had was when I got a Sith Holocron, and no one could hurt me, I fell, 
 and I was supposed to die, but I survived, and was stuck, so I had to load my autosave. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  When a Star Wars game is released, it seems there's a 50/50 chance of it being any good. The Knights 
 of the Old Republic was a great series, but that was many years ago. The past few years have seemed 
 pretty bleak for Star Wars, and some people won't think that Force Unleashed has changed that at 
 all.
  
  For starters- What Force Unleashed does wrong:
  
  1. With a name like Force Unleashed you'd maybe expect a less linear game. How can one UNLEASH 
 himself when one is restricted to such a straight path?
  
  2. Glitches- After scouring almost every inch of Force Unleashed, I still haven't found a single 
 glitch. I'm going to assume I'm one of the lucky ones, since there's complaints of them in almost 
 every other review. I cannot speak from experience on that, though. 
  
  3. Enemies are unrelenting with their attacks, which makes sense in the real world, but when that 
 translates to you getting killed in the time it takes you to pull of a 3-hit combo in the video 
 game world, we might have a problem.
  
  BUT ENOUGH COMPLAINING- RIGHT?
  What does Force Unleashed do right? Answer- A lot.
  
  1. The force powers are not only extremely 
 fun, but extremely useful. You'll be able to utilize almost all of them throughout the game. Force 
 grab is very easy to control after a little practice, and you won't want to play another Star Wars 
 game without it.
  
  2. Light saber combat. It's really about time they got this right. In my opinion, no Star Wars 
 game has really ever balanced the use of a light saber with the other elements in the game (such 
 as enemies with lasers) . The combos are easy to pull off and a blast to watch.
  
  3. The GRAPHICS! This game is beautiful. I've been playing on a High Def TV and it's one of the 
 best looking 360 games I own. A friend of mine plays on a standard television set and says it still 
 looks great.
  
  4. The story is great. I won't go into it, because thanks to another review site I had the displeasure 
 of having it spoiled for me. All I can say is that there's some awesome duels between Jedi, and 
 some cool twists.
  
  OVERALL:
  
  Force Unleashed is under-appreciated. It is one of the definitive Star Wars video game experiences 
 for this generation of gamers.
  A beautiful game with a great story and gameplay. There's not much more one could want... besides 
 maybe a little more freedom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uthgard_Loki
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleashedto me a great game. I love playing it. I just don't know if I can play it again 
 once I am done. I am having lots of fun tossing troopers around and zapping them with lightning. 
 Having the ability to toss a good portion of the enviroment around is great too. I like playing 
 this game but is needs a serious patch to get it up it's potential. This game has almost as many 
 glitches as it has great content. For example, the cut scenes seem to be very choppy, during game 
 play, some enemies took longer to die cause their life meter got stuck. I played one whole level 
 with almost no sound. I heard the moves that I made with the light saber, foot steps, and picking 
 things up but not once did I hear the storm trooper rifle blast, any music or background sounds. 
 
  
  This could be a great game but with all the glitches it really brings the game play down. I am 
 as disappointed, with game as I was excited to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Bob_UK
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed bridges the gap between the two Star Wars trilogies by telling the 
 tale of Starkiller.
  
  You play as Starkiller - Vader's Secret Apprentice. You were just a boy when he found you and many 
 years later you're using the power of the Dark Side to complete Vader's tasks. It has plenty of 
 action and lots of eye-candy. The visuals are stunning and the sound is very good - it's just like 
 watching a Star Wars movie. 
  
  The story is told through cinematics and these are very well done with excellent voice acting and 
 there certainly is a great story in this game. I did notice that the lip-sync was a bit off - by 
 a fraction of a second, but that's not entirely game-breaking.
  
  This game uses three separate physics engines and the physics are great. The game will slow down 
 when you do something really powerful, though. There's a chance that it will crash, too.
  
  There's a unique upgrade system that will have you collecting upgrade points, by levelling up, 
 and spending those points on new moves or force powers or abilities. The upgrade system is a really 
 good part of the game.
  
  The action is almost solid - albeit sometimes a bit too frantic with the unbalanced AI difficulty. 
 You will find that whenever you fall over, you'll carry on falling over because every enemy in 
 the area is firing at you and you can't get up. This is an minor annoyance the first time round, 
 but when it keeps on happening you will become very frustrated. There are also certain weapons 
 that will fire homing missiles and these don't contribute anything good to the frustration.
  
  There are some minor puzzles, aswell. These feel a bit too simple and you'll wonder what was 
 the point in having them. There is one part where you have to bring down a Star Destroyer. Because 
 LucasArts had advertised this part in trailers, people were hyped about this. It's a shame that 
 actually bringing it down is a pain with the endless TIE Fighters heading your way. On top of that, 
 the analogue stick prompts don't even tell you what you have to do right - it will tell you to 
 push the stick down when you need it up.
  
  Too add to the above problem, the camera and targeting are both really clumsy and will make you 
 frustrated when you miss that shot. Starkiller will pick up/attack in the direction that HE is 
 facing as opposed to the direction of the camera - which makes things a bit awkward. Controls generally 
 respond very well - except in some situations where you have to keep hitting the button until it 
 registers.
  
  The boss battles feel epic at first, but the cinematic camera adds to the targeting problems - 
 which makes boss battles a pain in the lower back region. This is really frustrating at the end 
 of the game (no spoilers) , when you have to dodge some objects that are being hurled at you. Because 
 you have no way of telling where the object is going you're always going to get hit by it. What 
 would've been smart is keeping the standard camera during boss battles, but when in a Lightsaber 
 or Force lock it will switch to the cinematic camera. This would make the battle a little fairer 
 and look more epic. When you've dealt enough damage, you can proceed to the part where you see 
 prompts and you have to push the button that you see on-screen. The moves are very cool in these 
 scenes.
  
  The game feels a bit too arcadey because of the hack 'n' slash nature and the weird slippery floors. 
 At the end of the game, serious button mashing is needed to get out of things - this is too hard 
 because it requires you to start as soon as it tells you and to mash the button several times per 
 second. There are also certain instances where an enemy won't receive any damage from your lightsaber. 
 There is also an unnecessary loading screen between some menus and this feels like a pointless 
 thing. Having to wait a few seconds every time you want to quickly upgrade something or change 
 your costume/lightsaber etc. isn't fun.
  
  Overall, The Force Unleashed is an OK Star Wars game that will make you marvel at its great storytelling, 
 graphics, voice-acting, cutscenes and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordan1985221
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  It brings some nice things in the game like when fighting large enemies you have to punch in a 
 button sequence, which draws the game away from a wholly button bashing massacre. Where it does 
 shine is with utter carnage you can create with force and the destructible environment, which looks 
 amazingly beautiful. The game plays well apart from a few issues of receptiveness and once in awhile 
 being knocked down a gap in a bridge or path and plummeting to your death. Something that would 
 of been nice to add, would of been detachable limbs when using your lightsaber, to give it that 
 extra feel of realism, but I can understand why it wasn't part of the final product.
  
  The game also offers up some limited customization with the ability to change clothes and the colour 
 of the lightsaber, which is nothing new if you played Jedi Knight III. What is missing is the chance 
 to change your lightsaber, you fight many Jedi in the game with different types of lightsabers, 
 maybe if Lucas Arts allowed you to unlock these different ones after defeating the Jedi it would 
 of managed to create a game which didn't feel so similar all the way through.
  
  That a side the also adds a great story with characters you'll love at the end, a few things that 
 may make you scratch your head and go how is that possible if she or him did that in the films, 
 but only to a very limited degree.
  
  All in all if you like Star Wars get it, if you like destruction on a large scale get it, if you 
 are a closet case sadist get it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoadDog772
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I love this game & I hate this game.
  
  The first few missions are enjoyable. The next to last mission is frustrating beyond belief. I 
 can force grip a Star Destroyer, but TIE Fighters will are all but out of reach. Huh?
  
  The graphics are very good, but graphics alone don't make a game great. This game is nothing more 
 than a button mashing, 3-D platformer. Think of Mario with lightsabers.
  
  The story is good, but I guess I'll have to read the book to really enjoy the story.
  
  The 
 cut scenes while fighting the boss monsters are dificult to enjoy because of the need to watch 
 for the button sequence required to defeat them.
  
  My parting comment is; If Emperor Palpatine had a Legion of Stormtroopers like the ones you face 
 in the mid game, Han & Chewbacca would be dead on Endor. Is the story canon? I don't think so.
 
  
  Buy this only if you are a die hard Star Wars Fanboy (Like Me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Chief566
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  After about 2 or more years in production and countless webdocs about this game, everyone was expecting 
 every aspect of this game to deliver. Unfortunately it did not, sure the dmm and euphoria work 
 great but I think we all expected a little more. The story is great, it fits into the star wars 
 universe and kept me wanting to find out what would happen next. The gameplay is fun but it gets 
 repetitive, this is because the game throws the same enemies at you pretty much every level, so 
 you are forced to use the same strategy. Using the force is fun but the lightsaber action and the 
 boss fights could have used more work. The art dasign and the graphics are great, especialy the 
 facial animations. Overall, this is a good game, starwars fans might say its worth a buy, but I 
 think everyone else should rent it first because its a short game an apart from playing it again 
 with your maxed out powers and collecting holocrons, there's not much else to do. And what really 
 keeps this game from being a 9 in my view is all the glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Katsuri-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  As a piece of Star Warsiana, or whatever you want to call it. Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is 
 awesome, better in setting and story than even the Jedi Knight games which while much better than 
 the prequel movies still felt a little detached from the main thread that permeates the Star Wars 
 universe. It's full of all the good things we remember like Stormtroopers and tie-fighters, and 
 none of those stupid battle bots or Gungans. The game is almost recommendable just on that point. 
 But that's maybe because I'm starved for some good Star Wars content.
  
  Force Unleashed takes that good old-fashioned Star Wars magic and applies it to a more modern type 
 of video game action/adventure. It's a third-person hack-n-slasher that's clearly inspired by games 
 like God of War and Ninja Gaiden with maybe a little Psi-Ops thrown in for good measure. On paper, 
 this seems great; give me a powerful fighter trained in the ways of the Force and turn me loose 
 against legions of Stormtroopers and Wookiees with just my lightsaber. Great idea.
  
  But in some places the execution is really off, making the game terribly frustrating in some moments 
 and downright dull in others. Sometimes you'll be left scratching your head at why something it 
 the way it is in the game. While it does the Star Wars universe better than you've seen in a long 
 time, especially since it lets you actually play as Vader in the first level, things like boss 
 and puzzle designs feel sort of lacking. The fact that the game seems so awesome at first just 
 makes the later frustrations of the game that much more disappointing. 
  
  But maybe it just fails to make up for the games other short-comings. A lot of the puzzles involve 
 using force grip to move large objects around  nice to see they didn't break the fiction  and 
 even though they're not hard to figure out, they can be really difficult to execute. There's one 
 later on where you have to line up some spinning hoops before the laser cannon aimed at your face 
 goes off. It's straight-forward, but targeting the right spinning ring is a crapshoot.
  
  The targeting system can often be a problem. Fighting multiple enemies at a time is pure guesswork 
 as far as figuring out who's targeted, and switching targets is impossible. 
  
  The disappointment from playing Force Unleashed comes from some really high expectations, ones 
 that the game sets up itself in the early going. The storyline is so good, the graphics simply 
 amazing, the whole thing just so classic Star Wars that it almost hurts when I think about how 
 much the game pissed me off. If you just have to play it because you're into Star Wars, go ahead. 
 You'll surely appreciate the delights Lucas has left for you, and you'll wish they made this into 
 a CGI movie instead of The Clone Wars. But if you like third-person action adventure games, you're 
 not going to be putting Star Wars: The Force Unleashed into your personal Hall of Fame anytime 
 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xKaTaHoMaSx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  One word Fun, This game is addicting however there are some camera issues but those can be passed 
 by the amazing story line and super fun force powers the new physics engine is really looking up. 
 I'm really looking forward to the rumored sequel. The game can be hard at times and the boss battles 
 are kinda lame at times but the bad ass force powers and awesome protagonist/antagonist. If your 
 a Star Wars fan this is a must buy if your not really a star wars fan its probably a rent. The 
 game's graphics are amazing but the lip movement in the game is soooooooooooo freaking awesome 
 i think i had a nerdgasm watching it. The storyline lives up to the Star Wars name but alot of 
 little things could have been improved and some more customization could of been nice but hopefully 
 the rumored sequel will have these. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  It looks nice, sounds nice, has a good story, and at times great fun to play. However, lets examine 
 the game title and Lucasart's own game briefing:- Star Wars Forced Unleashed (kicking ass with 
 the force) . The game is very linear and short I won it in less than eight hours. The force is never 
 unleashed it is drip fed to you in the form of powers that become unlocked with level up or because 
 the game needs you to have that power now. You never really get the feeling of kicking much ass 
 either due to a number of cheap moves by the design team. For example Anti force fields for the 
 storm troopers (Luc would have had a harder time during the movies if the Storm troopers had still 
 been using that neat bit of kit) , purge troopers that seem to shrug off most of your force attacks 
 (except the one the design team wants you to use) , and then you get the timed events that yes make 
 the boss battles end neatly but you don't feel like you have achieved anything because the moves 
 the Apprentice starts using in these timed events are stronger than anything you can do in game, 
 and then there is the Star Destroyer event. This is a game set piece that should be the coolest 
 thing ever It isn't, it becomes the most frustrating, badly thought out set piece ever. The funny 
 thing is that during this piece you can take down a Star Destroyer and then moments after this 
 demonstration of extreme force powers you are again getting your butt kicked by everything else 
 in the game.
  
  I have to ask myself why I keep filling George Lucas's pockets with my cash? The answer, I love 
 Star Wars but it's things like this that is slowly draining my love of this galaxy.
  
  The sad thing is that even though I have given this game a fair review I will still get shredded 
 by other Star Wars fans who will not hear a bad word ever about anything star wars. To you people 
 I say one thing Why you keep lapping up dross like this it will never get better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bruthabong1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I'll jump right into this review. If you enjoyed and grew accustomed to the 'flow' of God of War, 
 Jedi Academy, or any other action game that involved button combos and fighting clarity - you will 
 be very frustrated and annoyed with this game to a point that it will become even hard to enjoy 
 what is supposed to be a good storyline. Is the story actually good? I don't know, the frustration 
 with the gameplay won't allow me to enjoy it. 
  
  the gameplay feels like bits and pieces of ideas just glued together (much like this review) . one 
 problem that sticks out is getting stunned. or is it stunned? i don't know, there's no indicator 
 that tells me what's going on or any model animation that would suggest it, all i know is that 
 after getting hit, when i try to attack i just stand there. i don't know. all i see is my model 
 standing still and not responding to my attack commands. it happens to often. In my eyes that a 
 serious gaming flaw. inexcusable actually. 
  
  it's not like God of War. God of War provided a symphony of gameplay action. It has a certain flow 
 that allows you to dig in a catch a groove on the action. I view it much like a surfer riding an 
 exhilarating wave. This game really denies me that feeling and that's too bad. You see, I would 
 like nothing other to just unleash the dark side of the force on a horde of enemies in that symphony 
 on destruction. Instead (i feel like pulling my hair out just writing this) the game provides a 
 mesh of simple combos and action moves that doesn't flow together. it really lets me down in terms 
 of what i envisioned this game could have been. 
  
  I blame much of this on the game development direction. Their approach made them lose sight of 
 what this game should have been. They went with a sandbox approach instead of making the action 
 fluid and cohesive. It was so easy for them to make this mistake. They thought the player would 
 enjoy being tossed into a room or set on a path with a bunch of junk to throw around. BAD IDEA! 
 Combine sandbox and lack of cohesiveness and you got yourself one fine mess. 
  
  I was running through hallways with no enemies in sight but plenty of junk all over the place. 
 Why? I don't understand. When i did finally run into a horde of enemies, i found it very, very 
 hard to incorporate the force throw because you have to - stop - aim - okay don't want to pick 
 that up - aim some more - pick up - wait! i didn't want that - drop - aim again - pick up - turn 
 to aim at enemey - POW! I got shot forcing me to drop the object - ARAHAH! frustration ensues. 
 
  
  Force throws are not part of fighting flow and is actually a flow breaker. Much like the surfer, 
 it throws you off the wave only leaving you trying to get back on. 
  
  The fighting combos are okay, but they're standard issue generic combos you can find on just about 
 any game. 
  
  How to improve? well too late for that but right off the bat, here's some ideas. Targeting should 
 have been based on line of sight of the player and not off the characters line of sight. camera 
 view was very wonky. i dont think they focused much on this. having to turn your camera view to 
 find the next enemy that fell off the screen after you got done with a combo on another breaks 
 the action flow in a big way and happens way to often. 
  
  as far as story and graphics and all that other stuff goes - read other reviews. as for me, if 
 the gameplay is broken then the entire game is broken and if the story is great then they should 
 have made a movie, not a broken game with a movie within. i'm a gamer. gamers want a good game, 
 not a product that leaves others saying "well at least the story was good" you'll never hear that 
 from a true gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrix_99x
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  You think you know how the story is going to be since you have the prelude and the epilogue, but 
 then it totally surprises you and if for nothing you gotta play just to now what it feels like 
 to hold that power and to know the whole story. I thought the graphics were quite impressive as 
 well as the mechanics of the game compared to previous star wars games. The game has a strong story 
 plot line with just the right amount of cut to movie clips to help it along. I like the fact that 
 most things can be manipulated in the eviroment of play and that more the most part things to react 
 like they do in the real world. The combos are not to hard and are quite devastating. The only 
 thing I think I would of like to see more of is in the choice factor (light/dark) and more customizing 
 of your light sabre like in KOTOR. I would be interested in seeing where they take the franchise 
 and gameplay from here. I would like to see something more along the lines of KOTOR in the "free 
 will" style of gaming, and maybe where you actually got to build your own light sabre would be 
 a cool addition. Maybe they could cross Fable with Star Wars and get Fable Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiccup87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Highly addictive, seamless level-cutscene-level transitions which adds to the addictiveness, 
 innovative and well put-together game mechanics, great storyline ( better than episodes 1-3) , beautiful 
 art/ visuals, feeling of cruel joy after impaling your enemies, among other things.
  
  The Bad: Sometimes frustrating (specifically bosses and other big enemies when combined with other, 
 smaller ones because most powers are singular-target based) , with certain enemies, one hit can 
 start a chain which is very hard to break out of.
  
  In summary of this review, the bad really does not outweigh the good in this game and it has such 
 addictiveness and fun factors that it wraps up as a critically under-appreciated success.
  
  And, coming from one, Star Wars fans (nerds, obsessives, geeks, freaks) and people who like 
 to be cruel and brutal (tyrants, socio-, psycho-, and insano-paths) should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmaniac
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  The best game of tar wars in decades I'm no joking because the last good game was star wars battlegrounds.
 
  I have to much reason so i will put I few of them.
  
  1: This is not like other star wars game, this one is different because you have a third person 
 game that make things easier than with a firts person game of star wars,
  you can see what you are doing.
  
  2: the scenaries are so beatifull because of the graphics 
 you can see in any modern console.
  The best escenario is the junk planet where all the garbage fly and you can throw it when you need 
 it.
  
  3: The story is the best in the star wars saga (Games) Because you feel the characters and because 
 it's interesting and you will have fun.
  
  And in conclusion I will like to add that gamespot make a big show for this game and he put it 
 a 7.5 when the game worth more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf745
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  The Force unleashed is deffs by far the best star wars game ever made in my opinion. its just plain 
 fun throughout the game using the force, electricity, lightsaber and the skills that come with 
 the three talents. 
  
  The Story line is the best thing about the game, its got so much potential to make a movie about 
 it. the cutscenes are amazing and just like the star wars movies 
  
  although the game is very fun and exciting the story is short only goes for about 10 hours, there 
 are some glitches in the game that can get annoying. once you have completed the game its fun to 
 show your mates and just to play some of the missions again. 
  
  to support the lasting appeal, lucas arts should of added a multiplayer system like one on one 
 jedi fights.
  
  but overall i give star wars the force unleashed a 8.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConnorNyms
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This experience does live up to its title. This fact coupled with an excellent story makes this 
 a true gaming experience for fans and non-fans alike. The Apprentice is a great addition to the 
 Star Wars mythology and helps to tie up quite a few loose ends very nicely. Gameplay is brisk with 
 very little in the way of down time. That down time thankfully is spent fleshing out the time between 
 episodes III and IV. No spoilers here folks.
  
  Graphically, the game isn't as impressive as I thought it would be. This is not to say that the 
 Havok system is not fun to watch. Light Saber effects are also done very well. Utilizing different 
 crystals and power sources cause different visual effects that are pure eye candy.
  
  Voice over work was quite impressive and kudos to Jimmy Smits for lending his voice to the video 
 effigy of Senator Organa. 
  
  I highly recommend this game as a keeper. Don't rent the Force. Own the Force! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  A truly memorable story is not so often found in video games, but this one is an exception. The 
 script and voice acting are both amazing throughout the game and the characters are also very appealing. 
 The story mode experience is much like that of any of the Star Wars movies. Lots of action, lots 
 of drama, and lots of enemies to destroy. Its fun, although at times it can be frustrating.
  
  The gameplay in Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is not very challenging overall, but the boss 
 battles are insanely difficult. Unless the game is being played on the easiest difficulty, they 
 can be quite annoying. However, when they are finally defeated, the victory feels very good.
  
  There is a surprisingly long list of different combos and special force moves a player can 
 pull off, which adds a lot of excitement to the gameplay. Using the force to throw enemies into 
 explosives, push them off of rooftops, and electrocute them is always a joy to do. Although the 
 story of the game is more enticing than the actual gameplay, it is still a lot of fun. This installment 
 is definitely a must-play for both fans and those who are new to the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andresruiz91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I know...... The Force Unleashed (TFU) is the latest installment in the Star Wars series. In 
 short, the game has an epic story, cool flashy moves, killer powers, it can be very easy or damn 
 near impossible in some parts depending on what difficulty mode you are on, and the game is also 
 short. So seeing as how I am reviewing this, I'll give you all the good, and the bad. I will try 
 very hard not to give spoilers.
  
  The Good: OK, so..... where can I start? There are many many things that are good about this game. 
 Too many to list, so I'll just give you guys the main points. First, the game looks absolutely 
 magnificent, if you run it on HD you will love every second of gameplay (unless you are getting 
 your ass kicked) , and every cut scene. Second, the physics system is magnificent. You will never, 
 and I mean NEVER get tired of torturing stormtroopers by throwing them around. Third, the combos. 
 There are quite a few combos you can do to make every battle look epic and flashy, or if you just 
 want to kill quick you can do that too. Fourth main point, probably the most important for myself 
 is the story line. The story is one of the most well thought out story lines I have seen since 
 KOTOR. It falls in right where it should in the saga and well....... words are hard to describe 
 it, so I'll just say this. If the game were to be rated only on the story line, I don't care who 
 would rate it, there is no way it would be below a 9.5 out of 10. Ok so that's enough for the good, 
 now time for the bad.
  
  
  The Bad: Ok well, like in almost any game there are bad things about TFU. For one thing, its too 
 short. It only took me about 7 hours to beat on Sith Lord difficulty. Another thing that bothers 
 me is that there is no multiplayer, although I have heard rumors that a patch may be coming soon 
 to add it, but I highly doubt it. There also seems to be a number of glitches in the game, although 
 I haven't experienced any, other people have so thats a downer. Probably the only annoying thing 
 you will experience in the game is the way you target things. I find it hard to target something 
 that is above my head or way down below me. Well, thats all the things that bothered me. As you 
 can see, there isn't much to bag on, just the common faults in almost any game.
  
  So, although I left out a lot on "the good", I'll just say some things that might spark interest 
 in the game like being able to change costumes, change lightsaber crystals, focus on whatever force 
 power you want, although you eventually get almost all of them at full, and of course kicking the 
 **** out of jawas.
  
  Well, thats my review and I hope you guys find it helpfull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MythicalSteFF
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Sound: 9/10
  
  The sound in this game was really smooth and nice. It was noticeable, but not in a bad way. It 
 kept to the original feel of the game the way a star wars game should, but also included a few 
 custom tracks that still kept the star Wars feel to it as well.
  
  graphics: 8/10
  
  The graphics were really good in my opinion. The textures were great, and the effects of watching 
 the fungi swerve and the metal bend was pretty neat. I did however find a few flaws, like Personally 
 the faces of a few characters, like the apprentice, could've been improved. Also there were a few 
 instances where I noticed metal objects bending in more of a clay-like way, but not very many times.
 
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  With an engaging Story of an untold Star Wars tale, the story is pretty epic in itself. The tale 
 of a young Sith's path towards, well, his future ;) If your a Star Wars fan the story is great, 
 and even if your not an avid fanboy, the story is still engaging and pretty cool.
  
  Controls: 7/10
  
  I really wish there was a camera option that kept your character facing forward, 
 like an auto cam, but there's not. It's not a huge problem but could help since I use my thumb 
 for both X button, A button and right analog stick. The melee controls are pretty fluid, but could've 
 been cleaned up a tad more. The aiming for the objective use of the force is pretty good, not perfect 
 but it's not really noticeable either. It really couldn't have been done better (So far where we 
 are technology-wise) .
  
  Replay Value: 8/10
  
  The objectives are fairly linear, with slightly open environments but fixed objectives, this can 
 get tiresome. However alternate costumes, beefed up force and melee powers, different colored sabers, 
 alternate costumes and cheat codes make it aaall worthwhile. Definitely fun for a few playthroughs.
 
  
  Difficulty: 9/10
  
  The difficulty for the game is perfect. On normal, I die enough to slightly frustrate me... but 
 what's a game without a challenge? and if I want it to be easier I could always change the setting. 
 Also, for those who think it's too easy, there are four levels of difficulty, and I'm contempt 
 with the second one right now, leaving lots of time to get better and play through on the hardest 
 difficulty later.
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
  A beautiful game and great story help this game and make it above average, although slightly awkward 
 controls, and a little bit strange character models also bring it down a bit.. Frustrating at times 
 as well on the normal difficulty, I give this game a solid 8. If you love star wars, as I do, this 
 game is a buy or at LEAST a rent. However if you just want a decent platformer, its still a rent, 
 which I would recommend to anyone questioning whether or not they should buy it.
  
  FINAL WORD: RENT FIRST, THEN DECIDE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScIFiNerd83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  I have had a great time with this game after just having finished getting my last achievements 
 with "Too Human" before this. I was very pleased with the game and how it responds after I got 
 used to the controls but then I got hit with the glitch and now it all just seems to be frustrating 
 rather than fun. I'm seriously thinking of going back to "Too Human" while I wait for a patch.
 
  
  Of all the Xbox 360 games I have played this is the first one I consider to be shoddy. Hope that 
 with a patch they can get this game back up to a next gen standard instead of some half-a$$ed college 
 programming project.
  
  I wish that the developers would know that most of us can be patient for a quality product to be 
 released and that rushing it out to meet the demand is so 20th century. Quality should be the goal 
 on everyone or else why would or should we continue to make social/technological progress. Don't 
 mean to preach but my friends and I are all about quality over speed. Hope this does manage to 
 reach someone though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andru97
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed obviously had a huge marketing machine behind and with that came alot of hype. 
 Strangely enough it's all that hype that made me wanna check out the demo of this game to see what 
 it's really all about.
  
  Now as a non-fan, I have to say the story is really secondary to me, so I'll have to say that although 
 it's as well told as the early 80's movies, it's just not my cup of tea. The gameplay on the other 
 hand...
  
  There's just something about a game giving you powers like this one does. The thing is that thanks 
 to a fairly simple to use control scheme and light customization in the form of "force upgrades", 
 this game really makes you feel powerful, and that's what makes this a great game regardless of 
 what franchise it's attached to.
  
  That being said, the levels can get tedious sometimes. I would have liked to see a few more puzzles 
 or something, just to keep things fresh, but all in all I'd recommend this game to anyone who enjoys 
 3rd person action/adventure games, regardless of their opinion on the franchise. It's an engaging 
 story and a fun game, and that's all that should matter to a gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwgamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  I'll try to keep this review brief. First the graphics. The Force Unleashed is a beautiful game 
 that immerses you into the Star Wars universe like never before. At times you have to just stop 
 and take in the view its that good. Sound, ok it's a Star Wars game. The sound is spot on and great. 
 The only misfortune with the sound is it will clip out every once in awhile. This sometimes can 
 be pretty distracting, but it never takes away from the action on screen. Play mechanics, in my 
 opinion its just flat out cool! Your Force powers are just awesome. Like never before in a Star 
 Wars game does it actually feel as if your using the Force. Also with the countless combos available 
 and RPG style leveling of your character you can attain it keeps you eager to get them all. Story 
 line, the story is very interesting and entertaining. It helps to build on the already huge Star 
 Wars universe. Voice acting, Lucas did a great job of getting talented voice acting. All and all 
 each actor does a great rendition of there characters. With saying all of the above the game isn't 
 perfect. The AI gets locked up at times, the sounds clips, voices drop, and sometimes you see clipping 
 happen with the graphics. But all these things are nothing compared to the fun you have playing 
 probably the best Star Wars game to date. May the force be with you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjacie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  It's a very good game, but if you're not a fan of star wars it definitely isn't worth full price, 
 however this game is a must have for people who enjoyed the original trilogy and the new trilogy. 
 Sometimes the camera is a little annoying but you'll get used to that but it is a very good game 
 for the fans and provide a good bargain bin game for people who enjoyed a couple of the movies. 
 This game isn't inaccesible for people who never seen episode 3 or episode 4 but the story will 
 be a little vague then. The game is sometimes a little buggy but not in such ways it ruins the 
 fun of playing as a allpowerful sith. The game uses new faces as well as those like darth vader 
 and obi wan kenobi wich is pretty cool and there is a sith face that has been seen before wich 
 will make an entrance in this game but i don't want to spoil a nice touch to this game ;p. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chuck1289
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  Well i have been playing The Force Unleashed for a few days now and i completed it in less then 
 24 hours (Non stop) . I will have to admit that this game has given me one hell of an experience, 
 i mean what is not fun about tossing stormtroopers miles across the planet? When i played the demo 
 i was pretty impressed i liked the physics and i though euphoria and DMM worked wonders with each 
 other. When i got my hands on the game i was still very impressed, i did not see any of these "bugs" 
 people were talking about and i didn't have much trouble with playing.
  
  
  OK so on to the controls, the controls are well spaced out on the 360 controller and are relatively 
 simple to see and execute. The only gripe i had was the targeting system on the game. It would continuously 
 lock me on to the wrong enemy i was praying on! This was obviously very frustrating, but anyhow 
 i got round that problem and continued playing. As i reached felucia (A planet you fight on) i 
 ran into my first incredibly frustrating glitch. I was stuck in between two mushrooms! OK OK laugh 
 all you want but i had to restart my 360 due to this!
  
  
  There is one thing in the game that i thought they got absolutey 10/10 correct and that was the 
 story. I was blown away by the story, once it had gripped me i could let go of the controller. It 
 has also inspired me to read more of the books in this era of star wars.
  
  
  OK well onto the conclusion. Star Wars The Force Unleashed is good game with very impressive physics 
 and is great fun for anyone that plays it. Although it has many bugs and glitches (plus reports 
 that it makes your 360 freeze, which i didn't experience) . I would recommend this to any star wars 
 fan (like myself) and maybe a rent/buy to anyone that just wants a good game to play. Anyhow i 
 have enjoyed this game and i do have to say the reviews were all wrong, this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  The few words i used to describe this game is enough. The graphics is where i will start. Well 
 there is nothing much to say about the graphics other than that they are awesome. The textures 
 are perfect and you can especially see it on the Kasyyk, Raxxus Prime and Felucia levels. The character 
 models are nearly almost always perfect. The only glitches are with Juno Eclipse (the pilot/love 
 inrest of your character) and at the very end Princess Leia does look a little bad. Bt lets start 
 with Juno, her hair.... well it definitely needs some work. Its just so bleach blonde at some points 
 and at others its a little darker shade of blonde. Her mouth s also very unappealing, the way she 
 leaves it open when she is not talking, to reveal a set of almost non-existant teeth is quite unnneccasary. 
 Bail Organa's teeth also has issues as it looks like he goes out everyday to smoke ciggarettes.
 
  
  Other than that, there are no noticable issues with the game. But during the first play through 
 you will experience some frame rate issues. Besides that, the boss battles are epic with the God 
 of War style coordinated button-press-finishing move. Force powers are awesome, especially when 
 you max out the force push and repulse. Purge troopers can get irritating along with the E-WEM 
 turret, but that is all part of the gameplay experience. Combos are also very pleasing, seeing 
 as how almost all of them combine lightsaber with force powers that really pile it on your oppenent. 
 The games's many engines also make the best action/adventure game i've ever played. The enemy is 
 always so intuitive. They will run and find cover, they will grab on to something nearby if you 
 use force grip on the guys. Its just the perfect game experience. And the icng on the cake is the 
 storyline. You come to expect something epic of this sort from George Lucas and Co.
  
  All in all, this game ia awesome. Almost no flaws. Then again, what human creation is flawless? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sw_and_wet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleash kind of fit in the missing piece between episode III and episode IV. You play 
 as starkiller, a secret apprentise of darth vader and you are assigned to kill the remaining jedi 
 to prove youself.
  
  The best part of the game is all the amazing force you can use, you can use lightening to stun 
 you enemies and grip them and throw them away ruthlessly. With the superb performance of the new 
 physics engine, you can almost sense the fear from enemies, see them suffer and struggle to survive. 
 Also action performed by the characters are cool and make you feel like a powerful dark jedi. All 
 the level are nicely designed with rich, beautiful and destructable environment. Where the best 
 is definitly the first level where you play as darth vader, it is just so cool to use all your 
 force power to kill everyone in your way, even you very own troops, showing no mercy and no emotion 
 at all. It is a level you simply want to play it over and over again. Although the game has no 
 multiplay, it still have some replay value such as unlocking achievements, explore a different 
 ending and play through the game with high difficulties.
  
  Even the game is so great, there are still some downside such as occasional pauses, glitches and 
 long loading time while entering another map and pausing the game for upgrades. but as far as I'm 
 concerned, these problems are still acceptable and rarely affect gameplay.
  
  With that said, The force unleash is game with some flaws but packed with heaps of great moments. 
 It is surely a must-own for a star wars fan, but non star wars fan will also find the game fun 
 to play and have a great experience with the dark force. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanquek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Hmm... Been waiting for this for a very long time. It is worth the wait. That's for sure. Its have 
 the epic feel that the only the Star Wars trilogy brings. 
  
  The gameplay is really fun at the start. And is always fun when you learn new force powers. But 
 as for the combo, maybe its me. I did not realised that there are so many combos and how to use 
 them until I'm half way through the game. 
  
  The glitches are few in numbers. I only had one major one, which is when I somehow jump into a 
 pile of junk... And cannot get out... So I had to restart from my last save point.
  
  The storyline is really good. Love the storyline. But what make me wonder is that... I kinda killed 
 Vader... The doesn't that spoil the Star Wars movies... hmm...
  
  Well... Sorry for the inexperience is writing this... My first time. So ya... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrtimbli
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:37 pm PT
Review:  The strongest part of the game is the story. The voice acting in this game is topnotch. It really 
 feels like another Star Wars movie. Game-play is fun, but a little repetitive. The different force 
 powers allow you to vary your game-play enough to keep the game fun all the way throug Camera and 
 targeting issues keep this from being a truely great game. The camera issues make certain part 
 the the game very frustrating. When you are fighting many aggressive opponents you will get killed 
 quite a few times as a result of the camera. I ran into a few glitches at various points druing 
 the game, which will hopefully be fixed with the 1st patch. The game is beautiful to look at and 
 is an absolute must for any Star Wars fan. This game made me feel like a little kid again, when 
 I saw Return of the Jedi in the theater. For this reason alone, pick up this game, despite its 
 gameplay flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JT97
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Only 9 levels, all with great environments, but only 9. The fighting is what saved the game, you 
 can fling people in the air, while hitting them with lightening, pick on Jawa's, basically feel 
 like a sith master. However the targeting system was not always accurate, often found myself targeting 
 someone I had no intention of, or grabbing an object I did not want to. The cinematics were impressive 
 until the sound was off, and the speech was ahead of the characters mouth. I beat this game in 
 one day on the middle difficulty level. The story was great, however. The game is worth the buy, 
 maybe even playing it twice because of its length, but it was by no means worth all the hype, I 
 blame all the crazy Star Wars geeks for that. 
  
  Spoiler Alert
  
  To finish the game as a good guy, defeat the Emperor. 
  To finish the game as a bad guy, defeat 
 Vader. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars returns but this time it has been totally revamped from the ground up. The difference 
 in this star wars game is that it's not just about the light side vs. the dark side anymore it's 
 now more about the relationship between darth vader and his secret apprentice: starkiller. Lucas 
 Arts did a pretty good job once again creating and crafting another star wars game but also a brand 
 new one at the same time. They made this one work surprisingly well consider how overly hyped it 
 was during its creation process, but that was to be expected since after all this is starwars.
 
  
  Their are numerous amounts of new innovations that were implemented in this game by Lucas Arts 
 which have never been done before. Like the very fact your darth vader's secret apprentice was 
 a cool and unique idea to put into the game, also that you not only get to control a vast amount 
 of force powers but that you can use them in a incredibly cool way. other interesting innovations 
 are ones like you get to wield a light saber in a interesting way and use it to fight differently 
 then done in past games like in the kotor games.
  
  
  The ideas that Lucas Arts put into this game really work out well for what star wars is, but they 
 don't ever capitalize, expand and build upon these ideas across the entire game to make it even 
 more then it is. They just simply put these new ideas in the game and only bring it as far as they 
 need to to make it stand out amongst long time star wars fans and newcomer fans alike. But still 
 either way this is a really good game that any star wars fan will whole heartedly like no matter 
 what flaws it has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthony124
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  So far so good. I am hunting my third Jedi and totally digging the game so far. this is an awesome 
 story with fantastic voice acting and an ever expanding variety of fight moves. Most definitely 
 looking forward to seeing how this story pans out.
  
  Yes there are some small issues with targeting but im not finding it to be too much of an issue, 
 it just makes the game play a bit more frantic; and I loved being able to play with Darth Vader 
 to start. Worth the $79 i paid for it and hope that it doesnt finish too soon. If your curious 
 i would reccomend downloading the demo from XBOXLIVE and giving it a go, its a fair example of 
 how the game plays.
  
  There hasnt been a game out recently that i have enjoyed as much as this since COD:4 - but that 
 might just be becasue i am an old school star wars geek :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptinJohnny
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  the force unleashed is great. great solid game play. A must play for all star wars fans. Great 
 game play, good challenges, challenging bosses. Only think disappointing is the ending, but still 
 great good game. Good easy achievments. great how you can undate your charaters abilites and change 
 ur lightsabers color and the crystal. Its great how you can just plow through tones of enimes with 
 the force power. The game only took me 2 days Sith Lord. It was hard but heers is a tip if u do 
 the game on Sith Lord and Sith Master at the very end fight Vader not the emporer vader is much 
 more easy to win the game and get ur achievement. The graphics are amazing, there out of this world. 
 There the best star wars graphis ever there almost movie quatily graphics. All and all the game 
 is great its best on xbox 360, cause you got xbox marketplace for exclusive content and u got your 
 easy achivements and the serect achievments are easy to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebel_punk34
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Force Unleashed gave everything an appreciative Star Wars fan can ask for. A beautiful story, outstanding 
 graphics for its time, and of course The Force.
  
  With its unique combination of gaming engine's, LucasArts achieved a new level of graphic and AI 
 game play. As read in many other reviews, The Force Unleashed is ahead of its time. Using movie 
 quality graphics to enhance the viewers expectations, and deep and new view of the Force. This 
 game is something to admire.
  
  Though the story is the true focal point, filling in the gap of the Episode's three and four. We 
 were given insight of the Birth of the Rebellion, and who was truly responsible for its beginnings. 
 Staying true to previous Star Wars game's, your given the ultimate deciding factor of lightside 
 and darkside endings.
  
  The gameplay of Force Unleashed is very unique, integrating the force usage and lightsaber mastery 
 is something of a challenge. But I will say the difficulty behind the game is behind the enemy 
 AI, instead of the usual pre-programmed combat system that is featured in thousands of games. LucasArts 
 took it a step higher by, in a manner of speaking, giving the AI a mind of its own.
  
  Now matter how many time's you go through the game, no matter how many boss battles you'll experience. 
 It will always be different, Jedi battles by far exploit this ability. Increasing the difficulty 
 of the game, you increase the Jedi's ability to think for itself; adding a new world of difficulty.
 
  
  Overall, the Force Unleashed is an amazing game. Its story is being hailed as great as the 1980's 
 Star Wars. If your a fan or not, this is truly an experience everyone should enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the funnest game i have played in my life. Force Lightning dozens of stormtroopers, 
 doing sick finishing moves on bosses and mini bosses, great storyline, and playing as Darth Vader 
 on prologue level of the game, Force Repulsing every Wookiee in sight! This game never gets bored. 
 I just beat the game on apprentice (both good and bad sides) and Sith Warrior (both good and bad) 
 and it still isnt boring at all. When im at school this is game is all i can think about, and there 
 is tons and tons to do. The bonus objectives arent that challenging, but still fun to do it like 
 put stormtroopers in carbonite. The modules in practice are fun to do and also gives you achievements. 
 If your fairly good at this game, youll get a ton of achievements, and its fun to get all the achievements, 
 instead of doing some stupid long thing to do achievement. Every achievement is fun to get. The 
 boss battles are great, like Kazadan Paratis, who look 
  looks like Doc Ock from spiderman 2, with only a blue lightsaber staff. The storyline is crazy 
 good too, going from bad to good. And some parts in the game are just shocking and youll mouth 
 will drop open. My favorite favorite favorite part of this game is the color lightsaber crystals, 
 power crystals, and the costumes. Finding the Jedi Holocrons to get all of these are fun to explore 
 the world to obtain. Some holocrons are hidden and some are right in your face, so its fun to look 
 around. THEY HAVE THE COOLEST looking costumes, like Sith Stalker Robe, Heavy Training Gear, or 
 Jedi Ceremonial Robes. The lightsabers are sick too, like gold and black, plus all the UNSTABLE 
 and COVPRESSED lightsaber colors too?
  THE only thing that i didnt like was that in like articles and stuff in E3, the people said you 
 could 
  have lots of and lots of endings, which i was extremely happy about, but when i played, you only 
 could only make ONE decision! I was pissed off about that, and there were only two endings, and 
 one ending dosent make that much sense. But the people lied about getting lots of playabilty, because 
 you can level select and go right to the part where you can make the sane decision and be good 
 instead of bad. So not really choosing anything. But other then that. THIS GAME IS PERFECT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremessmore
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  At first I wanted nothing to do with this game, I mean what was K going to do with a Star Wars 
 game? But then months later when I started seeing the new previews I though "Maybe it's worth a 
 play." But then I delved into the Star wars universe reading all about it, as to know as much as 
 possible for the game. I couldn't get it till the day after it released so I had time to see all 
 the critics low scores and I wondered if I should still buy it. In the end I got to play it at 
 my friends house and i must say this game is everything i expected it to be it was fantastic, and 
 I think the critics may need another play through. The first level with Darth Vader was fantastic, 
 being able to be the most powerful being in the universe (at the time) and have his powers. The 
 first level with Starkiller was a little slow after being able to crush wookies with next to no 
 effort. By the second level the game was in high gear and well worth it. Must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moriconus
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I like the game because I am a HUGE Star Wars buff, I love the movies the books and the games. 
 I am sad to see there is no mulitplayer on this game but it happens and maybe a downloadable later 
 I guess!! It had good game play, lots of action but the targetting had a lot to be desired but 
 everyone is saying that. The story line comes from a graphic novel and was well displayed in the 
 game. The graphics were very nice but I found alot of little niches in the game where you could 
 be searching and get stuck. *Like I did alot* The force powers were messed up by the targetting 
 again unless it was an AOE type attack. I was very disappointed with that aspect because some of 
 the targetting requires fast reactions and that is near impossible I usually ended up grabbing 
 a bush or a box and missing my target completely. Overall it was a good game but could have been 
 alot better but with the 360 version maybe they will unscrew alot of the things they messed up 
 and add the multiplayer option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  well, I really loved this game. everything was great about this game. first of all, the level structure 
 is quite impressive. you can levitate almost anything you can find. the only flaw about it is the 
 targeting system. you often have to just stand there and wait for it to lock on to who/what you 
 want. and the physics are really awesome. you can jump around and it's crazy fun to do that! and 
 the combos ware pretty awesome! you can combine lightning, saber, and force push! the combos are 
 really inventive and creative. and yeah, the story isn't exactly LONG, but it's really fun and 
 exciting. it's like a lost chapter of the story is coming to life. and the graphics were amazing! 
 also, the lightsaber combat was really amazing. you have lightsaber/force struggles to see who 
 is the clear winner. concepts like these are really quite fun. also, the sound for everything was 
 really great! now, I do have to say, this is the best Star Wars game to date. don't believe all 
 that stupid crap Gamespot said. it's a truly great game. and you don't even have to be a Star Wars 
 fan to love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The answer is: Yes. Star Wars the Force Unleashed has finally come out and I don't see what is 
 with every reviewer out there with these low scores. You play as Starkiller, Darth Vader's secret 
 apprentice. You are taken by Vader and then take on missions to test yourself against the last 
 Jedi force to prove yourself worthy of taking down the Emperor with Darth Vader. This is where 
 the game becomes really interesting. Actually I would've taken this plot then the move: The Clone 
 Wars. The story in this game is superb. It actually feels how the Republic came together against 
 the Galatic Empire. If you are wondering when this game takes place, it takes place between Episodes 
 3 and 4. Now Star Wars doesn't come without its problems. If you want to use the force to pick 
 up a trooper or a exploding barrel, the apprentice must face the object to pick it up. Sometimes 
 you might find that the targeting system with the Force Grip might be a little rough to control 
 where the object goes. The enemy AI is also a challenge. They might put in a few cheap attacks 
 to throw you off guard and the bosses are so complex that some of your attacks won't even hurt 
 them (happened to me) . So let's review:
  
  GOOD: Excellent story, force powers are a blast to use
  
  BAD: AI might be a little cheap, 
 Force Grip is a little tricky to control.
  
  Now let me say that this game is almost as good as Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic. Read 
 my review and send me an e-mail with your opinions and also this game is only about 9 hours long.
 
  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed takes a 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyboy13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This is exactly what i said. Plays like a movie game... but without a movie. This game is tedious. 
 It is very generic and bland. It feels very rushed, like mercs 2, but with the amount of time they 
 had to do it, it doesn't make sense, its like everyone juts slacked off or went home early everyday 
 since the game was in production. The story is very good. The rest repetitive. the fighting CAN 
 be fun, but this comes in rarities. And the "cool" rankor or big boss take down are just lame, 
 they are slow button pushing sequences that are the exact smame everytime and get old after the 
 first two. The boss battles are the worst, you would think the game would make these spectacular 
 because that what starwars is all about when it comes down to it, lightsaber battling. They suck. 
 When your fighting them, the sound is terrible, the little force battles or lightsaber clashes 
 that happen are just AWFUL, uninspiried. feels exactly like a crappy half assed movie game, but 
 without a sweet movie to be milked for its money. RENT RENT RENT, i made the mistake of buying 
 it. and if you don't want to do either, its ok your not missing ANYTHING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alekxander
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Let me preface this by saying two things:
  1: I love Star Wars
  2: I am not great at platforming games
  
  OVERVIEW:
  An awesome premise with breath-taking 
 graphics and ambitious design, all combine to create Star Wars: The Force Unleashed. Unfortunately, 
 technical issues and frustrating game play elements mire the experience.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Some of the best I've seen on the system; the Apprentice looks fantastic and the environments are 
 simply breathtaking. Enemies are relatively varied throughout the game and they all look great. 
 A few very minor glitches (occasionally my lightsaber would retain it's 'glowing attack trail' 
 after defeating enemies, and I would once and a while be hit by an invisible projectile) .
  While the game play graphics were great, the cinematic cut-scenes were absolutely jaw-dropping 
 (as they should be, seeing as how they were done by ILM) .
  -Score- 9/10
  
  SOUND:
  All the great Star Wars sounds you've come to love and expect were present here and at the top 
 of their game. The voice-acting was great, sometimes over the top, but you almost expect that from 
 Star Wars. The music was phenomenal, with many of Williams' original tracks present throughout, 
 and a fair mix of new tracks that were easy on the ears (if slightly less than stellar) .
  -Score- 8/10
  
  STORY:
  I refuse to give anything away, but suffice to say; if you like Star 
 Wars, you will probably L-O-V-E this story. Fantastic characters that are well (for an action game) 
 fleshed out combine with plenty of twists and turns to enthrall you from beginning to end.
  -Score- 8/10
  
  CONTROLS:
  The button layout was pretty easy to grasp, and they eased you 
 into many of the later powers by introducing them slowly. Movement was decent, even though it felt 
 a little loose. Overall on par with a standard action-platformer.
  The targeting reticule was, unfortunately, very sensitive and rarely centered on what you actually 
 wanted it to. 
  -Score- 5/10
  
  GAME PLAY:
  This is were the game starts to lose it's appeal. While the action is generally exciting and relatively 
 fast paced, everything else is tedious and grating.
  The puzzles, while novel during the first stage, quickly become tired and monotonous.
  The platforming 
 is the biggest offender, here. Jumping is not exactly accurate, and the camera is achingly bad. 
 You will frequently have no idea where you're trying to land your jump, because the camera can't 
 look directly at where you're attempting to go.
  Glitches popped up quite a bit. Whether the camera was getting stuck in the character while looking 
 around; The character was sliding off of ledges, causing him to fall to his death; or defeating 
 a boss without doing the quick-time event, causing you to become stuck in the stage and unable 
 to progress (this happened to me twice, sadly) .
  The glitches combined with the 'not-so-great' camera and awkward platforming elements, caused the 
 game to feel more like a chore than an enjoyable experience when you aren't killing things.
  -Score- 3/10
  
  FINAL SCORE:
  Despite a deep affection for Star Wars, the often times infuriating 
 game play keeps The Force Unleashed from reaching the level it could have. Excellent in many regards, 
 but below par in a few key elements cause this title to be just above average.
  -Score- 6.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I am not a die hard Star Wars fan. But I do enjoy the movies and most of games. Bethesda 
 and Obsidian studios proved how to do the right thing with a great license with the recent Knights 
 of the Old Republic, or KOTOR for short. At its core, those were role playing games, but had enough 
 real-time action to keep those who didn't like RPGs interested. Now we have the first true Star 
 Wars game, and instead of being a spin-off or a prequel, it fits right between episodes 3 and 4. 
 Sweet! But, does all the game live up to the hype and expectations?
  
  
  First off is the story, and for Star Wars, is the most important piece. Thankfully, the story is 
 absolutely brilliant. There were a few years of downtime for the story between episodes 3 and 4, 
 and here is where the story lies. Darth Vader, while looking to extinguish the last of the Jedi, 
 stumbles across a little boy who had the force strong within him for such a young age. Naturally, 
 with Vader being the cool villain he is, decided to take him in and train him to be his secret 
 apprentice, or assassin to be technical. What happens from here on out is in true Star Wars fashion, 
 and is worth the price of admission, as long as you are willing to put with a bit of bumpy gameplay.
 
  
  
  The gameplay, oh the gameplay. Never before has any Star Wars game given you this much freedom 
 do use the "dark side" of the force to this extent. From the beginning to end, you will constantly 
 become a far better character with more force powers and abilities. One of the moves in the game 
 consists of you being able to levitate an enemy and trow your lightsaber into him, and throwing 
 that enemy into another enemy, also impaling him onto the lightsaber. Think of a enemy shishkabob. 
 Or, you can force lightning a cyborg enemy and make him a sparking bomb to throw at enemies. These 
 are just a couple of the maybe 50 or so combinations you can use. Even the new Digital Molecular 
 Matter, or DMM, which gives lifelike properties to everything, is nothing short of amazing. But, 
 it feels a bit unusual. How can a lightsaber, which is able to cut though solid metals not cut 
 the simplest of plants. Instead of cutting through them, the plants just bounce for a few seconds. 
 But glass, wood, and most metals shatter, splinter, and break realistically. Given the Euphoria 
 and the DMM engines, and a bit more time and research, and you could start creating very real situations. 
 More realistic than this and Grand Theft Auto 4!
  
  
  The graphics are also very well done. From the characters and environments right down to the force 
 powers are just plain awesome. However, I did notice objects magically passing through one another 
 once in a while. And yes, Darth Vader still has the shiney armor and the lights on top of it. Attention 
 to detail was done to the fullest. 
  
  
  The audio is, as usual, very well done. The musical scores feel like it has John Williams written 
 all over it. However, I don't know if he composed the music for this or not. Sound effects are 
 your typical hums and clashes of the lightsaber and blaster fire. But nostalgia will eventually 
 kick in, which is a good thing. Even the voices are of high quality and Vader still sounds like 
 Vader as you remember him. 
  
  
  However, as I stated earlier, don't expect a smooth ride. There aren't many glitches to this game, 
 but what's in it does hurt, and hurt it does. Mostly, as with any 3rd person game, the camera can 
 spaz out. Especially when you are in a tight space, or you have your back up against a wall (literally 
 and figuratively) . Then there are the frame-rate drops. I've noticed this happening when there 
 are more than 3 enemies on screen at once. When you do a lightsaber combo, the game will slow down 
 and pause, then resuming back to normal. That usually lasts around 3-5 seconds. May not sound like 
 much, but try being surrounded by enemies, and that little distraction can cost you your life. 
 Expect to get hung up on objects occasionally. But the biggest gripe of all is during boss battles. 
 Twice the game has froze on me during the most crucial of moments, during the timed button pressing 
 sequences. One was on the second boss, the beetle looking Jedi, and the third level rancor. Again 
 both were during the timed button sequences! I don't know if this will continue on in the game, 
 but it still is fun.
  
  
  Overall, The Force Unleashed is a worthy addition to the Star Wars license and fanbase. With a 
 compelling story and deep gameplay, you have a fun game, but a little patience will pay off. Definitely 
 worth a rental at most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltraredM
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This game, like I said, is good in it's own right. However, it's a huge let-down. Do yourself a 
 favor and don't believe all these people just putting 10/10. Atleast rent the game first. If you 
 like it, good for you, if not, welcome to the club.
  
  Gameplay: AI is often brain-dead and glitchy, the force powers are extremely disapointing, and 
 the game-play will most definitely NOT blow your mind. Many glitches are to be found, as well. 
 No sort of satisfying blows whatsoever, other then the strongest force push you have and sticking 
 a saber in something's chest when you have them raised in the air with your force.
  6/10
  
  Graphics: Not what next-gen could've pulled off, but atleast better then last-gen.
  8/10
 
  
  Overall: 7/10. I'd rather go to the local EB games and nab a copy of the Stars Wars Academy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpotatohead22
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  If I could play this game for more than about 6 seconds before it starts freezing on me I may have 
 given it an eight. The tech. they used to make it is too good for the game. It can't keep up with 
 itself. Not worth buying you won't make it through the whole game without throwing your controller 
 in frustration. For the few Levels it let me get past it was pretty fun but all the sudden If I 
 try to get past a certain point it will freeze. I don't understand the light side vs. dark side 
 thing it hadn't given me that option yet. I am very glad I didn't buy this game because it was 
 a complete waste of time. DO NOT BUY IT. DO NOT BUY. DO NOT BUY. have to fill up space to get 800 
 characters jkjkjkjk ljlk l kjl ljl ljj lkj lkj kljklj klj jklj kj lkj lkjlkjhjdjkfka fa sfjjf oje 
 f dfjoiew f f oif eof f foie f ef ewjf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slyfoxzero
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  It was ok, but some of the targetin was off. throwin a container into space was not fun when i 
 aimed at a trooper but missed completely... overall the game was good but it was a little short 
 n falls way below the believed 8 hour mark, maybe it took me a total of 5 hours and that was with 
 me lookin for all the holocrons too (sadly i couldn't find them all) . The boss battles were fun 
 tho, as long as i figured out what i had to do to stop or stun them rather then them throw me around 
 like a toy. And the finishing moves were awsum to watch, i missed a few clicks tryin to watch the 
 sequence tho so that was a little annoying. Overall i give the game an 8 because the storyline 
 was fun and bein able to use all the force powers was even more fun. Bein able to lift a trooper 
 off the ground as he grabs onto a fellow trooper n drags them to their doom along with him definitly 
 made a force grip satisfying =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyanide676
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I love it. But it's just so short, it takes only a day or two to complete it. Otherwise it's a 
 great game besides the crappy camera angles at times. Also, it can be frustrating, like you keep 
 getting shot, and when you try to get up, you're shot again. Sometimes this happens so much that 
 you're actually pushed off the boundaries and die.
  
  The story is great. The powers and gameplay are even better. One of the best parts is fighting 
 jedi. I have the 360 version and I think a vs. mode would be really fun, like the wii version has. 
 I might get the wii version too.
  
  I like the idea of vs. mode and lightsaber action with the wii remote. But if it were all it's 
 supposed to be, I don't understand why it got more than a point lower than the 360 and PS3 versions. 
 Since the gameplay is so unique for it though, I think I might just get both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EllesarSmith
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  "Do not forget that you still serve me!"
  Note- This review by a lifelong Star Wars fanatic.
  
  Story: The sweeping epic that is the 
 Force Unleashed is simply incredible. When your jaw actually drops and shout "NO #$%# WAY!", you 
 know that the story is amazing. The voice acting is incredible, the plot magnificent, and the twists 
 will keep you playing till 2:00 a. m. even on a school night.
  
  Gameplay: The options available to you are fairly robust. Should you wish to saber your way through 
 foes, be my guest. Want to annihilate from a distance, go right away. Lightning, push, saber throw, 
 repulse, and shield are right at your fingertips. No clumsy attempts at selecting the right force 
 power at a critical moment- unleash a torrent of force abilities with the simple touch of a button. 
 And for those of you who think that this game gets old, if throwing a TIE fighter at someone (note: 
 A #$#^ TIE FIGHTER) gets old, ... you crazy!?
  
  Graphics: The unbelievable physics engine and graphics for this game blow my mind. While watching 
 web documentaries, I figured yeah right. But when you pick up a stormtrooper and he grabs for a 
 barrel nearby in order to survive, it makes killing him all the more satisfying. Granted, I have 
 run into a few glitches. However, as a whole, the game runs extremely smoothly. I mean, just look 
 at Felucia. That world is seriously ALIVE. The planet reacts to your presence in a way that no 
 other game I've played has. I could see where someone might get peeved but the excellent autosave 
 system works to your benefit, meaning you might lose about two minutes of work.
  
  Difficulty: I believe that this game is just right. While facing stormtroopers, you own. When you 
 get to specialized troops, AT-STs, or rancors, you need to vary your strategy up a bit. The boss 
 battles are totally epic and jaw-dropping. The game won't let you breeze right through it on the 
 first time without dying but you aren't at risk of throwing your controller at the nearest moving 
 object available in your room.
  
  Over-all: This game fulfilled my every expectation which is saying a lot. If you have somehow come 
 from another planet and never heard of Star Wars , you would still find this game excellent in 
 every way. Even Gamestop did: they said it had great story, gameplay, graphics, physics, and sound. 
 I'm not sure how one or two glitches can cause a game to go from a 10 to a 7.5. I took into account 
 those few tiny glitches and rate this game a 9.5.
  
  May the force be with you, always... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox4life76
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  I've been tracking this game now for over a year and when i picked it up on launch day that i had 
 soo much excitement inside of me i needed a day to gather myself before i could play... so I played 
 it and wow, the graphics were stunning, sharp, clear. Starting with Darth Vader was amazing, and 
 watching him use the Force was loads of fun. No game is perfect and I guess the only issue i had 
 was that it seemed a bit easy to get through the first level, but to slash and toss stormtroopers 
 and others around brought a smile to my face. I know I've heard people complain about the camera 
 at times, and yes i can agree with you but it doesn't bother me that much and i did experience 
 a bit of lag (half a second) , nothing serious but otherwise a solid game that i plan to enjoy for 
 a very long long time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link222
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short. When I first got the demo, I loved the game right off the bat. When 
 I got the game, the first tutorial level when you play as darth vader shows that they hid a lot 
 in the demo. Force Power, the combos and skills, and the level destructibility.
  
  Here are a couple bugs I found so far:
  
  Force Grip Level 2: It says Ememies instead of Enemies..... 
 really? This is concerning because if they didn't fix this... what else did they over look?
  
  Flying: OH CRAP A CHASM... AAAAAAAAHH!!!! ... Wait... I'm not dead like I should be.... I'm 
 flying!! Well this is kind of cheap.... This happened to me in the junkyard level in the room with 
 the mini boss. Dead for no reason: Once again in the junkyard level. There are metal sheets that 
 you bend and bring down so that you can jump on them. You can also move them while you are on them. 
 As I was moving one around (while I was on it) to jump on to another one, I was lowering it.... and 
 I died. Full health. And the death was the falling off a cliff sequence. Huh....
  
  Those are the 3 obvious ones I found. As far as gameplay, the controls are easy (except I'm not 
 keen of the targeting system) and the game can be easy but challenging at the same time. The story 
 is the most amazing aspect of the game. It's so captivating and so good. It feels like there should 
 be a movie about this game. Looking around on all the levels for lightsaber crystals and other 
 holocrons is fun, but I feel like there should be some sort of description for the crystals instead 
 of guessing and assuming.
  
  The game also lacks a multiplayer on the 360, which makes me sad and I hope one is added soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante_tha_don
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  Another installment in ongoing Star Wars series where every character is somehow connected to someone 
 from original saga.
  Force Unleashed is nice experience as a next gen action game. We are the Apprentice big secret 
 of Lord Darth Vader. Our master has some missions for us and we do them. But there is something 
 more to our character that will be revealed during game with 2 different endings (yes we choose 
 side) .
  Graphic is quite nice and surrounding changes quite often with different planet completely different 
 look from deathstar to junkyard and fauna flora planet. Thing that is cool is our ability to manipulate 
 the environment. It may not be Bad Company with destruction but still its cool and give us feeling 
 that we are the wielder of force.
  Story is well written but not too many cinematics to tell us about what happening or to show off 
 powers.
  Another thing on bad side is length of the game. 10 hours is the tops for even unskilled player. 
 Only achievement hunters will have to play more beat the game 2 times and find all holocorns (not 
 that easy without guide) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_on_mic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  This game provides fun and that Star Wars hit needed to Star Wars fans. Force Unleashed shows a 
 glimpse of the power under the hood of the 2 new consoles and might also provide a glimpse of what 
 is to come for the long awaited Knights of the Old Republic 3.
  
  Control wise the game as a nice in game tutorial that provides you with the basics and the ability 
 to go back and learn how to use your other abilities as they are unlocked. It is a game easy to 
 learn and also one that gives you much reward for mastering your abilities and how to control them. 
 Targeting is a little problematic but can be sorted once you know what you are dealing with.
  
  Graphically this game is winner. The animations and facial model of the main characters are 
 some of the best I have seen, including a long awaited depth that is often missing when looking 
 at human type characters in games, something missing behind the eyes. During the game, when there 
 is a lot happening on the screen there is some downgrade in the frame rate (on the 360 version 
 that I have seen) , but often killing dispatching the items that are slowing it down will fix it, 
 and it often only for small period of time as well, noticeable but not too detracting.
  
  Sound wise, it feels almost as if Ben Burt as done the sound-design himself. It sounds like a Star 
 Wars movie, the sabre sounds and the sounds from the frighten storm troopers are good. The "Take 
 some cover" that comes from many of the enemies is funny initially until you dispatch them with 
 the usual manner. Music, well John Williams' scores from the films are underpinning the action 
 and with so much music now from the films, there should be no shortage of picking the right music 
 for the right Star Wars moment.
  
  Voice acting is pretty good with the main characters. Darth Vader is a little bit of a letdown, 
 but seeing as they didn't get James Earl Jones to voice Vader it is always will be, but the rest 
 of the actors are good, and with the good acting and the nuances that you see in the facial animations 
 of the characters it carries the story really well.
  
  As far as story goes it slots right in between III and IV, and I believe it fits in nicely. The 
 Starkiller part is an interesting touch seeing as Skywalker was originally going to be called Starkiller. 
 But the story is really good and certainly makes you want to get to the cut scenes to see more 
 of them.
  
  Disappointing that there is no Multi-player, it would have been cool to fight each other as Jedi 
 and those extreme force powers you can use in the game against all different people. It is the 
 biggest thing missing and would have been a much needed addition to the game. 
  
  Overall this is a quality game, certainly there was a lot of hype surrounding this game when first 
 revealed, and in many of those ways it delivers. Some areas I was a little disappointed in it, 
 but it is tough to live up to any hype. But all in all this game will provide that much needed 
 shot in the arm to Star Wars fans waiting for the next bite to come from the Lucas Arts stables. 
 For non Star Wars fans it is a game I would recommend for just pick and play type fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconOI
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:11 am PT
Review:  Star Wars The Force Unleashed, An Amazing Game With Stunning Visuls, An Inriched Storyline, Great 
 Controls And A Superb View Of The True Power Of The Force, This Game Is Exacly What It Was Suppose 
 To Be, Stop Putting So Much Expectation On What Your Thinking The Game Will Be Like, ie: Another 
 Mass Effect Wanna Be. This Is The Main Problem With Rateings These Days. Gamespot I Always Lisened 
 To All Your Reviews And Pretty much Bought Every Pc And Xbox 360 Game That You Said Was Good And 
 Now You Said That This Game Was BAD A Measly 7.5 And Mass Effect That Diserved At Least A 9.1, 
 But You Guys Gave It Such A Stupid Score, Are You Kidding Me? Shame On You Guys At Gamespot Shame 
 On You, You Disapoint Me. Everyone Thats Going To Buy This Game, Buy The Game With A Clear Mind 
 And Take It For What It Is A Simply Great Game!!!!!!
  
  FalconOI The Master Of The Team Shinobi Clan Signing Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbBMW325i
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for about 2 years now and was very satisfied to have it finally 
 released and after all the hype it wasn't a letdown. Which always make it worth while. Overall 
 the game is fantastic, the story is one of the best game storylines to date and is probably better 
 written than Episodes I and !!. I actually watched all the cineamatics again just to hear the story 
 again. I was wondering how they were going to have it fit in since we know that Darth Vader and 
 the Emperor don't die, but in the end it worked how nicely. The game engines are great but need 
 just a little work but has definitely set a new game standard. Being a Star Wars fan I actually 
 noticed the symbol on the hut at the beginning of the game but didn't put two and two together 
 until Vader says, Not only one single act will the emperor notice but an entire army. Now we all 
 know how the Rebel Alliance began. The graphics are done very well and the gameplay feels natural. 
 You don't ever have too worry about memorizing the button sequences because it just happens and 
 they are very fluent. The only downside to this game is the length, it is just plain too short. 
 I would personally like to see Lucas Arts put an RPG (like KOTOR) and an Action-Adventure (like 
 TFU) together and base it around Jedi's/Sith's. Lucas Arts I do have ideas and you can contact 
 me!
  
  Overall 8.8. If you are a Star Wars fan you will not be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knotty13monkee
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  So the force unleashed is finally out and according to all the people who had the availability 
 to actually review it before it was released, they were a little pissy about the overall quality 
 of the game. Saying it was, "glitchy" and the targeting camera was "difficult". All i have to say 
 to that is, eat a dick. Every game is glitchy, find me one that doesn't and I'll probably be surprised. 
 Lots of games are difficult and more than challenging, but did you ever think that maybe you guys 
 just suck huge nuts at this game?
  
  The physics engine for this game is way ahead of its time and the graphics during gameplay AND 
 cut scenes is cinema quality. The story makes the game feel like you're playing in your own star 
 wars movie and the whole project is exactly what star wars fans and gamers alike have been waiting 
 for.
  
  I give it a 9.0 for addictive playability, amazing customization, incredible storyline, and innovation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sublimeambition
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game late last night, and beat it early afternoon today, after sleeping 8 hours.
 
  
  Game-play does not last too long, although I still have tons of stuff left to unlock and figure 
 out so I'm definitely going back for more tonight. Force powers are sweet, kicking the crap out 
 of Jawas is awesome, as well as slapping some Wookies around.
  
  People keep mentioning that the targeting is crappy, it has it's flaws sometimes but once you figure 
 out that the targeting works which way YOU are facing not the CAMERA, you'll realize that people 
 are just looking for something to complain about.
  
  Awesome game, a MUST HAVE for sure, a game that's fun to play through, and then go back to it often 
 just to use cool powers to destroy stuff.
  
  (Story line is pretty neat too) Proxy is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkuchan
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  They removed one of my favorite powers, Force Pull which was always great for removing blasters 
 from people without killing them. Force Repulse is fun, but they made Force Lightning toooo weak. 
 This game is very addicting and I had to let a friend borrow it so I could finally get some sleep!! 
 I hope they make another Star Wars game based off this same engine, the Havok Physics look sweet, 
 the only other game with this level of destructability is Crysis. I would definitely recommend 
 this to anyone.
  
  My favorite thing about this game was turning down the in game Star Wars Opera music and put on 
 some hard rock and just ****ing **** up. 
  
  The one thing I didn't like about the game is that you revisit 2 different levels twice, I wish 
 they would've extended the story line longer and had you hunting more Jedi before joining the Rebels. 
 It would've been great also if the sequel you get to play as General Koto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krypto80
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  The headline says it all. Its a HIGH octane action game. The graphics are very polished but there 
 are a few glitches, but not enough to ruin the mayhem that you'll be dishing out. I'm glad to see 
 that there were times that I died over and over again on normal setting. Some games have gotten 
 too easy. The story is excellent. That is why I bought the game. Unfortunately, the story ends 
 too quickly. I think there are about 9 missions. Some missions will take you 15 minutes. Others 
 may even take you an hour. I was like "WOW this first level is long." The demo only gave you a 
 glimpse of the level. Probably only 10%. My ONLY main let down was the length. I probably beat 
 it in 7-9 hours. 
  The music is what you'd expect. Music from previous Star Wars movies and games. You unlock many 
 secrets throughout the game such as costumes and lightsaber colors. Combos? Take your pick. Sometimes 
 I ask "how do I want to finish this guy off? Quick and easy or slow and painful?" Great game, but 
 too short. Definately a renter, but worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjack95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  it is sad to see people not see the greatness in this game the score some of u gave it were just 
 plain un greatful .anywhoses why are some levels half finished and others almost perfect? every 
 few saves i move and i fall thru the floor. it does still make up for it in most respects in terms 
 of game play and graphics. the glitches most of the tome are not game glitching so people who say 
 they r need to back off and take another look. and hey at least they did not mess up tis review 
 like they did merc's 2  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skumancer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  So awesome and fun. It may have its flaws (targeting, etc) , but what game doesn't? The action is 
 enthralling, fast and addictive.
  
  I think TFU is one of the best SW games ever but its also an awesome departure from the constant 
 shooters.
  
  The action and platforming in the game are really good. I enjoy using my force powers to mow down 
 on enemies. Going through it a second time is also really cool using one of the other characters.
 
  
  The fight against Darth Vader was epic, and being able to bring down the Star Destroyer was incredible 
 (albeit a little frustrating) .
  
  I with people would stop reading "Critic's Reviews" and try it out for themselves. Its an awesome 
 game that you will remember for a long time.
  
  Star Wars fans and non-fans alike should check it out. You won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giddeaon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe all the negative press on SWTFU, nor should you believe that the gamer ratings are 
 high simply because we're all fan boys. I am not a Star Wars fan. In truth, I'm one of the old 
 timers who believe that SW was ruined by the last 3 films, and that Lucas peaked 20 years ago. 
 I went into this game with a lot of trepidation. However, I am pleased to say that this is an extremely 
 fun game to play. The story is excellent, cut scenes well voiced, and the animation is superb. 
 The game, graphically, is stunning and the controls are easy to learn and use. This is a fun game, 
 hands down. I was lucky enough to rent it first, and now I plan to buy. The replay is good, and 
 I enjoyed it more than enough to want to add it to my collection. Well worth your time if you like 
 game play elements similar to God of War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sphynxbut
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  OK, the good first. 
  
  1) The story: If you like Star Wars then I think the story will resonate with you. Although there 
 are a few things in the story that may make you go "hugh", I think it could make a good movie.
 
  
  2) The graphics: The game is a pretty game, Starkiller looks good and so do all the character models. 
 The cut scenes are good I just wish that they were all in game cut scenes.
  
  3) Gameplay: If you are not expecting another KOTOR (which I loved) then the game play is actually 
 pretty good. The force powers are great, and when Starkiller is more powerful he becomes very fun 
 to use. 
  
  The Bad:
  
  1) The game should be more polished. For example, there shouldn't be any load times while using 
 menus. And I have had the game freeze twice on me.
  
  2) A little more depth to the game would have been nice. Maybe a bit more customization or even 
 better a bit more choice in the direction of the story.
  
  All in all a solid game. With more polish and a bit more depth the game could have easily been 
 above an eight. But with a good story and straight forward gameplay the game is under an 8.
  
  PS The star destroyer level wasn't that bad. After I played it, I saw all the posts about it 
 and was a bit surprised.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hube
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is great! The story is not bad and the graphics.... wow, way better than the others! I 
 know some of you can't stand the fact that Lucas basically raped the star wars saga by casting 
 bad actors and characters that were not needed in his movies, but you have to admit, he's done 
 well with the video games... especially KOTOR series.... and force unleashed is just the icing on 
 the cake for hardcore fans of the video games (not the movies) . The games stays true to the feel 
 of the star war stories, but this time you start off playing for the opposite side, the dark force. 
 What's strange is that i find myself liking the dark force better... it's more fun mixed in with 
 an eager to be a badass. The music score and sound alone gets you going and is a reminder of what 
 star wars once was. The visuals are more realistically rich in colors, the characters interactions 
 within the game flow way better. With the lack of great games out there in the market, The Force 
 Unleashed comes in just in time to hold me over till the next installment of the halo saga, gears 
 of war 2, Assassin's Creed and others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshkid927
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Ya know I just realized how much of a sheep everyone is nowadays. One bad game review and everyone 
 just agrees without question. This game has a lot of substance for a true die-hard star wars fan 
 and just someone who likes a great story line.
  I have played about 12 hours of this game on the hardest difficulty and I am having a blast. And 
 let me tell you, this game is freakin hard on this mode. I cant even count the number of times 
 I have died. but the thing is, I was having fun the entire time. I, myself, am a true die-hard 
 star wars fan and I absolutely love this game. The explosions and power you feel from controlling 
 the Force and the lightsaber make this game better than any Star Wars game I have ever played.
 
  And even if you aren't a Star Wars guru, the story is freakin awesome. It is easy to understand 
 what is going on even if you dont know the characters.
  On a side note, if you dont know who Darth Vader is by now and you are over 13, just blow up the 
 rock you live under and stab yourself for me.
  Anyway, this game has a lot of potential, as the review states. the thing is, I watched the videos 
 of these guys playing the game and they SUCK! What game have you ever sucked at and liked. Yeah, 
 exactly. That is one of the main reasons I have lost so much respect for the Gamespot Reviewers 
 because they need to realize how much their STUPID reviews mean to people and companies.
  When bad reviews are posted, that company just lost a lot of money because nobody wants to buy 
 their game anymore and it's all due to some punk who just sucks and takes it out on the game review. 
 I have seen this time and time again with games that I thought sucked really bad because of reviews 
 I saw and I rented them and they were actually pretty fun. If anything, they were anything BUT 
 the 4.0,5.0, and 6.0 reviews gave them.
  So please, do us all a favor and try the game out for yourself. Think of it this way, would you 
 let someone tell you what to miss out on and what not to in anything else? And who goes to say 
 that they can't be "persuaded" to hurt or inflate a certain company's stock.
  Thanks for reading my post. l8r 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SUB-Z3R0_382
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  ok star wars the force unleashed i really like star wars games well not all but anyways sw: fu is 
 freakin awesome ur playin as the apprentice in a wicked storyline, u have dueling (darth only on 
 wii) nd i think that it is a very descent game seeing a sw game on a nxt gen console is wat ive 
 been waiting for the controls are good the graphics are astounding nd they really delivered it. 
 =) so all in all if u r a star wars fan this game is mos deff 4 u nd if ur not then this game will 
 pull you in the universe of sw this game is worth the wait u can be good or u can be bad euther 
 way u go u will still play this game over nd over sorry if i did not help you this is my 1st review 
 pls if anyone does read this comment nd tell me wat in need to improve on but the gameplay is good 
 nd when u use the force powers u can break trees nd stuff kill wookies nd a whole bunch of other 
 crap first level you can pla as darth vader which was awesome i love this game nd you will 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed
  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is the game that is going to fill in the 20 year gap between Episode 
 3 and 4. Ultimately the game's story does just that. Everything else the game does, it fails. It 
 fails more than Obi Wan failed Anakin as a master.
  
  The high point of the game is the presentation. Environments are highly detailed. Character models 
 are great. Vehicles are beautiful. Cut scenes look awesome. The only part of the visuals that fail 
 are the lip syncing efforts, which are marginally noticeable mainly because the story is just so 
 captivating.
  
  The games sound design is impressive. It sounds like Star Wars should sound. Saber swishing and 
 swooping, blasters spewing, and big booms are all present. The games musical score is the traditional 
 John Williams mix from the original trilogy, with some of the newer stuff from the new trilogy 
 thrown in. Duel of the Fates is present for one sequence of the game, and fits in well. 
  
  The voice acting here is impressive. The person playing Darth Vader does a decent job, and the 
 man playing Star killer should replace Hayden Christensen from the films. Every character is ripe 
 with emotion, and makes the story more intimate. It is easy to appreciate these actors as they 
 bring their characters to life with their voices. 
  
  Now the game does have many short comings. This is a Star Wars game about Darth Vader and his secret 
 apprentice. It is obvious that you are going to use a light saber. However, it is clear that the 
 Devs saber skills were lacking. Saber combat feels stiff and not as fluid as it should. Overall, 
 wielding a light saber feels more like wielding a baseball bat here, as Star killer's moves are 
 not gracious. Instead they are stiff and uninspired. 
  
  Another part of combat is using the force. You have many force abilities at your disposal here. 
 You string some together with your light saber to form combos, and it can be satisfying when you 
 force punt Jawas or other undersized beings. When using the force, it really does feel unleashed 
 once it has been leveled up. Enemies will fly with force push, they will beg for mercy with force 
 grip, and they will get extra crispy with force lightning. You also have force repulse, saber throw, 
 and a few other powers at your disposal. 
  
  Overall, the combat is lacking. Enemies are not too bright, and once the force becomes a slave 
 at Star killer's disposal, the game just becomes repetitive. Since each level has a certain amount 
 of enemy types, it is easy to figure out how to defeat each one. Some levels involve factions fighting 
 each other, so you can wait for them to tear each other up before you jump in. In the later portion 
 of the game you are just swamped with mini bosses, such as AT-STs, and purge troopers, so you will 
 have to devise some strategy in order to take them out.
  
  While the force is unleashed, the game can be difficult due to a variety of bugs. The camera is 
 very problematic. Sometimes objects just occupy the entire screen and the player cannot see what 
 exactly is going on. The targeting system does not make things easier, since it targets what Star 
 killer is focused on, rather than what is hostile, or just closer. This is a problem because while 
 the player spends time targeting the item they want to use, that player might just end up dead. 
 Also, throwing objects in the right direction can be difficult. If Star Killer cannot see the target, 
 he will not throw it at the target. That does not make bringing down a battle ship easy when squads 
 of tie fighters are trying to kill you. 
  
  Another place the game falls short on is boss battles. Some great characters are introduced, and 
 re-introduce in this game. It had the overall potential to have some of the most memorable fights 
 ever. However, since light saber combat is moot, they are lame. Bosses are impervious to most normal 
 attacks, and take major damage only after they have completed patterned behavior. They are behavior 
 is completely predictable, making boss fights rather easy and just a matter of trial and error. 
 What makes them less fun is the sheer fact that you are restricted in how you can finish them. 
 You have all these powers at your disposal, and rather than letting you be creative and string 
 your own force combos together, you get button tap sequences at the end of each one. These are 
 cool to look at it, but are not much fun, and take that whole sith power lord feeling away.
  
  The Force Unleashed had one of the best concepts for a Star Wars game in a long time. However, 
 too many good ideas were not implemented well. Where the game shines, it does not shine enough, 
 and where it fails, it fails too much. The only reason to play this game is for the story and nothing 
 else. Replay value is moderately low, because there will not be any DLC, and the alternate ending 
 is not much different from either one the player may choose. One those endings do not make any 
 sense and just pulls the story apart. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is finally out and it doesnt disappoint. The first thing that stands out as 
 soon as you play is the outstanding visuals. The textures and environments are up there with the 
 best of em. Once you get over the amazing artwork youll realize the games controls blend very well. 
 The layout of force powers are put together just fine and with a few combo of buttons there are 
 a dozens of force powers and attack combination attacks. SFX of weapons and vehicles are good but 
 there are many times when the background track seems to fade away when not fighting. What brings 
 it all together and makes this game barely stand out above the rest is the awesome story driving 
 it. The Force Unleashed doesnt doesnt disappoint in this area neither, although is couldve been 
 a bit longer. Overall this is a definite must have for a Star Wars fan and a stellar action game 
 for thoses who arent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigma83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Lucas Arts really hit a homerun with this third-person action/adventure with a character build 
 system. The was your able to use the force in this game is amasing. I personally feel the target 
 lock button should be on the left side of the controller. Other than that, the controller layout 
 and multiple combos really make this game interesting. And the ability to increase certain powers 
 and such really add that origional and custom character feel to the game. There are a few computer 
 and graphic gliches, but so far nothing major that a pach can't fix. But, one recomandation, somethign 
 I would of told the developers if I was a game tester for this game. That there should be an online 
 multy-player aspect to the game. Where you can uplad your best or favor character builds from one 
 of your campaign slots and use him to battle each other. And even in just online, have it so u 
 can upload your character info but pick a different jedi or sith character to battle with online. 
 I think this games only really fault, ands not that much of a major one since a content download 
 is all you should need (this is the only readon I took a .5 off) , this game is as close to a perfect 
 game to play as any other out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halowinter91
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I was the first person in all of my home, Corpus Christi, Texas, to get hands on the Force Unleashed 
 while waiting for the midnight release.
  Once I got it, I rushed home (after getting gas) and began playing.
  
  Just like all Star Wars 
 games that follow canon story lines, it opens with the BIG opening presenting the name STAR WARS 
 in big bold text with that ever so familiar song composed by John Williams. And once the text disapears, 
 the camera pans down, revealing a fleet of Star Destroyers over the planet of Kashyyyk, just as 
 it would in the movies.
  
  Anyways, getting to the review. 
  I have to say, you dont need to be a fan of Star Wars to find this story compelling. Even those 
 fans who's lost their interest after the newest movies (I - III) will be blown away.
  The games main purpose is to show you the power of the Force first hand, in a way like never before.
 
  But, dont let that pass you as a game that sounds like nothing but a game where you have the wrath 
 of god in your hands and you just run around button mashing. Because, it's the complete opposite.
 
  This game will take some thought in certain spots. You need to know how to fight every enemy. 
 You may need to shock him with Force Lightning, and then run in and cut him down. Or, he may be 
 immune to Force powers a bit, and have a flame thrower in his hands; making harder to get to. It 
 changes with each enemy.
  
  The enviornment around you on each level is just beautiful. I actually ran around a bit, just to 
 look at the area around me.
  
  Throughout the game, there are many twists and turns that you would never expect.
  
  anyways, 
 my score for the game is a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceberg082002
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for about one and a half to two years. Now it finally came out 
 and I am like WOW!!!! The Force Unleashed has great graphics and the physics engines are amazing 
 too. The force powers are great and fun to use. Throwing things around and blasting them with different 
 force powers is cool. The story in Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is amazing and shocked me. The 
 story is totally worthy of being a prequel to A New Hope. The game may be about ten hours long 
 but hey what game is long now anyway. When you take into account the four different difficulties 
 then you have about forty hours of playing time. Taking down the Star Destroyer is kind of hard 
 to do, it took me a few tries but overall that part was amazing as well. If you are a like Star 
 Wars then you will like this game because this is a game for ALL STAR WARS FANS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stinger2k5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS: i thought they were really good all around. i never noticed and framerate drops or pauses, 
 infact the game only glitched on me once and i was able to get out of it without haveing to re 
 start the mission. i really loved how well done all the game physics worked in the game. to be 
 honist i did not think they would work that well but they proved me wrong
  
  GAMEPLAY: The game play, while really fun, got a bit tedious to me and heres why, the camra, i constantly 
 found my self fighting with it. all to often i felt like it was aginst me almost wanting me to 
 lose. its really bad in big scale battles when you have enough to worry about with all the storm 
 troopers trying to kill you, it just made combat a pain at times. my second major complaint with 
 the gameplay is the few platforming elements. i felt that the jumping was way to loose, and i constantly 
 found my self under jumping targets that i should of made with ease. the last complant for game 
 play is the targeting system. i think i spent at least a hour or so on mission simply because of 
 the fact that i could not hit a certan target. it really killed the fun that i had all the way 
 up to that part. 
  
  STORY: story i thought was fantastic all the way through. i never found myself playing through 
 just to make progress in the game. i always wanted to see what was going to happen next in the 
 story. there was never a dull moment soryline wise imo. thats mainly because the cutscenes. wow. 
 they were amazing, the facel expressions on all the characters were really well done and believeable. 
 it just to bad it ended so soon
  
  OVERALL: if you can overlook a short stoy mode, evil camra, and less than steller targeting system, 
 and focus on the positives you should check it out. its not as bad as half of the reviews in seen 
 for it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviljezis8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  Was fun little to short and bad voice acting but great use of the force and the way of using it. 
 The aming could have been better way two many times you miss with the force lighting and the light 
 saber attack should be alot stronger. But over all its a good Star Wars game been so long since 
 the last game its nice to have one that almost is as good as KOTOR we can only hope they make the 
 mmorpg kotor. The force points should have had a better lvl up, just seems like they through that 
 together, also the loading at every menu screen is really lame. At least the death seens are not 
 as long as the one in Too Human. Some might say it is sux but thats because they cant beat it on 
 hard so they are the ones that sux lol. At least they gave us a good Star Wars game for once all 
 the others they made were way to short and very lame (except Kotor) but sooner or later they had 
 to make one right. Still could have done more with the LVL up in the game to make it more skill 
 full and whats with the Holograms as big cubes looks a little like the all spark programer must 
 like Transformers lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Admiral_Barton
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a breath of fresh air into what has become a stagnant series 
 of Star Wars games. I'll start with the good and end with the bad.
  
  Good:
  
  The Story: I'm over halfway through the story and it is amazing. It starts off a little slow but 
 if you can get past the first couple missions the story picks up greatly.
  
  Graphics: I believe that the character models are done very well. The graphics look very well from 
 a distance and up close. Force effects are done well, and it's always a pleasure to watch the lightning 
 riddle through an enemies body.
  
  Enemies: Enemy AI is handled very well, and it balances well to make combat a fairly good experience. 
 It gets a bit messy when dealing with crowds, luckily you have force powers to help clear that 
 up.
  
  Bad:
  
  Glitches: Well I've had three problematic glitches that have happened. The first is simple, the 
 game simply locked up. The second was perhaps the most irritating. While fighting Shaan Ti when 
 the battle went to the second half, the camera focused toward the top of the screen preventing 
 me from seeing my character at all. Lastly I had a very odd error. While fighting Shaan Ti yet 
 again I used a force repulse while in the air and knocked her off the map through the ceiling. 
 I landed and she never came back down. I had to then kill myself to restart that portion of the 
 fight. Overall it's not that bad since they only occurred once.
  
  Targeting: While not horrible there have been moments where I've tried targeting an object while 
 it is targeted and for some reason I grab another object. This is more of an nuisance than a severe 
 problem.
  
  
  Overall:
  It's a compelling story with just a few minor technical errors. While these errors may not be huge, 
 they add some frustration to the game. Definately a good buy for fans of Star Wars, otherwise I'd 
 pick it up as a rental due to length. I give it a 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedJedi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  A long time Star Wars nerd, I love the mythology of the galaxy far far away. Like many fans, I 
 wept bitter tears when Lucas crapped on my childhood with Ep I and II, and only barely getting 
 by with Ep III. 
  
  This game brings a wonderful new chapter to the Star Wars story, one that would have made a much 
 better movie than any of the recent additions. The story and how it was delivered account for my 
 score of this game being over a 4.
  
  The actual gameplay blows. You don't fight enemies. You are so powerful no enemy besides a boss 
 stands a chance at hurting you. You fight the camera and the environment. Your whole experience 
 will be defined by wrestling with the camera to bend it to your will, and most times you will fail. 
 Because of the camera, and the targeting system linked to it, you will fail to reach your potential 
 as bad ass sith and instead die many stupid deaths because you weren't pointed in the right direction, 
 targeting a barrel instead of an enemy. 
  
  As for the enemies, they exhibit little AI, and while some bosses, such as the third Jedi Master, 
 are push-overs (literally) the second took me probably 2 dozen attempts. This should never be the 
 case on normal difficulty, and guess what killed me? Not being able to target the boss, or see 
 what I'm doing so while I run around like a retard, I get my face smashed in from behind. 
  
  If the camera stayed behind you and pulled out more, and if targeting could be controlled by 
 a button instead of being direction, then players could focus on the awesome elements of the game, 
 instead of being drawn to the dark side at the rage of stupid cameras. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esman39
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  Fun game.
  It's the only true reason we are playing video games. Amiright? The Force Unleashed is FUN. Cutting 
 down foes with a pulsating crimson light saber; frying Jedi masters with force lightening; punting 
 Jawa's; and finishing off boss mobs with wicked dark side style is worth the entry fee. The only 
 reason I put it down after I got it home yesterday was because I had to work the next morning. 
 I kept wanting to play "one more level," "okay, after this I'll stop ," etc.
  
  Great story.
  I love the story. But what I love more than the story is the thoughts that it conjures. 
 Is Vader trying to reclaim the future that was lost to him due to his pregnant wife's death by 
 claiming this boy as his apprentice (son) ? The only thing I dislike is that the new characters 
 ring a little hollow due to the speed at which the plot must develop. *Spoiler* And Starkiller's 
 interactions with Leia seem premature given her seeming ignorance of Jedi and the force in the 
 original trilogy. In the original trilogy, especially A New Hope, most people in the galaxy seem 
 to react like, "Jedi, what are they?"
  
  Nice graphics.
  Starkiller looks wicked. Lots of detail on the character models. Gorgeous environments. I really 
 don't see why some folks are knocking the graphics. The game looks just as good as Gears of War 
 imo.
  
  Wonky camera.
  It's right on/in your butt in close spaces and corners. It is annoying to have to adjust it in 
 the heat of conflict.
  
  Less than precise control.
  Jumping and chaining force powers seems to be off just a tad. Getting up after a knockdown is a 
 pain due to this slight lag concerning the block button as well.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadaSpeed1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Ok - where to begin... if you are a Star Wars fan you will love this game. If you want to feel 
 the power of the dark side and enjoy being a little evil - ok - really bad assed... you will love 
 this game.
  
  Does is have some issues here and there? yes, a few ; but minor - not even worth mentioning.
 
  
  I have found that all LucasArts games seem to have some places in the game that are hard ON PURPOSE 
 ; rather than being a bug or design issue. This game is no exception... when you master what you 
 need to though... this game shines like no other previously.
  
  The immersion factor when you are playing is fantasic. You feel like a dark lord so to speak... 
 lightening bolts, force pushes, pull and throws - it all feels dead on. Force grab and throw can 
 be very satising.
  
  Story is very good ; not KOTOR level - but 100% star ways nevertheless... 
  
  I believe this 
 game will set a new level for phyics interactions... any game after this will have to have these 
 included...
  
  Graphics are very good - HD @ 1080P.
  
  Now... back to the Dark Side...
  D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the review for this game and that it got a 7.5 I thought, "Oh no, it sucks". But 
 I had already reserved my copy so I went and picked it up hoping I could get some fun out of it. 
 When I started playing I just couldn't see why the game got a low-end score like that. It's a great 
 game with many things to make you say "Wow". The only problem with the game is a few glitches, 
 like everyone else says, but it's not enough to really affect the game. Not as much depth to the 
 game as I would like, but this isn't a true rpg so that's to be expected. However, you can still 
 level up and put your points into categories that best suit you for that level. There are different 
 colore light saber crystals that you can collect or are given throughout the game.
  Solid game with a great story and great game play. If you were thinking about getting it, think 
 no more, do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rufus369
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Given all the negative reviews from the Industry Dinguses, I was expecting a HUGE disappointment. 
 But I genuinely love this game. 
  There are some camera stuff, and there are some targeting stuff. However, the graphics and the 
 story is so amazing that those little annoyances are trivial. 
  There have also been some comments about replayability: "You go through once and don't ever want 
 to pick it up again." I say WRONG! There are levels that I could see myself playing dozens of times. 
 There is hidden items that I spent hours looking for and still couldn't get it all. 
  There are some glitches. It almost feels like they could have kept it in production for a couple 
 of months longer and then released a 10, but the way it is now is very enjoyable and fulfilling. 
 
  I give it a 9/10!
  
  PEACE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LCPxIxCYRUS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  First off, i dont' understand why this was given a 7.5. This is game is superb! like many others 
 i agree this is by far the best Star Wars game we've seen yet, other than KOTOR 1, 2. Graphics 
 are b-e-a-u-tiful! story is amazing, love it! it was new and different and awww i love my star 
 wars. The gameplay was awesome, sure, the targeting system lacks, but once you get used to it everything 
 is fine. Seriously, at first i was pissed off, on how could never force grip what i wanted to get, 
 but once i found my way around the targeting system, everything was fine.
  
  The jedi battles are awesome, love it! the training room, is sweet, love the challenges.
  
 
  this game is a must have! trust me. I'll recomend it to everyone!
  
  It's a good game, if not a 8.5 then a 8.0.
  
  Seriously on an off note. I reserved this game 
 on Saturday and was excited to get my hands on it on midnight monday. But, then when Monday came 
 around, and i check gamespot in the morning at work, the review was dissapointing. I was kinda 
 mad, cuz what if the game does lack, and is not worth getting, maybe just renting or use. But once 
 i got my hands on the game, everything game to perspective, this game is awesome! it's a deffinite 
 buy for Moi! and a keeper. I'm glad i reserved it, and gamespot reviewers really really suck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Erskine
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is one of the best Star Wars games ever. It isn't a long as Knights of the 
 Old Republic, but the story line is right up there with Empire Strikes Back. 
  
  The Graphics are amazing. I honestly didn't run into glitches or bugs so ... yeah nothing but glory 
 from that end.
  
  They use classic Star Wars soundtracks for the background music, which is incredible.
  
  The 
 gameplay is fine if you know what your doing. If you take your damn time against the boards with 
 a million aggressive bad guys you will not only live, but do well and have fun. You are a force 
 wielder not a God, you can't blindly run into a room with 2 AT-STs and expect to live. The targeting 
 is a little weak, but you'll live its not crippling.
  
  It's not perfect, but its a lot better than reviewers are giving it. But then again I hold GameSpot 
 reviewers opinions with a grain of salt because I don't think they know what they are doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  In few words and to the point:
  
  THE GOOD:
  - Great graphics
  - Excellent hack and slash addiction
  - Great Story
  - Sounds are awesome exactly like the 
 Star wars movies
  - Destructible enviroment..
  ---------------------------------------
  ---------------------------------------
  THE BAD:
  - Controls should be better
  - Some bugs 
 and glitses
  - AI is not up to the task
  - The game is pretty easy for a veteran player
  ----------------------------------------
  CONCLUSION:
  
  The game really starts to get addictive 
 after you spend some hours with it. Especially because of the story and the way you kill your enemies 
 and the destructible enviroment. To bad that there are some gameplay problems that stop it from 
 shining...
  
  I just hope a patch gets released soon.
  Final Score = 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-Rockk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Unleashing the force on the empire never felt so good! There are so many different combos you can 
 use! It's awesome! The Story is superb it fits right in to the star wars glaxy. The character is 
 unique and kick ass! Deffinatly need to check this game out! The graphics are great the only thing 
 that kind of got on my nerves is sometimes the camera zooms a little too long on where you threw 
 your opponent and doesnt allow you to throw more arount very quickly, but i see where they were 
 comming from because sometime it feels nice to see a storm trooper or wookie fly 1000's of feet 
 into ther air! The game is wicked cool, i don't know if i would buy it it's kind of short i beat 
 it in 6 hours with big breaks so... BUT YOU DEFFINATLY, DEFFINATLY!! need to check this game out 
 if your a star wars fan or just want to kick some ass in a kick ass way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somebadguy
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  So the Force Unleashed is out. Hooray!!! Now we can live out all our deep woute fantasies about 
 weild ungodly amounts of power. This may be true, but the question is will you have the will to 
 do so. The Force is a good game, but it has some very large problems that will mess up your groove 
 and pull you out of the game. 
  
  On the positive side of the game, it is wild and crazy action that comes at you relentlessly. You 
 of coruse, you are the most powerful force using being in existance. You go about the game using 
 and combining your powers to put the biggest smack down on everything in your path. Along the way 
 you will level up the main character increasing his ability to use his powers; as well as help 
 improve his ability to survive. You will also be looking for secrets hidden in giant glowing cubes 
 that unlock extra treats and bonuses. It has a great story with help from a great acting cast. 
 
  
  While all this sounds like fun, it does have a its flaws that weaken the overall game. The controls 
 are easy to pick up at the beginning. The problem comes about mid-way through the game when you 
 start facing off against numberous and more aggresive enemies. Turning around and then turning 
 the camera around, and then trying to lock on to the new threat can be very difficult and taxing 
 when facing off against five or more. The more aggresive AI also take a large interest into knocking 
 you on your ass and then taking turns kicking you in the face. Many a times a luckly shot knocks 
 me down and I won't be able to get up again because I am being hit by several enemies who came 
 in to pick up the table scraps. The game is also about a sec behind you when you try and combine 
 force powers. It becomes a major problem in one of the more climatic scenes in which you pull down 
 a star destroyer and Tie fighters zoom by shooting and you. You spent so much time trying to deal 
 with them that the destroyer resets back to the beginning everytime. Targeting control needed to 
 be fix. Your majorly used force power is force grab which is set to the Right trigger while target 
 lock is set to the right button. This normally would not be a problem, but you have to hold down 
 the right butiion in order to stay locked on. And some how your suppose to be able to press and 
 hold those two buttons while trying to move the target around with the right joystick and use the 
 other face buttons to add more force effects to them. This presents the same problem of being forced 
 to focus on one target while leaving yourself wide open to other enemies. These unliveable problems 
 make it so that normal and harder mobs are a chore and no where near as fun as they should be. 
 As a result you have moderate to low replay value, because you just don't feel like fighting anymore. 
 And there are numberous glitches running through out the game as well as graphic issues and slow 
 downs.
  
  This is by now means a bad game, just isn't that great. It feels like to much focus was put into 
 the idea, and not enough on it's playablity. If you are a fan of Star Wars, you will have already 
 bought this game. If not, just go for the rental, and save yourself the cash.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djshortbread
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  The power of the force is mind-blowing. I am having so much fun destroying everything and everyone. 
 Punting Jawas... Fighting Rancors... Hunting Jedi... Tossing Stormtroopers... need I say more. 
 There are also a bunch of unlock-ables such as costumes, light saber color & power crystals, and 
 lots of sweet special moves. The story could have been a little longer but it was well played out 
 and quite interesting. Also I would have liked to have more choices along the way which could have 
 effected the outcome of the story. The light saber animations are great and the easter eggs throughout 
 are enough to make you laugh here and there. All in all... I bought this own for my collection 
 and I will be playing it for a while. I would recommend this for anyone who is a star wars fan.
 
  The force is strong with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffizzzle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  if you feel like kicking ass with the force, this game is for you. dont listen to all the gay people 
 saying the game is bad. they are just ignorant. i gurantee you anyone who has played this game 
 for more than 5 minutes has had a moment when they were like holy crap that was freakin awesome, 
 and it angers me that they state otherwise. the physics are amazing, the AI is amazing, everything 
 is just outright fun. i am now re-playing the game on a harder difficulty. take it from me, a true 
 star wars fan, this game is worth every penny, for the graphics, gameplay, and most of all, STORY! 
 I honestly think that they could make another whole set of movies based on this character, he is 
 so cool, and juno is good looking of course. the only thing i wish that was included would be some 
 sort of multiplayer. however, i am replaying it and am still not bored of it at all! there is too 
 much freedom! thanksss - JT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsmack10690
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  This games' biggest flaw is the light-saber gamelplay and the occasional problem with getting around. 
 While there is a player map for our enjoyment and for our ability to move around the map, it is 
 not topographical so at some stages we have to guess elevation and where we have to go. However, 
 otherwise, the game-play is pretty easy, except when you get stuck playing a boss and having difficulty 
 with the X button responding to actual touch, and getting messed up because of it. 
  Otherwise this game is great and worth the 4 year wait. Is it a KOTOR replacement, hell no, but 
 it is a rather satisfying 1st/3rd person shooter type game. 
  The game-playing engine is original and fantastic, but does need work, and over the next few games 
 will obviously get some work, mazel tov. 
  
  Good job all around, now let's see the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This game got too much hype but it still is a very fun game. First of all you can customize your 
 character (Starkiller) to a certain extent for example you can't choose what he looks like or change 
 clothing except choosing costumes you unlock throughout the game which is still cool. You can customize 
 your lightsaber but not as much as in KOTOR. You can level up and upgrade many dsifferent powers. 
 Now you are an apprentice for Darth Vader and are sent out to kill the remaining Jedi on different 
 planets which are all good looking. Now the great thing about this game is it gives you an idea 
 of how the sith really are, and there not as mean as you'd expect. Now the force powers are fairly 
 fun once you get used to them and there's many different ways to kill enemys such as throwing objects, 
 lifting the enemy, using your lightsaber and other powers such as lightning and choke. The game 
 is very short for an RPG/Adventure but it's stil worth the 50-60$. The graphics are pretty decent 
 and the voice acting is pretty good as well as the frame rate. There aren't any major bugs but 
 the movement of the character is a little sketchy which isn't a big deal. Overall if you are Star 
 Wars fan you are sure to love this game for the time being. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KM330
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Force Unleashed offers amazing story telling and a state of the art game play. Every 
 level is fun and exciting. It never gets old to kill Storm Troopers and random soldiers. Every 
 boss battle is different, and offers new and cool ways to destroy everything from machines to Jedi. 
 I can play it over and over without ever getting bored. The only flaw is, is in the cut scenes 
 the voices arn't very loud, this leads to you only turning up your TV to hear them speak. Some 
 minor flaws would be how the game is relatively short compared to other action titles. This really 
 isn't a big deal though, because the game play makes up for it. But overall SWFU is worth every 
 penny. My opinion, game of the year. Def. my favorite of all time. LucasArts delivers a winner. 
 With the compelling love story between Juno and Starkiller, to the beginning of the rebellion and 
 the Rebel Alliance. Evey moment is intense and non stop action packed and will def. leave you at 
 the edge of your seat.
  
  Now... Movie Anyone? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N9ne-xx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Force powers, combo's, costumes, lightabers, and flying wookies.. all unleashed. 
  
  I think it's safe to say your satisfied in the beginning tossing wookie's in the sky, so the beginning 
 of it is pretty much icing ontop of the cake.
  
  The story is good, especially for a mini-part of the Star Wars series. Starkiller the character 
 in my opinon, is a pretty good character in the star wars series, he has a Darth Maul vibe to him.
 
  
  Controls wise are good, being called "The force unleashed" being able to do multiple force combo's 
 is possibly the most fun you'll have in a while. And even if your not a force user (I don't know 
 you can't be) the lightsaber combo's arn't dissapointing either, maybe it's not like Jedi knight 
 but,360 or PS3 doesn't have a keyboard (not unless you wanna add the keyboard controller) all the 
 combo's with the saber.
  
  Tossing everything and everyone is fun, especially with a game that you can pretty much ruin everything. 
 Being vader in the front you know. It CAN be re-playable depending on who you are.
  
  :: The Good ::
  Flying Wookies
  Destrucble Enviroment
  Force/Saber Combo's
  Jedi Knight 
 Battles
  Story
  
  :: The Bad ::
  Main Menu
  Annoying Bad Guys
  Sometimes falling off the edge when attacking someone
  Staying in one place during grip
  
 
  It's not the most AMAZING thing, but man it's pretty awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayabusa666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Sure they've had many other foreays into George Lucas's world of magic but this is the best to 
 date. There are some glitches but nothing I'll lose sleep over. I'm not finished the game yet but 
 Im loving it so far. The sound and video in HD are the best I've seen on a Star wars title and 
 that's important. If you've lived on another planet for the last 30 years and don't know what star 
 wars is this game can still stan up alone. But you should get a back ground it will make game play 
 more fun. I'm insulted and offended that lucas didn't release this on the PC platform for the first 
 time in history considering the millions of dollars they earned on the past other dozen star wars 
 titles. But that's for another forum and another day. I think there are some gaps in the game and 
 a few points where the camera just doesn't co-operate well. But that's the worst I can say so far. 
 The action is repetative but there are a lot of upgrades you can make to your character. This is 
 going to give you tons of options to dispatch the baddies. Good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Starwars the Force Unleashed didn't fully meet my expectation, but I think I was expecting a bit 
 too much. However the game is still very entertaining and worth your time. The game is a little 
 on the short side, standing at about 6-12hours but I dare you not to play it over again with your 
 maxed out force powers. The story is great, the gameplay is superb most of the time, the graphics 
 wonderfully create the Starwars universe, and it sounds starwarsy. Theres so many ways to kick 
 the @$$ of your foes, this keeps it varied and fun. I didn't have as much trouble with the force 
 targeting system like some of these fellow reviewers. However the fighting doesn't always feel 
 fluid like I wanted to, everything is kind of choppy, and although you can combine attacks it all 
 doesnt feel as swift as in games like God Of War. However its still fun it still packs a great 
 story, and allows you to be creative with ur enemies. One dissapointing part of the game is when 
 your taking down the Starship (sorry I'm not a huge starwars guy I dont know the name of the ship) . 
 Your limited to moving left and right and you have to zap the tai fighters as they fly by, then 
 you use the thumbsticks to move the ship verrrrrryyy slowllyyy. The sequence really feels cheesy, 
 I would have been very happy with a a sequence of button presses. I can tell they were trying to 
 do something different, but it just didnt work here. I'm being negative on the game however, dont 
 get me wrong its not bad, its great, just not as great as I wanted it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jazzman07
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is a game more for fanboys than anyone else but can definitely be enjoyed by 
 all. The story is unbelievably immersive. Visually the graphics combined with DMM and Havok make 
 this game with buying alone. I really enjoyed the customization you can do with Starkiller. It's 
 almost like Mass Effect meets Star Wars in that sense. With the ability to choose your path and 
 customize the appearance and abilities of your character, this game offers many possibilities for 
 the player to explore. The biggest problem with the game is the camera and the controls. in tighter 
 spaces the camera is impossible to work with. The controls with the force grip are also very hard 
 to control. Too often there are times in the game where fighting a boss or a group of enemies becomes 
 unreasonably hard. I gave this game a 9 because the gameplay is fun and addictive, the story is 
 amazing, the voice acting is wonderfully done and visually it is the best looking game out. This 
 game is definitely worth a rent if not a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Well its not the first and probably not the last time we will see a great game be bad rated by 
 the inexperienced team of reviewers from Gamespot.
  If you really like SW this game will probably be the best game you ever played. If you dont like 
 SW rent it first , i am sure you will buy it. The visual's are amazing, this game bring a new level 
 for the SW games universe, the Story is simple amazing, the gameplay its awesome and its fun like 
 hell. Its i masterpiece for sure. Well if you going to listen gamespot reviews you will lose a 
 lot of great games. This is one of then, it should be rated AT LEAST 8.0 .
  GameSpot negative points of the game are simple.. stupid... But well if you already know the job 
 of this reviewers you probably already know they are just not up to the job. I think is more than 
 time to GameSpot manager's to hire people with more experience to write the game reviews and really 
 do a NORMAL rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I got this at midnight and my first thought was wow these are some bad graphics fo a 360 Game. 
 I thought for a second I was playing a WII game. The graphics reminded me of the old Jedi Knight 
 games from several years ago. Putting that aside the game play is fun with multiple ways of disposing 
 of enemies. You can simply hack them up with your light saber or you can toss them in the air or 
 throw objects at them. Its rather fun. Force lightning is always fun to use. As you play you level 
 up and can open strengthen your powers an learn new lightsaber moves. My issue with the moves is 
 that there are so many it becomes hard to remember the sequences so you pretty much pick ones you 
 like and stick with them. The story is engaging and the voice acting is good. However it is way 
 to short. There are some issues with the physics and targeting that are a bit frustrating you'll 
 often target random enemies and cant really specifically select one from a group. You can inadvertently 
 toss explosive objects at yourself if your not careful. I spent several frustrating minutes attempting 
 to move tie fighter wings into place to climb up a wall. Despite its quirks the game is playable 
 and rather enjoying. It is too short and can be finished in about 8 hours and for a next gen game 
 the graphics are a big letdown. I recommend you rent this one since its kinda short for $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirDtron
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Story is cool. Redemption for Older Star Wars fans. This game is too fun. DM and Euphoria Engines 
 are great. 3rd person action games are repetitive in nature but the lore of the Sith and Jedi combined 
 with gameplay detail provide entertainment at it's max. job well done regarding the art direction. 
 Personally it's up to par with Jedi Outcast. I'm to old for the Clone Wars animated movie but I'm 
 aware of the red female alin Shaak Ti from the TV spots. Glad to see her appear. The story again 
 is worthy. The destiny of the Apprentice is directed by Darth Vader but the consumer knows very 
 little befoe playing the game. As the story unravels more and more, my appreciaton for the series 
 rises as well. thought Epispde III really sucked balls. Thx Lucasrts for thinking of your gamer 
 fan core after gving us kiddie fan flicks. This game s dark , goofy, and bad ass
  Chad Vader.. job well done too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomslaer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  I don't understand what the hell is wrong with these GS and other industry reviewers.
  
  This game is actually relatively trouble-free. I was expecting much more clank and frankly, the 
 thing works very, very well. Incredibly fluid, especially with the intensely detailed graphics, 
 and I've got this thing cranked up on an LCD monitor for high, high detail.
  
  And as for this guy saying 'would of' ('would have', you illiterate) been better if it had been 
 made by BioWare... no, it wouldn't have. It would have followed the same old forumla they've been 
 using for every game they've released since KOTOR I, and it's time for them to break that pattern.
 
  
  This game has scope, fluidity, freedom of action, energy, excitement, story, and a fascinating 
 character who grows on you.
  
  My only challenge is that I've got to learn all these combos, but that will come in time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swiney50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Epic in scope with stunning often breathtaking graphic presentation and intense battle action. 
 Next gen gaming at its best. Superb special effects too. Unfortunately the gameplay can, at times, 
 be frustrating. The saving of games does not allow you to progress smoothly through the levels 
 so one can be left having to play the same difficult sequences over and over again which can get 
 old fast. 
  
  Special effects are outstanding and the battle sequences challenging and fun. It is, however, the 
 visual settings of this game that really give it the mark of a true masterpiece. I have read what 
 the industry wonks have written about the game and they always seem to have something to complain 
 about. To me the faults with the game are miniscule in comparison to its virtues. No multiplayer, 
 however, which is always worth a few points off to the gaming industry glitterati. This game is 
 reminiscent of Halo 3 and its epic battle sets and great battle action. Once can get a bit lost 
 in the game from time to time but that is part of the fun. The settings are so cool that one hardly 
 objects to looking around and exploring a bit. The opening sequence to the game is a surprise that 
 will have every star war fan empathizing with Lord Vader.
  
  
  The force be with you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranbir_flame
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  When I saw GameSpot's Review on the Force Unleashed, I thought that it was an average game but 
 after i played it, I found out it is awesome. With the euphoria engine, the physics in the game 
 are brilliant. The story is fast paced and no 2 battles are alike. You can find new combos through 
 out the game. The AI is pretty easy to beat at the lower difficulty settings but its all good later 
 on. You moght get stuck at a few levels trying to find the way ahead but its no big deal. In the 
 end I would say that Stars Wars: The Force Unleashed is a very good purchase. So go on and buy 
 it even though you arent a very big star wars fan. Its a totally new experiance.
  
  My Rating For Star Wars: The Force Unleashed: 9.5/10
  
  MAY THE FORCE BE WITH ALL WHO PLAY 
 THIS GAME!
  
  :) :) :) :) :)
  :) :) :) :) :)
  :) :) :) :) :)
  :) :) :) :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirko867gm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  I was a bit disappointed with the review, but decided to go ahead an pick it up this evening at 
 midnight (on its release date) . This game is great, and gamespot nailed the review pretty well 
 too. Its a great game with tons of action and exciting game play. Your heart will be pumping in 
 almost every battle as your rip out combo's, and find new ways to kill the bad guys each time. 
 The combat and controls for the game are nothing short of amazing. Instead of just point and shoot 
 like most other games, you can gain new combo's as you level up and have new ways to kill in almost 
 every battle. The combo system combined with the awesome AI and physics engine makes it so no two 
 battles will feel or play the same.
  
  The only downside is that sometimes you get stuck trying to figure out where the game wants you 
 to go. In a few places I became stuck for about 5-10 minutes before I found out where the next 
 part of the level extended. 
  
  Overall its a great game, and I would recommend it to anyone that enjoys fast action 3rd person 
 games. This is one that hits hard and keeps your heart going in every fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Interscape123
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  This game uses some revolutionary gaming technology to immerse the gamer in the realism of the 
 game. Metal bends like metal, wood like wood, and the story line is also another selling point. 
 'What happened between episode 3 and 4' could draw many people into buying this game, if not merely 
 for the nostalgia of it. The prospect of controlling a force user with the ability to destroy as 
 many things as there are in STAR WARS THE FORCE UNLEASHED is truly something you cannot pass up. 
 The skill tree involving the spending of points and leveling up of your character is also a classic 
 idea which brings in elements of RPG makes this game a masterpiece. It has many great ideas which 
 it incorporates into the game very well. There is also a 'God of War' style boss fight finishing 
 move that makes you press buttons in a certain sequence to finish the boss in a spectacular finishing 
 move. 
  
  Anyway, I give this game a 10 out of 10 and hope there is more great games coming this way soon. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
