-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Ocean: The Last Hope
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/starocean4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredibly fun and strategic combat system.
 A variety of huge, beautiful environments to explore.
 Simple, powerful crafting system.
 Plenty to do and collect once you've finished the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Cliched story and characters.
 Awful camera system.
 Emotionless, doll-like characters are just plain creepy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  4, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.8, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 789 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: Tri-Ace
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Feb 23, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An addictive, strategic combat system makes Star Ocean: The Last Hope worth playing despite its 
 cliche storyline and annoying characters. 

  Since its advent nearly 13 years ago, the Star Ocean series has challenged the role-playing game 
 norm with its real-time battles and sci-fi trappings. Despite what appeared to be the series' conclusion 
 with the unconventional revelations seen in Star Ocean: Till the End of Time, it has returned in 
 prequel form on the Xbox 360 with a newly overhauled and better-than-ever combat system. Though 
 it features a weak, cliche story and characters you may want to launch out of the airlock, its 
 fantastic and engaging battles, simple yet fun crafting system, and bevy of bonuses make Star Ocean: 
 The Last Hope worth your time.  

           Get used to deadpan faces because you'll be seeing them throughout the entire game... 

  In the latter half of the 21st century, humankind all but nukes itself into nonexistence, forcing 
 the survivers on Earth to look to the stars for a new home. As Edge Maverick, a first-generation 
 member of the Space Reconnaissance Force, you start off on your mission to explore the galaxy for 
 a suitable new home and are drawn into a battle for the fate of the galaxy when you encounter a 
 mysterious and destructive force that threatens all life. Of course, that's nothing that a can-do 
 attitude, the support of your friends, hidden inner powers, and the occasional all-too-convenient 
 plot twist can't handle as you race off to save the day. Sound familiar? Star Ocean: The Last Hope 
 doesn't have a very original story, and its frequently ridiculous plot points and consistently 
 dreadful dialogue don't help to make it any more memorable, especially when it forces half-hour-plus 
 cutscenes on you with alarming frequency. Luckily, you can skip these epic events at any time (though 
 oddly enough, they can't be paused) and read through condensed text synopses to make sure that 
 you didn't miss anything too terribly important.  

  The formulaic nature of the story is further compounded by the cast of characters, themselves an 
 off-the-shelf mixture of walking, talking space opera and anime cliches. You've got the hopelessly 
 idealistic leading man, who is full of an infinite (and often misplaced) trust in others; the self-deprecating 
  the emotionally repressed, scientifically minded 
 space elf; the busty, scantily clad staff-wielding sorceress; the overly affectionate underaged 
 cat girl; and more. Though the members of your misfit crew do undergo some fairly heavy changes 
 as the game progresses -- both as part of the standard narrative and in optional cutscenes and events -- it's 
 always in extremely predictable ways that ultimately fail to break them out of their original molds. 

  Despite these shortcomings, The Last Hope is a fun and engaging game thanks in great part to its 
 deeply engrossing and highly addictive combat system; if the story is the heart of a Japanese RPG, 
 then the battles are its soul, and Star Ocean's shines brightly. Monsters appear on the field, 
 and once engaged, they're fought completely in real time with a party of up to four characters. 
 You actively control one of your crew members and navigate him or her around a wide-open battlefield, 
 dishing out damage at your own pace, while the others act according to basic AI routines that you've 
 given them. At any time, you can switch over to manually control anyone who you have deployed, 
 and you can even swap out active characters with reserve ones at your discretion. Every single 
 character plays vastly differently, and it's fun and engaging to experiment with each character 
 in order to find the play style and party combination that works best for you.  

           ... except for in the odd scene like this, where unnaturally exaggerated expressions are 
 the norm.      

  Though the battles can get frantic, they dont all come down to button mashing, especially when 
 you're taking on bosses. These major battles in The Last Hope often play out like simplified versions 
 of encounters in an massively multiplayer game such as World of Warcraft. Each boss has a specific 
 strategy that can be followed to take it out -- though it's not necessary to follow these tactics 
 if your party is powerful enough -- and figuring them out during the fight will make your life a 
 whole lot easier and dramatically reduce battle times. Another concept taken from online games 
 is monster aggro, or aggression. Though enemies will wander around the battlefield, you can draw 
 aggro from them with attacks or by using specialized skills for doing so, which is useful for pulling 
 a monster off of your physically weaker magic-slingers to give them a chance to cast their powerful 
 spells. Once you have aggro and the monster gears up for an attack, if you dodge out of the way 
 with the right timing, you can break its line of sight on you, leaving it temporarily confused 
 and open to special counterattacks called blindsides. Another powerful tool at your disposal is 
 Rush mode, which can be activated once you've taken or dealt enough damage to grant you an array 
 of bonuses and the ability to chain attacks together with other party members.     

  Perhaps the most interesting part of battle is the bonus board. By performing specific tasks in 
 combat, such as defeating enemies using only skills or killing two monsters with one blow, you 
 add a tile to this onscreen grid that grants you an extra reward at the end of battle based on 
 your achievement. You can have up to 14 such bonus tiles active at any one time, and these carry 
 over from fight to fight; by carefully manipulating the types of bonus tiles you have, you can 
 customize extra rewards that are given after every single encounter. With this, you have the flexibility 
 to power level your characters, grind for cash or skill points, minimize the number of restorative 
 items that you need to use, or all of the above in any combination. It's possible to lose your 
 bonus tiles, but if you exercise good judgment in combat, they shouldn't be too difficult to keep 
 for as long as you like.  

           Every character plays vastly differently in combat, letting you pick a style best suited 
 to you.      

  When not in battle, you're exploring a series of open, outdoor locations that range from beaches 
 to deserts to snow-capped mountains and beyond, as well as the occasional puzzle-filled dungeon. 
 These beautiful-but-dangerous environments often contain resource nodes that provide valuable plant 
 life or raw materials if you've got a crew member who can harvest them. These supplies and others 
 earned through battle (or bought from stores) are then used to fuel your research in the simple-but-powerful 
 item creation system. By finding item formulas in your journey or forming research teams and thinking 
 long and hard enough, you can invent recipes for new weapons, armor, items, and even decorations 
 for your ship. Once you gain the right ally, you can further customize your equipment by synthesizing 
 the properties of other items in your inventory to generate some truly powerful gear.  

  The Last Hope features some top-notch visuals in its huge, open, and highly detailed environments, 
 its abundant cutscenes, and its anime-inspired character models, but it also has a few notable 
 issues. Sadly, the game has only a handful of unique monster designs, and it palette-swaps and 
 reuses them ad infinitum. It's also exceedingly difficult to play on an SDTV thanks to incredibly 
 hard-to-read text and muddied graphics. Sometimes just looking around you is an exercise in frustration 
 thanks to the awful camera system; it zooms in ridiculously close at times and doesn't seem to 
 know what to do whenever you're in a narrow hallway or traveling down stairs or a steep decline. 
 Perhaps the most disturbing thing about The Last Hope is that all of the game's characters have 
 a doll-like, glossy-eyed dead look to them, further accentuated by their complete lack of human 
 emotion or expression. Besides being creepy, this makes supposedly emotional scenes unintentionally 
 hilarious or just plain awkward to watch.  

  The games frequently awful voice acting makes it even harder to connect with the characters. At 
 its very best, The Last Hope's cast will make you groan. At its worse, they're absolutely unbearable. 
 Anyone hoping to escape the lackluster dub will be disappointed to hear that the original Japanese 
 audio is not preserved here, though you do have the option to turn off battle quips from individual 
 characters. Celebrated composer Motoi Sakuraba returns to lend his talents to the Star Ocean series 
 once again, and though the voice acting doesn't work, his soundtrack is perfectly suited to the 
 various locales visited, situations faced, and battles fought.  

           To infinity and beyond!      

  When it's all said and done and you've finished the 
 game, there's still plenty more to do. Besides offering two unlockable difficulty settings, there 
 are tons of side quests to complete, items to create, recipes to discover, bonus dungeons to explore, 
 and bunnies to race. The Last Hope also has Star Ocean: Till the End of Times coliseum system, 
 which lets you sign up for solo or group fights to battle your way up the ladders for prizes. You 
 can collect dozens of battle trophies for each character by performing specific tasks with them 
 in combat. And if you actually are interested in the story, there are multiple endings to see based 
 on the relationships that you form as Edge Maverick throughout the game.  

  If all you're looking for is a strong, narrative-driven role-playing adventure, Star Ocean: The 
 Last Hope isn't going to do much to satisfy you. But despite its deficiencies in this area, its 
 huge number of extras and its addictive, deeply strategic and tactical combat system make it a 
 lot of fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: princeof-persia
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Star Ocean: The Last Hope is a great role playing game for the 360. With great combat and looks, 
 it is a great buy for those who like games from Square-Enix. For those who want a strong story 
 and great vo, you would want to rent this game first. This is due to the many cliches and the terrible 
 voice acting that is provided. While some sections of the voice overs are decent and are able to 
 bring the atmosphere of the game to proper tone. But most scenes are bogged down the developer 
 trying to look smart by using big words that seem out of place, or having the characters act strangely 
 for no reason. The sound is saved by a great music score that brings the all the elements together 
 in a nice fashion. I did not find once that the music drew away from the task at hand, and was 
 quite complimentary. If one is able to get through that nonsense that is in the game, you can find 
 a very fun and strong game to be immersed in. 
  
  The game's strength lies within the game-play and the look lf the game. Through out the adventures, 
 one will be able to see many interesting locales, such as an underground military facility to a 
 strange alien space ship. The detail that is given into the textures is commendable and brings 
 to life the world that you are fighting to protect. The only negative to the world is that the 
 grass that you see seems to be inconsistently placed if it is used as a 3d object. The game tends 
 to rely heavily on the texture on the ground for grass then for the player to wade through fields 
 of grass. Other than that, the character models are well done and each main character is interesting 
 to look at due to it. The animations could have been sharper and draw distance could be longer, 
 but it serves the game quite well. 
  
  Game-play is quite strong for the game. It uses a combat system similar to the Tales of Symphonia, 
 but with interesting add ons. One mechanic I found quite useful was the Blindside, where the player 
 character would feint behind the enemy and if successful, you can unleash a world of hurt. The 
 bonus board is useful as it rewards players with higher skill with more XP, gold, Special Points 
 for magic upgrades or the recovery of health and magic at the end of combat. That said, I personally 
 believe that the combat is hampered with the inclusion of cool down periods after long strings 
 of hits that makes you player unable to move. During the casting of an action, players can not 
 disengage from the movement until they are hit or it is completed. This can remove from the immersion 
 value as you can unintentionally attack the wrong enemy due to a clumsy and inaccurate target selection 
 system where one can not manually chose who they want to attack. The system is automated, and one 
 is forced to wait for the enemy to try to attack them to change target. This gripe however should 
 not take away from the other values that are seen in the game.
  
  While the game does have its problems, it is however outweighed by the other success. With great 
 music, game-play and graphics; Star Ocean: The Last Hope is a game that is worth to be part of 
 your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Japanese RPG I finished and all I have to say is that I am amazed about this 
 game... One of the best adventure I have followed... Also, this game was the longest I played. 
 I took me about 40 hours to complete without doing most quests... Maybe some day I am going to 
 complete all the quest...
  
  The graphics are amazing sometime... most cutscene are gorgeous, a few are no so good... Very detailed 
 game...
  
  The sound effect are so so, furthermore, the soundtrack are great. I read some review saying that 
 voice acting is disastrous but it does not bother me much.
  
  The story is outstanding, but I feel it could have taken more advantage of it...
  
  I can say 
 this is the best RPG out there because this is the first I beat... but I am pretty sure this might 
 be one of the best.
  
  I highly recommend this game...
  
  PD: If you don't like RPG-style games like me, please try this one, I am sure you are going to 
 love it. The battle system is original, additive and fun.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3dfxMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Plain and simple like i said in the heading, ive been waiting for a good rpg i could sinck into 
 and blow all my free time on away from world of warcrack. I dont know why this game is getting 
 suck low ratings because its a solid 9-9.5 to anyone that likes this style of game... granted it 
 does start off slow but when you start getting connected with the characters short of Lymal's constant 
 Kay saying after everything she says, you start to get a feel of whats going on along with the 
 japanese comedy i found myself laughing because of situations with different characters personality's.... along 
 with that they did give Edge's voice deeper then should have but you get use to it after a bit 
 and it starts to fit..... and for the lip syncing that most people seem to have troubles with you 
 have got to figure that this game was first done in japanese therfore there mouths move to that 
 language and also that theres no clear cut translation from japanese to english the script writers 
 had to do there best to keep the dialoge to that of the original and make it fit the mouth movments 
 as well.
  When it comes to graphices all i can say is wow 10 for 10 no doubt in my mind, its not as "realalistic" 
 as say Fallout 2, but it grabs you and makes you awe especialy at certain points, as well as staying 
 very close to that of the eras each civilization was at short of the normal odd ball monsters and 
 such. For the battle system its is fantasic especialy with the new blindside feature, and the return 
 of the bonus board, you do tend to mash 2-3 buttons all the time, but its when u string togeather 
 rush combos that makes it wild and create massive damage. Alot of people also complain about the 
 camera... well it is a pain but you get use to it after a bit and is fine after you learn to controll 
 it yourself.
  I know i dragged this on and just rambled but its a great game and should be a solid 9-9.5 game, 
 and should be in the running and winner of of best rpg this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reanor2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I am not gonna review based on graphics, music and blah blah. I'll just share my experience that 
 I've had so far after playing 60+ hours.
  
  First of all game has 3 DVDs, so when I saw it I thought to myself - great, most likely awesome 
 graphics and a lot of cutscenes. And I wasn't disappointed. This game has the best graphics to 
 date on Xbox 360, some may disagree, comparing it to Gears Of War or Mass Effect. I am playing 
 this game on SONY Bravia, 26" in HD and I am really impressed.
  
  My first impression after I put the first DVD in was - where did all the voices go? You get this 
 impression because the introduction video clip only has music. And then when you start the game 
 (chose NEW GAME) you get same video clip but with a voice over this time.
  
  Next thing is a bit odd. You do get introduction on why things happen the way they happen but the 
 game itself starts kinda all of a sudden. You get 2 main characters talking to each other - Edge 
 and Reimi. If you can get passed this abrupt beginning of the game, then you are ready for some 
 really great fun.
  
  I was impressed by the concept of travelling in space and at the same time play the game in Square 
 Enix fantasy file. In the very beginning you get to realize that guns are of no use since monsters 
 have "shields" and you need to switch to customized melee weapons. This is fun. Hours go by, you 
 get through some impressively set up cutscenes and realize that this is certainly one of the best 
 JRPGs you've ever played. Oblivion? Yeah it was fun, in some extent. But if you're fan of other 
 games from Suare Enix you will love Star Ocean: The Last Hope.
  
  Some details about the game:
  Game becomes quite complex as further in you get. All the recipes 
 supposed to be researched and there are certain requirements like specific characters that need 
 to be present in the research group. Some recipes can't be researched until you pick up a blue 
 print from the numerous chests scattered throughout the planets in SO. 
  
  When Sarah joins your team you get access to Synthesize, which allows you to empower your equipment 
 by using specific items. You can make your gear really powerful if you know what you doing.
  
  Star Ocean: The Last Hope does have a bit of grinding. For example if you want to have always 
 the best equipment available you will need to do few runs through the planet sometimes to harvest 
 and mine the nodes multiple times since the cap for stack of items is 20.
  
  When you get close to the end of the game you get access to 'Elite' gear. That kind of equipment 
 is not match for any monster in game other than special bonus dungeons that have very strong monsters 
 and extremely powerful bosses.
  
  Hope I got you excited. This is a great buy. And don't forget to buy a guide. Without guide you 
 may get confused and miss on a lot of fun, like the actions that different characters can participate 
 in during the flights between planets based on special conditions you have to meet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saltsoap
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  This is my first Star Ocean game, and another RPG into the 360's library.
  
  The game starts off with its typical blonde protagonist, Edge Maverick, and it soon spirals down 
 into a situation where you have to save the galaxy, if it actually consider as spoilers, that's 
 how jRPGs usually work.
  
  Story - The story itself isn't a literary masterpiece, but its good enough for the game, technically, 
 there isn't much of a story until the 2nd Disc, before it, you'll find yourself traversing through 
 space, from medieval backwaters to high-tech city, the amount of planets you actually get to travel 
 is disappointing, it's limited to a few, but hardly any backtracking despite the length. 
  
  Combat - Your typical action-RPG formula, can't compare it to the previous battle systems, 
 as i've never played them. the trigger buttons are used to perform Special Arts, basically, you 
 run around in a field and fight, the battles are smooth, though some instances might be a chore, 
 you might aswell button-smash through random encounters. On the right side of the battle screen 
 is the bonus board, which gives you bonuses according to the things you've done in combat, such 
 as, killing an enemy with a critical hit will grant you 10% exp, these perks are temporary though, 
 as you will lose them if you're attacked by a critical hit or decide to escape from battle.
  Another interesting aspect to the battle-system are Blindsides, which is activated by the "B" button 
 when targeted, it triggers a slow-motion sequence and any attacks dealt subsequently will be criticals, 
 albeit only for a limited time while the enemy's still in Blindside mode.
  
  Characters - You are accompanied by many other characters throughout the game, some of them are 
 quite memorable, and some will just make you feel like throwing the controller at the screen, it 
 all depends on your opinion.
  The character's development are near non-existent, but overall, the cast is likeable throughout 
 the game.
  
  Visuals - The graphics of the game are amazing, if your standards aren't too high, that is. The 
 details of the environment are great, from your spaceship to sandy beaches, snowy villages, the 
 details of the character models are astounding, the facial expressions are doll-like and lifeless, 
 but there are times whichhey'll show some subtle expressions.
  
  Sound - Can't comment much on the music, as for me, i find the music in this game to be unmemorable, 
 finally, is the voice acting, some characters are pretty good and some are just plain atrocious, 
 attempts to mute the television is expected, other than that, most of the voice acting are pretty 
 much average.
  
  Overall - Not much innovation, but your typical jRPG, not in a bad way , at least. The game is worth 
 the time and money, there are quite alot of features i've missed out in this review, since im just 
 lazy for all that, i highly recommend this game for any RPG-fans or just anyone who has the patience 
 and owns a 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HailToTheGun
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 8:44 pm PT
Review:  
  Outward, To The Great Star Ocean
  
  Tri-Ace has become a staple in the RPG genre with their space operatic series Star Ocean, and their 
 Norse-inspired Valkyrie Profile. Along with Square Enix, Level-5 and Atlus, they are a force to 
 be reckoned. That is why when the hotly-anticipated Star Ocean: The Last Hope was released, it 
 was held on a pedestal of grand achievement. Where they went wrong, however, I'll likely never 
 know. The game pits you in the role of young space cadet Edge Maverick, a fitting name for this 
 at-first rambunctious member of the Space Reconnaissance Force (SRF) who quickly becomes captain 
 of his own spaceship - the Calnus - after the crew lands on an alien planet after the first-ever 
 space warp. The story begins to unfold from hereon out, as you are soon greeted by a member of 
 an allied-alien race, the Eldarians. Something is amiss in the galaxy, and strange artifacts known 
 as the "Grigori" are popping up throughout various solar systems, drastically altering the evolution 
 rate of species and ultimately turning them into power-hungry sentient catastrophes.
  
  As you travel the galaxy to explore new planets, in keeping with your task within the SRF, you'll 
 encounter various new - and very eccentric - comrades to aid in your journey; among them a cybernetic-android 
 of the Morphus race, a youthful anthropomorphic feline, and what could quite simply be described 
 as an angel. To say the cast is diverse would be an understatement. Each character has his or her 
 own reason for accompanying Edge and company on their journey, from the loss of those he or she 
 loved, to revenge and animosity. It's a fairly typical story, but in some parts is well-executed 
 - albeit predictable in the long run.
  
  Blindsides and Bonus Boards and Battle Skills, Oh My
  
  The game utilizes a very unique and 
 somewhat-strategic combat system, which is perhaps one of the title's most redeeming qualities. 
 You trigger combat by coming into contact with an enemy on the open field; depending on where you 
 encounter the enemy will initiate a surprise attack or a preemptive strike - it's standard fare, 
 you know the drill. You can have up to four party members on the field at a time, and you personally 
 control one of them. However, the game offers you the luxury of being able to instantly switch 
 control between party members at the press of a bumper. This freedom of control is essential, because 
 often a character you control may become immobile or otherwise inactive, and being able to quickly 
 switch to another character, use an item/cast a spell, and switch back, makes combat very smooth 
 and fluid - for the most part, at least. Characters attack with the A button, and have three basic 
 combos to use. What might disturb the flow of combat is a simple mechanic that could've easily 
 been alleviated. If you were to strike an enemy twice and kill them on that second blow, the character 
 would cease all action for a second leaving him or her vulnerable from any nearby attacks. In a 
 system of real-time combat, fluidity in strikes is key. Perhaps tri-Ace should have taken notice 
 to Namco Bandai's earlier Tales of Vesperia to see how a real-time combat system should be applied.
 
  
  All is not in vain, however; each character is able to slot special battle skills that he or she 
 learns via leveling up to the Right and Left Triggers. By learning a self-taught skill called "Chain 
 Combo," you can effectively link three different skills - provided your character has remaining 
 Combo Points to spare - to each trigger. You are then able to seamlessly string together basic 
 A-button strikes with skills for powerful combos and deadly blows. The most unique and rewarding 
 feature about Star Ocean's battles is with the imp limitation of Blindsides and Bonus Boards. Blindsides 
 are the attack of charging up (via holding the B button for a second) when an enemy has you targeted, 
 and then flicking the left-analog stick either right or left to perform a quick dash around the 
 enemy and strike from behind with critical hits. This is key for some major boss battles near the 
 mid-and-late game, but can also be used to dispatch enemies in rapid succession. The only issue 
 I have is in the form of actual targeting: there is no way to manually select which target you 
 want to attack; rather, the game automatically has you focus in on - generally - the nearest target, 
 or whichever you are looking directly at. This can be overcome after a few hours of playtime, but 
 it is still a nuisance every once in a while.
  
  Bonus Boards are the method of distributing special - you guessed it - bonuses to the player based 
 on specific actions either performed in battle, or triggered by it. There are four types of bonuses: 
 +10% EXP, +10% Fol (currency) , 1% HP/MP restore after battle, and 1 SP (Skill Points, used to learn 
 abilities) . Each bonus is gained in fairly different ways, and the bonus board - place conveniently 
 off to the right side of the screen during combat - can hold up to 15. Killing an enemy with a 
 critical hit nets you the EXP bonus; felling two or more enemies at the same time will earn you 
 the increased Fol reward; defeating an enemy entirely using skills (right-and-left trigger abilities) 
 will score the HP/MP restoration, and triggering an Ambush battle offers the SP. Ambushes are activated 
 when you enter a battle with two or more on-screen enemies grouped very close together. The ambush 
 begins immediately after the first battle, and often - especially during a handful of boss battles 
 and scripted sequences - you will be forced to endure several ambush fights at a time.
  
  Space Never Looked More Beautiful
  
  The game is visually stunning. There is little in the 
 way of negative comments that can be said about its beauty. Most of the time in game will be spent 
 on various planets, observing the vast contrasts between the wilderness of one planet and the advanced 
 technology of another. When out in the open fields, the draw distance is incredible, displaying 
 mountain ranges and trees as far as visually possible. The game also manages to maintain a steady 
 frame rate throughout, with the occasional dip during combat under extremely-cinematic sequences 
 when many spells are going off at once. Despite this, the game's environmental beauty is opposed 
 by the aesthetic lifelessness of many characters. Facial expressions are poorly rendered and often 
 completely deadpan, characters often make awkward bodily gestures, and the lip synching is blatantly 
 off. For this stage of console gaming, you would expect a better presentation of the characters 
 you will be forced to endure for 40-some-odd-hours.
  
  One Small Step For Man, One Giant Leap for Star Ocean
  
  For the first time in the series, 
 you are actually given control of your characters aboard the spaceship Calnus. There is little 
 to actually be done aboard the ship, aside from conversing with your party members - which builds 
 relationships and ultimately has an effect on various cut scenes at the end of the game - and later 
 placing mini-shops and restoration boards in the main hall. The ships primary focus outside of 
 transportation, however, is synthesis. The Star Ocean series is universally known for item crafting 
 and weapon synthesis, and this one is no different. However, it incorporates a very simplistic 
 blueprint concept and group recipe invention to make it quite possibly the best method of synthesis 
 in a Star Ocean game.
  
  Items are made by first inventing the recipe for it, and this is achieved by grouping up to 3 party 
 members together. Each character maintains a very specific synthesizing ability, that can be leveled 
 (on a scale of 1 to 10) . Edge, for instance, possesses the ability of "Blacksmithing," which is 
 the process of forming most melee weapons in the game. At level 10 Blacksmithing, the amount of 
 recipes that can be learned increases. There is no success or fail rate - if a recipe can be made, 
 it WILL be made. Aside from these primary synthesis options, each character also inherently possesses 
 base stats for the others; to continue with Edge, he may have a base skill of 5 for Alchemy (and 
 I am doing this completely off the top of my head, not exact numbers) ; if I were to combine him 
 with the primary character who specialized in Alchemy, with his skill leveled to 10, the resulting 
 skill would have a level of 15, meaning all recipes within the level 15 rank that can be made from 
 these two characters will be made.
  
  Synthesis runs on a rotating-clock mechanic, with each rotation consuming 1 Party SP (SP is divided 
 into two categories: Personal SP, which is what every character gains upon leveling up; and Party 
 SP, which is what the Ambush bonus adds to, as well as the rewards from completing side-quests 
 and various other activities.) Both SP pools can be used to contribute to the growth of character 
 skills, but only Party SP is considered when synthesizing. As mentioned, you may undertake many 
 - and I mean many - quests throughout your journey in the game. These quests are primarily gathered 
 from shop keepers and the like, which consist of finding an item or series of items, generally 
 found on another planet. Completion of these quests often rewards EXP, Fol, and Party SP - and 
 depending on the difficulty of the quest, the rewards can be lofty. The only major complaint with 
 quests, aside from the fact that there are far too many to reasonably complete before the game's 
 ending, is that certain quests eventually become unattainable or otherwise unable to be finished 
 because of storyline progression. There are a handful of quests to be gathered from the first planet; 
 however later in the game, when you are to return to the planet through storyline, you can no longer 
 turn in these quests because the people are no longer there. The game anticipates, and quite literally 
 forces you to have to drop what you're doing when you finish a quest and immediately turn in it 
 to reap the rewards. What makes this more bitter is that these quests are not labeled as time-expendable, 
 so there is no prior expectation to quickly get them finished.
  
  I Might As Well Be Tone Deaf, 'Kay?
  
  The music in Star Ocean is all-around average at best. 
 There are some fairly average orchestral themes, but in the end none of it is truly memorable. 
 What is memorable, however - and hardly in the positive way - is the voice acting. With the exception 
 of two or three characters, the voices that bellow forth from these characters are worse than nails-on-the-chalkboard 
 while listening to William Hung sing and a bad bluegrass band strum their banjo. It's irritating, 
 it's grating, it's simply annoying. The biggest offenders of this crime Lymle - the game's token 
 child-wizard, and Sarah, the aforementioned angel. Lymle's voice is beyond belief; the monotony 
 and sheer lack of emotion boggles the mind at how the voice actor could have gotten away with such 
 a travesty. And Sarah, well, she's the nails-meets-chalkboard. Her eccentric, should-be peppy voice 
 is just facetious and completely unfitting of the character. The most obvious remedy to this would 
 have been to include dual-audio languages, but this blatant oversight of terrible voice actors 
 should not have even occurred. How tri-Ace allowed this game to continue through the conveyor belt 
 with this audio is beyond me.
  
  And The Verdict Is
  
  Star Ocean: The Last Hope is ultimately a game that could've soared to new galaxies, but took a 
 wrong turn and landed on the sun. The combat and synthesis are the only reason to play this game 
 - and even the former has its glaring faults. A tired formula run through the gamut for the umpteenth 
 time, there is little in Star Ocean: The Last Hope that will have you hoping for more.
  
  Pros: Intuitive yet simple crafting system; gorgeous landscapes and environments; highly entertaining 
 battle system; lots of quests to complete post-game.
  
  Cons: Some of the worst voice acting in recent memory; battle mechanics could have been much more 
 fluid; clich storyline has been beaten to death; boring and uninspiring characters.
  
  The Final Verdict: 7.5/10
  If you are itching for a visually-beautiful space opera, pick up Star 
 Ocean: The Last Hope. You're likely to enjoy the combat if nothing else. But if you want a quality 
 Japanese Role-Playing experience on the Xbox 360, stick with Tales of Vesperia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenneroo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  Admittedly this is the first Star Ocean game I have played but definitely not the first RPG I have 
 played. As far as comparing this game to current other RPG's, Star Ocean TLH, is far superior in 
 regards to graphics presentation, story and game play. Some professional reviews I have read state 
 that Star Ocean TLH has less than impressive graphics, an uninspired story and expressionless and 
 typical characters. Well I don't know what game these reviewers were playing but I the story only 
 made me want to play this game more to find out what was going to happen next. The graphics are 
 gorgeous and the characters, while a little expressionless, were still very likable. One aspect 
 that most reviewers have agreed on is the combat system and I too must say that the combat is so 
 enjoyable that I would deliberately run into enemies to enjoy fighting quite often. To sum things 
 up, this has been the most enjoyable RPG I have played since Lost Odyssey. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensfanVone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 2:49 am PT
Review:  Completed this in about 32 hours, finished this one on Monday, great battle system and a couple 
 of memorable characters, the story wasn't as bad as some people may have you believe.
  
  Played on normal difficulty and only game overed once early on so it's not a difficult game by 
 any means, another one that will kill 30+ hours without much frustration and you will have a generally 
 good time.
  
  On my reccomended list for sure.
  
  Oh and the last boss has a million plus HP took forever. :P
  
  Arumat is effing brilliant to 
 play as gotta love the scythe, Edge is fun to use as well, to be honest I really only alternated 
 the two of them after Arumat joined the party.
  
  Bacchus can be very useful for boss fights so keep him in mind when he gets to higher levels as 
 his dodge is very quick and you can attack while using it.
  
  All in all a good experience, now I have some weird dungeons to master and I can say I completed 
 the "experience". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hajjjustin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 9:13 am PT
Review:  Star Ocean: The Last hope is the 4th addition to the star ocean saga. But it's not the ending of 
 the Star Ocean saga it is a prequel to the 1st Star Ocean. With that said, you start off the game 
 as the main protagonist Edge Maverick a young man with fire in his heart, always trying to do the 
 right thing before he thinks it through. Earth has become a wasteland much like Fallout3 and the 
 last of human race lives underground. Edge has volunteered himself to become part of a space exploration 
 unit that will explore new worlds in order to find a habitable planet to colonize. This is where 
 your game will start. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game were well done 80% of the time its how a star ocean game should 
 look like on a Next Gen console and the cut scenes were nice and colorful, but the other 20% of 
 the time there are graphics that are comparable to PS2 even at some points PS1 yes PS1 I could 
 not believe my eyes. The levels were colorful and fresh while the character expressions were lifeless 
 and most of the characters look like creepy little dolls. But RPG's are not about the graphics 
 they are about the story plot.
  
  Story: As I said above this is a prequel to the 1stStar Ocean so you did not have to play the other 
 to understand the story. The story was good if you can get past the 1st disk. This is because its 
 feels like there was no structure for the adventure until you understood what your real objective 
 is. This does not happen until the 2nd disk. Don't get me wrong the 1st disk is good but you felt 
 like you were aimlessly walking around without a goal other than to explore. If you can get past 
 the first disk than the story will pick up and you will enjoy what is next to come.
  
  Battle System: This was one of the more positive aspects of the game I that I enjoyed I am a turn 
 base RPG player and yet I like this real time battle system. Like I said it is real time so you 
 can run around a 3D board and hack and slash, you have regular attacks spell attacks Special attacks 
 and last you can use a special chain attack when you fill up that meter to 100%. Well this sounds 
 like nothing new, it sounds like a tales game right? Well there is Two difference, the bonus board, 
 this board give you extras at the end of battle by completing specific prerequisites. Complete 
 a critical attack killing an enemy and get a blue bar = 10% more experience, complete a special 
 attack only killing an enemy get a red bar = 1% HP/MP, kill 2 enemies a once get a yellow bar =10% 
 fol (money) become ambushed get a green bar = get 1% SP Points. There are 14 bars available to 
 fill these 4 colors up with. The other Difference is the backside attack, if you move you character 
 out of the way when you are charging you will move around to the back of the enemy completing a 
 critical hit. Other than that there is nothing new.
  
  Characters: like I said before most of the characters look like creepy dolls but not all of them. 
 There are some very memorable characters, especially the last two characters you get. Other than 
 that most of the other characters or average or you just wish you could kill them off. You will 
 examine some of the characters back stories but not all of them. There is a system here to explore 
 the character a little further. You have a room system on you space ship two characters will bunk 
 in each room the characters that bunk together will open different cut scenes, and have stronger 
 relations together. Does this affect the battle system, not that I could tell.
  
  Sound/Music: The Music in the game was average to good, they went along with the feeling of the 
 level, sometimes a little repetitive but I did not mind much. The sound effects were good and went 
 with the action. The voice acting was good nothing new you have herd the same voice acting in a 
 lot of other games but at least it was done well.
  
  Other: there is quite a bit to do other that grind levels and work though the story plot. There 
 is a weapon making system that was well thought out. I will address its only problem later. There 
 are many side quests in the game some small some big and some annoying. But only about 10% yield 
 anything that worth your trouble. There are a few extra caves to explore and some that you will 
 want to revisit later in the game. Now the only problem with some of this is that you can only 
 get the best weapons and the best side quests and best caves and best weapon components until after 
 you beet the game! That means that you will be running around for a long time with no story plot. 
 Just to power your guy up to beat a boss you have already beat. That's a big deal for people who 
 want to pump up there guy, get the best stuff so they can rock the end guy, but there's no point 
 if you already beat him. I don't know some of you may like it.
  
  Overall: I likes this game, I think a fan of the series it's a must have, for a guy who likes RPG 
 it's a good buy for anyone else rent it first. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reaver-x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:02 am PT
Review:  When i heard this game was comming out for 360 i kept saying to myself this has got to come to 
 PS3 in the near future. Well from past experiences with other RPG's, I think we can all say that 
 360 has taken control of this genre with every penny they have. So as soon as the reviews came 
 out i was plensently surprised to see the game get decent reviews (all except gamespot theres is 
 crap) and with that i went and picked up a 360 with this game for an enjoyable experience. So just 
 how good is star Ocean well lets take a look:
  
  GRAPHICS:
  well since this is my first 360 my expectations werent as high, but i gotta say the graphics look 
 amazing, gorgeous, and a huge improvement over other RPG's that im used too.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Probably the best thing about this game. Comming off of S03 the gameplay was something 
 that i was familiar with and very comfortable to work with. The battles are fast paced which offers 
 a lot of excitement and it helps those that are not big fans of the old turn based battle system. 
 Personally i find this type of gameplay addicting b/c of its fast paced action and you wont find 
 urself testing ur patience as you wait for the other guy to attack.
  
  CHARACTERS:
  here is something i dissagree with gamespot. When i first started playing the game i was under 
 the assumption that i would find a vast majority of the characters annoying b/c of the voice acting. 
 However as i starting playing the game and started listening to the characters, i scratched my 
 head and wondered how these guys can possibly be annoying??? Sure there no masterpiece guys like 
 cloud or sephiroth but they sure as hell are NOT annoying. Seriously GS what type of games do you 
 guys play?? As for the actual characters themselves they are developed pretty well especially as 
 you progress through the game and learn more about edge and his ordeals. However as you progress 
 through the game you'll come across two characters Lymle and Sarah. these 2 are the most annoying 
 characters in this game however as you progress they wont speak as much as when you found them 
 and they become a valuable asset in your team so i certtainly put up with that.
  
  
  STORY:
  The story starts off with giving you some background information on how your adventure 
 begins. This helps players get into the right atmosphere of the game so they dont feel lost (like 
 i was in last remnant =/ ) The story itself starts off kinda slow as your just traveling from planet 
 to planet and is made up of a bunch of side plots. However as you get to the end of disk 1 to start 
 of disk 2 the whole front the game is revealed and becomes well paced with and enjoyable experience.
 
  
  Overall star ocean TLH is a very good game with awesome gameplay, only 2 annoying characters and 
 a decent story. If your into RPG's please give this game a shot you will not be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoltanusFoo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of games that let me waste hours and hours of my time. I also love sci-fi games and 
 rpgs. So I was naturally attracted to this game.
  
  Graphics in this game are very good. Even with alot of explosions and particle effects going on, 
 the game almost never slows down in combat yet continues to look very good.
  
  The Combat system is fun to play around with. You can control any of your four party members during 
 combat. Combat itself is in real time, you can open a flywheel style menu that pauses the game 
 and allows you to pick from symbols (spells) items and other options. You're even able to swap 
 out the selected char for any of your up to four reserve members. You can also set up to 3 special 
 attacks to each of the two trigger buttons. Typically my fights revolve around just spamming special 
 attacks. Not as boring as it may sound. The attacks are flashy, well animated and actually quite 
 fun to watch.
  
  The story is one of Star Ocean's weaker points. Often times you're left just scratching your head. 
 Other major plot points are so obvious that if you've played many JRPGs you'll see some stuff coming. 
 The dialogue is also often stretched out and just plain badly written. It is obvious that an editor 
 was never allowed in the same room as this game's script. The story itself begins with mans first 
 mission of exploration into space. You are a member of the crew of one of five space exploration 
 craft. Needless to say things go wrong fairly quickly and keep going wrong.
  
  That also brings up the game's voice acting. I won't say it's the worst I've heard, go watch some 
 old episodes of Voltron and listen to Sven or the little guy's voice for the worst, but it can 
 be bad. After playing the game, I wonder if William Shatner is really big in Japan. Kinda like 
 Hasslehoff is in Germany. The characters in this game overact so badly that it almost becomes a 
 comedy at times. Every time the game's protagonist (Edge Maverick) struck his heroic pose in front 
 of a boss, I had to fight the urge to laugh out loud. Not to mention the fact that he comes off 
 as extremely Emo (Google it) . You spend the first half of the game searching for someone who would 
 have made a much better protagonist. But, square loves to use this type of char as their main char. 
 Could be worse, could be the kid from FF 12. All the characters aren't that bad. Some are actually 
 likable and quite funny. It's unfortunate that most of them act as if they are preteens.
  
  All in all, if you're a fan of rpgs, especially jrpgs, then I highly recommend you pick this game 
 up. It does have it's faults, but there isn't really anything else out there on the new gen of 
 consoles. It's been a year since we got Lost Odyssey. The Last Remnant was horribly bad, IMHO. 
 This game and it's multiple play through and achievements should keep you busy. Expect anywhere 
 between 35-60 hours for a play through. 80-100 if you're a completionist doing all the side quests/shop 
 orders. You will definitely get plenty of play time out of this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  I own this game and it is really fun... Your main character is some kid and you meet other characters, 
 the combat is not turned based, but more of a button masher and a freestyle type game.. The graphics 
 look great and the game plays well. you get unique settings such as on spaceships and beaches... 
 The voice acting is horrible though, they rushed the product with bad voice acting, but the cut 
 scenes are ok and look anime like... i wish the game had multiplayer, but it has a good single player 
 experience for the player to enjoy.. as far as rpgs go the combat and leveling up system is fluid 
 and fast and the gameplay is like tales of symphonia and other games... it comes on 3 discs so 
 u have to swap alot, but overall its just a solid rpg game that the xbox 360 needs and new players 
 will like this game and its easy to control... the camera does get in the way in some places, but 
 thats alright.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Last_SurvivorAC
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:47 am PT
Review:  This game is easily the best RPG genre game on the 360 in my opinion. The gameplay is extraordinary 
 with the Blindside system addition and interesting enemies that allow for strategic planning and 
 movement. The story keeps you into it from beginning to end along with the notorious Private Actions. 
 The bonus features in the post game keeps you playing with the return of the Ethereal Queen and 
 Gabriele Celeste and other bonus enemies. The new Battle Trophies allow for interesting feats and 
 methods. I have not played the other three Star Ocean games, but playing this The Last Hope makes 
 me want to go and play the other ones. While the game did display slightly poor character visuals, 
 overall this game is worth buying and taking the time to enjoy what it has to offer. This game 
 is easily the best of the series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Underdog2313
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, don't pay full price for this. It wasn't for me but I thought it would be, so make sure 
 you either buy it used so you could return it if you wanted to, or rent it first / download the 
 demo. It really is no fun at all. As soon as I put it in, the opening cut scene was cool. But after 
 that, you simply want to skip all of them and there's no reason not to because it gives you summaries 
 of them. Some of the characters are painfully annoying too, like the girl you have to hear from 
 a lot who's your correspondent on earth or something. Overall, it's failry generic, so don't expect 
 anything great. The thing I hated the most was the combat. It simply was terrible. You only hit 
 the A button to do everything. It's not fun. Of course they throw in the R button special thing, 
 but other than that it's entirely mashing A. Please at least get it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -moonfrost-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Star ocean is RPG's game will take you around the universal, you will visit the planets and meet 
 people outside earth with some spaceships. 
  The story is about invasion, the peoples try to find another place to live beside on earth, because 
 the earth that had been destroyed and polluted by war nuclear, for the story i am not finished 
 yet play this game but for 20 hours i played, i took conclusion for this game has a good story 
 then great battle system game-play, its highly addictive. 
  With nice graphic make this game worthy to play, the environment is really great especially for 
 outside environment. The perfect details for costume on each character and faces like doll but 
 lack expression. But you will satisfied with the graphic, story and game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruff_edgz
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 12, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Japanese style RPG's aren't a new genre to come to the XBOX 360 but has been a rising genre in 
 recent years. With games like Lost Odyssey (Microsoft Game Studios) and Tales of Vesperia (Namco 
 Bandai Games) that came out for the 360, why wouldn't Square Enix not jump at the opportunity to 
 make a quality game for this console. Square Enix came out with two game before Star Ocean: The 
 Last Hope (The Last Remnant & Infinite Undiscovery) and might have learned from both games that 
 the developers name doesn't make a game good. This is the seventh game in the franchise which started 
 back in 1996 with SNES Star Ocean.
  
  The starts off giving the background of the situation on Earth. AD 2064 - Divisions in the world 
 started to form and WW3 started which in tailed nuclear destruction around the world. A peace treaty 
 was signed by the divided nations but much was lost (Earth was uninhabitable) . The USTA (Universal 
 Space and Technology Administration) was formed and they started to look upward into the stars 
 with space travel for a new Earth. Edge Maverick (main protagonist) and Reimi Saionji are friends 
 and a part of a new ship called Calnus. This ship was with several other ships that took part in 
 a warp jump but then a meteor caused the ships off course. This leads Edge and the crew to a new 
 planet (Aeos) and begins the story for Edge and Reimi. After some confrontations on Aeos, Edge 
 befriends Faize Sheifa Beleth, an Eldarian, and takes him as a comrade. This leads to Edge becoming 
 the captain of the Calnus because the previous captain will be watching over Aeos for further studies. 
 Edge, Reimi and Faize are now a small crew on the ship Calnus to travel to other planets for Earth 
 to colonize and potentially live on. In their adventures, this will lead to more friends joining 
 the ship, new adventures to complete and further on the plot to their complex space travels.
  
  The gameplay feels like a common RPG out today. When not in battle, nothing complex to know. 
 The camera angles can get a bit hard to master and can sometimes move without you instructing it 
 to. There is a main menu for the player to look at weapons, items, character development, tactics, 
 and much much more. Cut scenes in this can be lengthy like watching a movie but are a nice break 
 from the constant running and fighting of monsters. 
  
  When in battle, the gameplay can get a bit confusing or just fast pace. There is a basic strike 
 for all characters but also combo buttons for special attacks (Left and Right Triggers) . There 
 is a button for jumping around the battle but that button can also charge your Rush Meter (if you 
 stand in one place by pressing X button) . During that charge, if an enemy is focusing on you for 
 an attack and timed right, you can do a Blindside attack. This attack can cause more damage then 
 a normal attack. There is also a Battle Bonus Board which can help you during battle by giving 
 more experience at the end of it, increase of the amount of money, etc... Certain events will trigger 
 a bonus on the board like killing multiple enemies at the same time will give you a Yellow bonus 
 jewel. Real time member change is a nice feature so if a character that you like dies, you can 
 change to another one and keep fighting or use an item to bring back the downed character. The 
 fighting for this game is what shines above the rest.
  
  Graphically, the game shows glimpses of light but has some weak points as well. The characters 
 do have detail for the outfits but the faces look plain. Even during the cut scenes, the characters 
 don't show really how they are feeling. Even a smile looks forced and manikin like. The environments 
 are bright, colorful or dark, gloomy when needed. These environments can be pleasant to watch and 
 makes you want to explore before moving on in the story. Some places look repetitive and you might 
 have a "dj vu" feeling when you walk from once place to another.
  
  Nothing out of the ordinary in terms of sound and are sometimes unnoticeable. Not many sounds when 
 characters are in their cut scenes (when a character walks in grass, you would probably hear that) . 
 The slashing and cutting during battle are accurate and fit what is happening when fighting. The 
 English voice also have the 'plain' kind of feel to it. It could be because of the emotionless 
 faces that are used in the game. In any case, the voice acting could have been better.
  
  Star Ocean is a series that has promise could grow much more in the future. This game is a nice 
 step in the battle part of things but still needs work. The story needs to be stronger for any 
 gamer to keep playing it. The characters need more 'feelings' during the cut scenes so the player 
 cares for what happens in the story. Camera angles and repetitive graphical areas can get frustrating 
 and boring. The game is way better then the previous two Square Enix games to come out but have 
 some problems that might (or might not) get on your nerves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsted_22
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2009 10:06 am PT
Review:  Star Ocean: The last hope is probably the best JRpg i've played in a long time. I usually don't 
 like that style of play, having to deal with 4 characters at once and usually the AI of the CPU 
 controlled ones isnt really good and you eventually end by dying cause of comp error or mistakes 
 in spell casting (casting attack spells instead of healing) . I'M more the turn based RPG type.
 
  
  But i' must say this Star Ocean gets really addictive after a couple hours. Don't let the somewhat 
 bad voice acting fools you at first. Well, some says the acting is bad, I would say the voices 
 are good but the tone of voice used is really awkward. For example: the main character here is 
 Edge Maverick, the one you'll be controlling most of the game. You might notice a lot of over reacting 
 for nothing in what he is saying. Oftenly yelling or repeating the name of the person he's having 
 a dialogue with. Example again: Reimi says: "You know it's sad" Edge says: "Reimi?" that kind of 
 things. Like can't you just understand what the other is feeling about what they are saying already? 
 Or something bad is happening and instead of being troubled by the events he sounds like he is 
 getting a seizure by yelling while the other characters are just astonished silently.
  
  But there's positive aspects of the voice acting as well. While at some parts of the game it feels 
 weird as hell at others it's done very well, especially at the end - Reimi (Edge best friend-girlfriend-wannabe) 
 is yelling at Edge to come back to safety but the way she yells really sound like a normal person 
 would do when traumatised - about to lose beloved person thing. I was really impressed by that 
 part. Some other characters like Lymle (15 years old char that sounds like 7 and is probably 7 
 - damn you game manual!) sounds annoying at first with her 'kay? (s) but it gets charming after 
 a while when you get into the plot of the game. 
  
  The best voice in that game is the one from the same woman who did Meryl in Metal Gear Solid (the 
 caster elf I forgot her name) and Bacchus (Robo I'd like to call him - somehow there's a cast of 
 characters really looking alike Chrono Trigger here. A sword wielding hero (Crono) - a girl that 
 uses bow in love with the hero (Marle) - another sword wielding seeking for revenge guy which makes 
 some water typed magic (Frog) - a robotic one that uses ranged attacks (Robo) - a scythe carrying 
 elf that does all element types of magic as soon as you get him (Magus) - a fire magic caster (Lucca) 
 and a cat girls that uses her fist to attack and delivers serious damage (Ayla)
  
  Other than the voice acting that, for me, was a let down at some place, I also realised when you 
 encounter a battle the resolution of the graphics goes relatively blurred and edgy for no reason. 
 In every aspect of the game the graphics are amazing / landscape are colorful , graphics are sharp 
 and the camera angles in cutscenes are really well done, lightings and so on. But in battles, it's 
 like going from 1080p to 480p in term of resolution. The battle scenes are edgy and pixelated / 
 not as well rendered as the cut scenes. Still the battles are really fun tho. You just don't see 
 time passing by when you decide to grind a little for some level ups and to get new abilities.
 
  
  I finished the game in 41 hours at level 66 and I barely managed to kill the last boss, I thought 
 at the very last second I was done and had to go to level up somewhere to be able to beat the boss 
 cause I had 1 char standing with like 10% HP I managed to rez Edge and deliver some combo attacks 
 with near no hp and I killed it - that was epic :P There's some boss fights that are not well design 
 cause you got to control mainly Edge to do what's called Blindsides only if you want to hit these 
 2 bosses. You cannot really adopt other strategy than that cause you have to attack those bosses 
 from behind (one of those looks really like that mechanical spider on the bridge in FF7 at the 
 beggining of the game if you know what i'm saying) anyway...
  
  But now the game is over there's still plenty of things to do, there's 2 secret dungeons to explore 
 and an arena to compete in for gear. Also the max level you can reach with your characters is 255 
 so there's still a lot to do. In total if you're looking for at least 50% of the achievements for 
 this game you might spend a good 60-70hours in this game.
  Well worth it's price.
  
  So PROS are: 
  -Battle system is awesome - you actually want to encounter to level up as there's 
 a ton of abilities.
  - Story is well written as you don't know who's the main enemy until the very end of the game which 
 is pretty unusual.
  - You can invent weapons and armor and there's ton of em but bad side about it it's the fact items 
 you need to craft are too rare and you can't really craft something awesome if you just follow 
 the story
  - Lot of stuff to do once the game is done
  - Meryl's voice is in here and personify a sexy pink elf that seduces you (heh?)
  
  CONS are:
 
  - Weird voice acting at some moments in the game that leaves you laughing instead of supposely 
 crying.
  - Somewhat low rez battle idk why
  - When you want to explore once the game is done you have to swap in disk 2 and disk 3 to access 
 the different places in the universe which is totally annoying. Too bad I don't have a 60 gig or 
 120 gig HDD to install all 3 disks (duh?)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willisons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:46 am PT
Review:  amazing game with the lush green graphics in the jungles.
  the feel of walking through snow while you are really walking in the snow. the action in the battles 
 in fast and exciting you get to try different ways to attack. i only have two problems with the 
 game. 1 and most important if i hear someone say the term 'Kay i will punch them in the face. lym 
 says 'Kay in her bothersome voice every other sentence i hear the word Kay in my sleep, and im 
 starting to skip great cut scene so i dont have to hear 'Kay. its so bad that i wouldnt mind duct 
 taping her mouth. 2 is the shop items they are too few and very weak. over all tho. star ocean 
 is a very good game with a building story thro out the game. you can relate to the characters personality; 
 their expressions not so much. ive never agree with gamespots reviews, but i always listen to the 
 gamers they have non biased views. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeremeC123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 11:36 pm PT
Review:  I do understand some of the remarks Gamespot has made in it's review. Some of the characters can 
 be annoying. But that's just the character in general and they remain that way consistently. There 
 is a contrast in what is deemed as a normal character and what is meant to be an 'annoying' character. 
 I actually like the characters the way they are. There are alot of sequences in body language between 
 the characters and the dialogue is pretty interesting. The voice acting doesn't always match up 
 and the expressions aren't always perfect. If you are like me that really shouldnt bother you considering 
 the best RPGs to date are several years old and did not contain this content. So I like the characters 
 the way they are.
  The story: I am about 20 or so hours into the game (I did nap once or twice for a couple hours 
 with it on by accident so probably really about 16 hours in.) The story so far is actually pretty 
 cool. The game starts out with the world getting nuked over and over (not a spoiler because its 
 the opening cinematic.) Well I don't want to ruin the story but most of the principle of the game 
 is focusing on the idea of inter-planetary travel, black holes, time travel and several small side 
 stories. If they ditched the whole space thing it would basically be another final fantasy, and 
 a good one not exactly final fantasy VII but still exceptional. I think the story is good enough 
 to play through. The game name sounds kind of fruity but dont let that stop you from playing it. 
 
  Gameplay: The graphics are really good with a great framerate. Especially for an RPG. The game 
 lacks in cinematic cutscenes but makes up with cutscenes from the engines graphics (trust me they 
 look almost equal quality anyways.) The scenery varies greatly from desert to snow, jungle to woodland. 
 The game is linear but in an RPG I prefer it that way. I want to play the story; not make one up. 
 The battle system is actually pretty fun, it's almost like playing a Soul Caliber only you can 
 run circles around the enemy hacking and slashing. If you play the game play through the tutorial 
 of how to fight, there are interesting little quirks to it like blind-siding (running behind the 
 enemy and unleashing havoc. The battle system resembles Crisis Cores only you have 4 allies to 
 work with and are on Ai until you choose to play them.
  Overall: I give this game a 9.0 because its definately worthy of playing. In a day where attention 
 spands are so short, I still get stuck in front of the TV for hours on this one. Rent it if not 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boshans
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 9:04 pm PT
Review:  First of all, what is with everyone saying the voice acting is ABSOLUTELY HORRIBLE? My god, you 
 people haven't heard much voice acting then have you. Every male character in this game has really 
 great voice acting. You can't tell me Bacchus' and Arumat's voice acting sucks. If you do, you 
 are lying. I will say some of the female's voice's are not that great, mainly Welch. Lymle's voice 
 itself is not that bad, just the way she talks.
  
  Second, do you people not know how to control a camera? Are you retarded? During battle, hit the 
 right stick in and the camera zooms out and stays in that position, letting you view most of the 
 battlefield. It says to do this in the battle simulator, but I guess everyone is to lazy to actually 
 do that. The camera view when you're walking around the field is not bad either... just zoom out 
 all the way, I don't see how anyone can say it's bad.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Star Ocean The last Hope is the forth installment to the series fifth if you count the Gameboy 
 color one that regions outside Japan never will see. It is a Prequel and takes place approximately 
 300 years before Star Ocean First Departure. One thing you have got to understand the story was 
 not meant to be a Till The End of Time Killer as the story was more to set up the series to go 
 back and tell how Earth ventured out into space, How the Pangalictic Federation came to be. I find 
 the game on the same level as Till The End of Time, though Till The End of Time has slightly better 
 storyline. One problem that many people are gonna have with this game is the plot does not jump 
 out and grab you even after five hours there is still not solid plot leading you through the game, 
 however if you can get yourself to enjoy the Real-time combat that should be more than enough to 
 push you through the story. You will eventually be sucked into the plot in 7 to 10 hours depending 
 on how much grinding you have done dungeons and between towns. Another thing that gets annoying 
 is the Camera angles yes I and game critics finally come to an agreement. 
  
  The game may have some minor problems but its pros outweigh the cons. The Detail of the worlds 
 is rich and just beautiful to look at they do well to show you what it would be like to stumble 
 across a planet that is equal to our Jurassic Era. I personally have no problem with the voice 
 acting I think the voices fit the characters well. As for your Dialogue that was criticized if 
 you enjoy RPG humor or anime style humor you'll get a kick out of it, I see no problem with it. 
 The Most annoying character is a 15 year old girl named Lymle, sad thing is she doesn't look or 
 act a day past 6 that is not a joke. To top things off she uses the words "Kay" after every sentence 
 and nicknames Edge and Reimi, not to mention she looks like an undead zombie you would find in 
 Resident Evil series. Another thing that is a plus is how much exploration you get to do. Those 
 of you who played Final Fantasy XII will know what I'm talking about between towns and dungeons 
 you have vast fields to explore that a filled with rich scenery.
  
  Star Ocean really gets its gain and uniqueness out of its well crafted battle system. Whoever thought 
 up this battle system deserves a pat on the back. While it is the traditional Real-Time Battle 
 we have grown to like it twists it by allowing you to blindside your enemy by avoiding an attack 
 and running behind them to surprise them with one of your own. They also incorporated rush mode 
 which temporarily increases your critical hits and a few other things as well. One of the best 
 things you can do is be able to link characters special attacks for combo attack, by simply pressing 
 the button that appears on the screen. Those of you who played Till The End of Time will like to 
 know that the bonus board does make a return but gives you more freedom to get what you want and 
 it is also able to carry on with you from battle to battle. 
  
  With the game having such a well thought out battle system , rich beautiful graphics and good character 
 development I wonder why they could not use some extra time to fix the crappy camera Well though 
 the game does have one super annoying character, and some rather down right annoying camera angles, 
 you can tolerate both they are not that bad. You are probably looking at one of the best JRPG's 
 to come to the Next Gen. People who are looking for a unique game will like it. People who enjoy 
 a good RPG will like it more. Star Ocean Fans will Love it. 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 9:27 am PT
Review:  Opinion - I've heard alot of feedback saying that the characters are too doll like, to simplistic 
 in their speech (interations) , are overall annoying, and why do Japanese male anime characters 
 look like girls - where is their muscle mass? Well, my answer to that is ... that is the genre. 
 If you've never been exposed to to JRPG and anime then yes this going to be a shock. But ... if 
 you're familiar with it then Star Ocean The Last Hope (SO TLH) delivers. 
  
  I find the game very funny and immersive. After the long intro before the 1st planet I was kind 
 of taken back with the amount of battle encounters but soon realized that this is a RPG and this 
 is the primary driving force in devloping the character's strengths. Very soon I found myself deep 
 into the story and enjoying each moment.
  
  Postive - Graphs look very good. Not cutting edge but looks very good on a HDTV. Battle controls 
 took some time to get used to, since I've never played any of the previous games on PS3, but works 
 well. SOTLH works well in its ranking, leveling up system. 
  
  Negative - The camera movment stinks! Moving around the open world and during battle sequences 
 is awkward and requires sometime to get use to. The saving feature is archaic. Saving can only 
 be done at particular save points so if all of your characters die in battle too bad you have to 
 start over again from your previous save. That happened to me once when I first started the game 
 and found myself back at one of the lengthy cutscenes - Urrgh. To compensate for the sporatic saving 
 features make sure you carry enough items with you to either bring you back from being incapacitated 
 or having your HP too low after a battle. Ohh, and least I forget. The use of the main characters 
 name frequently at the beginning, middle and end of nearly every sentence was annoying but soon 
 overlooked.
  
  Overall - I game this game a B+, 8.5. Despite some minor problems the game is lots a fun and long 
 enough to get your money's worth. Don't forget this is a JRPG, not turned base game, cause if you're 
 looking for anything else you may be dissapointed. I heard some people complaining about switching 
 discs since the game comes in three but this is a non-issue. The game is well worth the money and 
 lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brilliantshadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 2:28 am PT
Review:  My initial impression of TLH was very positive. The graphics are impressive, to say the least, 
 and the voice acting for Edge and Reimi are better than average. The story builds slowly but nicely, 
 giving the player rather little to go on at first but compounding rapidly from there. 
  
  Well, rapid is a relative term, seeing as how I just finished the third world after some 20 hours 
 of gameplay, thanks mostly to my obsession for maxing out the collections and abilities. At this 
 point, I have only completed through the third world. I returned to the second to complete some 
 quests and gather some items and such. But this time has given me enough of an impression of the 
 overall game to make an accurate review. The battle system is entertaining and adaptable. You can 
 just slash away at the enemies and kill them if you don't want to get too involved. At the same 
 time, though, you can really get into it. The medals awarded for completing various tasks in battle 
 while controlling each character are an entire game in themselves. The Blindside system, as well 
 as the Rush and Combo and Bonus Board systems, add a substantial level of depth to the battles.
 
  
  As mentioned before, the voice acting for Edge and Reimi is pretty good almost all of the time, 
 and Raize isn't bad either. But once you get Lymle, you pretty much want to turn the volume off. 
 Her monotone, five year old's voice is enough to make you rupture your ear drums with the first 
 thing you can find that will fit in your ear. Fortunately, we have the wonderful combination of 
 mute and subtitles for those not blessed with eternal patience.
  
  Other than the voices, the character design and modeling are excellent. Nothing revolutionary or 
 groundbreaking to be sure, but they are original without being grotesque and classic without being 
 monotonous. Enemies are varied for the most part, but the sheer number of battles can take their 
 toll on your interest in the enemies themselves. A lot of the enemies early on act in exactly the 
 same way, so you find yourself doing the same actions over and over no matter what you're fighting. 
 Later on, though, the enemies become much more varied, which adds a lot of refreshing value to 
 the battles. As you fight ever larger and more daunting enemies, it becomes necessary to actually 
 think about what you're doing, rather than just going on auto-pilot. However, I found that even 
 if I didn't really think too hard about what I was doing, there wasn't any real threat of dying 
 during battles. This may have been due to my leveling, however. I tend to fight more battles than 
 necessary.
  
  Which isn't hard to do, since the worlds that house these monsters are pretty damn nice to look 
 at. The first world, Aeos, stands as my favorite of the four I have seen thus far. Described as 
 a jungle, but more like a grassy area with some tall plants and a beach and a cave thrown in, Aeos 
 displays a lot of the prowess of the graphical system in TLH. The lighting effects, nuances of 
 color, and just art direction in general all served to impress me in this introductory (though 
 still vast) world. And the graphic quality remained impressive throughout the rest of my current 
 experience. My only complaint is that on the third world, I was slightly visually overwhelmed by 
 the designs on the walls. Everything had roughly the same pattern, and by the end of the world 
 I was really f***ing sick of seeing those colors.
  
  And this is where my only real complaint comes from. The world design. Worlds are very large by 
 most standards, and as a result can tend to feel very repetitive. Aeos wasn't bad, because it had 
 variety in the type of area you were wandering through -- forest, cave, forest, beach, etc. But in 
 the third world, every single macro-area was designed almost exactly the same way. The layout was 
 different, but the visuals were identical. By the time I got to the third (and thank god final) 
 consecutive room of concentric circles, I was begging for mercy from the game god of dullness.
 
  
  But all in all, despite these minor, specific instances of redundancy and frustration, this game 
 holds true as a very solid RPG, and, in my opinion, one of the best on the 360. The system is slightly 
 lacking in high-quality RPGs. I rank Oblivion, Fallout 3, Eternal Sonata, Mass Effect, and TLH 
 in the upper echelon. Overall, Star Ocean: The Last Hope is an entertaining game with a lot of 
 depth for the hardcore gamer that is also accessible to anyone just looking for a fun 100 hours 
 of gameplay.
  
  A Quick Summary
  Likes:
  Bonus Board: Allows for customization of how you want to grow your characters at the time. Makes 
 growth less time consuming and adds a level of depth to the battle system.
  
  Graphics: Stunning, even when they're repetitive.
  
  Item Creation System: Very deep, but at 
 the same time very simple and accessible.
  
  Story: Just from what I've seen so far it's interesting, even if it's not real deep yet.
  
 
  Difficulty: Four difficulties make the game playable by basically anyone while still offering 
 challenge to veterans and crazy people.
  
  The Little Things: Square and tri-Ace did a lot to fix the little details that generally nag in 
 RPGs, such as adding the sprint feature, easy character swap, loading from the game menu, minimizing 
 yet optimizing the battle HUD, and a lot of stuff like that.
  
  Dislikes:
  Voice Acting: It's usually good, but Lymle and Welch are horrendously annoying.
  
  Level Design: 
 Again, generally good, but can get really redundant. Even when not repetitive, it doesn't feel 
 particularly creative. Feels a bit generic most of the time.
  
  Menus and Text: If you don't have an HD tv, as with Infinite Undiscovery, text can be really difficult 
 to decipher at times. Colors also don't mix well and end up overlapping, causing more reading difficulties.
 
  
  Middle Ground:
  Sound: I didn't really even notice the music until ten or so hours in. And even then I really didn't 
 pay any attention. The default settings make the music a lot lower than the other sounds. The battle 
 music is always the same, as in basically every game, but the problem here is that it's really 
 underwhelming and unimpressive. All the other sounds are really good, though. Battle sounds an 
 voices can be customized for who/what you hear and what you don't. And slight noises made by enemies 
 in the field can sometimes be really useful for locating an enemy just off the screen that you 
 didn't know about.
  
  Final Rating: For me, 8.5 seems about right. Not great, but pretty good. Just a few tweaks could 
 have made it fantastic, but as it is, it's just really good. Some will give it closer to a 9.5, 
 some will hate it. It's not for everyone, to be certain, but for solid RPG fans, it will be very 
 satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaink24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all when it comes to JRPGs. The combat system is very fun and keeps battles interesting. 
 You control one of your party members in real time, executing combos and using spells, while your 
 3 AI teammates do the same. This is good for most of the battles, but can get rather cumbersome 
 when you are fighting bosses, as the need to micro manage increases but the game makes it hard 
 to accomplish that. 
  
  Graphically the game is decent, with varied environments, and exciting combat animations. Too bad 
 the character models are stagnant, and the enemy models are all recycled. 
  
  The story is a good one, but the characters and dialogue are pretty bad and annoying. The voice 
 acting is pretty bad, and there is no lip-syncing to speak of. The sound is good for the battles.
 
  
  This game has it all if you are a "completionist". There are side quests, battle trophies, item 
 creation, a battle arena, weapon and ship logs, monster dossiers, etc. One could spend 100s of 
 hours going for 100% completion and all of the xbox achievements.
  
  This game is no Final Fantasy, but it is leaps and bounds better than any of the other JRPG to 
 be released for the 360 recently (Last Remnant, Lost Odyssey, etc.)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix0003
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I have not beaten this game yet. I am only 15 hours in, and so far Star Ocean: The Last Hope sort 
 of feels like I am playing WoW. Obviously these two games differ greatly in many aspects, but what 
 
  
  I am getting at is that Star Ocean has a pretty addictive game play, but no story. I really enjoy 
 the whole combat system, and the graphics do look nice, but sometimes the overwhelming shininess 
 of the visual graphics can dull the environment. Also the character design is not done very well 
 in the cut scenes. I don't really mind that the characters look they are in an anime, but it seems 
 as if there is no life in any of these characters. 
  
  My biggest issue with this game is the story. The concept of the plot is not bad. The problem is 
 how the story is actually presented. I feel as if I am watching an anime show that was made for 
 middle school kids. I find myself not really carrying at all for the characters or the story.
 
  
  The good thing is the game play. I find it pretty addictive to level up and get new weapons, moves 
 and armor. The free roaming combat is fun. If you can stomach the mediocre story, then this game 
 is worth trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sliver-wind
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  Tri-ace really came through for Square-Enix this time this is the best JRPG made in a long time. 
 I can Tri-ace did most of the work here it's clearly better then anything Square made in a long 
 time. (last remnant's good though) . nothing against Square I'm just tired of everyone giving them 
 credit for games that they don't even work or isn't really theirs for the matter.
  
  The gameplay is awesome I found myself hooked on the fighting system in less than 5 minutes a lot 
 to learn but everything your need to know will be explain with details.
  
  The Graphics are breathtaking (but sure are breath mint) they do make the game look good which 
 is a add plus since it already play good.
  
  The storyline is easy to understand and good for space-like game. 
  (FFXII wasn't even space-like 
 and the story still sucked couldn't understand it) . It like watching a anime action, comedy, and 
 drama all in one.
  
  Voice acting is (again better the FFXII I hated that game!!!) great they used alot of anime voice 
 actor if you watch bleach and Naruto you'll here alot of familiar ones.
  
  The field camera angle is bearable it takes time to get use to.
  The battle camera angle is perfect 
 so quit complaining.
  
  And tons of content way to many treasures, way to many battle trophies, 4 difficulties, lot of 
 characters, lots of skills, lot of item to create. You pretty much get the point. To bad one of 
 the achievements is to find 100% of the treasure chest on the game.
  
  Long story short who ever reviewed this either had a bad day or never played a star ocean game 
 let alone a JRPG. The same person that would grade GTA4 a 10 just because he/she is a fan of the 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JEF8484
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 1:39 am PT
Review:  Two most important concepts in a JRPG- story and battle system. And thats why SO: TLH succeeds where 
 the last remnant and infinite undiscovery failed. Granted, its practically impossible to "review' 
 these two terms and games in general because people are just too subjective, even though they try 
 to be objective. So, ill be honest and give my opinion. First of all ill get to the cons: voice 
 acting is 50/50. All, yes all, male voice acting is solid in this game. Nothing perfect like MGS4 
 or anything on that level but, for a jrpg- pretty dam good. On the hand, why do these jrpg developers 
 always find room to add in cheesy, lame, characters with horrible, unrealistic voices (ahem, sarah, 
 welch, lym, and whos that cat character...) anyway, voice acting... ehh- mixed bag so- not good. 
 Another flaw, why cant you pause the cut scenes?!?!? Those are the two most noticable flaws- you 
 could nitpick like many critics, but i get to the point. Ok, so now the pros. some reviewers ( 
 I think most) like this story. I think its dam good. Its one of those stories where it picks up 
 the pace the further you play and play- it keeps you wanting to know whats going to happen next... 
 many times you'll be playin and you'll be like "what the hell?" "whats going on?" then you can 
 look up the nice synopsis in the game to get the exact details on the story. You don't even know 
 whos the "bad guy" which, in a sense, keeps the cliche, typical, "I want to rule the world" bad 
 guy out of the picture. The story intertwines many elements and everything comes together at the 
 end. Yes, there are no downright amazing bad guys (sephiroth) but, the ambiguity, yet straightforward 
 nature of the story is intruiging. The battle system kicks ass!! most in-depth real-time jrpg I 
 ever played. Its easy to learn and addicting to play. Bonus board, rush mode, Beat system, and 
 Blindsides!! make the battle system deep, very deep.. its easy to make a preemptive strike and, 
 though a little easy, makes fighting more of a joy, and not a repetitive, monotonous, hassle. Each 
 characters displays certain capabilties and you can pause and change characters whenever you want 
 which is something you'll be glad for when you're getting whooped. Battles are not too long, you 
 gain exp fast, and, like the story- its entertaining and addicting. Last but not least, best graphics 
 for a JRPG for this generation of games so far. (Im sure FF13 will surpass it) . Gorgeous, huge 
 environments, with VIBRANT colors make a organic and realistic world. Character models are solild 
 (not the best) but they get the job done. All in all, games are supposed to be made to take up 
 your time and be fun!! Best story and battle system since FF12- you got me sold!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Star Ocean 4: The Last Hope Review
  
  Story ----------- 8
  Gameplay -----
  Graphics -------
  Sound ----------
  Tilt/Value -----
  
  Introduction
  
  Ever since 
 the arrival of the next generation everyone assumed that Sony's Playstation 3 will be the king 
 of JRPGs just like the Playstation 2. However, this was not the case with the Xbox 360 as Microsoft 
 has shown tremendous support for the genre by releasing them far ahead of Playstation 3 and attempting 
 to keep the titles exclusive. Previous games of the genre such as Eternal Sonata, Lost Odyssey, 
 and Tales of Vesperia were instant hits to those that were fans, but now Star Ocean 4: The Last 
 Hope comes currently as an exclusive to the 360. This game could be the game that tops all other 
 JRPGs of this generation thus far.
  
  Story --------- 8
  
  Star Ocean 4: The Last Hope is a prequel to all of the previous Star Ocean games that have been 
 released. In light of all this The Last Hope has a lot of history and background to cover while 
 not messing with the universe that was set in the previous 3 Star Ocean games so that everything 
 will make sense.
  
  The Last Hope begins with a small introduction of how the current world is. World War III occurred 
 and humanity was forced to evacuate Earth and search for a life beyond the stars so that they can 
 restart their lives. In order to do this the USTA, or the Universal Space and Technology Administration, 
 was established to unify the world and seek this new goal. The warp drive was finally invented 
 allowing fast access into planets beyond Earth and soon came the SRF, or Space Reconnaissance Force. 
 The SRF's main objective was to seek a habitable planet that will give humanity a chance to restart 
 their lives from their failed mistake. Five ships are to take launch on this mission. Among the 
 crew of one these ships is Edge Maverick and his childhood friend Reimi Saionji. Edge and Reimi 
 begin their journey as just crewmates of the SRF ship called Calnus but due to unforeseen circumstances, 
 their journey doesn't go according to plan. Soon the ship ends up crash-landing on a planet and 
 Edge is forced to take command. 
  
  The story layout is pretty similar to any JRPG. There is the main character that suddenly ends 
 with a job that he has not been asked to do. As a result he ends up journeying through various 
 worlds and finds that there is a bigger problem than what he initially thought. The Last Hope generally 
 works out in the same way. Edge journeys through space trying to find a home suitable to humans 
 but the problem grows into something that can endanger the universe itself. Edge while journeying 
 through various planets in the universe, he will make new friends and recruit them into his team 
 aboard the Calnus.
  
  The premise of the story seems somewhat unique but quickly grows into a typical cliche JRPG story. 
 Although it is not a bad thing, it shows a lack of originality and creativity. The story starts 
 out slow as Edge attempts to find a new home and it isn't until a fourth of the gameplay that the 
 story finally evolves into something more. The pacing is one of the horrible parts of the game 
 as the story begins immensely slow but picks up way too fast, and a little late into the game. 
 This doesn't mean that the story is completely bad at all. It has interesting concepts and themes 
 as well. While the story has the same archetype as previous JRPGs, the theme that it presents are 
 well mentioned and executed. Evolution of a species is one of these key themes and it makes the 
 player wonder what evolution truly is. Emotions of sorrow, love, and hatred build up tension in 
 the story as well as introduce side-arcs that might further develop certain characters. 
  
  Characters in the game each have a unique personality. Edge is the justice-oriented, brash, and 
 impulsive youth while Reimi is his buffer as she keeps him in check with order, manners, support. 
 None of the characters seem too bland but they don't seem all that interesting either. Some characters 
 will become instant favorites but this isn't a game where you'll remember the characters too long. 
 Having said that, the characters match the story perfectly and keeps the game firmly together. 
 Each character will have a small segment in the story that will reveal their history so that the 
 player will have a better understanding of what is going on and the character's motive behind this 
 space journey. If the side-arcs aren't long enough then there are exclusive cutscenes that can 
 be accessed in the Calnus that further develop this. Overall the character development is great. 
 Each character will come across a problem and must deal with it in their own way. Learning how 
 to overcome tough obstacles in life and realizing that one has made a mistake is one of the key 
 themes of The Last Hope. This game doesn't fail to deliver this message.
  
  Although the story of The Last Hope isn't an exact hit, it's not a miss either. There are moments 
 in the game that are completely mind-boggling and other times they are just flat out stupid. However, 
 when the story is packaged together with the characters and many key themes it is a wonderful delivery. 
 Even though the story itself may not be appreciated, one can't ignore the fact that the story is 
 only the tip of the iceberg as the interpretation of what events transpire in the story is the 
 bulk of the message of the game.
  
  Gameplay -------- 9
  
  The Last Hope has a standard archetype just like all of the previous JRPGS that have followed. 
 It has a main character that roams through various worlds with shops, people, and many buildings. 
 However, what The Last Hope attempts to achieve exemplary is not the standard exploration of the 
 world but its engaging battle system. The battle system for The Last Hope follows a real-time battle 
 system that is both thrilling and amazing. While the player is exploring through dungeons and forests, 
 there are monsters that appear on the map and players can make contact with them to start a battle. 
 There are no random encounters and the players have the option to choose when to fight or not. 
 Not only this but depending on how the player makes contact with the monsters the players will 
 have an advantage or disadvantage when the battle begins. Once the battle begins the player is 
 in a set location with invisible boundaries making battle with the opposing team. Everything is 
 done in real-time and therefore feels fast-paced and action packed. 
  
  The player controls one character out of the four party members that are in battle and use numerous 
 attacks that can be assigned with the L and R triggers. While special attacks are assigned to the 
 triggers, the regular attacks can be activated by using the A button. Combos can be attained by 
 using normal attacks and the special attacks to defeat their enemy. This is one of the many mechanics 
 of The Last Hope that makes it amazing. Not only this but another feature has been added to add 
 more depth and strategy into combat. Blindside is a move that can be activated by holding the B 
 button and by moving the left thumbstick at the proper time, the player can avoid the enemy's incoming 
 attack and appear behind them. This gives the player to have excellent opportune attacks. However, 
 the drawback of using the blindside is that it takes a couple of seconds to charge and if held 
 for too long, the player becomes fatigued leaving him or her wide open. Along with blindside, the 
 BEAT and Rush systems have been implemented into the battle mechanics. BEAT is a system that allows 
 for customization of the party members. There are 3 types of BEAT styles and each offers a different 
 set of advantages that the others don't have. While BEAT S has the ability to give the player to 
 make full use of blindside, BEAT B doesn't have that. If the player doesn't know what style will 
 suit the character best and desires an all-around character then BEAT Neutral is also an option. 
 Rush is a type of power that can be activated when the player has filled up the Rush bar near their 
 HP and MP bar. Once it has been fully charged the player can unleash this power and doesn't stagger 
 if hit by an enemy. The power is temporary and only lasts until the charged bar is drained. If 
 the player also desires then he or she can drain the bar completely at one time and unleash a Rush 
 Combo that strings together numerous attacks with bonus damage against the enemy. While in Rush 
 mode though, if the player is hit one too many times while in Rush there are drastic consequences 
 that may occur. One is the breaking of the bonus board. 
  
  The Bonus Board is a feature that is somewhat familiar to the bonus feature added in Star Ocean: 
 Till the End of Time, but much different in that it has been implemented much differently. On the 
 right side of the battle screen lies the heart of the Bonus Board. By defeating an enemy or enemies 
 in certain ways, the player builds up colored tiles on the Bonus Board. At the end of the battle 
 the player is rewarded depending on the colored tiles. Blue ones offer more experience, gold offers 
 more money, magenta replenishes your HP and MP, while green gives you more special points to customize 
 your character. The Bonus board gives the player to fully customize their characters while giving 
 them an opportunity to make them stronger.
  
  The basic mechanics of The Last Hope, however, can be simplified into just running around and button 
 mashing, if it were only that. There are various types of characters that the players have the 
 option to control such as a caster, known as a Symbologist, melee attackers, or something in-between. 
 While each character comes with a different set of fighting style, knowing how to use the different 
 types of characters is essential. With the control of the LB and RB, the player can switch the 
 controllable character with ease. Knowing what character to use at certain times will make the 
 battles end much quicker with relative ease, especially during boss fights. Boss fights can be 
 up to 30 minutes long if the player does not prepare him or herself properly and has not familiarized 
 with the game's mechanics. The strategy that is incorporated through the many mechanics that the 
 game utilizes is simply stunning and gives the battles a more exhilarating feel than any of the 
 previous JRPGs.
  If the player is not out exploring the world or fighting monsters, then equipping new gear and 
 finishing side-quests is absolutely imperative. Visiting towns for new items to buy is great but 
 there is a better way of attaining great items. The ship that takes you from planet to planet is 
 also a home to many things. One of these is the Item Creation. Item Creation allows players to 
 invent and create items that one can't normally buy. Inventing a new item requires that player 
 create a group of three characters or less to work together to think of a recipe. As time goes 
 by the group will have invented little to many items. Depending on which characters group up with 
 who, the results may vary so there numerous possibilities when inventing. Once an item has been 
 invented, then the invented recipe can be used to create the item, if the player has the necessary 
 materials. This will allow access to high-end items that are impossible to attain through the story. 
 Along with creating items, the Calnus is the home to the characters. During your travels characters 
 will interact with each other inside the Calnus and trigger certain events. These events are called 
 Private Actions. These flesh out each character and gives the player the chance to see their history, 
 background, and personality. Certain Private Actions are cutscenes and become something that is 
 hilarious and funny. Side-quests are so plentiful it is somewhat hard to imagine how it is possible 
 to finish them all. The player can take certain quests from shops and people. Each quest has its 
 own rewards and for the most part can be finished at anytime in the story. Although, not particularly 
 a side quest, there are numerous things that the player can complete once all the side-quests are 
 finished. Battle Trophies are much like in-game achievements that the player has accomplished while 
 fighting, there are monsters to analyze and collect data on, and collecting and creating every 
 single item is also one. There are many things to do in The Last Hope and many possibilities that 
 it can seem somewhat endless much like the star ocean.
  
  Although the game is stunning, this doesn't mean that it has its own share of problems. One of 
 the major problems concerns with the game design. While the game is a hefty 3-disc long game, the 
 player must swap discs when entering certain worlds. This becomes very tedious, very fast. The 
 game should not be compared to other games of the genre, but this is one of many archaic designs 
 that were not favored in the past and are not favored now. Another problem that the game faces 
 is saving. Every JRPG player understands that it's a staple of the genre to have save points and 
 now "save anywhere, anytime". However, The Last Hope makes it so that players groan about saving. 
 While the dungeons are fun to go through, they can become extremely long, with certain dungeons 
 going 3+ hours. In certain dungeons there is a save point before it and at the end of it. That 
 means the player has to either save and then go through it and then save again, or not try the 
 dungeon until there is plentiful enough time to finish the dungeon. It would be alright if the 
 dungeons were moderate in length and had save points, but what The Last Hope does is overkill. 
 There are many characters that the player has at his or her disposal but most likely the party 
 will be unbalanced. This is due to the rather somewhat horrid balancing of the characters. While 
 the characters do have very unique and special attacks, by the time they are done casting, the 
 monsters will be nearly gone, if not gone already. This is because the melee attackers dish out 
 so much damage. However, this is only a problem through the first 1/4 of the game. The party itself 
 will become more balanced as the game progresses, but the fact that melee attackers are so much 
 stronger than the ranged attackers might convince a player to use an all melee team for the rest 
 of the game and as a result become punished. 
  
  While exploring throughout the vast universe in The Last Hope, there is a rather tedious problem 
 that many of the players will come into contact with. The camera while exploring is a burden. It's 
 both erratic and horribly angled that sometimes it can't be differentiated if you are looking third 
 or first-person. Although this is a minor problem, the fact still remains that the camera wasn't 
 perfected. A last problem that the game suffers from is minor framerate. The game runs at a solid 
 60 FPS. However, if the player does something such as 50 hits per second on an enemy then the game 
 will begin to slow. Fortunately, this is fixed quickly as the engine of the game adapts and quickly 
 resumes to the norm. 
  
  The Last Hope's gameplay is not perfect but is definitely one of the best in the video game industry. 
 Its battle system is perfected so that it is both enjoyable and strategic, while the exploration 
 of the dungeons require some thought if one wants to traverse the universe fast. Everything comes 
 bundled together in a nice package that is surely one of the best. 
  
  Graphics ---------- 9
  
  The visuals in The Last Hope are absolutely stunning with amazing 
 lighting effects and diversity in colors. In The Last Hope there are two types of visuals, CG and 
 true CG. Although the game technically isn't CG the visuals are basically CG. The game runs for 
 most of the time on CG while some of the cutscenes that come close to the end of the game will 
 be in true CG. Because the game resembles close to CG the visuals are beautiful and truly make 
 the game shine. The amazing and beautiful lighting effects that come through during cutscenes to 
 the flashy lights that spark during battle, everything is done crisply and sharply. Graphics in 
 The Last Hope are one of the best of this generation and Tri-Ace has truly outdone themselves and 
 didn't limit themselves as they already placed the game in 3 discs. While CG animations are amazing 
 in itself, the true CG is even better. True CG will only occur at certain times in the story but 
 everything looks sharper, crisper, and more enticing than ever before. The only bad part about 
 true CG is that the game doesn't run with these visuals. Animations and character design are done 
 fantastically, as the details the endowed the characters shine from head to toe. The visual expression 
 of each character can be recognized and the lighting that the game implements show realistic applications 
 of how a person's face might look when the light is shine at different angles. Although the game 
 is in CG, Tri-Ace has somehow made the characters look anime-esque. It's not a horrible design 
 but they could've done something even better to make the game seem more visually appealing. The 
 animations, as amazing as they are, suffer from stiffness. Much of the cutscene animations are 
 very fluid and sleek but at times the game will place the movements of the characters in the most 
 awkward way. The environment of each planet is distinct and will range from two to four types of 
 climates. Only in a few dungeons do the graphics show blandness and lack of variety. In the first 
 planet, Aeos, there is the ocean beach, forest, cave, and mechanical base that is stationed on 
 the planet itself. Never before on this generation has a game shown so much variety on a single 
 world itself. While implementing all of this the game itself provides excellent colors as they 
 shine through the player's eyes.
  
  Although the graphics are slick, there are problems that it has. One of the problem already mentioned 
 was the animation style that the game uses. Certain animations are awkward when combined with the 
 visual style and therefore gives a feeling of uncertainty. While the animations are sometimes weird, 
 the graphics at times lack detail. The game has great detail throughout the game but there are 
 certain locations in the game or certain cutscenes where the player can notice that there wasn't 
 a lot of effort put into detailing buildings or environments. This can be noticed when the player 
 zooms into these spots, but otherwise they are relatively unnoticeable. The final visual problem 
 that the game has is also its major strength. While lighting is spectacularly done, there are times 
 when the effect can become an extreme nuisance. Light can sometimes make a path seem unrecognizable 
 while at the same time blocking the player's eyes with a white light. It adds an amazing feeling 
 to environment and makes the game seem more realistic, but at times the game creates overkill.
 
  
  The Last Hope utilizes the Xbox 360's graphics capabilities to the max as they have made use of 
 amazing lighting effects with a wide range of the color spectrum. The visuals are definitely one 
 of the key highlights in the game and should be recognized for what it has achieved.
  
  Sound ------------- 8
  
  In a simple way, the audio tracks for the game can be both amazing 
 and pathetic. While the musical scores are inspiring and thrilling, the character voices cannot 
 come close to what the music has accomplished. The character voices for the most part are great. 
 Edge has a wonderful voice actor and shows emotion and personality. When he is depressed, you will 
 hear him depressed, when he is happy, then you will hear him happy. Edge is one of the numerous 
 great voices that are in the game. Faize, Arumat, Myuria, and Crowe all have amazing voice actors. 
 However, it seems like characters such as Reimi, Meracle and Sarah have really annoying voices. 
 It's understandable that Meracle and Sarah are supposed to sound annoying and dumb but the way 
 that the voices presents themselves is going a bit too far. Welch is the perfect example for this. 
 Welch is an impulsive, super-hyperactive, annoying girl who helps Edge on his journey. When cutscenes 
 go off with her you will hear a high-pitched girl going insane. Everyone knows Welch is supposed 
 to be annoying but not to the point that it will drive the player to complete insanity. Each voice 
 actor matches the character's personality, such as Lymle who is a monotonous little girl who speaks 
 like a little girl. Unfortunately, the bad part about the voice acting is that the actors themselves 
 went too far in doing the characters and made them extremely unlikable. While the voices are bearable 
 at times, the dialogue can range from average to flat out corny. Some of the lines that the characters 
 say will be really cliche or lackluster. Although it's part of the genre to have such dialogue, 
 sometimes it's good to leave these things behind. 
  
  What really stands out is the musical score that Motoi Sakuraba has created for The Last Hope. 
 Each piece is wonderfully constructed with calming orchestrated files to the epic trumpet blares. 
 Not only that but the time and place that the music comes in at is perfect. There will be different 
 theme songs to each planet and they are distinct in its own way. The sci-fi feel that Sakuraba 
 has placed into each musical piece is well done. Unfortunately, this game is not one of Sakuraba's 
 best works, but that doesn't mean it is bad either. Everything musically done is awe-inspiring 
 and captivating.
  
  Sound although, sometimes an arbitrary category in games, is well done. The audio tracks are perfected 
 so that it is definitely bearable, but some people still might prefer the Japanese tracks more 
 than the English. The fact that the game attempted to have actors who fit the characters is great. 
 If anything, the sound in The Last Hope is good but not excellent.
  
  Tilt/Value ---------- 9
  
  The Last Hope has excellent replay value that might last many many 
 hours. On an average run through the game will take 30-50 hours to beat depending on the player's 
 skill level and how long the player strays from the main story. Aside from the main quests, there 
 are numerous side quests on each planet to complete. All of these come with rewards such as money 
 and items. Completionists who wish to achieve 100% complete in the game will have a hard time achieving 
 this as they must unlock every single treasure chest, finish every quest, create and collect every 
 single item, acquire data on monsters by fighting the numerous times, and collecting battle trophies. 
 Getting data on monsters by fighting will increase the knowledge that the players have on the monster 
 and will fill up the monster booklet in the collections menu. If that wasn't long enough then there 
 are battle trophies. Battle trophies are trophies that each character earns by meeting a certain 
 requirement in battle. Some are hard and others are easy, but because there are so many on each 
 characters, it might be difficult. To add to the extremely long list of things to do there is the 
 coliseum and secret dungeons. The coliseum works like an arena where you can fight monsters to 
 become the champion. In the secret dungeons, which there are two, they have plentiful items to 
 collect and monsters to fight. There is much to do in The Last Hope and if one is looking to buy 
 something that will last and have value, this is the perfect choice.
  
  Conclusion ------------- 8.8 (With Reviewer's Addition/Deduction)
  
  Star Ocean 4: The Last 
 Hope is a wonderful games with a great story, an excellent battle system, amazing visuals, spectacular 
 audio, and an extremely long replay value. Although the game doesn't perfect everything that it 
 does, it certainly does more rights than it does wrong as it is better than the some of its parts. 
 The game truly brings the genre to the next generation. There are things that can be fixed such 
 as the horrible camera and the missing details to certain buildings and environments but they can 
 be overlooked when looking at the game as a whole package. The game has had wonderful production 
 values and an amazing amount of resources placed into making this game. Star Ocean 4: The Last 
 Hope won't bring any new players into the genre, but it certainly is a game that will please JRPG 
 fans and exceed expectations of those looking for great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:14 pm PT
Review:  "Star Ocean: The Last Hope" was a big disappointment for me. The game is a mixture of good and 
 bad elements thrown loosely together.
  
  Graphics - Fair
  At times they are great, but they are more often blurry and flat looking and the environments are 
 lackluster and plain.
  
  Camera - Horrible
  The camera control, angles and AI are spectacularly terrible in this game.
  
  Characters - 
 Bad
  Childlike and china doll looking (which I am not a fan of) . They girls are petulant, pouty, exaggeratedly 
 immature. The boys are aloof, strange, and simple minded. Additionally, the lip sync is all off 
 to the point where I don't even think there is a lip sync. The characters just open and close their 
 mouths and not even in sync with their words. The personalities are annoying, the voice acting 
 is flat.
  
  Music - Very Good
  Easily the best thing about this game.
  
  Game Mechanics - Good
  Combat is fun and complex and the item crafting is a lot of fun. Innovative 
 combat dynamics for a JRPG or any game, really.
  
  Story - Average
  Nothing notable. Recycled evil antagonist that tries to destroy everything. Familiar plot. Uninteresting 
 and awkward playacting.
  
  I would definitely rent this game instead of buying if you are of the mind to play it. Don't expect 
 too much. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbenson96
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I normally don't do reviews, I just read them but I had to say something about this game. I have 
 played them all so far; Tales, Infinite, Reminate, all of them. This is by far the best JRPG i 
 have played since I have started playing them back with FFVII. I love the story, love the Char, 
 visuals and soundtrack are amazing, it's got it's funny quotes that make me roll in the floor laughing 
 ,the fighting is awesome. Being able to jump , the Blindsides, down to even the Rush attacks. It's 
 just everything you would want out of a JRPG. This game just rocks. The only thing that I have 
 bad to say about it is the cut scenes lip scink, but that is nothing that can be overlooked. Oh 
 and the item creation is fun as hell and additive. If you are wondering weather to buy this or 
 not, Why you still here reading this go get it don't even think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3chos3non3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Star Ocean: The Last Hope gets off to a much smoother and swifter start than its previous sibling. 
 But that is not all that is of notable improvement.
  
  Visuals are ultra detailed, creatively vibrant, and uncannily unique. Character designs are solid, 
 though the main two characters do bear a strong resemblance to previous popular Square Enix characters. 
 The environments are so detailed, that after 20 hours of gameplay is still have difficulty adjusting 
 to full texture of every possible set piece. Occasionally, the camera gets a little tempermental, 
 and true viewing of the environments can be difficult especially in tight places. And other times 
 still, I found I just couldn't the camera where I wanted it
  
  The story is original, as in not bound to previous Star Ocean titles, and prior experience with 
 the series is not necessary. The writing is above average, entailing a lost earth to shackles of 
 nuclear war as humanity branches out in a humble attempt to colonize a new world in a vast universe 
 where they are severely underdeveloped compared to their alien bretheren. Some story aspects are 
 surprisingly dramatic and moving, despite the sporadic nonsensical JRPG comedy that creeps in unexpectedly. 
 Your team of protagonists is diverse and full gumption to form relationships which each other on 
 their voyage.
  
  Game play mechanics are quite straight forward. Filed maps are encompassed on varying planets with 
 different climates and ecology which you traverse in an exploratory manner. Space flight to those 
 planets is automatic, filled with opportunity to build character relationships. Characters have 
 skills to employ while exploring, like mining, harvest, etc. Treasure chest abound, and monsters 
 prowl the open terrain awaiting your engagement in conflict.
  
  And conflict has yet to get boring. Action takes place in real time, on a 3 dimensional battlefield. 
 A series of button presses executes a melee or ranged combo, and on press of a bumper button allows 
 you to seamlessly switch between characters mid-battle. With level up experience comes a new arsenal 
 of skills which can be chained together for massive damage at the cost of MP. These skills can 
 empowered as the player sees fit once they are learned by allotting skill points to the preferred 
 skills. Enemies have elemental weakness as well as attack weaknesses and even weak points on their 
 bodies  especially bosses. Level grinding is easy, not arduous, and bosses still pose a moderate 
 challenge Combat is definitely built off of a base of teamwork and determining which character 
 is "right for the job" at hand, be it speed, power, magic or ranged bombardment.
  
  Fans of the series will appreciate the smoothed over battle mechanics and the fun, yet tedious, 
 item creation component. The narrative will be hit or miss with folks due to traditional unexpected 
 JRPG comedy mixed with surprising drama. The voice acting is good, sometimes lacking in earnest, 
 but still effective. Newcomers to the series will enjoy the intuitive battle scenes, fast paced 
 action and scores items to find and collect, though if they revert back to previous Star Ocean 
 titles they may be a bit let down. Graphically stunning and addictive to play I give Star Ocean: 
 The Last Hope a great score.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elspas1978
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  I Love RPG's, and I really like JRPG'S, but I am really getting angry with the next-gen of JRPG'S, 
 especially the latest on XBOX 360. First Infinite Undiscovery, then Last Remnant, and now my beloved 
 Star Ocean. The positive first: The Game mechanic is strong, the visuals are good as is the Soundtrack, 
 the battle system works well and the Blindside system is fun and challenging, and I love the Item 
 Creation system but i like that in every game I play ( I guess I'm a hunter and gatherer type) 
 What I really find Gag inducing is the Story and the characters. I'm 31 this year, and maybe I'm 
 getting old, but the most important part for me in any game is a compelling story and the characters 
 in it. In "The Last Hope" ( Irony! ) it is what kills the game, period. The story and characters 
 take every cheap cliche you can come up with, and twist it into something nausea inducing, over 
 the top, senseless and just plain stupid and unbelievable. When I read on-line that the Player 
 should turn the voices off to get by, I thought they were overreacting, but now I'm doing just 
 that in my game. Don't get me wrong, I'm not expecting a new epic with never before seen plot and 
 only unique new characters, but when I turn off a new game I spent a lot of money on because I 
 can no longer stand the idiotic drivel that the characters spout, I know that this is not a game 
 I would recommend ANYONE to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayhokkuu
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  i personally think that this game is one of the most immersive and funnest games of all time. as 
 i stated earlier, everything is nearly perfect except for the cutscenes and the limited fighting 
 style. theres something near 250 weps, lots of variation in accessories and armor, and lots and 
 lots and lots of recipes and item creation is fun and detailed, yet hard to pick up on. but, the 
 game doesn't really start picking up until lvl 10 or so (that's when you get your second ability) 
 so don't lose hope right away. those of you who are reading this to know if you want to buy it 
 or not, i'd suggest you stop here and go buy it. those of you who are reading this to know about 
 the game, well, read on. the story starts in the late 21st century, and starts out with a nuclear 
 war (and i mean it when i say it, in the introduction there's somewhere around 30 nuclear missiles 
 being launched at one time and leveling cities. then, they get thrown into a nuclear winter and 
 decide to ditch earth and reach for the stars. well, that's where you come in. the only thing is, 
 every planet that you go to is always in perfect condition for a human habitat (not too realistic) 
 and the first one you go to is planet Aeos, a Jurassic planet filled with weird enemies and bug-things. 
 the second one you go to is a very cold place with an evergreen here and there and a small, under-advanced 
 village. that's where i am now and i've been training for something like 2 weeks now so that i'm 
 positive i won't die between the resting points. but anyways, it's a great came with very few flaws 
 (most of them which in the cutscenes) and that's really all i have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Germmasher
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l Is a RPG that is worth playing, but it is not the best RPG ever. 
 It can be better and they did not use the full pontential of the next gen graphics. The voice acting 
 is weak, specially the protagonist. There is a lack of good attacks, specially the protagonist. 
 Star ocean have great scenary and a great story. Is a worth Star Ocean game. It doesn't have any 
 anime, contrary to other SO games. I'm suprise that Squareenix did not put this game in the PS3. 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VSmack
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  When many people criticize the JRPG genre, their protestations are often directed at unengaging, 
 turn-based combat, random encounters, and other such design aspects. Star Ocean: The Last Hope, 
 offers the perspicacious player insight into what is really wrong with the core of many JRPGs. 
 While the principle mechanics of TLH are certainly strong enough to merit the title an 8.5 in this 
 reviewer's mind, the banal story, hackneyed characters, bad voice-acting, and unoriginal visual 
 design keep TLH firmly within the realm of quotidian.
  
  The story follows the atrociously-named Edge Maverick and his female childhood friend into space 
 as they attempt to seek out new planets for mankind to colonize. Unsurprisingly, Edge has an ambiguous 
 superpower which he slowly comes to understand in a black-and-white quest against an ancient evil 
 threatening to destroy everything. While some supporting characters, such as the space elf Faize, 
 are forgettable foils to the protagonist, others such as Lymle, the little girl with a speech impediment, and 
 Meracle the Cat Girl, are genuinely irritating and even insulting. 
  The scenery certainly looks nice, but you will be unsurprised to find yourself on generic metal 
 space stations, ice planets, and forest planets. The game's music is fitting but unexceptional. 
 It helps create ambiance, but is a long cry from many JRPG classics.
  
  That is not to say the game is without merit. TLH's combat system is perhaps its best quality, 
 and the constant fighting that drags many JRPGs down is spiced up by combo-based, real-time combat, 
 with an interesting, though generally useless 'blindside' tactic. The Battle Trophies, distinct 
 from, but similar to, the game's achievements, add an extra element and can keep dedicated players 
 looking for ever-new ways to battle.
  
  The Last Hope also carries on the item creation tradition from previous Star Ocean games to significant 
 effect. Creating new items is often challenging and rewarding. Furthermore, the skill points your 
 characters attain through leveling up can be spent on item creation skills, as well as on combat 
 skills and passive skills, giving each character substantial potential for short-term variety, 
 and giving the player important choices.
  
  I will not say that Star Ocean: TLH was unenjoyable; the game does combat, item creation, and some 
 visual design very well. Moreover, if you have no qualms with playing trough a variation on a common 
 theme (which we all will from time to time) you will likely find this an enjoyable title.
  
  The Last Hope makes a very interesting comparison to the recently-released JRPG Persona 4. 
 Persona 4, while burdened with horrible dungeons, outdated graphics, and a creative, but not exceptionally 
 fun combat system, tremendously outshines Star Ocean: The Last Hope due to its memorable characters 
 and unique plot. 
  Star Ocean, then, represents the complacency and narrative unoriginality that has unfairly given 
 JRPGs outside of the Final Fantasy series a bad reputation, even if it eschews random encounters 
 and other typical detriments of the genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigr2k5
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:42 pm PT
Review:  To be quite honest, I haven't been all too impressed with Square-Enix games lately. While infinite 
 undiscovery was fun, it lacked in a lot of areas such as visuals, and length. Last Remnant had 
 better visuals, but gameplay was just not what i was looking for, the script seemed too final fantasy 
 12 like, and I was Unable to become interested, not to mention horrific load times. However, Star 
 Ocean 4 blows those games out of the water with truly stunning visuals, an awesome battle system, 
 entertaining characters, and more!
  
  I will go into the issues regarding voice acting and scripts. It is debatable by some that the 
 characters are either acted wrong, have horrible voices, or the script is not good. Well It is 
 definitly a matter of opinion. I will admit that there are a few characters which could have had 
 better voices, but not the main ones. A characters voice sets the tone of the game. If the characters 
 were all to have low deep voices, it may have actually taken away from the feeling of the game. 
 To add to that, the main character, and most other characters were voiced fine. The script is something 
 similar to what one might find in Tales of... game, so if you are into a relaxed humor game with 
 a few adult jokes now and again you are definitely playing the game. There are sincere scenes, 
 emotional scenes and even some hilarious scenes. It's all a matter of the type of game you go for. 
 If your a hardcore, realistic game player, this is probably not for you. Japanisse games have always 
 been made to be light hearted, funny and invoke several different emotions in a game, not be serious 
 as they have in some recent games. (last remnant, Final fantasy 12 etc.) Some games are meant to 
 be more serious some are not. I think the light hearted humor and story works very well, and is 
 very interesting.
  
  On to the no arguments! Visually the game is stunning! I must say, I thought Lost Odyssee had some 
 of the best graphics for an RPG on the xbox. Shadowing and lighting was right on, colors were realistic, 
 character materials were great as well as all surroundings. Loading times and transitions are very 
 low and not an issue in this game. Scenes are well played and there are quite a few too. Battle 
 visuals are amazing, very fast paced which leads me on to the battle.
  
  Battle system is extremely well done. You are given a basic attack, you can have some skills which 
 can be chained for more skill use, you can use magic via a menu that pauses the battle, and you 
 can even switch out characters. If all party members die on the field you are given the ability 
 to bring out other living party members to fight, meaning you actually have 8 characters for the 
 enemy to kill before it's game over! Skills can be leveled up via sp or party sp. There is also 
 a type of classing system called BEAT which gives you different boosts depending on the type you 
 pick. Out of all RPG games, I think this may just be one of the most customizable ones yet. Item 
 creation is a bit different from the 3rd, but in some ways simpler. Dungeons are challenging enough, 
 but not to the point where a book is the only way through the game. 
  
  All in all the game is awesome. Gameplay is great along with a great story, and interesting cast. 
 The few bad sounding voices don't even have an effect on the game to be honest, as I still see 
 it worthy of a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Square Enix, a household name when it comes to RPGs. With hits like Final Fantasy, Kingdom Hearts, 
 and many others, it is no surprise that the latest entry in the Star Ocean series shines. Over 
 four years have past since Till the End of Time has been released, the last big Star Ocean hit, 
 we have The Last Hope. The unique piece is that this isn't a sequel, but a prologue to the whole 
 series. Ever wonder why some elements were never explored, well all the answers are here, plus 
 some that we never expected. 
  
  First off, the graphics are downright gorgeous. While there are some instances of slight jaggedness, 
 and minor clipping, the experience as a whole is amazing. In my time playing, the graphics were 
 crystal-clear, and I could easily make out every detail of the characters and environments. On 
 top of that, they are full of color, with great lighting effects. Easily some of the best graphics 
 I have seen in an RPG, and in gaming in general. This is a great demo piece for HD gaming. 
  
  However, the sound is both epic and serious and at times, downright..... silly. Yes, some of 
 the dialogue can border on, "why did they put that in there/why did they say it like that?" Even 
 if a bit ridiculous at times, the voices are all unique and likable. The shining star the game 
 however, no pun intended, is the soundtrack. This has to be one of the most lively and vivid that 
 I have heard from Square yet. 
  
  Now on to the gameplay. If you have ever played Star Ocean, you will be in familiar territory. 
 If you haven't, then this is a great time to start. Basically, enemies appear on screen. Approaching 
 them from the front starts the battle normally. However, approaching them from behind will have 
 them "surprised", giving you a head start on your tactics. This also works in your enemies favor, 
 so watch out! Once the battle begins, it played like your standard action game, similar to something 
 like Devil May Cry, and even Kingdom Hearts. Battles are real-time, and you can move freely around 
 the battlefield, attacking and defending as you please. Whats new in this game is the ability to 
 Blindside, or quickly getting behind your enemy, by holding down B, and releasing when a yellow 
 reticule appears. Holding it down for too long will cause your character down become dizzy for 
 a few seconds, immobilizing your character. You also have a jump button for that quick getaway 
 or quick counter attack. The gameplay is what sets it apart from other RPGs and it always remains 
 fun, without becoming tedious. 
  
  Now for the main part of any RPG, and in this case, Star Ocean, is the story. While it definitely 
 isn't original, it is very immersive. Basically, WWIII has ended, and Earth can't be sustained 
 for life anymore, so now humans must live in Space. Special people known as SRF, or Space Reconnaissance 
 Force, have been sent to gather intel about other planets to sustain our life for the future. You 
 are Edge Maverick, one of the SRF personnel joined by long-time friend Raime. After an unsuccessful 
 warp jump, a series of events unfold for the future of the galaxy. What happens is unique, but 
 like Till the End of Time, the game takes a little while to get going. But once it does, it doesn't 
 let up. 
  
  Overall, if you are a fan or Star Ocean, and RPGs in general, you owe it to yourself to try out 
 The Last Hope. This is rumored to be the last entry in the long running series, so I can see this 
 being a fitting end if that is the case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deltahunter3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  So I've played through the first dungeon now, not that far into the game, but I have to say that 
 it's amazing. I am a fan of the tales series so naturally this game appealed to me.
  
  So first, what I consider the bad. There are only a few issues I have with this game, the first 
 being the amount of cutscenes in the beginning. The cutscenes are all amazing and beautifully done, 
 but during your first 2 hours of play about an hour and a half is cutscenes. It's necessary to 
 build up the story, but it does take some time. Next I wish blocking was done better because it 
 sucks to get knocked down and then hit everytime you try to stand up. 
  
  That's the only aspects that bug me so far. I really love the battle system, especially the blindsight. 
 Burst is really interesting, but your opponents will use it about twice in each match. The camera 
 system takes some getting used to, but it's not really much of a problem. The story is intriguing 
 and well done so far. It's everything an rpg should be.
  
  If you are a Tales series fan, or just want a good rpg for the 360 this is exactly what you want 
 to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArctheLad19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Well I can say with 30 hours of gameplay that the Item Creation is one of my favorite parts, I 
 love finding new weapons, most the strong ones I cant create but someday creating them is whats 
 pushing me. The story is good, this is the first Star Ocean game that I've spent more than 5 hours 
 on and how this game is going I have a feeling I will be playing 1-3 after this. The boss battles 
 do seem very difficult so far and do take some "logic" in defeating them. Another great RPG for 
 the 360 so far.
  
  ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
 
  ||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
 
  
  
  Well with various different party members to choose from and tons of Item Creation and Item Gathering, 
 I'll be sad once its over! Now what am I doing on here? I must be playing more!
  
  
  Game on!
  
  -Arc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman16
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:36 am PT
Review:  
  
  I'm still playing need 
 1 more hour to hit 40 hours and I'm sure it won't end there. 
  Graphics are amazing, voice acting amazing, story line is pretty solid, dialog... even though a 
 lot of people and game critics say it's childish I personally think it's good... remember it is 
 "T" rated not "M" rated so get over ur complains. 
  I won't go into story itself for 2 reasons.
  First i'm not yet finished playing so i don't want 
 to half @ss my review.
  Second i wouldn't want to spoil the fun out of the game for those who didn't play yet or are in 
 the process of playing it. 
   
   
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoJack-Stewart
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  25 hours in I still can't put the controller down. The story line is great and sucks you right 
 in and it being the prequel to the series new players and hardcore fans can enjoy it all the same. 
 The graphics are amazing and the environments are wondrously beautiful. The battle system is fun 
 and easy to get a handle of but the real fun begins when the player starts to use all the different 
 mechanics in the battle system like the Blindsides and Combo Chains along with directions to your 
 parties to move freely or gang up on a target. 
  Along with all the action going on in-game it is hard to miss the long cut scenes. A feature that 
 I found very interesting is the fact that if the player does decide to skip the cut scenes (which 
 i recommend you don't because they look GREAT and it's like watching anime) the developers were 
 kind enough to write a summary of the cut scene in detail of how the story progressed so that the 
 player doesn't miss anything key to the story from missing out on the cut scene. 
  With the assortment of side quests and collections to keep the player busy, Star Ocean: TLH will 
 have a place in the CD-tray for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wadehone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:56 am PT
Review:  So, I'm giving this game a 9.5 but to qualify that, I need to say it's 9.5 as long as you are a 
 fan of the Genre' if your not, if your a main stream FPS or regular RPG playing gamer then the 
 score would have to be 7.5 ish - something worth checking out ya know? But don't sell your pet 
 pug so you can afford it or anything.
  
  First things first, lets all sit back and have a good laugh at the choice of the our Hero's name... 
 "Edge Maverick" I can see it now...
  
  cut away to - the writer in charge of naming the Star Ocean Hero: 
  
  "we need something Edgy 
 - a real Maverick for our space opera... wait a minute... I think I have something! ..." 
  
  fade back in.
  
  ok, I have a good 20 hours worth of play time invested in this game, and 
 I really do enjoy it. you have to be prepared for the Long long traditional Enix cut scenes, (which 
 are stunning and brilliant of course,) that are generously sprinkled through out the game. By the 
 time that your done with the 3 disks of content, You'll have seen a good full length Movies worth 
 of cut scenes. Feel free to pop some corn, because there will be plenty of time to just sit back 
 and eat it as the story develops. 
  
  The videos are done with excellent voice work and amazing visuals. As for the actual quality of 
 the story, I'm only half way through so, take what I say with a grain of salt, but ... perhaps 
 I'm jaded, but there are some very 'cringe worthy' elements to the story, our Hero (Edge Maveric 
 - yup... seriously, they named him that...) is such a whiny baby sometimes you just want to reach 
 into your computer monitor and Slap the guy and say :
  
  "Edge! Stop being such a wus! Man up a little bit! Mavrick's don't cry!" 
  
  I'm hoping that 
 at some point the kid will just embrace the fact that he's the main star of a Square Enix game 
 and stop apologizing and acting all surprised that he's the heroic type... I imagine it's supposed 
 to be endearing, but honestly, it starts to get annoying. 
  
  The voice acting is great, and if this game was translated from anything, you certainly can't tell! 
 There is one character Lymle in the game that talks like a baby all the time, (The BradyGames Strategy 
 guide says she is 15, but she looks and talks like a 6 year old, kay?) and - ok, I'll admit it 
 - I kinda just wish she'd shut her yapper and keep casting spells. in other words, she's slightly 
 irritating.
  
  Graphics are incredible, they really shine, the environments are diverse and amazing. The maps 
 are really fun to travel through and discover.
  
  The music is spot on, it's high quality and really sets the mood like in game music is supposed 
 to do. you hear certain themes a lot, but so far, (20 hours in,) it hasn't driven me crazy yet!
 
  
  Combat, now here is a thing that really makes a guy nervous, I mean many people got 'into' this 
 kind of game from playing Final Fantasy 7 (or something similar to it with turn based play.) Anytime 
 one of these traditionally 'Turn Based' games wants to toss in 'real time' elements, I get real 
 skiddish. If I want some 'real time' combat, I'll play Oblivion - or forget that, toss in the Gears 
 of War. If I'm sitting down to play a JRPG, then I'm hoping for some old school strategy making 
 turn based game time. That said, I am happy to say they somehow got this right!
  
  It starts with the camera controls and controller set up, praise be that they included lots of 
 options on how you want to handle these elements. It didn't take long before I had every thing 
 inverted, and locked up just the way I liked it... not having these features would have honestly 
 prevented me from enjoying the game, so - I'm supper happy that they took the time to make the 
 options to set it up the way I want it. 
  
  Camera angles and controller configuration, check. 
  
  Switching between characters is smooth, 
 and the fighting style between characters is diverse, the AI can be set up and tweaked before and 
 during battle. If you heavily use the "y" button which pauses the action and allows you to simply 
 and effectively set up strategies, you can see the elements of the old school 'turn based' aspects 
 come through. That said, even the most jaded "real time combat hating" gamers will find themselves 
 actually enjoying the thrill of this real time combat.
  
  ... ok, that's not true... but still, for the rest of us, rest easy, it's actually fun!
  
  
 The 'pause the action' menus are used far less than expected... It's just a good thing that they 
 are there for boss fights! There is some slight agitation (frustration seems too harsh an adjective,) 
 that occurs, with the fact that when your in the middle of an action, lets say coming out of a 
 special attack, that you have to wait for the action to complete before your able to use items 
 or queue up another action from the pause menu. The flow seems choppy when the action is stopped 
 so that you can say, eat some health restoring berries, only to find that you keyed the button 
 a few milliseconds to quickly, thus requiring a restart for the action to finish then a re-pause 
 to eat the darn berries.
  
  (I take a tangent here... but I'm leaving it in.) 
  
  Speaking of 'darn' our hero seems awfully fond of the word 'Damn'. You'll get to hear him say Damn, 
 Dammit, and even the, try not to bust a gut laughing out loud, "DAMN THEM ALL TO HELL!" the line 
 is delivered with the full force of passion that only the president of your high School Drama club 
 could muster. Maverick was so emotional about the whole affair though... I was just glad that the 
 monitor was one way, and he couldn't see me snickering... (if only that could have been the case 
 in high school...)
  
  Ok ok, I continue to raz on some of the over dramatics of the story and actors in the game, with 
 the whines of the heroes who don't seem to want to BE heroes yet, and the ever blooming romances 
 that cause flash backs to the star wars prequel shows, "but, I love you Padme..." the annoying 
 15 year old spell caster who talks like she is 6. (that chick needs to wake-y wake-y up-y and stop 
 with the cute-sy woot-sy BS. No wonder Lymle didn't have any friends on her planet except for her 
 sick grandfather who probably just tolerated her so she'd keep bringing him his morning meals...)
 
  
  So ya, I poke a bit of fun at the game, but heck, maybe you need all that crap in there to make 
 it a good story, because over all, I feel invested in characters. I actually care about them and 
 am looking forward to 'what happens next'. And isn't that what developing a story arc is all about?
 
  
  in Conclusion, when taken as a full experience, this is a wonderful game. Looking at the production 
 quality, the art, the depth of the item creation, the collection quests, the stories, the rich 
 NPC filled locations - three DvD's full of content, makes you wonder how on earth you pay the same 
 for a game like this and those crappy 'game based on movie' games.
  
  This game is a winner - by Wade Hone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stoneyc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 3:29 am PT
Review:  I picked up a copy of SO: The Last Hope on release day and I wasn't disappointed. I suppose I could 
 go on about the game synopsis and all that good stuff, but Gamespot has already provided that, 
 so there's really no need. Instead, I'm going to mention a few things I believe to be improvements. 
 
  
  I find the new bonus board system to be much better than the battle chain system from SO 3 because 
 it allows you choose what bonuses you get. Want to do some level grinding? Utilize the new "Blindside" 
 attacks to kill your enemies with critical hits, filling your bonus board with blue tiles for an 
 EXP bonus of up to +140% (getting 2.4x as much experience makes grinding much more effective) . 
 Want to conserve your items? Kill enemies using only special moves to get pink tiles for up to 
 14% HP/MP recovery after each fight. Want to boost your skills? Allow enemies to ambush you to 
 get green tiles so you can get up to +14 SP (skill points) after each battle. Need to earn some 
 cash? By killing multiple enemies simultaneously, you can earn yellow tiles to increase the amount 
 of fol gained from each battle by up to +140%.
  
  The IC system has been redone and I'm quite happy with it. No more wasting ridiculous amounts of 
 money on failed attempts to create something. To make an item, you simply need the recipe, the 
 ingredients, and the required IC level; the success rate is 100%. You can find recipes or create 
 them. Recipe creation is similar to SO3, but in the new system, all you need is characters and 
 SP. Each "turn" of recipe creation reduces your party SP (separate form individual chars SP) by 
 1; the process will continue until you stop it or until all groups say "no plan", meaning they've 
 learned all the recipes they can with their current IC level/group setup.
  
  Another great new feature is the ability to dash around in short bursts (great for evading/surprising 
 enemies or getting someplace in a hurry) . 
  
  So far, the only thing I haven't loved about the game is that the field camera tends to gradually 
 zoom out as I move around, which can be annoying when trying to thoroughly explore an area; the 
 fact that this is the worst thing I've found in the game speaks volumes to my satisfaction with 
 everything else.
  
  It's all too common nowadays for a game to get tons of hype then turn out to be a dud; fortunately, 
 SO: TLH hasn't been one of those games. It's definitely worth every penny of the price (I just 
 wish amazon. com wasn't taking 2 weeks to send me strategy guide) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbmccart
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 5:10 am PT
Review:  After completing this masterpiece, I was left in a state of shock n awe. I wanted to cry it was 
 just so beautiful. It was everything I had expected from a Star Ocean game and alot lot more. This 
 delivered both the story and gameplay that most RPGs lack, and alot of end game bonus content. 
 There are 900 Battle Trophies in this game vs Til The End Of Times 300 Battle Trophies. I fully 
 understand why this game sold so many 360 consoles.
  I honestly don't think Tri-Ace needs to port it to PS3 because people will buy the 360 to play 
 this game, and its not a scam because it's well worth it. If it were on PS3 and not 360 I would 
 buy a PS3 specifically for this game. This game just purely blew the Star Ocean 1-3 out of the 
 water. After completing this game I doubt anyone will say Edge Maverick is a dumb name ever again.
 
  If you are having a problem on what game to get, well make it this one. This game will outlast 
 almost anyother game you could probably buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melaniebrian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game might not appeal to casual gamers. You will go long periods between save points which 
 make it difficult to play in short bursts and that may turn off some. But this is easily the best 
 J-rpg to come out since Final Fantasy XII. 
  The game design is very similar to Till the end of time, and thats not nessarily always a good 
 thing. But there are improvements in almost every area. The story is simple and straight forward, 
 but the charcter developement is excellent. I truly enjoyed the story right to the end and loved 
 the cast of charcters. Ill admit there are some cliche arc types, but hey... Its Star Ocean!!! 
 And it far from hurt the story telling. The voice acting is good but some of the voices simply 
 dont match the charcters. And the acting seemed uninspired. FFXII for example (to make the inevitable 
 comparision) had stellar voice actors where here, its a bit blah. 
  The battle system is mostly the same as the last SO, but the addition of jumping and Blindsides 
 is awesome. The combat improvements are great and I thought it made the fighting alot more fun.
 
  All and all this is an awesome rpg. If you hate j-rpgs theres alot here to hate, but if you love 
 them, man are you gonna love this one! 
  Star Ocean games have always been solid rpg's but have always lacked the polish and shine of Final 
 Fantasy titles. They simply havent had the production values or epic story lines to compete with 
 FF. But this one is diffrent. This game is wicked. They cut corners here and there, you'll see 
 it. But they delivered a great story with awesome cinamatics, next gen graphics, likeable charcters 
 and an interesting world to explore. For all the other Star Oceans have done well, this one far 
 excedes. Its a shame a game like this comes out at a time when money is tight and its cool to hate 
 this type of game. But let me say it agian, this is easily the best j-rpg to hit since FFXII and 
 fact is, I think it blows XII away! This games is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicDivision
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Star Ocean: The Last Hope is a unique take on the standard Japanese RPG. It takes aspects of the 
 "Tales" style action RPG and mixes it with some more technical pieces. What makes combat really 
 unique is the Blindside system, which allows you to get behind enemies and perform devastating 
 attacks. While far from the best combat experience in recent memory, it never feels boring or repetitive. 
 
  
  This game does have some significant downfalls, however; the combat introduction is performed entirely 
 in a "combat simulator", which is incredibly boring and uneventful. Additionally, while the game 
 is graphically sound, character animations, especially weapon movements and lips, look stiff. The 
 voiceovers are occasionally embarrassingly terrible, but for the most part are tolerable. 
  
  The game more than makes up for these in its engaging story, fun characters, and fast-paced 
 combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyek_1230
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so I am a big fan of RPG's. I have played the previous three Star Ocean games (with Star 
 Ocean: The Second Story being my favorite) , and so I had no hesitation in reserving and picking 
 up the fourth addition to the series, Star Ocean: The Last Hope.
  
  This review may contain possible spoilers? (nothing big, I assure you though)
  
  In the previous 
 three Star Ocean games, it was all about space exploration and eventually coming across an evil 
 that wants to destroy the entire universe, and it's up to you to stop it. Star Ocean: The Last 
 Hope, however, is a prequal to it's predecessors. The Last Hope takes place around the end of the 
 21st century, when a very little detailed World War III lays waste to the entire planet of Earth. 
 The civilians managed to live on in underground cities for several years, but none-the-less their 
 entire future was on the edge of a knife, and the only way they can be saved is if they can settle 
 on other planets. And that is where the main characters come in.
  
  To a casual RPG gamer, the story is probably nothing new to a lot of other games we have all played. 
 But if you are a Star Ocean fan, and always questioned yourself while playing the other games, 
 "How did they ever come about to be on these several different planets... Where and how did this 
 all start?" Well, my friends, it is all answered here.
  
  The Last Hope puts you in command of Edge Maverick, a 20-year-old earthling who is part of the 
 first mission into space to find and colonize other planets for the future survival of all other 
 earthlings. How a 20-year-old managed to land on such a important role, I don't know, but don't 
 get me wrong, Edge and his many friends are interesting characters and you should grow fond of 
 them (maybe not with their voices, but hey! You can turn them down or off in the Setting menu!)
 
  
  What Edge and his friends think is going to be an easy adventure, soon turns into a  
 adventure. But we all know what those are about, right?
  
  Anyways, let's get down to the it.
  
  The battle system is almost exactly like the previous 
 three Star Ocean titles, with maybe just a slight few changes and adjustments. None too critical 
 though, for if you have played any of the previous games, you'll feel right at home. If you haven't 
 however, you should know that it is fast-paced real time battling. You have the option of which 
 character to take control of (I've just always stuck with Edge, the others seem to do great on 
 their own accord) , and each character has his or her own special attacks and abilities. The regular 
 battles themselves usually only last an average of 10-20 seconds, as it usually just contains a 
 few weak monsters to dispose of. The boss battles can be challenging, and I don't think I have 
 come across one so far where I can actually say "That was easy!"
  
  Some new additions to the battle system (from the previous games) includes the Jump command, where 
 you can jump around the battlefield and can pull of certain aerial attacks. Also there is the Bonus 
 Board, which if you succeed in certain battle actions, grants you bonuses to experience, Fol, and 
 SKill Points earned after battle. (I found leveling up so easy, but then again I usually found 
 myself with a Bonus Board filled with EXP+, which ultimately gave me a 140% increase in total EXP 
 earned after battle. Now that is broken lol)
  
  Also, a new addition to the battle system is the Blindside command. If you are in front of an enemy 
 and they are in the process of attacking you, by the push of the button "B" you can circle around 
 that enemy and get in a few attacks. It is called Blindside simply because you move so fast around 
 the enemy that they lose track of you for about 3-5 seconds. It is not that hard to master, but 
 can be difficult to pull off when fighting multiple enemies at once (one of the other monsters 
 can attack you while you are blindsiding, nullifying it and leaving you confused for a few seconds) .
 
  
  Winning battles results in Experience, money (Fol) , and skill points gained. The Experience points, 
 of course, help your characters level up. The money is good to buy items, magic spells (symbology) , 
 weapons, armor, etc... And the skill points you can use to increase power and efficiency to a character's 
 special attacks or magic.
  
  I personally loved the battle system. It is fun and immersive, and I actually found myself wanting 
 to hunt down monsters just to go into battle.
  
  The graphics are superb. Not the greatest I have seen, but definantly pretty. Plants and trees 
 sway to the wind, water ripples and moves, characters have a blend of anime to them... you know, 
 typical Square-Enix RPG style. Nothing extroadanary, but nothing to under-appreciate. I specifically 
 noticed how Reimi's ponytail realistically flowed back and forth from her movements in the opening 
 cutscene. I know how little that sounds, and you're probably thinking "Ah, so what? This guy is 
 crazy!", but it should give you a taste of how much effort Square put into this game.
  
  I have to admit, the game consists of a lot of cutscenes, and from what I have heard (although 
 I don't think I have encountered one thus far) , a few last as long as 30-45 minutes. You may want 
 to smash your controller at these times, but with what you get to experience when the controls 
 are put back into your hand, it is all worth it. 
  
  One thing that really irritates me is that there is no way to hit pause or temporary stop the cutscenes 
 from happening. The few long cutscenes I have experienced so far (maybe 15 minutes long?) , there 
 were times when I had to answer a call of nature but there was no way to hit pause or stop gameplay! 
 And I didn't want to miss the cutscene so I was forced to watch it's long duration while torturing 
 myself... Maybe you won't exactly have the same story to tell as me, but it is frustrating knowing 
 you can't pause the game or anything.
  
  What to talk about now? Let's talk about the world and dungeon exploring. The worlds I have visited 
 so far are beautiful and large. What should have probably only taken 30 minutes ended up taking 
 3 hours as I explored every ledge and plant of the first world (I was sidetracked a lot... I'm 
 sure I wasn't the only one) .
  
  The dungeons are large and take up as lot of time. If you want to fully explore some of them, be 
 prepared to cut a few hours out of your life. And if a dungeon is followed by certain story elements, 
 add those long cutscenes to the mix. Not to mention that there is something to examine or explore 
 every few steps, and monsters crawling everywhere. So like I said, dungeons will take up a lot 
 of your time. 
  
  Item Creation is back, but a little revamped from Star Ocean 3. You only need to put heads together 
 to invent a new recipe, and once you have the recipe you can make that certain item, without fail, 
 as many times as you like (as long as you have the required items too!)
  
  The main story is it's own story, of course, but there are several side quests you can accept from 
 various NPC's around. Such quests may require you to kill a certain number of a certain monster, 
 or collect certain items, etc... You gain EXP and Skill Points for completing these quests, and 
 those certain NPC's will like you more.
  
  I cannot forget to mention the Private Action sequences! If you have played Star Ocean 3, you'll 
 know exactly what I'm talking about. Throughout the game, Edge can activate certain sequences between 
 himself and your other party members (they are usually out-of-the-way and hidden, so never hesitate 
 to explore!) . What may seem like a small and harmless conversation actually has a big role. The 
 Private Actions rather increase or decrease Edge's and that certain character's relationships, 
 which will have a big role on the ending of the game if a relationship was hurt deeply or increased 
 significally.
  
  What can I say about the game's score? It is typical RPG music... what more should I say? The music 
 plays to relate to a certain scene that is occuring, etc... I don't really need to cover more, 
 do I?
  
  OVERALL...
  
  CONCEPT --- The fourth addition to the Star Ocean series, but it is actually a prequal that lays 
 the groundwork that became the previous three Star Ocean stories
  
  GRAPHICS --- Reimi's ponytail flows back and forth as she moves certain ways. Beautiful worlds, 
 nice anime-blended characters, hell even the monsters were pretty
  
  SOUND --- Typical role playing game music. Nothing grand, but nothing that will make you want to 
 shove a hot iron into your ears
  
  PLAYABILITY --- Star Ocean fans will feel right at home. Those who are new must like real time battles 
 and a lot of exploration and interaction
  
  ENTERTAINMENT --- I am a Star Ocean fan, so I am having a lot of fun with this game so far. For 
 those who know nothing of the Star Ocean series, I will admit, I think you are missing out my friends
 
  
  REPLAY VALUE --- I see myself playing this game a few times before it gets old. There are four difficulty 
 settings, so the harder ones will produce more of a challenge later on
  
  A great game, to a great series, by a great game developer. Thanks Square Enix for a new Star Ocean 
 title. Don't let up on us!
  
  - Jared Langston (Tyek1230)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryfe777
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:39 pm PT
Review:  So I've been dying to play a sci - fi based RPG since I finished Mass Effect last year... now my 
 hunger has been satiated with Star Ocean : TLH. I've never played any other SO's before so I had 
 absolutely no expectations going into it.
  
  I love the battle system and all the individual upgrades (SP, CP, XP etc) . The graphics are superb 
 along with the animations both in battle and cutscenes. I can't wait to get to item creation (I'm 
 only 6 hours in) . The only gripe I can muster is that the camera is a bit touchy especially when 
 entering a building.
  
  In addition, although most might not consider it a negative, the main character, Edge seems like 
 a carbon copy Square Enix main protagonist. The other characters, particularly the Eldarians seem 
 unique and highly interesting, if not a vulcan archetype. 
  
  Trading in Last Remenant for this gem was the best gaming decision I've made since buying the 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headbanger1186
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing this game non-stop since i bought it and im just going to give you a quick 
 run down on both pros and cons...
  
  
  
  PROS: - Excellent graphics that are beautiful in every way.
  
  - Excellent combat system that 
 will keep you coming back for more time and time again. Come packed with so much depth, and customization 
 you will want to play through multiple times, and you can customize everything from skills to styles 
 to change up the combat all the time.
  
  - party members are also customizable and come with a ton of skills and trophies that beg collecting 
 and experimentation. Plus i also found each one to be refreshingly unique and endearing.
  
  -Massive amount of content... i don't even really have room to finish, but it includes a deep Item 
 creation, skills, trophies, dungeons, monster information collecting, secret bosses, arena, combat 
 bonus boards, and Story!
  
  Cons: - Well i really had to fight to find some flaws in this mammoth masterpiece but here are 
 the only ones i could think of...
  
  - Sometimes the cut scenes can drag up to 20-30 mins.
  
  - if you are far into the game to 
 back travel to old areas you have to input the corresponding disk.
  
  - some of the voice acting is a little so-so but nothing like the vomit inducing pain of Infinite 
 Undiscovery. 
  
  thats pretty much it guys. If you are a fan of RPGs i am telling you to buy this game you really 
 cannot go wrong!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Storm_Cell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  So far, after only 3 hrs of play time, I have enjoyed the newest installment. A few minor problems: 
 Square did a great job in using the IU Engine, but they failed to fix the text coloring with the 
 lighting. This make menus and text as hard to read as it was in Infinite Undiscovery.
  
  The updated battle system is great as well, but the texting coloring for the in battle menu is 
 a pain; also the fixed camera is great but would like a third level so I can stay in close to the 
 action and still rotate around the player I have selected.
  
  The cut scenes are amazing between the graphics and the audio ( if you bypass the lip-sync problems 
 from translation) . Also for anyone who took the time to try out The Last Remnant, and was totally 
 disappointed with the loading times -- REJOICE! The amount of time to load the scenes amazingly 
 fast. {Side note - I have Disc 1 installed to the HDD - I also installed LR Disc 1} .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: way2fast20
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I am about 4 hrs. into the game and I am loving it . Right off the bat you can tell that it is 
 a star ocean game. Just by the way the game starts off with edge (aka you) being your typical main 
 character for a star ocean's game . Being young, rebellious, and cocky but at the same time wanting 
 to prove himself as a leader as well as showing decent self discipline in front of authority. Another 
 thing I am very happy about in this installment is they did not stray away from the amount of detail 
 that goes in to the story line. Something that I personal have always loved about the star ocean 
 series. 
  
  The only down side i would have to say so far is the camera getting stuck behind objects when you 
 are too close to them but even that is a very minor inconvenience that corrects itself very easily. 
 
  
  Anyways back to finding new planets so that the human race may live on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho3441
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  This game turned out to be everything that I had hoped it would
  be. I'm not sure which game some of the critics were playing when
  they said the graphics could 
 have been better, but on my end the 
  graphics look great. Gameplay which reminds me a lot of the game
  play from 'Star Ocean: TtEoT' 
 with some changes runs great. Battles,
  at least for me have become very addictive and entertaining. The
  critics all seem to be slamming 
 on the voice-overs in the English
  Version. I have to say that they are right and it could have been
  done better, however this 
 in no way takes away from the overall
  shine of the game. Another thing that I am hoping for and can very
  easily see happening for 
 this game is added downloadable content.
  Hopefully we will see some of that in the following months. Anyone 
  who likes RPGs will love 
 the Story, Graphics and Gameplay of Star 
  Ocean: The Last Hope and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: originalchubbs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good JRPG! I am very happy with my purchase. this game takes me back to when i first 
 got into this Genre of games. Upgrading and battle system are fun and it is not to complicated. 
 Its not as complicated as lets say ELDER SCROLLS but its not ment to be. It is a Linear game but 
 it does offer side quests and you do have options like building weapons and such. fun game and 
 this game just makes me feel like i did playing the The second story on PS1 and the old Final Fantasy 
 games. This game is just right if you play on the medium level. Some of the battles are hard and 
 some are easy. I enjoy being able to control my guy and making him dodge and jump. the good thing 
 about that is even if your character is still a weak level your actual game skill can keep you 
 alive. Timing your rush meter and your counter attacks are very useful. Also, learning how to create 
 items is very beneficial in your survival. You can create weapons that are much more powerful then 
 items you can buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkgamespot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I know people have been disapointed in SquareEnix and Co. with thier most recent releases of Infinite 
 Undiscovery (IU) and The Last Remnant (TLR) . Trust this RPG gamer in that this game is AMAZING!!!! 
 
  
  Tri-Ace did a great job in making a vizually stunning game, chalk full of character -- challange -- and 
 funability. Really, the meaty part of an RPG is the battle system and Star Ocean 4 (SO4) shines 
 brighter then the final GOD boss in IU !!! The SO battle system is intact with 4 playable characters 
 that can be switched out on-the-fly in battle, providing the age old SO fanfare of allowing you 
 to get to know each character's strenghts and weaknesses in battle. Also, the addition of the 'Super 
 Sayian ala DragonBall Z' Rush system, Blindside & Rush Combo super moves make the battles FUN and 
 ENTERTAINING!
  
  The graphics are as stunning as they look on the Videos and Photos and the character and enemy 
 design is top notch. Also, the world and dungon design is a major step up from IU and does a great 
 job of emersing you into the game and story.
  
  While the music is not quite as good as TLR, mainly because it takes a back seat in the volume 
 department to the battle sounds and catch phrases shouted by your combatants, it is still great 
 and does a great job of painting the epic tale of space opra that is the great Star Ocean.
  
  Perhaps the best job by Tri-Ace was to make the Voice acting polished and give the gammer a 
 quality epic story filled with humor, excitement and tragedy. What else could an RPG gammer want? 
 *gammer crying at the famous japan style undies shot.... wheep.. wheep*
  
  I'm only 20 hours in but can't wait to see all the extra content in bonus dungons and quests!!
 
  
  GREAT JOB TRI-ACE!
  THANKS FOR GIVING US THE BEST TRUE RPG TO DATE FOR 360!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sciarrabba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 9:37 am PT
Review:  Well, this is my second star ocean game ive played. The graphics are amazing for the cinematics, 
 but for the in game, not so much. But don't let the graphics fool you, this game is amazing. Its 
 a real time rpg so its not like alot of other rpgs like final fantasy. What seperates this game 
 is the bonuses, crafting, and upgrades. When you do certain things like finish a guy with critical, 
 you earn a bonus trophy. This helps when there is 14 bonus board slots, so a max of 140% of either 
 exp, foil (currency) , sp, and something else. This makes it good for people who need to lvl characters, 
 or need money and what not. When you win battles, open chests, or complete quests, you earn sp. 
 Wtih these sp, you can upgrade your skills, abilities, and invention skills (like smithing) . I have 
 only begun playing this game, and its gonna be a long game, so don't think about trying to beat 
 the game in a week because completeing 3 discs is a lot of work. With the addition of monster jewels, 
 it adds even more variety and strategy. Although the graphics aren't the best, the style of this 
 game, side-quests, and intuitiveness is amazing. Definitly worth the cost. One of the better of 
 the RPGs for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbelGuy
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 25, 2009 12:58 am PT
Review:  Star Ocean : The last Hope is a fitting title for a RPG that was, for all intensive purposes, the 
 game that would convince Japanese gamers to buy a XBox 360. That is why it is such a shame that 
 the game did not live up to the "Square" portion of its publisher name. 
  During the introduction the game does show promise, however, its immense suckatude is displayed 
 as soon as the narrorator's deep, adult voice, meets the mouth of the protagonist, a seemingly 
 12 year old boy who (and this could totally happen in a futuristic nuclear post-apocaliptic earth. 
 Not.) happens to pilot a secret elite government ship. To add salt to a hyped up to get dissapointed 
 wound, the characters mannerisms during cut-scenes look half-assed and their lips aren't even closed 
 to in sync with their poorly casted voices. 
  Once you realize the script is a total joke, you begin to look for a saving grace to keep you from 
 turning off your XBox and watching a comedy or an action movie to take your mind off the fact that 
 you just spent 60 dollars you could have used to pay someone to tell you not to buy this game, 
 you look at the graphics. while they are impressive at first glance, then you realize that you 
 are playing this game on an XBox 360. Some of the cut-scenes, particularly when a space ship takes 
 off, look unfinished or maybe that the artist just said "eh. good enough".
  As far as the story and the battle system are concerned, its your typical one of each. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimwade
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This is what a Star Ocean game should look like. Stunning visuals, amazing battle system. It is 
 just overall a very fun and very gorgeous Japanese Role Playing Game. The characters are interesting, 
 and even the ones who are a bit on the quirky side, have very likable qualities about them. The 
 game is also very lengthy, and those accustomed to Role Playing Games will find that they can easily 
 put in 80+ hours into this game. After beating the story line, the real fun begins with the numerous 
 side quest dungeons ranging from difficult, to incredibly hard as all hell difficult. This is not 
 a game that should be overlooked. Even in a first quarter filled with the number of big name games 
 being released as this one. The prospect for download able content is also very high, thus keeping 
 the game around as a purchase, will definitely be worth it. I am basing my 10/10 without bias for 
 role playing games or the Japanese variety. I am using a standard of the genre itself. It is an 
 amazing RPG hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z-locked
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Highly addictive gameplay combined with likable characters equals lots of playtime with the game. 
 The areas are beautiful and truly looks next-gen. The voices are all great, really that's a matter 
 of opinion, I can't speak for everyone. The only thing I found missing was an online component. 
 Tri-ace could have easily installed an online verse mode. That would have add huge replay value. 
 The battle system, as most know, stands out the most. The added features such as the the Rush Gage 
 (Which can link character limit breaks similar to Final Fantasy 12) , Blind Sight, which is a cool 
 animation that catches the foe off guard if they target you, and the ability to jump have all made 
 the battle gameplay solid. Item Creation also returns with the ability to create recipes, then 
 create items and weapons when the needed components are available. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
