-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Trek: Legacy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sim/startreklegacy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 All five Star Trek series and captains tied together into one game.
 captures the grandeur and feel of Star Trek combat.
 iconic starships are modeled in good detail.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Multiplayer and skirmish modes feel tacked on.
 mission difficulty can be frustrating at times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 6.5, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 1,317 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Developer: Mad Doc Software
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date: Dec 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Star Trek Legacy for the Xbox 360 captures the grandeur and feel of the epic starship battles in 
 the famous television series. 

  It seems like a can't-lose proposition: a Star Trek game, arriving in the year of the franchise's 
 40th anniversary and featuring nothing but glorious starship combat, as well as the voices of all 
 five Star Trek captains. That sounds like paradise to Trek fans starved after an unexpected hiatus 
 from new games over the past several years. And in some ways, this is true, at least if you're 
 playing Star Trek Legacy on the Xbox 360. The Xbox 360 version is similar in many ways to the PC 
 version, but the big difference is that while the PC version is plagued with bugs and broken features, 
 the Xbox 360 version works fine. And the control scheme that was awkward with the PC's keyboard 
 and mouse is natural when used with the Xbox 360 controller. The result is a good starship combat 
 game that feels right at home on the Xbox 360.  

          Star Trek Legacy warps onto the Xbox 360, and it's a far better game than its PC counterpart. 
     

  Legacy puts you in charge of a one- to four-ship task force of Starfleet vessels, spanning the 
 entire breadth of Star Trek. You'll start with Archer, in the NX-01, before moving on to Kirk, 
 Picard, Sisko, and Janeway. The plot cleverly ties together all five Star Trek franchises by using 
 the Borg as the plot device. By chance, a typically long-lived Vulcan scientist learns about the 
 Borg during the early days of the Federation and figures out a way to become their queen, though 
 this quest will take decades. Along the way, she crosses paths with every famous Star Trek captain, 
 and each one will attempt to ascertain what she's up to and stop her. Sure, there's a lot of revisionist 
 history going on here -- enough to make any Trek purist's head spin -- but because Star Trek has always 
 felt free to tinker with its history, it's not horribly egregious.  

  As a game of starship combat, Legacy delivers on the majesty of Star Trek's starship battles. This 
 isn't a game of twitch reflexes or starships that maneuver like fighters. Instead, it's a game 
 of maneuvering, as you attempt to get your ship into position where it can bring its weapon banks 
 and torpedo tubes into action against an enemy. Thankfully, the control scheme is up to the task. 
 You'll use one joystick on the Xbox 360 control pad to control your starship while the other stick 
 moves the camera around. It takes a bit of practice, but once you have it down, you'll be able 
 to easily maneuver your starship in combat while keeping the camera fixed on the enemy.  

          Nearly every iconic starship is in the game, from the NX-01 to the mighty Sovereign-class 
 Enterprise.     

  You'll dive into a campaign filled with some good highs but also some infuriating lows. There are 
 plenty of massive battles to partake in, which is when the game looks best, as starships and explosions 
 fill the screen. There's a fair amount of thinking required because you can use the command screen 
 to order your task force to different parts of the battlefield. Thus, you can do a hit-and-run 
 on an enemy space station, fall back for repairs, or dive into the thick of the action to help 
 out allies. The downside is that you can't save at all during a mission, which means that if you 
 fail, you have to start the entire thing over. Considering some missions can easily last an hour, 
 the lack of an in-mission save gets annoying awfully quickly. It doesn't help that mission objectives 
 are sometimes hazy, and you'll zoom about trying to figure out what you need to do. At other times, 
 the mission objectives are insanely difficult, and you'll need to turn in a superhuman effort to 
 win. A case in point is a save-the-planets mission where you have to warp around and destroy stellar 
 debris before they crash into planets. However, the margin for error is so small that the slightest 
 misstep can cause mission failure.  

  The skirmish and multiplayer modes provide some interesting gameplay outside of the main campaign, 
 but it's a bit annoying that both modes follow the one-and-done formula. So every time you finish 
 a skirmish or multiplayer battle, you drop back to the main menu and have to set up another game. 
 If you're playing on Xbox Live with a good group of people, that's absolutely no way to keep the 
 good times going because someone has to restart the server after every mission success or failure. 
 Still, the multiplayer battles can be very tactical in nature because you can use the size of the 
 maps to warp around and hide from your enemy, or you can team up together to crush an isolated 
 foe. However, the battles do not provide a lot of variety. For example, there's a deathmatch game 
 that you can play in teams, or a co-op wave game, where all the players have to survive as long 
 as possible against a wave of endless enemies -- and that's about it. The multiplayer suite could 
 have been a lot better, but at least it works when compared to the PC version. The achievement 
 points are well distributed, so you'll be rewarded a fair amount for playing through the campaign. 
 You'll receive special rewards for doing so at higher difficulty levels or not losing a ship during 
 an era, which encourages long-term play and distinguished performance.  

  If you're a fan of the original Enterprise, the Enterprise-D, the Defiant, or any one of the many 
 iconic starships from the show, you'll be satisfied with the level of detail that's achieved in 
 the game. It looks even prettier during the large-scale battles, as Federation, Borg, Romulan, 
 and Klingon starships trade fire and explode. However, there are issues. Smaller vessels break 
 apart nicely, but the artists should be embarrassed by how badly anything large, like a space station 
 or a Borg cube, explodes. The Borg cube breaks apart, then a fresh cube appears in the middle of 
 the explosion and breaks apart; then another cube appears in the middle of that crack-up and breaks 
 apart, before the large chunky pieces spin in place like a top twirled at high speed. Then there 
 are the bumper-car physics. If a starship runs into anything, such as another vessel, an asteroid, 
 or even a ridiculously out-of-scale planet, it just rubs against it and then moves on. It's these 
 kinds of oversights that ruin the otherwise solid presentation.  

          You can also play as the Romulans, Klingons, or even the Borg in skirmish and multiplayer 
 modes.     

  Considering that Legacy boasts the voice acting talents of all five Star Trek captains, you'd think 
 that all the stops would have been pulled for the game's audio. But for the most part, the efforts 
 seem wasted because a number of the actors sound like they're dialing it in. William Shatner does 
 his best to infuse his unique delivery, but he also sounds every one of his 75 years at times. 
 Only the captains' voices make an appearance, because the story is told in overly long, drawn-out 
 voice-overs while the camera pans over ships and space stations. Riveting viewing it is not. The 
 music is typical Trek, which means noble orchestral themes for the most part. The sound effects 
 are also fairly authentic, though some of the phaser fire seems off. However, only hardcore Trek 
 fans should notice these details because they live for this kind of critiquing.  

  Despite some noticeable flaws, the Xbox 360 version of Legacy manages to capture the epic feel 
 of Star Trek combat like no other game to date. There's something captivating about watching these 
 stately and beautiful vessels fight and die onscreen, which is something that any Star Trek fan 
 who owns an Xbox 360 should definitely check out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (110 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dmajchrzak
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  I was _really_ excited to get this game... unfortunately, I'm left feeling disappointed. The graphics 
 are nice, playing the various factions and various ships are nice. But... the AI of the other 3 
 ships in your group is not good, you're left to jump around to the con of your various ships _alot_ 
 to keep them from blowing up. The difficulty of the different missions is wildly variable, from 
 wow-that-was-easy, to holy-cow-I'll-never-do-it. And planets are little spheres barely larger than 
 your ship. You can bump and "rub" them like a cat rubbing its masters leg.
  The other strange aspect is that you can have ships in your squadron with wildly different capabilities 
 and from different eras. Again, this just seemed too strange and not in alignment with canon.
 
  I so wanted to like this game. Too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mervyn1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  I am a big Trek fan and enjoy nearly all the games with the star trek name that come along with 
 the exception of new worlds.
  
  Yes it is nothing new in star trek legacy as it has been done before with star trek starfleet command 
 (empiers at war was best) but being able to play as (Archer, Kirk, Picard, Sisco and Janeway) is a 
 new idea. the controls are all over the place and the ships do not follow your orders (assuming 
 you can work out how to order them) but the story gets more interesting as you go and the fact 
 you get to blow up other ships is fun.
  
  The vocie overs are great with all the captains doing there characters but there could be more 
 depth. 
  
  
  It does not offer much new except the playable captains but for a trek fan who just like to control 
 ships no matter how painfully awkward they will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2008 2:45 am PT
Review:  Star trek legacy 
  
  St
  The game play 
  
  You are the captain of the federation ship enterprise as you go through the missions you get the 
 upgraded enterprise from the enterprise A to the USS enterprise D (Picard's ship)
  Your enemies are everyone from the Borg to the klingons. 
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics 
 are very good the detailing on the ships and the phazors are amazing and when you fire a photon 
 torpedo you can see where it is going also when you go in to warp the background is distorted and 
 the ship is stretched and when you go in to warp the ship goes back to it normal size because the 
 camera has court up with the ship and you can see all of the stars shooting past you. 
  
  The sound 
  
  The sounds are very good when you start you engines you can hear them power up 
 and start moving the ship also the phazors you can hear when you fire them and lock on to a target, 
 you can even hear the captain give the orders and the crew responding, also they tell you when 
 a order can not be performed, also when you go in to warp you can hear the engine really power 
 up ready for warp. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael39238
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 22, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Coming from the perspective of a Star Trek fan, its nice to see models of all the ships and take 
 a little control over systems to alter the tide of a battle. And, the use of the actors' voices 
 for the main starship captains gives it a nice feel. But if you're a fan of the series, you'll 
 be disappointed to find a throwaway storyline and somewhat uninspiring mission details.
  
  The gameplay is interesting since you're moving around these large ships which neither stop on 
 a dime nor turn quickly; some basic physics helps you out by cutting your impulse engines to perform 
 a faster turn. But you're not going to be running "evasive pattern delta"  or whatever  its basically 
 a typical turn-and-gun dogfight.
  
  When running with a fleet (of up to 4 ships) I'm still a bit bewildered as to how much myself or 
 the AI contributed to the outcome of the fight. There is some definite strategy, but its basically 
 a numbers game, with a little bit of timing thrown in.
  
  Combat does get somewhat predictable on occasion. I don't like to read manuals, so it took me a 
 bit to figure out some of the more advanced targeting; however it seemed to have less of an effect 
 than I would have expected. And the reaction of the enemy AI didn't give me the feel of more than 
 a robotic opponent. There are plenty of games where you run off and heal, and in this case, that 
 amounts to diverting all power to shields and warping out of range of being interesting, at which 
 point you repair the hull, swing back, and give it another go.
  
  One gaping hole is the lack of any reason to avoid ship collisions other than it seems awkward; 
 and I certainly would have liked the massive planets to have gravity (and atmospheric burn)  as 
 opposed to an invisible barrier of how close you can get to a planet.
  
  Graphics wise things look decent if not great; I think the output is less on this game than some 
 of the newer ones which shine on a 52" HD. Some of the explosion visuals are sub-par, but there 
 are good effects showing the relative damage on your ships.
  
  Those problems aside, there are some legitimate challenges and some missions you'll have to repeat 
 a few times to get right. The common weapon types (phasers and photon torpedoes) have different 
 effects, and you have to maintain some positioning to get the most effective shots. 
  
  Other features such as using the hail or transporter require you to make active use of your imagination; 
 they are simply mini plot devices and you're not actually beaming over to disable such-and-such 
 shield.
  
  Overall its a decent game and I don't know of any other large-starship type combat games to compare 
 it to. For Star Trek fans, its like a small snack which might be worth a few bites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent3810
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  When the PC version of Star Trek: Legacy came out, it had numerous bugs and glitches. There was 
 even one bug which locked the game when you entered the Pause menu (Luckily, this bug was fixed 
 with an update that came out a day later) .
  The controls were also pretty **** up. You had to use keys spread all over your keyboard, PLUS 
 the mouse to move the camera.
  
  The Xbox 360 version is much better.
  The controls are much easier to handle, and much of the bugs have been fixed.
  Some of the annoying 
 features of the PC version are still there, like when you crash into a planet or space station, 
 you just fly on easily, and nothing takes damge.
  Also, you still can't create your own Skirmish fights, you can only select your own ships.
  But 
 that does'nt really matter, because in the real Star Trek, i don't think Starfleet picks they're 
 own enemies.
  "Hmmm.... today i want to fight a Klingon Bird-Of-Prey".
  
  The missions are quite hard, and easily take a long time.
  The graphics are still pretty good, 
 as well as the music.
  It also has voices of all the main captains from the series.
  
  Overall, it's a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Bethesda Studios offered Trekkies another whack at a Star Trek game. They promised us that it would 
 be everything we ever wanted. Graphics, Gameplay and an online mode way advanced then any other 
 Star Trek game, is this telling much hell no. Star Trek games have always been know for the most 
 part to be Bargain Binners. Horrible games made for the whole 5 Trekkies who buy it just to own 
 something with Star Trek in the title. Bethesda doesn't fail in this title but they are far from 
 creating a new beginning for the Star Trek games.
  
  Bethesda first annouced the main great thing about Legacy is its ability to incorporate fans from 
 all series. Enterprise, The Original Series, The Next Generation, Deep Space Nine, Voyager, there 
 all here. This game does an amazing job of making you feel like you are advancing through the crews. 
 Moving through the ranks from the Enterprise NX-01 to The Original Series Enterprise. Which brings 
 the question. Was Bethesda smart enough to bring the Captains from the television shows? The answer 
 is a satisfying YES. If this game will bring anything successful to your living room its the sensational 
 voice of Patrick Stewart, Scott Bakula, William Shatner... There all here, amazing.
  
  Now according to your era you play in you will be put through a series of missions for each era 
 which will probably piss the living hell out of you. Most of the missions are tedious and lame. 
 They provide no more information on the series as like a back drop (See Lost: Via Domus) . The story 
 itself for each era feels empty and very deprived of anything Star Trek. Most the time its defending 
 a ship or a series of ships or engaging in combat, over and over and over. You might think, hell 
 that is awesome. Yeah it is awesome in a mini scrimage game. In a Single Player campaign it is 
 weak.
  
  Now you may ask, does it get any better in the game. The answer is yes but not much. Ship combat 
 is decently done. Combat between ships is as simple as holding down a button targeting and firing. 
 You press a button then a torpedo comes out. Repeat process. Then there is another button to increase 
 your ships impulse speed. Then there is another to send you in Warp. None of it is difficult to 
 control and this is really rather simple for most people just trying to get in. With a quick button 
 you can also reroute support to weapons, engines, shields and scans. This can increase your combat 
 chances agaisnt other vessels. This makes the game almost an RPG element and can be extremely fun.
 
  
  Online in Legacy seems also like the Campaign, there for looks but deprived of anything making 
 it great. Online is simple you verse between 2-4 other players to fight in combat. You get an amount 
 of money to pick between 1-4 ships and well you go to combat. Simple as that the entire game. You 
 can make teams to increase your fun but it doesnt get really any more advanced from there. The 
 lack of online community is also there. You will generally only find like a game or two of people 
 playing that are die hard Trekkies. After a quick game or two then you had enough.
  
  So, the question still remains is Legacy a game you should spend your precise money on? Yes, this 
 is a decent put together game that you will get a decent 10 or so hours of fun before you either 
 put it away or resell it. Legacy is a mediocre title that doesn't lay anymore tile on the already 
 destroyed Kitchen that is Star Trek. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 29, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Midget fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Name: Star Trek: Legacy
  
  Difficulty: Very Hard
  
  Learning Curve: 1 hour
  
  Score: 
 1 out of 10
  
  This review is going to be short, because I couldn't beat the game, I only got a couple missions 
 into this space born poo bomb of a game. The controls are impossible, the combat is tailored to 
 help the AI more than you, you can't seem to really advance and to top it off the ships are sluggish 
 as all hell. This was a huge failure in my eyes. No wonder Star Trek is dead. With games like this. 
 The idea is great but good luck trying to get that far. This game gets a 1 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richmaester6907
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Ahhhh star trek that old chessnut the old fans getting to run around in brillaintly designed ships 
 and fun combat situations. This is what star trek legacy seems to offer to people who arent even 
 dedicated fans which is what the game does. 
  
  The campaign is very linear unfortunately with 15 missions covering all the known TREK areas from 
 archer in the old school NX to captain picard in the finest ship in the federation fleet. The game 
 itself is very fun the missions are sometimes simple kill everyone you meet but some do actually 
 have better meaning like stop asteroids destroying an entire sector! (annoying but a good mission 
 in the end) or hold the borg off while we evacuate an entire sector (a fun mission full of cannon 
 fodder) 
  
  But the game itself lacks something, for a start the AI although not completely stupid only feels 
 50% complete and thats just the enemy fleet the allied ships arent much helps unless you keep control 
 of them all which isnt too difficult but is very annoying. And using a 2D map for a 3D space game 
 wasnt the best of ideas but it does work to a certain point.
  Multiplayer can be fun but only usually 1vs1 anything above is almost impossible due to XBOX LIVE 
 issues that the game has. 
  
  Overalll the game doesnt feel completely finished does make a good impression if only there was 
 a patch to fix the bugs and the online issues this game could be a 9.0!!!!! anyway in the end star 
 trek legacy is a brilliant game for new fans and it contains a strong story for the old school 
 fans even if the storyline appears to be ambitious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdmiralX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I mean it... this from a huge ST fan. This is the 360 for crying out loud! The game itself looks 
 like it could have run on the Dreamcast. Don't get me wrong. It's a fun game, a bit challenging 
 in areas. A dang near impossible Asteroid level on the Captain or Admiral settings. It has it's 
 moments. It definitely does. Yet it leaves you wondering if it could have been better, and that 
 is not a good sign. First off, the moment you pop in the CD and watch the opening credits. It just 
 looks unpolished. The ship graphics are great... nice detail... as it should be. Yet it was like 
 everything else in the galaxy was just left undone. Some planets as you pass by have blurry textures. 
 That is blasphemous!!
  
  Let's leave the textures aside for a moment. As you start your journey... your in with the birth 
 of the Federation and in the NX-01 with Jonathan Archer. Cool. As you expect, the first few missions 
 are not that hard as you learn to pilot and the controls. Yet before you know it... that era is 
 done, and you swiftly move on to TOS. Which is really the meat of the game. Or so you think. A 
 couple missions later your in the TOS refitted Enterprise-A era (TMP) . Which is nice to see, but 
 your not there that long at all. As you jump straight to TNG. Well right before it, as you have 
 one mission in the USS Stargazer (the dreaded Asteroid Level) . Not bad, though this level really 
 takes a hit in the points you get to spend, so spend wisely before this level. Once you get into 
 the true TNG and the Galaxy Class Enterprise, your quickly moving on to the Sovereign Class... which 
 takes you to the end of the game. Don't get me wrong, I liked it... I just wished we could have 
 stayed in certain eras longer. I felt rushed through. Of course you can hang in certain eras while 
 online through multi-player. But I just wish that the game itself took it's time to tell the story 
 rather than rushing through.
  
  Which brings me to the story. If you are a die-hard ST fan... who is really a stickler for canon. 
 I wouldn't play this game if I were you. It's a nicely plotted story that interweaves the eras 
 together. Hearing Kirk mention Jonathan Archer's missions, gave me goosebumps. But just be prepared 
 for a little creative license when Kirk fights the Borg... and ultimately learning of the "new" 
 Borg Queen.
  
  As a fan, I want to sit here and glow all over one of the best Star Trek games on any system... ever. 
 It is. But I have to be honest... it's not worth a 9.0, it's not worth an 8.0. There is just too 
 much that could have been with this game to go any higher than I did. It's the 360, dang-it. Push 
 the envelope a little. It feels like a game that had a good premise, and was pitched correctly... but 
 then got hurried through the process to hit the shelves on time.
  
  It's a story that weaves, Archer, Kirk, Picard, Sisco, Janeway... all together in a nice story that 
 does make sense... though a little canon rearranging here or there.
  
  I will say it is annoying to have your fleet warp ahead of you right into danger getting plastered 
 by a Borg Cube, when your stuck behind a planet trying to catch up. But that is a small consolation. 
 Though it makes up to be able to warp around in a cloaked Bird of Prey for a mission.
  
  All in all... the textures, the rushed along missions (finished the game in roughly 12 hours) , skipping 
 from era to era too quickly... just brings down what could have been something very special. If 
 you have friends that share your love of anything Trek... multi-player might be the only reason 
 to buy. Flying around as a Borg Cube isn't bad either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: USS-Voyager
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is great in very many areas. First it has beautiful graphics you can tell tons of time 
 went into teh design of these ships. The campaign is has a good story that ties in all of the captains 
 into one main story line. And most importantly, the gameplay is excellent. Granted all you do is 
 fly around and shoot things with your phasers and photon torpedos, but that is actually really 
 addicting. There is some strategy in the game and that is mostly when you are picking the ships 
 you want to take into battle against your foe. Also there is also some strategy in the gameplay, 
 you must decide when and with what ship to attack, and when to retreat. There are dozens of different 
 ships to choose from, including Federation ships, Klingon ships, Romulan ships, and yes even Borg 
 ships. And, one of the coolest aspects will mostly appeal to Trek fans, they got the voices of 
 all five captains! This is really cool to hear Kirks vice when you are flying around the original 
 Enterprise. One thing though that is dumb is that the planets and ships are completly off scale. 
 If you have a big ship like the Galaxy Class starship, you will find that it is as large as half 
 of most of the planets! That is kind of annoying. Overall, Star Trek Legacy is a great game that 
 I think everyone should play it, but if you are not a Trek fan it would probably smart to rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiiperDrive
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  If you have watched any of the Star Treks series it is quick to realise that the developers have 
 really abided by one of the most simple rules, keeping the game within the roots of the show, with 
 Enterprise, The Original Series and Next Gen eras you can easily see why ST has been such a fad 
 across the globe.
  To start of the all three series stick with the same plot so there is a link between all the series, 
 but i won't go in-depth or tell the plot (or at least i'll try!) but there are some nice big battles 
 which will wet the apetites of any action lovers, and plus, if you want to just jump straight into 
 kicking the asses of the romulan or federation fleets you can go into the 'skirmish' mode, just 
 like in RTS games and the like.
  Also in this trek game are some very nice visuals, they are in pin-point accuracy with all, or 
 at least of the ships in all races and eras to add to the big battles if your a fan of the series 
 this will really up the rating for you, and also are some really great maps to battle in, however 
 the ships are largely out of scale with the planets (but this should'nt bother you too much in 
 the end) .
  Laslty in the positive areas of the game there are all correct voices so fan-favourites such as 
 Janeway and Archer are all the same and can add to that cinematic feel that game delivers aswell.
 
  On the downside, the mulltiplayer doe'nt play feels half-baked and that it could really have been 
 expanded to add to the great campaign mode and innovative controls, and also that the gameplay 
 itself may feel a little slow-paced if you love to get stuck in straight away (as warp has a recharge 
 time) .
  But overall this game is a game addition to the star trek universe and i would reccomend it to 
 action and trek fans everywhere, with little, minor downsides i'd say that this game delivers well.
 
  
  /HiiperDrive Out\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHSWarrior655
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  First off, I'm a huge Star Trek fan since the age of 2 and continue to be one to this day. I have 
 played almost all the Star Trek games, and was really looking forward to this one because it was 
 going to have everything we could want: all 5 series together in one story, all these ships, wonderful 
 environments, everything a Trek fan could hope for. And then this got released, along with the 
 chagrin of every Trek fan who bought a 360 for this game.
  
  SINGLE PLAYER: Great in some parts but lacks any great cohesion. Also, it as been discovered that 
 6 missions were never made to accommodate the time schedule, and also due to time, we got crap 
 levels like Revelations (to me the worst level ever in a video game) . Also kind of disappointing 
 that we could never use command points to upgrade our ships like we should've been able to. Personally, 
 I also found lack of Sisko-featured missions disturbing (The man was awesome and you give him ONE 
 level! BS!) Aside from those issues and general  gameplay, and 
 it is a great joy.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: First, WHAT MULTIPLAYER?! We got no options for historic Trek battles, no 2 player 
 head-on combat unless it was over Xbox Live, and assuming you can even find a match now, it is 
 so buggy that you will in constant fear of not only being defeated, but dropping at any moment. 
 Thankfully, aside from five Live-based achievements you can get with a friend in an hour, you don't 
 really have to spend too much time playing since no one really cares anymore.
  
  OPINION: In my own opinion, and you could agree with me or not, the really downside to this game 
 was TIME. Bethesda and Mad Doc were so geared to get this out by the end of 06 that it really hampered 
 and dropped the quality of the game. Personally, I would've waited till 08 even if I knew that 
 time would improve upon it. Just proves that crap is always produced on rushed things.
  
  CONCLUSION: In all, it is an enjoyable game if you can get past all the issues that it has. Hopefully 
 if they make Legacy 2, they'll learn from their mistakes and actually the game the way it was supposed 
 to be. I would hate for Star Trek games to continue the suckiness that is attributed to them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  STL is a great game with intense space battles! The last game that I played like this that was 
 fun was Klingon Academy. If your expecting that kind of game then that what your getting. If not 
 then don't bother with this.
  
  This game is basically a Space Combat Sim. You control a ship or groups of ships and fly them around 
 and do missions or separately do skirmishes online and off. In this game you get to do ALL the 
 ships, yes ALL of them from all the eras which makes it really awesome for nerds like myself. Online 
 you can control the ships from other species including the Borg which all look the same and are 
 either really horrid or really good, it all depends on the player.
  
  Lets get the least cared about thing here. GRAPHICS. Its space. Theres not much to stare at anyways. 
 So all the detail is in the ships so obviously the game looks good. I thought they could have done 
 better overall but I am not complaining. When your in a firefight with multiple ships its a blast 
 (no pun intended) and the damage to the ships is great as always!
  
  The controls I thought would be hard as with any game like on ANY system including PCS. But oddly 
 enough they are actually easy. But with anything its controlling RIGHT that makes a good captain. 
 Torpedoes don't fire from the side of your ship you know.... well not most ships.
  
  The sound and music is better then average but nothing amazing. I would say its the best ever but 
 I am a trek nerd so I am biased. The trek sounds are cool so what can I say. On a plus side though 
 the captains of the ships from all the eras are the ACTUAL voices from the series. No fake stand 
 ins here. 
  
  Negatives? Well online I wasn't crazy about. Since all ships are unlocked for online its always 
 the same massive ships all the time just like in any game the best item/weapon/vehicle... etc gets 
 chose. So it gets boring.
  
  In single player the one thing that annoyed the heck out of me and really brought down some score 
 points was the fact is you can't save during missions AT ALL. And this game is so darn picky that 
 you mess up one little bit and the mission fails and you do it ALL OVER. So an hours work for nothing. 
 On harder difficulties you get really annoyed. Especially on the last mission.
  
  Overall at least rent the game and only buy it if you REALLY like Star Trek or think you would 
 be willing to play Skirmishes by yourself because the story isn't worth replaying and the online 
 was dead to begin with. But overall its still great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoooovie-land
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Star Trek Legacy is Made by the same people who brought us Oblivion. So it must be a good game 
 right? WRONG. The game play is interesting and the space battles stay true to the series and there 
 is a good plot line that ties all of the genres together. With that being said there are problems 
 to the game. Sometimes the space battles are too hard it will have you throwing the controller 
 at the screen (but eventually get the hang of it) . All of the actors for the CAPTAINS are doing 
 the voices for them. Except William Shatner sounds like a Zombie During his Parts. Anyway The controls 
 are hard to get use to because you are constantly pressing more than five buttons at once to fight 
 during battles. The multyplayer is fun for a little while but it just gets boring. If you are a 
 hardcore fan of the series by all means buy it. But if your just someone who heard about it go 
 ahead and rent it its the best way to play it and save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushahid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Okay... so I got this game for less than $10. It isn't worth a lot more than that, true - but if 
 you can find it for around that price (or if you can rent it) then it is a pretty good game.
  
  Serious flaws make it way worse than it should have been, as people have already noted. Having 
 no save points is kind of stupid, for one thing... and - well, there are issues and they are well 
 documented. No real cut scenes, irritating issues with ship selection, no upgrades for actual or 
 other fun RPG type things that would have been awesome.
  
  On the plus side, once you get past all that this is an all right game. I'm a huge Trek fan, so 
 I'm biased there - in fact, if you aren't a Trek fan... don't buy this game. Also, I'm really into 
 achievements right now and this game has some of the best looking achievement icons around, for 
 what it is worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinballman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  There have been many game's out based on the Star Trek brand and some have been decent for the 
 time and the format it was on ! The Star Trek Legacy was released for many formats such as the 
 xbox 360 . The graphics are the best i have seen in a long time for a game of this type . The controls 
 for the ship's is not to hard but does have a learning curve . The sounds in the game are really 
 well done and fit verry well for the game . The different amount of ships you can play makes it 
 fun , from hunting down the borg or being the borg to destroy everyone else . There are so many 
 ships to select from , you will end up having a great time with any of them. I have played other 
 types of Star Trek games and liked them alot . So when i seen Star Trek Legacy was out for the 
 xbox 360 . I placed my order for it ASAP . Only thing i could say after playing it for awhile this 
 was the best star trek game to date . The makers of the game really done everything well and have 
 put out a great game ! If your into space ship fights or a star trek fan then i would say this 
 game is for you ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikomas
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game i had really high expectations but this game.......... after 6 hours i 
 hated it so much i just wanted to break the DVD in half.....
  
  Im not going to explain this any further but this is how i feel.
  You'r free to criticise anything 
 i say but this game just didn't feel right.
  
  The graphics were horrible and it did a poor job of telling you what to do and when you was supposed 
 to protect something Even on EASY it was just destroyed over and over and over.
  
  Anyways im a big fan of RTS and strategy games and this was a total letdown for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valentin_69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  The game was good for like the first 2 min. of play. then i just got tired of flying around and 
 around and around in circles shooting at the same ship. the fleet aspect of the game is a great 
 idea but just did not work well with the game. don't get me wrong i love star trek. hell I'm a 
 reel Trekkie ( been to conventions and all) but they need to get there act together with there 
 games! i feel that the makers of the star trek games need to pay more attention to star wars and 
 maybe then i would look forward to the next game paramount puts out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  It was the star trek game that looked like it may of just been one of the good ones and not a rip 
 off piece of crap. I was wrong. It ended up being a very boring slow crappy game.
  
  I think the biggest problem is the game play is just way to simplified and just seems boring. The 
 game play is like way back in time compared to say star fleet commander. You can't target specific 
 ship parts its just disappointing. The graphics also are pretty damn lacking for a 360 game. It 
 seems like its caught in the void between Xbox and x box 360. And the void of way old star trek 
 games and star fleet command.
  
  If you are a star trek fan hoping this will be the game for you. Its not. Its just a big bag a 
 disappointment. The multi player is pretty lame also. The only good part is it actually has a very 
 large ship selection.
  
  The game play pretty much plays like this. You warp in your fighting you target a ship fire lasers 
 till shields fail. Then shoot torpedoes. Your damaged you either go to a repair station or click 
 the repair button and just click everything. Its just a very large disappointment. Very lacking 
 in detail and how star trek works. It really stuns you when you look at Bethesda and see such a 
 disappointment with there success in the oblivion games. All in all rent before buy. Its a very 
 large disappointment and well defiantly a better rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJosh
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Having played both PC and 360 versions of Legacy and writing the review for the 360 version is 
 clear to say that the 360 verson is by the better of the two making an enjoyable ST sim game.
 
  
  The game takes you through all three eras and 5 shows with cameo voices from all 5 captains and 
 there respectable ships.
  
  As you progress through each era you uncover more of the running story line which is revealed more 
 as you progress through, and it is this storyline that really makes the game besides being in a 
 multi player battle.
  
  Like ST you get the ships that come with it and its not really until TOS ear that you get to use 
 some of your favourite ST vessels. You range from Archers Enterprise NX to Picards Sovereign class 
 battleship.
  
  Besides the single player option of the game that is let down by it only one save slot and no in 
 gaming saving. But the games saving grace is its multi player option and Xbox Live game play, when 
 you can pit your skills up against four others in a ship to ship battle.
  
  Legacy is in no way game of the year or the best game in the ST line up, but on that note it is 
 no way the worst. It has decent graphics and game play but most of all its a ST ship sim game and 
 what Trekkie would'nt like that???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tanjo22
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  The ships are slow and hard to turn around (except the defiant) , which isn't that great since 80% 
 of the battles depend on you flying in circles chasing romulans, klingons or the borg. They said 
 you could play as all of the major races . Okay, where is the ferengi? Or the vulcans? There's 
 a great deal of major races that aren't in the game. The campaign mode just sucks, it's repetitive, 
 boring, and you end up dying most of the time because your ships AI suck and you have to restart 
 the mission over again, but the thing is most missions take a half hour or more to complete.
  
  Skirmish mode is a bit better, however the levels suck. None of them feel unique. All of the 
 levels are small, and filled with too much planets, nebulas (the nebulas are everywhere, in every 
 level) and asteroids. You can't warp if you're near a planet, you can't warp if you're in a nebula 
 and if you manage to warp past those you run into a bunch of asteroids. So warping in skirmish 
 is usless, which isn't very helpful if you're about to die and need to escape for repairs. Plus, 
 in every level there are these weird dots everywhere. They sort of look like snow just floating 
 there. It looks kind of cool when you're warping, but when you aren't they're just annoying and 
 they look stupid. Tractor beams, hailing, long range sensors and transporting are all useless in 
 skirmish, so you can't take over space stations or tractor things (just for fun) .
  
  If you want to fight the federation, don't expect to fight anything other than the best ship for 
 that generation (for example the sovereign class in next generation mode, or the borg tactical 
 cube) . You can't customize the ships you want to fight. It's automatically decided. That gets very 
 old and stale after about 5 battles.
  
  The fighting is completley unfair. For example, if you're fighting a federation sovereign class 
 battleship as a romulan d'derex battleship, you have no chance of surviving because the federation 
 and the borg completley overpower the klingons and the romulans.
  
  The ships are O. K., but for 150-2000 foot long ships, they don't feel very large. You have one 
 camera view, which you can turn in full 3d, however you can't go in and out, so all of the ships 
 feel like they're the same size. When you run into a ship, planet, asteroid, or space station you 
 simply slide off it. It looks horrible and unrealistic, and if there wasn't so much crap in all 
 of the levels you wouldn't need that. The weapons suck too. First of all, they don't even sound 
 like they do on tv, and secondly it's impossible to shoot them because you're always moving around. 
 It's like a cat chasing it's tail. The klingons want to get behind you for the tactical advantage, 
 and so do you. You always have to press RB to lock on to the other ship.
  
  If your ship gets heavily damaged, and you get a chance to fully repair it, you still go at half 
 the speed you started with, and for some reason it takes 3 or 4 seconds for your weapons to charge 
 just one bar. You're better off just self destructing the ship.
  
  The voice acting sucks, and having janeway, picard, kirk, sisko and archer doesn't mean they don't 
 sound like they're sitting in a studio reading from a script. There is no emotion. As for the other 
 crew members, think of it as oblivion in space. Bethesda really needs to hire a new voice staff. 
 The scottish guy sounds like argonians and kajiit, another one of them sounds like a nord male, 
 and another one sounds like a dunnmer female. The klingons sound like imperials, etc. They suck. 
 There is about 4 things every race says every 5 seconds during every battle. Fools! you're clearly 
 outmatched , We are the borg, you will be assimilated and Fight, you honourless dogs! among the 
 most annoying. Overall I hate this game, but I still play it because it's the only star trek game 
 I own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  This game should have kicked ass, in several areas. The idea sounds amazing, the voice actors are 
 excellent, and the premise for the story is awesome. Unfortunately, it fails in all of those elements. 
 Yes, even the voice acting sucks.
  
  
  Gameplay: Not good folks. Starships handle like big-rigs in space, with the exception of the Defiant 
 (which was very fun to play with!) Most levels were very simple. One level is beyond frustrating 
 to play, with stupid AI always being the reason you lose the mission. THe AI in general is just 
 downright AWFUL. Graphics: Not that great. Pretty boring and plain environments. Ships look OK, 
 but not great. I think the Borg ships look best.
  
  Sound: How did they screw this up? With the voice actors they have, why do they sound so mechanical. 
 Patrick Stewart has such a great voice, but why does he sound like he's reading a script? He didn't 
 sound that way in Oblivion! Honestly, the sound was not very good, which is too bad.
  
  Story: Great idea, very bad execution. The cutscenes are boring and half-assed. It tells the story 
 as if no effort went into it.
  
  Value: It's a very short game. Maybe 7 hours tops. Worth buying? Not a chance! Worth renting? If 
 you're a fan of Star Trek, then yes, but mainly for the interesting story Idea. If you're not a 
 fan, then it's not worth renting. The AI is terrible, the control is bad and the missions are not 
 fun. Even with few missions, they get repetative.
  
  I will say i think the last mission is a blast. Actually, once you get the Defiant and Enterprise 
 E, it turns into a pretty competent game. Those two ships feel right. They feel powerful, fast, 
 and responsive. Everything before that is not so fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dutch
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. I rarely play the single player missions on any game more than twice 
 through. But this game I played completely through all three levels of diffiiculty. I liked both 
 the action and the graphics. There are few space-based games for the 360 out there -- this one is 
 definitely worth getting. I like how the missions progressed chronologically through three different 
 eras, with the actors portraying the different captains being involved in different missions. There 
 probably will never be an opportunity for the five captains of Star Trek history to get together 
 on a project again -- that's another reason I enjoyed this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthzew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek games have always been some of the most underrated games. Believe it or not, one of 2000's 
 best games was a Star Trek game (Star Trek Voyager: Elite Force) ! However, Legacy is just one more 
 mediocre mark on Star Trek's track record.
  
  The single player campaign is an interesting concept that spans all of the Star Trek timeline and 
 manages to be one story. The story is disappointing and as a Trekkie there are some continuity 
 errors that I've noticed. The campaign isn't really rewarding, replayable or immersive. And some 
 of the missions are overly difficult and likely to be frustrating. The controls and gameplay are 
 the best parts of the game. The controls feel great after you've become accustomed to them. After 
 a while, you'll find yourself maneuvering your ship to fire the forward and aft torpedo banks and 
 the more powerful phaser banks. The game has four basic classes of ship, ranging from scouts to 
 battleships. There aren't any real differences besides weapons and speed. Only the biggest ships 
 are really worth using in terms of usefulness. Adding to that, the multiplayer and skirmish modes 
 feel tacked on. For instance, it's impossible for you to have a big fleet and the enemy just have 
 one big ship. The enemy AI will automatically fill up his fleet boxes because you can only select 
 a maximum ship number. I'd love to find out how Voyager would fare against Voyager, but that can't 
 happen because the only way I can give him enough money and one ship gives him too much money and 
 he'll automatically choose a Sovereign class. It's frustrating. However, I have lots of fun setting 
 up skirmishes and just playing around. I love Star Trek battles and usually find the battles fun 
 and rewarding, even though the options are limited. An example of what they could have been, can 
 be found in Star Trek: Starfleet Command.
  
  I'm giving gameplay a generous 9. Although it's stricken with problems, it's still fun. The games 
 graphics could have been a perfect 10/10. The ship models look absoloutley brilliant and I find 
 myself simply marveling the beauty of the Excelsior class ship. And then, as you play, ships take 
 physical damage, which looks cool, although it seems to just pop up out of nowhere. Ship explosions 
 look nice, but some of the larger ships look like crap when they blow up. For instance, you'll 
 see five or six nacelles explode when a Galaxy class ship blows up. Also the planets are ludicrously 
 out of scale.
  
  I'm giving graphics a nine as well, because they're great but still lacking what they could have 
 been with some more effort.
  
  The sound is pretty good. The sounds sound like they should, but the voiceovers are lackluster, 
 even though they're the real voices of the captains. Shatner shows obvious age, Stewart has some 
 weird moments, and Bakula's not a good voice actor.
  
  Therefore, a nine.
  
  The game has valued well for me, I come back and play the skirmishes frequently. However, it's 
 not what it could have been: NINE!
  
  I've tilted this game down to a 7.5, because I feel that this game is only 3/4 of what it should 
 have been. It feels like my homework assignments in a lot of ways: just enough to get by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspeckman
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok, maybe not prefect, but I LOVE STAR TREK and the game developers did a good job at creating 
 a game that earns the name Legacy .
  
  Gameplay is good, with the right amount of difficulty and things to do.
  
  Graphics are fine, 
 but the station breakups could of been done better, on the order of Mech Assault 2, huge explosions. 
 It looks like they kept the same explosions from Star Trek Armada II.... LOL Ok that is not fair....
 
  
  Sound: I LOVE ST music, sound and voice acting is excellent.
  Value: This is a keeper.
  
  I gave a 10 also to counter balance, if that is even possible, 
 all the bad attitudes out there. Gamers are such a fickle crowd. Good job to Mad Doc and CBS for 
 making this game happen on the 360.
  
  Alan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguin5555
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:22 am PT
Review:  I got very tired very fast of having to press the right thumbstick *every* time i targeted something 
 in order to hit it.
  
  It is a hard game, and so an easier difficulty setting and the ability to turn of that !@#$^&amp;* 
 battle camera or whatever they call it when one targets a ship would make it fun. Saving at any 
 time (or at least at points throughtout the hour-long plus levels) would be a great addition.
 
  
  I liked the concept though -- the warp was nice and the sound/graphics were as well. Too bad it's 
 too broken to play -- it looked so nice in Best Buy, but the control bugs that plague command and 
 conquer 3 keep this game from being one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myle-prod
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 12, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  They should make a game like this just make it - Halo: Covenant vs. Humans.
  I think this game is good, but I am not into Star Trek. A Star Wars version would be great too. 
 The game feels like you are actually manning the ship yourself. The graphics are great for a space 
 game.
  It is an easy game to learn and play. It is an easy game to get addicted to.
  I just have the demo, but would like purchase the full game.
  The ships in the game all have 
 their own abilities and strengths. I recommend this game to anyone who likes strategic space games 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmarno2
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  WOW. That's what I said about 20 minutes into the game. Not wow like, This is awesome , it was 
 Wow, just a few fixes and this could be a lot better. I think if Mad Doc had done some review and 
 research before production, this could have been a wonderful addition to the Star Trek library 
 of games. Especially when I look at games like Oblivion that are seemingly endless and huge with 
 so many details and options.. It frustrates me that with the power of the 360, it seems that Mad 
 Doc utilizes SNES style features. Here's a list of issues I had with the game:
  
  1. Where are the fleet commands? There is damn near no way to direct the other 3 ships under your 
 command. Move and Attack are IT. Where is the Guard command? Where is the Patrol or Waypoint option? 
 Why can I not set the ships' mode such as aggressive or defensive? Why can I not set my own formations 
 to optimize my fleet's capabilities?
  
  2. When did space lose a dimension? The strategic map is 2-D. What? Are you serious, Mad Doc? What 
 if I want to position my ship above a target and then dive down to avoid the enemy firing arcs? 
 I have to drive the ship there myself while neglecting the rest of my fleet and losing initiative. 
 This is also a factor in the use of tactical options that you have; such as hitting an enemy from 
 several different axis in order to disorient them.
  
  3. Pre-mission ship purchasing. This is relatively minor but it would have been nice to receive 
 the mission brief prior to purchasing my ships. That way I don't end up with a battleship trying 
 to chase down a barely slower moving asteroid or a destroyer chest-bumping with a Borg cube.
  
  4. Since when does a 23rd century space vessel handle like a 1971 Pontiac? I expected the handling 
 physics to be a bit more precise. I also cannot perform a complete roll or flip. What gives, Mad 
 Doc? Do you not think I'm capable of performing these complex acrobatics? Did the code for those 
 maneuvers cost extra? The handling was reminiscent of Top Gun for original NES, I'm not even joking. 
 Shame on you Mad Doc.
  
  5. Does Mad Doc know that servers are cheap and you can hire software engineers for cheap in India? 
 No and No apparently. This was the worst multiplayer I have ever seen. Only Death Match and Coop 
 Wave? Where's the Coop story? Wouldn't it be great to share the burden on the asteroid mission? 
 Or to shred the Borg on the last mission with a buddy? Maybe you could even play as the Romulan 
 or Klingons on the last mission since the ship profiles are already loaded on the game! Also, the 
 server was terribly bug-ridden when I tried to play. I timed out of 2 sessions within 10 minutes 
 and had to reset my 360 both times.
  
  
  All in all, it just seemed to me that Mad Doc disrespected the project they were given. It would 
 be an honor to be able to create a Star Trek game, given the history and success that the TV and 
 Movie series have had along with the IMMENSE international following. I am disappointed with the 
 product, but will play it regardless because its all we have so far on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: This is a new version of a review i posted back in June 2007 - when I did my original review, 
 there was some kind of problem with my network that wouldn't allow me to play the game online and, 
 as such, I couldn't factor that into my review. Having moved somewhere else since then, this problem 
 has now fixed itself, and I can take a second look at this much maligned title. My original score 
 was 5.0.
  ----------------------------------
  
  The fact is, I did enjoy playing this game. However, a lot of that is because I just like Star 
 Trek - something that CBS and whatever gaming company they're using this week have been banking 
 on for years so they don't have to put any effort into the product.
  
  First off, and most importantly - how hard was it to just have a look at a few movies or episodes 
 before you start making a computer game? There is such a wealth of material for a game like this 
 in the Star Trek franchise. Writing their own story that lasts all of maybe 10 hours, reveals ideas 
 that never get followed up on and rushes through a 40 year history like they had no interest in 
 it at all clearly shows that this is the wrong company to be giving development to.
  
  Don't get me wrong, an original storyline is fine too, but if you're going to do it, do it properly! 
 Instead of something that can be reasonably suggested as a better idea than just doing classic 
 battles from the show and movies, we have a barely 10 hour story mode which pays little more than 
 lip-service to The Original Series era and completely ignores 2 of the shows, reducing their captains 
 and ships to little more than cameos (Sisko appears in one mission, the Defiant and Voyager are 
 both unplayable) . The story mode isn't explained at all - the press release may have explained 
 but the game sure didn't. A mysterious Vulcan ship keeps turning up and doing bad things, and eventually 
 you just get told the Vulcan involved has become the Borg Queen! Say what?
  
  You get 15 missions in total, and they're divided into eras. You start of as Archer, move onto 
 an incredibly tired sounding Kirk and end the game as Picard in the Enterprise D & E, with cameos 
 from Sisko and Janeway.
  
  Now, right off the bat, 15 missions just isn't enough, and not playing as either Sisko or Janeway 
 is downright insulting. You're in the Enterprise D for 1 mission, saving the Defiant from the Romulans. 
 That mission is Sisko's one and only appearance - you fight at Deep Space Nine towards the end, 
 but it's post-Nemesis. What was the point? Just so you could advertise that it involved "all 5 
 captains"?
  
  Mis-advertising abounds in this game - during the menu screen the game engine plays out the iconic 
 moment in Star Trek II when Khan's Reliant scars the Enterprise's engineering section. This moment 
 does not appear in the game (although it did appear at E3 to show off the game, you'd think they 
 wouldn't tease us with it on the menu screen as well - careless) .
  
  Controls are pretty dire - ships are almost entirely dependent on you flicking between them, and 
 if you do that then sometimes a bug occurs where if you click off the ship, it grinds to a halt 
 until you realise that one of your fleet is a couple of light years behind you.
  
  Ahh the bugs.... some of them I didn't mind too much - I got achievements for completing an era 
 without losing a single ship for all 3 eras in the game, despite that never once happening. What 
 isn't so fun is when the voice samples play over each other, or when the in-engine cutscenes can't 
 manage to produce a battle for you to see, instead showing you a bunch of Romulan and Borg ships 
 just kind of bumping off each other.
  
  The multiplayer component adds some much needed replay value to the game - unfortunately, the system 
 is set up pretty badly. If you can actually find someone playing at the same time as you, you go 
 into a lobby screen that gives you the type of game (Deathmatch or Co-Op Wave) , the location and 
 the era. No details on useful things, like the time limit or how many respawns you're allowed. 
 Then, once you complete a match, it closes the room! Why not allow the players to return to the 
 game lobby so that they can have a rematch easily should they choose? 
  
  What else can I say about it really.. it's awful. If I had spent full price on this game I would 
 be very angry about it. As it is, I paid 15 and that seems about reasonable considering the amount 
 of effort that was put into it.
  
  Lets end on some positives - the ships look awesome, there are moments when you do feel like you're 
 part of the Star Trek universe and the battles are pretty epic, even if there are a heap of problems. 
 Buy it cheap for the multiplayer, never pay new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shifty_saint
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  Now going past all the strategy games, and the odd FPS game, star trek hasn't gone that far in 
 the gaming world. With the idea of a game that takes you through periods in Trek history, like 
 the era of Kirk, and Picard, and giving you there period vessels, like the Constitution class, 
 and the Galaxy class is a great idea, but like most people think its a bit flawed.
  
  Not alot of games go without flaws, but this has a few that need to be thought over (to late now, 
 but future games can learn from mistakes) , the missions are the same!, even for a trekkie this 
 game will be boring, and to add to this the combat system doesn't work for me, its a bit boring 
 also, (you seeing a boring pattern?) slow moving ships, this isn't midway were you can planely 
 see the ships moving a relativly fast. Legacy however has a slow combat system, and a sow overall 
 game concept, apart from the jump warps, which redeem it slightly, but theres so many flaws!
  
  Great Idea, however the game as a whole is boring and slow, but some small moments in the game 
 make it fun, you just have to look past the slow combat to see the fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepiledriver
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I have played SFC on the PC and always found the missions boring with no direction and no real 
 point to the game play. When Armada came out the missions were better, but the game was only fun 
 to play through one time. Legacy has all the eras, excellent graphics, and awesome game play. I 
 would give this game a near perfect rating if it were not for the asteroid mission. Killing me 
 with that mission. While somewhat interesting u either beat it or you don't and the same strategy 
 with have drastically varying results. Other than that one mission the game is fun to play. Once 
 you get a hang of the controller the game play is fantastic. Large variety of ships from all the 
 eras to choose from. Overall a very well put together game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cry_wolf121
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best star trek games out there now. It's really good being able finanly 
 to go over all the history of star trek from the beinging to cureent with voyager. There are some 
 parts that are difficult and very hard to get thew, but with time and pantions you can get your 
 way with it. The ablity to have ships with you helps in hot spots and building your fleet for the 
 ships of the line are better. The best ships are those from the Enterprise erra as they can take 
 a lot of dammage to them. THe Vulcan plotline is somewhat hard to follow but is good. A grate game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSXBOX363
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  Star Trek Legacy is one of the better Star Trek games, if not the best. Its great graphics, and 
 fun and realistic (in Star Trek terms) game play, make it one of the better games to come out in 
 2006. Of course, it's not Gears of War, or even Saints Row, but it's good by its own standards.
 
  
  Star Trek Legacy has a Campaign mode, a Skirmish mode, and of course an Online player mode. In 
 Campaign mode you will be taken through the 3 generations, Pre-Federation, Original Series, and 
 Next Generation. There are 5 levels in each of these eras, marking a total of 15 levels. This may 
 not sound like a lot, and it's not, but some of these levels can get difficult. Most of these levels 
 on a Captain difficulty will take anywhere from 10-40 minutes, depending on how good you are with 
 the controls. In Skirmish mode, you go against enemy AI either by yourself or with an allied AI. 
 It's pretty simple, but this can be a lot of fun. This is what makes this game re-playable. The 
 Online mode is good, it's just like Skirmish but you can play with other people and mix it up with 
 Artificial AI. Unfortunately, the problem is finding someone that plays this game online. There 
 are about 10 people that play the game online. Why I like this game so much is simply because of 
 the game play. The battles are immense and fun. Theyre just plain fun. Repairing you hull, diverting 
 power from engines to shields, warping out of there when the going gets rough. The game is great 
 for all of this. The amount of detail to the battle system and the ships themselves is incredible. 
 This is what a Star Trek fan will enjoy. Another big thing with Star Trek Legacy was the voices 
 of all of the captains. Unfortunately, they did not succeed in helping the game, but helped make 
 it slightly worse in my eyes. I felt that most of their dialogue was corny and cheesy. When ever 
 the ship was hit I would always hear that loop dialogue, and this made me hate the game. The captains 
 speeches in the series were always intriguing, and unique. The dialogue in this felt 1 dimensional 
 and dumb. Over all Star Trek Legacy is a game that all Star Trek fans need to play. It is one of 
 the greater, if not the greatest Star Trek game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game. I have been a Star Trek fan forever. I was stoked that 
 they got all the voice talent for this (although I will have to say that they just read the cards 
 and don't really act for any part of the dialog) . This game was flawed and just not that fun, even 
 for a Trekkie.
  
  Basically you go through all of the Star Trek series from Enterprise to Voyager. You engage in 
 long lasting and boring space battles to build up points and make an armada of ships that won't 
 listen to your commands. The graphics are pretty cool. They are on par with many of the shows but 
 not even close to the high budget movies. There are NO Star Trek musical themes in this game. It's 
 like they totally over looked it and it doesn't really help emerse you in this boring game. The 
 cut scenes are pathetic and while they did get all the original Captains to star in the game, none 
 of them seem like the are overly happy to even be on there. It's like give me a check so I can 
 get outta here dialog. The other no names that add to the story line are even more terrible and 
 you just want to mute the game. If that wasn't enough, the game has terrible controls. Each button 
 does too many different funtions it's hard to know what your doing. Not to mention the ships turn 
 like they are sloths hit with tranquelizers while in battle. The game is supposed to make it like 
 your flying the ships, but it's just boring. They should have taken a more Rogue Squadron approach 
 to the controls and just let it be much easier. It's hard to like this game even if you a Trekkie 
 or Trekker. It's even more difficult to like it as a gamer. Please rent, don't buy, and just watch 
 the shows on DVD afterward. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resist1
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 21, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of star trek from the original to the voyager which in my opinion is the best one. 
 And the worst being Enterprise... not with Picard!. The game progresses nicely, with the beggning 
 of the borg and how it all began, but I have a few gripes about the story. First of all, why is 
 the enterprise which was the worst of all the Star Treks being played the longest with the crappiest 
 ships. The story is intersting builds quite nicely excellent voice work, but the most popular eras, 
 especially voyager u dont even get to play as any of their ships, you stop at Picard. Thats plain 
 stupid, especially if the game advertises the fact that you get to play in all 5 eras. Secondly 
 The main plot is the building of the borg, why not more strategic borg encounters instead of fighint 
 a couple of cubes and thats about it. Who cares about Klingons etc, you want to play as the Federation. 
 The let us play as them instead of useless races heling the cause. The graphics are sharp throughout 
 however the explosions are quite cheesy and are definatly no match of what the system can hadle, 
 could have been much better. the controls are easy to use, simple and nicely laid out on the control, 
 nothing too mircomaneging, but good enough for some extras beside point and shoot. The sound is 
 your typical Star Trek sound effects phasers, photons etc, also done very well. over all What i 
 would like to see is better graphics thoroughout with more quality story line, that stars nicely 
 and finishes nicely. Overall a well done game for the star trek fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonziter1
Rating: 6.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This was a game I was really on the edge of my seat to play. I'll tell ya what, its not all it 
 was cracked up to be. Rather, its not all it could have been. Lets be serious. Star trek needs 
 someone who cares to write a game well. This could have been an incredible game. Instead, the game 
 struggles to have controls that are even remotely accurate. It has been quite some time since I 
 wanted to break a joystick and this was the game. I've spent countless hours repairing my Nintendo 
 (original) joystick (when I was a kid) from thrashing it about. This game brought me back to those 
 days. The big difference now is, its NOT THE early 90's. We have next gen machines and sticks that 
 should more than adequately handle a game of this type. But, this one was not very well designed. 
 The graphics are just a bit above mediocre and I doubt I'll ever play it after having beat it. 
 The multi-player is sickening. It is a complete waste of time. There are so many other choices 
 out there in the gaming world to spend your time on. Don't waste it on this one. Trust me. Come 
 on, give some of us Trekkie's a game we can sink our teeth into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowFFVI
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  For the most part, Star Trek Legacy is a good game, and if your a big enough fan of Star Trek you'll 
 definitely find some enjoyment in it. The combat is paced very well, probably a bit faster then 
 the ships would realistically move, but never too fast that you feel like your in a Jet Fighter.
 
  
  There is a bit of a learning curve to playing the game, you kind of have to figure out HOW to go 
 about doing the missions by failing them once or twice, which can get painful as some of them you 
 may waste 15-30 minutes only to have to start all over again.
  
  The ships in the game all look great and very accurate, there are some cool moments where you get 
 to fight some borg cubes, or protect Deep Space Nine. The protect missions (which there are many) 
 can get very frustrating as you often have to multi task quite a bit.
  
  The voice acting is well... disappointing, most of the dialogue sounds very awkward and uninspired.
 
  
  Ultimately though, if your a Star Trek fan with an Xbox360 you'll more then enjoy the play through 
 of the single player, don't expect any replay value with it though. The multiplayer is a nice addon 
 but unfortunately isn't quite fun enough to keep you interested in the game for that much longer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Balthazr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Oh my, where do I start? Ok, I'm a big Star Trek fan myself, but this game has disappointed me 
 and many other people. First off, the missions are long and difficult and you cant save the game 
 until the end of the mission. On the back of the game case it says it's 2 Players but it most certainly 
 is not. It is multiplayer online however, but that is not what it means when it says 2 Players, 
 it says 2 Player and it also says 2-4 Players Online. If it wasnt for the Online Multiplayer and 
 the Offline Skirmish modes this game would be in the trash for good. The Online Multiplayer and 
 the Offline Skirmish however lets you play with the Borg, Federation, Romulan and the Klingons. 
 Each race has around 15-20 ships to choose from which is cool and each ship has different sizes, 
 speed, sheild power and weapons. The graphics are next gen and the ship models are very nice, however 
 the space in which you play in is very ugly, nebula's everywhere and planets, space stations and 
 asteroids are always in your way, but they cant hurt you because you can bounce off of them, fun. 
 The music is horrible, its like something from a cheezy Sci-Fi movie. Overall, its a good game 
 for some of its good features, but Im not recomending it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightstriker_Qc
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Yup... The story is pretty original... And that's it.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I'm a huge Star Trek fan. But this game is just to plain flat. Let's start 
 with the good side... You can pilot or command most of the knew ship class that appear in all the 
 different Star Trek series, plus a few more that never really made it to the tv screen. The modeling 
 of the ships are pretty decent. Maybe just a few round side that you can see segmentation, something 
 you should expect to not see in a next gen space shooter.
  The voice acting is made all by the real actors, which is probably the best point of this game. 
 And the storyline, while stepping maybe a bit too much on the existing story, is pretty original, 
 but just a pretext to space fight. However, the mission, while limited in number are also pretty 
 original.
  
  And... That was the good side.
  
  Visually, the game doesn't cut it. Ship textures is pretty bad, and use of normal mapping is plain 
 wrong in many place. Many visual bug occur in the game as camera clip in meshes. They often try 
 to put WAY too much color in the skybox, which often means it's just a colorfest of random stuff.
 
  
  The scaling is just plain wrong. Planet are tiny compared to your ship... And stars aren't much 
 bigger. Same with scaling from ships to ship. A borg cube should normaly be huge compared to any 
 starfleet ship. Same goes for the D'deridex class. But nope! Cubes are just a bit bigger then your 
 ship.
  
  There is no physic. The what? Yeah, colliding your ship in full speed against an other ship result 
 in... Nothing. No damage, no explosion, no bouncing off shield... Not even sparks. Same with your 
 ship and planets or stars. Aim directly at one, and try to hit it. Nothing happen.
  
  As for the gameplay, it just suck. Bad. The whole space is calculated as a flat surface by the 
 engine. Which mean, your ship cannot perform a flip or backflip. Its nose will stay stuck in a 
 90 degrees up or down motion. Also, the control to select where you want to warp often make you 
 appear at the wrong place, as it's a 2D surface you select from, you can appear miles over your 
 target since some level designer decided to put a planet far bellow that 2D plane.
  The AI suck. But mainly the one from the 3 other ships your control. You cannot tell them to attack 
 a target. You can tell them to warp at some coordonate (on a 2D plane) , but once they reach that 
 spot, what they do next is totally random. This really shows up in a mission where you have to 
 blast douzen of asteroid that would come to collide with 3 planets. Well, you place your ship around 
 the planets, but once done, the AI aim any random asteroid, and can often lead itself to be pretty 
 far away from the designated planet.
  But over all that, the weapons. Most of the time, you will simply rely on spamming the phaser bank, 
 which automaticly lock on your closest target. No need to aim, no need for skill. Totally not the 
 same for the photon. The aiming systems for the torpedos is amazingly broken. The game tells you 
 you can only shot torpedos at ship when you lock on them in a really tiny arc in front and back 
 of your ship. Sadly, even once the torpedos is locked, 1 torpedos out of 2 will just ignore any 
 locking system and launch itself in the deep of the spaces. But even then, your ship can be directly 
 aiming at your target, and the torpedos locks won't come up.
  Switching targets is much harder when you need to target a specific one when all the enemies are 
 of the same ship class. They all shows up as the same on your target selection screen. Did I say 
 you cannot really force your 3 dumb AI to target a specific one? Sometime they will target what 
 you target... And sometime they will just forget you exist.
  You basicly destroye douzen of enemies ships. Your are simply amazingly more resistant then their. 
 And if by some weird luck the enemies AI manage to focus fire on 1 of your ship and deal any kind 
 of damage between the phase of shield regeneration, you just need to warp it away from the fight, 
 and ask it to repair... Which mean after 2-3 mins, your ship is back to max! No need to say the 
 enemies obviously don't repair their own ship.
  Remember I said the story is good? Yeah... It is. Just ending just suck. But they rest of the story 
 is great.
  
  You know, I'm surprised that after all that time, the best space shooter I know is still the old 
 Colony Wars on Playstation 1.
  I think the different review of gaming website went way too easy on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  I'm not a fan of Star Trek and not really a big fan of space games period, but I picked up Star 
 Trek: Legacy as a rental and gave it a try. The last space battle type game that I've played was 
 a Star Wars game on the PC years ago, so I can't really match up Star Trek: Legacy on the Xbox 
 360 with any recent games like it, but I can say that even though I'm not a Star Trek fan the game 
 has proven interesting and pretty fun. The ability to control several ships within a space battle 
 really puts a unique twist on things. The graphics are pretty good and really shines in your eyes 
 on a HDTV. The controls take just a little bit to get used to, but once down work well. Its hard 
 for myself to give an accurate report on the game because I'm not educated in these types of games, 
 but I can say overall Star Trek: Legacy is a pretty decent game for non-Star Trek fans and worth 
 weekend rental, &amp; most likely a must have purchase for fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek fans have had some pretty funny luck when it comes to video games. For every good game 
 like Starfleet Command or Elite Force there is an Star Trek: Encounters or Star Trek: Pinball. 
 Luckily, Star Trek: Legacy is a pretty decent game, although it is clear that it had the potential 
 to be a whole lot better. On paper, Legacy sounds like a great Star Trek game. Give the player 
 control of lots of ships, cover every series, include the voices of every Starfleet captain, and 
 tie it together with a storyline that would actually make a good Star Trek movie. And for the most 
 part the game is pretty good.
  
  You start the game off as Captain Archer in the NX-01 before moving on to the Enterprise, Defiant, 
 and so on. The ships are modeled pretty accurately, and behave as you would expect. The combat 
 offers a good amount of depth without getting absurdly complicated like the Starfleet Command games. 
 The starship combat revolves around maneuvering your ships, either together as one task force or 
 individually, into position to get your enemy into the firing arcs of your weapons, while trying 
 to stay out of theirs. Most ships have both phasers and torpedoes. Phasers are good against shields 
 and they run off of energy which recharges after firing. The amount of damage they do increases 
 over time, so allowing them to fully charge before firing again is a good tactic. Torpedoes are 
 good against the hull of a ship and they do a constant amount of damage. However, you have a limited 
 number of them, so you will want to make sure you have a good lock on the target before firing. 
 The strength of your weapons lock depends on your position and distance from your target. And if 
 you are able to get in close enough you have the option of targeting specific subsystems in the 
 enemy ship such as weapons or engines.
  
  You can also manage your speed. Besides going to warp, you can run at full, &frac12; or &frac14; 
 impulse. Slowing down allows you to turn faster, but also makes you an easier target to hit. In 
 addition to changing speed, you also have control over your power systems. Rerouting power can 
 give you a boost to the system (engines, shields, weapons) that you need the most at any specific 
 moment. For example, you can take power from your shields and route it to weapons for faster recharge 
 and longer range at the cost of defense. Lastly, you can issue repairs on certain ship systems, 
 but repairing will drain energy, making your ship less effective in battle while the repairs are 
 underway.
  
  There are of course other tactics that you can take advantage of such as hiding ships in nebulas 
 and beaming away teams to space stations once the shields are down to capture it, but these are 
 more mission specific and you wont find yourself doing them very often.
  
  As you complete each mission, you are given points that you can spend on buying new ships for your 
 task force. You can have up to four ships directly under your control at one time. Ships fall into 
 different classes such as cruisers and destroyers, and its up to you to decide how many ships 
 you actually need and of what type. These points carry over from one mission to another, so its 
 a good idea to try to save as many credits as you can or you may find yourself facing heavy opposition 
 with not enough points to buy more powerful ships to even the odds.
  
  The missions offer a pretty good variety of things to do. They are not all go here and kill everything 
 missions that you might expect. While some will task you with doing just that, there are also missions 
 where you will be evacuating people from poisoned planets, sneaking across enemy lines in a cloaked 
 ship to conduct hit and run attacks, and defending Deep Space 9 from the Borg. The game is at its 
 best when it throws you into these huge battles. Seeing these beautiful ships fill the screen and 
 explode is pretty exciting. However, the game also has some low points. This is mainly the result 
 of your inability to save during the missions. So if you fail, you are suck restarting the mission 
 from the beginning. With some missions lasting nearly an hour, this is really unacceptable. At 
 the very least the game should offer a mid-level checkpoint. Sometimes mission objectives are not 
 completely clear, leaving you trying to figure out what it is that you are supposed to be doing. 
 One mission where you save planets from falling interstellar debris proved especially annoying 
 because of a rather narrow margin of error. Luckily this is the exception rather then the rule. 
 I only had to restart one mission the entire time, although it did take three or four tries until 
 I finally got it. But for the most part the mission design is fine.
  
  The storyline is actually surprisingly good. It tells the story of a Vulcan scientist that discovers 
 the remains of a Borg ship during the early days of the Federation, and figures out a way to become 
 their queen. Its a pretty good plot device that ties all of the eras together, that is if you 
 can follow it. If you find yourself feeling like the story is missing something, thats because 
 it is. A few missions were cut, particularly from the end, of the game in order to get it out in 
 time. You still get the gist of what is going on, but its not as clear as it could have been.
 
  
  While the storyline is pretty cool, the way it is presented is not. Missions often open up with 
 long winded narrative by one of the captains while the camera just circles around the ship. This 
 is a pretty boring way to tell the story, and its surprising that they could not find a more interesting 
 way to tell it. However, the voice acting is pretty good for the most part, and having all of the 
 captains voice their lines makes these sequences bearable.
  
  Online, the game doesnt have much going for it. There are only two modes of play available. The 
 first is a deathmatch game where you simply try to destroy your opponents either by yourself of 
 in teams. The second is a co-op survival game where you and your teammates try to survive wave 
 after wave of enemy ships. Both can be fun for a while, but its not something that will hold most 
 peoples attention for more then a few games.
  
  Overall, Star Trek: Legacy is a good game. The starship combat is fun and has a good amount of 
 depth to it, while the missions offer enough variety to keep you playing for a while. There is 
 also a good mix of achievements that give some incentive to go back and play certain missions over 
 again. Although it is a little disappointing to think about how much better this game could have 
 been if they spent a little more time on it and added a few more features like checkpoints and 
 more multiplayer options. Lets hope Mad Doc Software gets a shot at a squeal, and are given the 
 time they need to make it amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jafet1980
Rating: 3.9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek: Legends was the game I resorted to in hopes of satisfying my lust for leading the Enterprise 
 and other federation ships into full scale galactic battles. Against my good judgement I obtained 
 the game, unable to suppress my desire.
  First, there is no 2 player option despite on the back of the box it seems there is. Multiplayer 
 can only be done on X Box Live. Is it just me or is the multiplayer in person option being eliminated 
 altogether? Skirmish mode is the heart of this game and it was poorly put together. You get to 
 choose the number of players and how many ships they can have in their fleet but there's no way 
 to assign individual options, such as if you'd rather control a team of 4 federation ships against 
 a single Klingon ship. If you choose fleets of 4 for example, the enemy gets 4 ships too so too 
 bad for you. The player can choose to control less ships simply by not purchasing them, but the 
 computer won't be so merciful.
  Did I mention there was no 2 player feature? That's right, you're going it alone unless you have 
 X Box Live so get ready for some boring, option aggrivating features if you can't get online (which 
 I don't have simply by choice) . The menu options are absolutely annoying. You can choose whether 
 your Y Axis is inverted or not in the options but for some reason you don't receive an option for 
 the X Axis, so up is down and down is up whether you like it or not. The speed at which ships respond 
 is as slow as can be and although the action is widespread it's annoying getting a grasp of where 
 to go and what to do next. Even the fastest ships move slowly and turn with the grace of a schoolbus, 
 I don't even want to get into the bigger class ships.
  Each ship has 2 basic attacks, a main energy and secondary torpedo. Only problem is each of those 
 weapons are located in different sections of different vessels and since there's no screen that 
 explains your ships blind spots you have to rush headlong into battle and figure it out yourself. 
 When controlling a fleet of 2 or more ships your rank as captain is poorly respected and when commands 
 are issued your teammates fail to confirm. This means when you decide to launch an all out attacka 
 nd order your troops to join, you'll know whether the order was recieved or not after you're surrounded 
 in enemy territory and allies are nowhere in sight. As if that weren't bad enough, issuing commands 
 is a time consuming task in itself when you're faced with numerous enemies and are trying to order 
 your fleet in quick fashion. By the time you've holded the buttons necessary to enable the command 
 feature, pressed the command button and waited a confirmation your enemies have launched another 
 passing attack on your ship.
  After you've completed a frustrating battle in Skirmish mode you get the option to either stare 
 at your score a little longer or exit and go back to the menu, that's right, no replay function 
 meaning you have to select Skirmish and set up all the options including fleet size, players and 
 purchase points from scratch. The campaign mode puts you a tutorial that feeds you to the wolves 
 everytime. You'll receive instructions on how to perform a certain task and be told to try it out 
 once before it's assumed you've perfected that task. So when it's explained that your ship has 
 lasers which are good against shields and torpedoes that are great against the hull of a ship, 
 you're thrown into a battle and expected to have mastered movement, coordination, angle, timing 
 and targeting commands. During battles, whenever you ram into objects including other ships, you're 
 carefully guided around the object making you immune to asteroids and impact damage, how lame is 
 that? This function alone makes you feel locked away from the galexy despite it's all around you.
 
  Even a Trekkie would be disappointed with this game not because it lacks in graphics or story 
 but because it fails to catch what a real battle between Star Trek vessels would be like. This 
 is definitely a must have if you're a die hard fan and are looking for ways to expand your collection 
 in which case I'd advise you to wait until the price drops, which it will. If you're not a die 
 hard fan, leave this one on the shelves and aim for another game. I'm very disappointed with this 
 game and as of now its begun its mission to gather as much dust as it can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OJ99
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  And I don't, well not much, maybe a little...
  The fact is that this game isn't bad at all, it's not a classic but if you take off the 'I'm not 
 a Trekkie' tinted glassed its a half decent stab at something that hasn't really been done well 
 in any game to date, that is making an action game with starships, and I talking about massive 
 lumbering behemoths not X-Wing fighters. It is not a terriffic game, the single player campaign 
 seems short and the story doesn't work, I know little about Star Trek canon but it should still 
 make sense to me as a story in the same way as I'd never heard of the UNSC but Halo still made 
 sense, Legacy's plot just doesn't seem to advance logically (ironic if you're familiar with the 
 story line) . In-game the only major weak point is a total lack of collision damage and the fact 
 that planets look small and flat.
  Pehaps the game's weakest point is 'out-of-game' that is stuff not directly within the gamplay, 
 for example the skirmish options are poor and its difficult to set up something thats not too easy 
 or too hard and once you complete a level and move on to the next you can't go back to replay it, 
 which is a pain if you're after achievements.
  Anyway, on to the positives and there are plenty, graphics are stunning; weapons fire, shields, 
 warping, shadows (each ship casts it's own) and nebulas in particular, the weak parts are maybe 
 weapon impacts on hulls and definatly the ship explosions. Another great thing is the sense of 
 scale, you think you're hard in you ship till a truely massive Borg cube glides over you and smothers 
 you in shadow (and very pretty weapons fire) , successfully making you feel small, maneuverability 
 and speed varies realistically with destroyers and crusier running rings around battleships and 
 that damn cube. The control scheme is less than instinctive but is perfectly functional which practice. 
 Combat itself, which makes up the vast majority of the game is suitably pitched for a starship 
 battle, hardly franetic but it avoids being sedate. There are concessions to strategy such as rediverting 
 power between three different systems and issuing basic move orders to other ships but essentially 
 its pick the target and fire, though it remains fun throughout.
  It makes a decend job of using the voice talent, which is considerable and doesn't seem shoe-horned 
 in at all, the rest of the sound effects are decent enough, but nearly everything in this game 
 looks better than it sounds.
  It's a decent enough starship combat game but its not as good as it could be, and its the first 
 less than appalling Star Trek game for a long time. If you're a Trekkie, rent it at least if only 
 for the ship models. If your not, take off those tinted glasses and you might be surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: startreklegacy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:49 pm PT
Review:  Right the star trek legacy thingy hehehe, well it is great online but the campaign mode lacks in 
 missions. And the lack of ramming ability sucks but the gameplay makes up for that. The borg tactical 
 cube is bar far the best ship in the game but makes a big target when several ships are attacking 
 it. Ah i remember now the klingon downer, everything about the klingon ships is total crap, the 
 weapons and the shields and total useless, the only good thing about klingon ships is the ability 
 to cloak. If you are going to get it make sure you have xbox live as it is spectacular. also going 
 to the two player offline thingy, it says 2 players offline but it is not, only on system link 
 or xbox live which is very poor if you buy it don't be to happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmaul1
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  I seem to think that most people jump on the band wagon with games like this. I rented star trek 
 legacy that had potential but again the save feature sucks you can play a portion of a mission 
 for 30 minutes then there is a slight break and then you have to continue the mission and there 
 is no save so if you screw up you have to start all over again. lame when will the developers realize 
 that you need a decent save feature, cause not having one just makes the game annoying not challenging. 
 the graphics were good unitl a ship or space station blows up then it looked terrible with them 
 falling into big triangles and that. but that save feature just made me take it back to the video 
 store cause it was so annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfCmnder
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  The Good - the feel of starship combat, along with some great ship graphics.
  
  The Bad - Multiplayer could be way better, the sound, is so so with the repetitive comments and 
 the friendly AI at times can be frustrating. The menu set up could be better.
  
  Overall - If you are a Star Trek fan you will like this game. The controls take some time to get 
 use to, but once you do, the game becomes fun and interesting. The multiplayer seemed tacked on, 
 for instance when you do a multiplayer game or a skirmish, once you are done, it starts over at 
 the menu, so you have to set up all over again. Which leads into another thing, the menu is not 
 user friendly. I enjoyed the game, although I'm a Star Trek fan, and could over look the flaws. 
 One other thing one needs to consider is that the missions are long, and there is no save feature 
 during the mission. So if you fail, you have to star all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkshot19
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  the game itself is pretty cool with most of the famous captain voices done pretty well bu tth problem 
 is that most of the game resides in the 1950's star trek era with only 2-4 missions actually gooing 
 into the deeep space nine era and voyager.
  
  the graphics themselves are pretty well done with realtime reflections coming off the ships outer 
 hulls and the showing how emense space really is.
  
  the gamplay itself is actually entertaing and holds some value when it comes to playing the game 
 again but i probaly wouldn't buy but rent it first and give it a shot before buying it.
  
  the multiplayer in the game sucks crap because i can never find anyone to play and it takes forever 
 for a match to end because people keep running away to keep themselves alive But overall a good 
 game to rent but DON'T BUY THE GAME!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoss-The-Boss
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome, The voices of familiar Captains make it that much better, and there are 
 over 24 classes of Federation ships alone. So why did I only give it around an 8.0??
  
  Quite simple the fact that yet again, it has the STUCK (Star trek Universe Curse Krap) .
  
  
 The story is nicely detailed and quite interesting, but you can't go back and replay a mission. 
 You would have to start entirely over. Granted there's only about 15 missions total, but you have 
 to go through the ones you hate to get to the one you want. Not the best thought.
  
  The gameplay is sound, you have to get used to adjusting the camera with the ship, that was about 
 the hardest thing I had to do, only reason I put learning curve to 1-2 hrs. Skirmish mode is ok... 
 it's great to play deathmatch or the co-op which i thought was a great idea to put in there, but 
 it's so limited. Most games have an unlimited option where you can just keep on fighting until 
 you get tired and then you rack up the score. Not here. You can carry fours ships which only hold 
 10 respawns at the most, and the time limit is annoying. Sometimes I forget to take it off, so 
 im in the middle of a battle and it stops because time has expired.... GREAT!!!!
  
  If they just put in a kill count or capture something in space and take the damn respawn limit 
 away, it would be that much better.
  
  Overall, I must say that through my complaining about how it seems to again have flaws like every 
 know star trek game out there, It seems to be one of the best out there. If your a Trekkie with 
 an XBOX360, don't miss out on it. I love flying around seeing who I can destroy next while repairing 
 the ships that are getting there butts kicked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viedric
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek games have never been known for their high quality. Star Trek: Legacy continues this.... 
 legacy.
  
  The game contains a decent campaign, but no co-op (or any same console multiplayer) is supported. 
 The levels aren't very creative, but the action is what's to be expected from a game of this type. 
 Some of the levels are just plain hard, but only because of problems in AI design. For example, 
 there is a level where the player is required to use multiple ships to drag small asteroids with 
 tractor beams and slingshot the asteroids into another larger asteroid. This shouldn't have been 
 too difficult, but once collect an asteroid with one of your ships and direct it towards the larger 
 asteroid, you must quickly go to another one of your ships to repeat the same process. The only 
 problem is once you leave the control of the ship, the computer AI takes over. The AI very stupidly 
 turns your ships around and attacks the asteroids they are carrying or other asteroids in the area. 
 This stupid AI caused me to fail the mission more than once, and the game does not have a in-mission 
 saving function. So once you fail one objective, you must restart the whole level. The skirmish 
 option is a good addition, but it could have been fleshed out more. The amount of ships you can 
 choose from is great. You cannot choose your enemies' ships, so it is impossible to arrange certain 
 ship battles. The enemy AI in the skirmish mode is also plagued with troubles. Somtimes they fly 
 into the corner of the map and stick there for the entired match. The multiplayer is exactly like 
 the skirmish mode except you are playing with humans. There is no variety of game types except 
 defend a base from NPCs or versus match. The multiplayer isn't that impressive.
  
  The graphics is quite good. No complaints, but nothing to really nod at either. The ships look 
 pretty good, and the lighting is decent enough. The ships damage is nicely done, but could have 
 been much better. Some planets are recycled (in the first level of the campaign, they use a skin 
 of planet earth painted blue as an alien frost planet) . The stars and planets are unrealistically 
 small. Some ships rival the size of planets and the stars, which completely takes you out of any 
 feeling of realism.
  
  The music is adequate, and the sound effects tend to stick with how the weapons and such sound 
 on the shows. The voice acting of the captains (Picard, Janeway, etc.) is excellent, and William 
 Shatner really shined above all the rest. He did an excellent job, but that cannot be said about 
 the smaller roles voice acted throughout the game. The ensigns and captains of the other races 
 all sound rather dissapointing. Most are either over or under dramatized.
  
  Once you beat the campaign about twice and spend some time on the skirmish and multiplayer modes, 
 your done with this game. Every now and then I pick it back up after watching an episode of star 
 trek just to play a short skirmish match, but other than that, I hardly play the game anymore.
 
  
  The only reason I bought this game is because I'm a Star Trek fan, and if you have no interest 
 what so ever in star trek then you will probably not like this game. BUT if you enjoy star trek, 
 and would like to control the ships you see in the shows, then this game is a good rental or worth 
 waiting until its in the bargain bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robjkay
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 21, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  After playing strait through the game I decided to take it slow and really try to enjoy every aspect 
 of the game. It clearly has amazing visuals when it comes to the star ship models. I haven't seen 
 a game yet that has done so well. The interaction with the other ships in your fleet can be a pain 
 sometimes but for the most part it wasn't too terribly difficult to command all of the ships at 
 once towards a common goal. I became difficult when you have them doing different jobs. I was also 
 nice to hear all of the captains voices again, it isn't often they are able to pull together all 
 of the talent they did. Some of the physics where a little strange, like the bumper-car effect 
 when ships ran into each other, or the phaser arc problem, which I didn't think made a whole lot 
 of sense. All in all a great game that is worth buying especially if it comes down in price LOL 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  By today's standard this is the closest you'll get to space invaders (excepting of course you'll 
 probably be able to get Space invaders on Live Arcade soon) .
  
  I found the controls a little clunky, but when you consider two people operated the main consoles 
 of star ships in the series, anything less than that would be considered clunky, so the Xbox 360 
 controller does a decent job.
  
  I had first hoped this would be a little more story driven, but it appears a majority of the time 
 you will be battling an assortment of foes, in between achieving minor tasks that tend to serve 
 more as a distraction from the battles.
  
  Don't get me wrong, there is enough variation in what you need to achieve while battling to keep 
 you occupied. So give it a spin, it may not be your cup of tea, but there is plenty of action to 
 keep you busy whilst cruising around in star ships. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taisou1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  The XBOX360 version has good controls and game play. The save game feature could be improved on. 
 Also a more graphic tactical view would be interesting, but not necessary. Oh, yeah, get real Star 
 Trek themed music. It doesn't need to be exactly like the series or movies, but similar. The music, 
 as it stands, doesn't have the Star Trek base theme in it anywhere. The plot line is good in the 
 campaign mode, but don't expect exact continuity. The story is about as good as any Star Trek novel 
 I have read - not cannon, but fun to read anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalley
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 19, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  I was impressed with Star Trek Legacy on the Xbox 360 after reading the negative reviews of it. 
 The starship models are gorgeous, the soundtrack is appropriately epic, and you have many of the 
 stock sounds from the series. You get to control epic Star Trek battles from Enterpise era to Next 
 Generation era. The gameplay is easy to access and fun! So where are all the mediocre or negative 
 reviews coming from? It would be helpful if you are aware of my perspective or bias. As a long 
 time Trek fan I was excited to finally see a Trek game that tried to combine elements of all of 
 the series together so I picked it up even with the tepid reviews. You can critique the game on 
 two levels - one on it's own and the other as what I, as a Trek fan would have hoped to see in 
 a Trek game. What do I mean by critiquing the game on its own level? Star Trek Legacy is a tactical 
 starship combat game. That's it. You command a small task force of 1 - 4 Starfleet ships in various 
 assignments. If you've played Trek games in the past, this may remind you of Starfleet Command. 
 Star Trek Legacy doesn't provide as much detail or control over the various ship systems, but I 
 think this translates well to gameplay on the 360. I played through the single player campaign 
 in about 10 - 12 hours which felt a bit short. The multiplayer gameplay is fast, fun and furious 
 if and when you can find a game with fun players. Maybe it was my connection over the last few 
 nights but I had a few (say 25% of my games) problems with lag. One gaping hole is there doesn't 
 seem to be any screen that you can access which shows you your multiplayer record. Even though 
 the box and reviews tout voice overs from all five captains, a couple make only the briefest of 
 appearances. I know it was cost prohibitive to do, but it would have been nice to hear other cast 
 members as well - remember these shows were ensemble shows and it feels odd to not hear Sulu or 
 Data respond to commands to the captain. That's a bit nit-picky. The story adds enough to keep 
 it together... kind of. Some of the transitions seem abrupt and don't flow as well as they should. 
 There is a menu option - Extras where you get to see four narrated presentations of background 
 on what is going on throughout the story. They're nice, don't get me wrong. They got me to thinking, 
 however. It looks like art that was produced for animated cutscenes. At some point perhaps it was 
 decided this wasn't in the cards for the game, so they decided to use the artwork with the voiceovers 
 to add an extra layer for the story. I'm not sure why they didn't integrate them at appropriate 
 parts in the single player game, other than that they may have felt the artwork didn't fit with 
 the actual gameplay graphics.
  
  There are times during gameplay with the A. I. seems to flake out. Three times I had a ship warp 
 off to a corner of the map when I could have sworn I hadn't told the ship to warp out. It also 
 doesn't make sense to me that you don't have a more comprehensive set of commands for the A. I. 
 ships. You have a few commands you can execute from the command screen - warp, attack nearest target, 
 etc. . But there are a few missing - Protect this target/escort, repair/rearm. My next set of criticisms 
 are less oriented to the game as is and elements or features I would have liked to see in a game 
 of this type. The information you can get on the ships is pretty stripped down. It's easy to see 
 at a glance which ship model has more shields, weapons, speed, etc. The Star Trek geek in me would 
 like to have had the option to have seen more detail or to have had the ability to customize or 
 build ships. It would also have extended the life of the single player game to allow the player 
 to create and share single player scenarios. It should be noted that there is a single player skirmish 
 mode where you can set up basic preferences like map, faction, number of players, and AI intelligence. 
 My last criticisms are not really on the game itself but rather on what I would like to see a game 
 developer try to do with the Star Trek license. How many of you have played Starflight, Elite, 
 the X series, Darkstar One or Freelancer? These games are about space exploration, discovery, trading, 
 and yes - space combat. Why no one has created this sort of game in the Star Trek universe is a 
 bit of a mystery. Perhaps it would open up the developer to even more cries of This does not fit 
 Trek canon! But to me - this was really what Trek was about. It would also be nice to see some 
 form of our crew - animated, 3d models... I don't care - but they are the human element to the 
 stories and voiceovers only provide so much human connection. I've just spent 3/4 of my review 
 critiquing Star Trek Legacy and at the beginning I was talking about how much I enjoyed it! It's 
 a testament to the game's fun gameplay that I've actually spent time writing this out. On it's 
 own level I think Legacy is a lot of fun and great looking. I think the negative reviews may stem 
 from the fans high hopes not being met. At the very least give it a try at your local rental store 
 - I don't think you'll be disappointed if you can keep your expectations within what this game 
 set out to do - simulating capital starship combat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_bLooD
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 19, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  So were to start?
  
  How about game play for a start.
  
  The game play is what is short and not sweet, I beat the campaign mode in less a day on easy mode, 
 certain mission were very annoying as hell, like in the first TNG mission with the stargazer, it 
 was annoying I tried 10x to get threw it, the hints for that mission blew ass.
  There isnt much for replay value. Multiplayer? Thats a laugh you can barely get on game if it 
 doesn't kick or boot you or you time-out. Host a game? That almost hard too do.
  
  The game however does good point also so I'll stop with the neg.
  
  Okay Voice acting was good; 
 it had all 3-enterprise captains. Yes Archer, Kirk and Picard, with Sisko and Janeway making 5 
 captains. So I give a bonus for that.
  
  Now lets move on to the Ships. Well Mad Doc did say the ship would be rendered and have good detail 
 some of them do mind you but the when the ships explode that where it gets knocked down a peg or 
 so. Uh my ships don't have 3 nacelles do they? The Borg ships look like **** when the explode it's 
 just big Borg mess out there. The sub-system target could have been made easier too do. Also my 
 ships shouldn't bounce off: Plants, other ships, Stations, rocks ECT... ECT.
  
  All-in the game is mediocre till they have a very good patch thats going to come to fix a lot 
 of the problems this game will be broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  ok lemme get my major gripe out of the way first. cmon bethesda! i was home on a snow day and had 
 a buddy walk a mile thru the blizzard to come play my new trek game cause it has cool multiplayer. 
 oh whoops, did you forget to mention it's not offline playable?!! i can only play multiplayer online? 
 that's crap. not everyone has xbox live!
  
  now that said, bethesda is lucky that the campaign single player rocks. they are also lucky i was 
 able to get my multiplayer fix on gears of war. yea! anyhoo, the voice acting rocks, the ships 
 rock. the collision detection is goofy, but thankfully intuitive controls help you not notice since 
 you shouldn't be hitting a lot of stuff... less you're captaining your starship drunk. for shame.
 
  
  the mission objectives are indeed sketchy at times. which is weird, but the squad building, er.. fleet 
 building mostly makes up for it. combat is a delight, and gives you a real sense of satisfaction 
 when you succeed. yup finally... a star trek game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnaMorbiac
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  Star Trek: Legacy is a game with some nice features, most noticeably getting all 5 of the Star 
 Trek Captains to provide voiceovers, and some amazing ship models. However, even these features 
 have their downsides. Of the voiceovers, Avery Brooks (Sisko) provides voiceovers for about half 
 a mission, and after that, nothing. Scott Bakula (Archer) sounds a little forced and over-pronounced, 
 William Shatner (Kirk) is starting to sound like he really is getting too old, Kate Mulgrew's (Janeway) 
 voice acting was always portrayed as over a radio, so it was crackling, and Patrick Stewart (Picard) 
 sounds like he's on the boards with the RSC (which, by the way, I've seen in person, and he's amazing) , 
 but again, a little over-pronounced and ennuciated, rather than flowing like normal speech (a common 
 complaint with voiceover work, but hey, this is a review) .
  
  That's not to say that the voice acting is bad, it's not, it's really good, and help sets the tone, 
 but you get the feeling that with slightly better scripts to work with (or longer ones, if you're 
 Avery Brooks) , the actors could've showed off the skills that made them the Captains.
  
  The ship models themselves are amazing, with self-shadowing ships and nice damage effects. Using 
 Ubisoft's follow-cam (as used on Blazing Angels) , you get to view all of the ship models from every 
 angle.
  
  However, the ships themselves are so amazingly clunky and unwieldy, which have all the get-up-and-go 
 of a tortoise with a broken leg. They don't turn very quickly, and more often than not, you spend 
 an entire combat turning, trying to catch a ship that's zipping around (again, very much like Blazing 
 Angels) . Luckily, with most ships, the firing arcs of your beam weapons are pretty wide, so you 
 can start poking holes in their shields before launching torpedoes to rip them up.
  
  The mission design of the game is pretty simple, with most missions involve getting to checkpoint 
 A, attacking a ship there, getting to checkpoint B, attacking a ship there, and then maybe defending 
 a ship at Checkpoint C. There are some missions where you do something different (like hiding in 
 nebulas or destroying star-fragments) , but most missions have a similar theme. Luckily, the control 
 system for the X-Box controller is pretty straightforward (unlike the control system on PC, which 
 is just broken) , so it won't be long before you're learning how to annhilate Borg with the best 
 of them.
  
  The game itself isn't particularly long, and you can probably finish it in under 10 hours, but 
 X-Box Live support means that the game does still have some life to it after you've finished the 
 single-player campaign.
  
  If you're a Star Trek fan, then this is a game for you to rush out and buy (yes, I did) , and if 
 not, then it's still worth a look if you like space sims. While not a stand-out title, this is 
 still a solid game for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanroop
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I was excited about this game from the first moment that I heard about it. This and Oblivion are 
 the reasons that I bought a 360. My initial reaction to this game was utter dissapointment. I didn't 
 like the way the ships moved, the combat was difficult and you could only be in the ships. It took 
 me three times trying to get into this game and once I did it got much much better. The toughest 
 thing about this game is to figure out how to fly the ships and fight and timing once you have 
 this down the rest of the game becomes a lot better. The voice acted parts are great and it is 
 good to be able to hear all of the captains involved. The story is great too spaning all the time 
 periods together seemlessly in a intriging story. There is one level that gave me fits, the first 
 TNG-Era where you have to move the rocks. Take my advice and by as many SCOUT class ships as you 
 can and move to full power engines. Take full advantage of the HINT button in your pause menu to 
 get the most help in this engagment. Like I said in the title this game could have been the greatest 
 game ever if it were made to have the space battles but have them be a part of an RPG where you 
 have to earn the ranks required to and so on and so forth (Clearly I am not a game designer or 
 that would have made much more sense...) Anyway I figured out a way to get some of the obscure 
 online acheivments, if anyone wants to know send me a message and I will gladly let you in on it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clone_545
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  The game has its shares of pros and cons, and I am listing as many as possible here.
  
  Pros: -The ships are nice and detailed.
  -Contains every single ship to appear from each faction.
 
  -The single player campaign has its moments.
  -The multiplayer is alot of fun.
  
  Cons:-The Federation is way to overpowered.
  -No in-mission save feature.
  -Controlling your 
 speed is unnecesarily difficult.
  -The single player campaign gets repetitive and boring after a while, (especially the asteriod 
 mission)
  
  Overall, if your a trekkie then this is the game for you. But if you are unfimiliar with the Star 
 Trek Universe, then you wont get much out of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funinsd
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  It does have an interresting story line and it is a great concept . . .flying the ships of startrek 
 and blasting alein ships. There are only three reasons why I won't invest the cash to own it. 1. 
 very clunky controls and gameplay, its too difficult to manage all the ships at once. serveral 
 times they just won't do what you tell them to. (bug?)
  2. You only play as the federation, theres no romulan or vulcan story line to play as. 3. Overal 
 the game just has the feel that it was rushed through production, it seems if they took more time 
 play testing it, it would have been a much better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuboy83
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  After playing strait through the game I decided to take it slow and really try to enjoy every aspect 
 of the game. It clearly has amazing visuals when it comes to the star ship models. I haven't seen 
 a game yet that has done so well. The interaction with the other ships in your fleet can be a pain 
 sometimes but for the most part it wasn't too terribly difficult to command all of the ships at 
 once towards a common goal. I became difficult when you have them doing different jobs. I was also 
 nice to hear all of the captains voices again, it isn't often they are able to pull together all 
 of the talent they did. Some of the physics where a little strange, like the bumper-car effect 
 when ships ran into each other, or the phaser arc problem, which I didn't think made a whole lot 
 of sense. All in all a great game that is worth buying especially if it comes down in price LOL 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeOwnBestFrnd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game although it could have had a little more depth; also I think they really 
 should have made an attempt to put in at least two or three missions led by Sisko and the Defiant 
 and a few with Janeway/Voyager.
  The gameplay is pretty good and the storyline is nice....... what I'd really like to see is a Star 
 Trek game with similar gameplay, and the depth of a game like Elder Scrolls and the free roaming 
 capability of a GTA game.... that would be awesome.... a nice RPG/RTS would really do the Star Trek 
 universe justice. Aside from that I think the game was a good buy.... I didn't catch many bugs so 
 there was no problem there, Oh yeah, one more thing... I think that it would have been awesome to 
 have a campaign for the Klingons, romulans and Borg as well... but I guess that would have been 
 a bit much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiMetroWiccan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek is a program that has inspired and, in many ways, taught society to think outside of 
 the limitations of our own planet-it provided a look into a future where our daily problems seem 
 miniscule, even senseless.
  
  Instead of only reaching their target demographic- people aged 18-30, Gene Roddenberry's mystical 
 and original program found fans of all ages, from all backgrounds.
  
  It spun off into several movies, and was spoofed and referenced by such popular programs as Seinfeld, 
 South Park, and of course Futurama; where many of the original series' actors guest-starred.
  
  As Star Trek: The Next Generation came, so did the Star Trek videogames.
  Most of them were 
 space-based shooters, while others, mostly PC games, took on a more diverse form.
  
  Star Trek: Legacy, instead of focusing on a particular series, features original dialogue from 
 the actors we've come to know and love from all five series, and its story spans all of the shows, 
 though not necessarily in the exact order (Enterprise, with Scott Bakula as Cpt. Archer, begins 
 the game, for instance, rather than starting with Captain Kirk)
  
  Many achievements are earned by completing the secondary objectives on a given map, or by managing 
 to complete an entire series without losing a single ship.
  
  Difficulties range from Ensign (Easy) and Captain (Normal) to Admiral (Hard)
  
  Some of the 
 game's levels are easy, and can be beaten on the first try.
  While still others, require a carefully-planned strategy; stemming from how many, and what type 
 of ships you are going in with, to what ships are going where and which one to control, while letting 
 the AI control the other 1-3.
  
  As the game progresses through the various series, players will notice that the ships change and 
 are usually more advanced in the later levels, meaning they will have to occasionally decide whether 
 to sell two outdated ships to purchase one of the current generation.
  
  There are a good number of maps for Multiplayer, but the lobbies are hard to get started.
  Even 
 when all players are set to ready, the game sometimes doesn't start,
  
  Players are afforded a certain amount of Command Points upon entering the lobby; this number is 
 decided by the lobby's host.
  With these points, players choose what ships (from the cheaper Scouts, fast ships with little attack 
 or defense, to the more expensive battleships, slower but more effective in combat) to use in the 
 game.
  
  Also decided by the host, is whether to allow ships from a particular generation, or from all eras.
 
  In Multiplayer, Players can choose to use Borg, Klingon, Romulan, or Federation ships- unfortunately, 
 there are no vulcan ships to choose from.
  
  There are two Multiplayer Modes: Ranked &amp; Player online matches, and Skirmish, local multiplayer.
 
  Within these modes are cooperative and competetive modes, from deathmatches and team deatchmatches 
 (due to the unusual lobby, it's sometimes difficult to tell which) to joining other players to 
 protect a base from incoming AI ships.
  
  While the game has its glitches- an occasional freeze, or a bug where all of a sudden everything 
 has gone black excluding the crosshair and Mmps numbers, they don't occur frequently. While, I 
 have noticed by talking to other players, that certain levels are more prone to bugs &amp; freezes 
 than others.
  
  The controls are somewhat complex, and take a bit to get used to.
  The left thumbstick alternates Sub-system targeting , a useful feature, particularly in levels 
 where engine-targeting is an important factor, but takes some getting used to, and players might 
 accidentally switch it on or off by accident the same way you'll occasionally hear someone accidentally 
 honk the horn by pressing down too hard on the left thumbstick in Saints Row .
  
  Photons and Phasers are operated with the Left/Right Trigger buttons., and require you to be within 
 distance for a proper lock-on.
  Like the shows and films, power can be diverted through the ship; to Weapons, Shields, Engines, 
 or a mixed combination of them by moving a small white orb around a circle with markings indicating 
 the three systems.
  
  Warping is simple enough, once you've reached the correct speed, and can get you out of trouble 
 in a hurry if you're being bombarded with enemy fire, and need to take a short break to repair 
 your ship, either by waiting and choosing the things to repair using the appropriate button to 
 bring up the menu, or by taking it to a friendly dock (if available)
  
  There are no in-mission checkpoints, so if you make a mistake toward the end of a mission, you'll 
 be repeating the mission from the start.
  Save points occur inbetween each mission, where players are also given the opportunity to sell 
 or buy new ships for their fleet.
  
  The bottom line is, yes, the game could've been more, it could've combined space-combat with FPS-style 
 shooting or been more diverse in other ways, but what it is warrants at least a rental or purchase 
 for a fan of any, or all, of the Star Trek shows and films.
  
  Blessed Be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManOfTeal
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  I think as the game progresses it gets better. Initially, my first impression was, wow this game 
 is tough to control. But I pressed on and once I got a better feel for the controls and as I progressed 
 through the game the ships get easier to manage. The first generation (Archer-era) of ships are 
 kinda sluggish to control but once you get to the Kirk-era and then later the Picard, Janeway, 
 Sisko-eras, ship control becomes much more smooth.
  The sountrack is not what I expected either, the music is completely original and does not take 
 any of the musical themes from the Star Trek movies or Television shows at all.
  One really cool aspect to the game is that they were able to have the original Captains voice their 
 characters throughout the entire game. Scott Bakula voices Captain Archer, William Shatner voices 
 Captain Kirk, Patrick Stewart voices Captain Picard, Avery Brooks voices Captain Sisko, and Kate 
 Mulgrew voices Captain Janeway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 10, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like Star Trek: Legacy, and I guess I do. Sort of.
  
  Where to begin. The game looks good, for the most part -- ship models in particular look very nice 
 and crisp. But there's not a whole lot else going on (it is in space, after all) . The backgrounds 
 look a little too busy for space sometimes. And planet models seem.... small. It's a problem that 
 a lot of space games have -- planet models always seem underwhelming. It really does pull you out 
 of the game experience when planets are just so dang tiny.
  
  The damage modeling is overhyped. Yes, you get damage modeled on your ship when you're hit by phasers 
 and torpedoes, but the visualization of the damage doesn't always look right. It doesn't always 
 match where your ship was hit, and it only looks ok. I was hoping for more like the effect in Star 
 Trek 2 (I think) when the phasers were ripping into the side of the Enterprise. If that's what 
 you're expecting... you won't find it.
  
  What is also strange is that even though the game features the voice acting of the actors from 
 throughout the Star Trek universe, you never see them. While all the talking is going on, the camera 
 just floats through space, showing you the ships. It just feels wrong. Make some nice cut scenes, 
 or even do 3D models of captains interacting with the viewscreen, or something. Again, it just 
 ruins the feel of the game.
  
  Despite having the actors from the TV shows, the voice acting was really lousy. Part of this is 
 because the secondary characters were bad, but even the big names were underwhelming. Scott Bakula, 
 for instance, sounded bored. But the others were no better. The lines they had sounded like they 
 were written by a fanboy (even though, yes, I know they weren't) .
  
  The story, though, is actually decent and interesting -- more than I would have expected. But the 
 bad voice acting and lazy visuals could have punched it up a few notches.
  
  But that's all looks. What about gameplay? Eh, it's ok. The controls aren't very intuitive, and 
 feel sloppy. Inefficient. But you get used to it, though it takes awhile. But camera control can 
 get wonky, and sometimes that makes it more difficult to actually maneuver your ships. Again, you 
 get used to it, but it really could have been done better.
  
  The missions themselves range from easy to nearly impossible. And the difficulty does not ramp 
 up as you go, really, but seems random from one level to the next. You're given too little information 
 in some missions, which will require you to replay levels once you figure out that you've screwed 
 up by missing something. There's also not a huge amount of diversity in missions, which is unfortunate.
 
  
  Which brings me to a major complaint -- there is no excuse for not allowing in-level saves, particularly 
 when missions can go on for an hour. It was a problem in games like Hitman: Blood Money as well. 
 Give us the option of in-level saves, please. Some of us would like to play for fifteen minutes 
 or a half hour sometimes, since that's what we've got. But no -- it is all or nothing. Give us an 
 achievement, or something, for not using the save in the middle of a level, but give us the choice! 
 No excuse.
  
  Other than that, though, the game really is fun. Particularly online multiplayer skirmishes. The 
 single player game is a bit short, although if you have to keep replaying levels, it'll take longer.
 
  
  All-in-all, I'd give the game a tentative recommendation. Rent it, maybe, though, before you buy 
 to figure out if you can live with some of the game's shortcomings (such as the lack of in-level 
 saves) . It's fun, and you'll play for awhile, but its long-term replayability is pretty low, in 
 my opinion.
  
  This game could have been a lot better. It seems rushed (at the moving release date seems to confirm) , 
 and could use more finishing touches. More consistent voice acting, actually seeing (not just hearing) 
 the characters, more consistent difficulty in missions, more variety in missions, better controls, 
 and the game could have been great. Instead it's just ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  After waiting for this to come out for nearly 12 weeks its was a let down. Don't get me wrong the 
 voice acting is great the graphics are pretty good. But it is way to hard in some areas and to 
 easy in others. Hard to the point of smashing your controller into the window of your six story 
 apartment building. And yet it is easy enough in some levels to sit back and kill the enemies one 
 at a time. I just wish it could have been the star trek game I have been waiting for. Save your 
 money and pass this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnimeScifiGamer
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is a step in the right direction it is pretty hard to get the hang of piloting a starship 
 and the targeting can be a little confusing at times. But those are things that with time you can 
 adapt to. The game can be very hard at times such as having to protect 3 med. transports that are 
 spread across the map or saving three planets from asteroid impacts. The game has a impressive 
 range of starships that are all well detailed. and the story is Pretty cool, thought out it you 
 come across many small things in the game that have been in the star trek Such as there is a mission 
 were you play out the events that led to the Omega directive. or see the Defiant's trial run. There 
 is a skirmish mode but it is very disappointing you can not chose your enemy's ships and it can 
 be hard at times. Over all I think the game is better then some of the other trek games. Also this 
 game has features such as System targeting and warping across the map, entering orbit of planets 
 as well as entering nebula that have varying effects such as damaging your system, temporally knocking 
 your shields off line, some do nothing at all while others hide you from enemy ships. I recommend 
 you rent it first and If your not a Trekkie (Star trek fan) you might not like the game. but give 
 it a try you might just like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boominslpr
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 12:02 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up when I saw Star Trek and 360. Star Trek beautifully rendered by the Xbox 
 was the big plus and with Bethesda's Oblivion kicking so much butt, how could I go wrong? I will 
 agree with others that the game feels like it was slapped together and shoehorned out the door 
 to make a deadline. Fans of the genre can appreciate it but I dare say to the passing fan to leave 
 this baby on the shelves. PROS:
  Very cool to have all the captains voices
  Ship models are accurate and detailed
  
  CONS:
  Scenery detail is abysmal
  No in-mission 
 save feature
  Repetitive
  Fleet AI is very easily confused
  
  It only gets frustratingly bad when you're in the middle of a half-hour long mission, wandering 
 aimlessly trying to figure out how to satisfy the next objective, and you suddenly realize the 
 enemy has done something catastrophic to you and the mission is failed. This of course means starting 
 completely over. These days, with gaming systems having built in high-capacity (relative to previous 
 generation) storage devices, this one con is inexcusable. Half way through a tough NES game only 
 to start all over huge.
  
  Moral of the story. If Bethesda would have poured a little more of their magic into this one, it 
 could've really been something. The lack of attention to detail, especially from these guys, is 
 diappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Langway
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Ship models look really good - the fun essentially stops there. It used to be games had a slick 
 CGI presentation to set up one mission to the next. STL, uses in game graphics to set up each mission 
 and move the story along - boring and tedious.
  
  The single player game has promise, but game play takes away from almost everything - from little 
 control of ship systems beyond the basics, to essentially using the same formula in battle after 
 battle. I won't get into the bugs, they are annoying and gave away the fact this game was rushed 
 out the door. The game touted Fleet Control before being rushed out the door - well fleet control 
 will make you want to throw your controller through the TV on more than one occasion.
  
  The in game environments hurt things too. While the ships, again, look really good, the environments 
 leave little to be desired and are seriously lacking in scale.
  
  I started to get into multiplayer mode, but when a match is done, it really done. You get kicked 
 all the way back to the main menu when a match is over. WTF!? Not to mention, there isn't much 
 more to multiplayer than co-op defend the base, or endless flying in circles and hoping you score 
 more/better hits than your opponent.
  
  I'm very disappointed with BethesdaSoft, et al, at pushing this game out in it's buggy, and boring 
 state - especially after releasing a game as great as Oblivion. I can only hope they have enough 
 sense to update and put out some good add-on content through XBOX Live. Until then, rent it if 
 you have to play it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-KAYZEE
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek games are usually, as a rule, a bit naff. But this truly captures the heart of Star Trek 
 battles. The constant gibbering of numbers and letters, the on-off buzz of the phasers, the 'bhwum' 
 of the photon torpedos, and the feeling of certain death as you and your fleet fly into a raging 
 nebula of Borg firepower. The game takes place over the three eras covered by the TV series. In 
 Enterprise era, you have no shields, which really helps convey the sense that these are literally 
 first-generation ships. With each advancement in era, ship shields, weapons and sensors etc. become 
 more advanced. Controls are for the most part satisfactory, apart from some of the more frantic 
 battles, where it gets a little tricky to control your ships pitch and yaw. Campaign mode puts 
 you in control of up to 3 other ships and has you undertake various missions accross huge playing 
 areas. These missions range from protecting other vessels, scanning star systems for enemy activity 
 all the way to full blown war. While some missions run more smoothly than others, none of them 
 can really be called easy. Control of your fleet is a bit weird at first, having them split up 
 and protect other ships being of particular annoyance. The game also incorprates an online and 
 offline multiplayer coop or deathmatch mode for up to 4 players. Graphically speaking, the sheen, 
 solid visuals do the trick but never really go towards being defining or breathtaking. The audio 
 really comes into its own during battles, with the constant zap and blast of fire and the Diverting 
 all power to engines line that's blurted out whenever you adjust your ship's power allocation. 
 Story wise, everything's to Star Trek standard, with a look at the Borg's origin being of particular 
 interest to fans. As the first space RTS on 360, there's no other games to really compare to this. 
 Definately worth a look if you're a Star Trek or RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: posterboy_rpg
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for awhile. I'm not a fan of all trek series but I'm a fan overall 
 of the setting, especially TNG and DS9. This game is hard, but it's very fun. I love the voice 
 work and the story was quite good. It has a ton of ships from the shows and works in every series 
 and captain. I love being able to add such ships as the defiant to my fleet.
  
  The saving of the campaign game is flawed. You can't replay old missions and can only move forward. 
 You can't save the game mid mission so if you make a mistake, you'll have to do it again. It can 
 be annoying but I enjoy the gameplay so redoing stuff didn't really bother me. But it the save 
 game behavior was sort off odd, but didn't really hurt my experience.
  
  But the real disappointment is the length. About 18 missions, 6 or so in each era. I was just really 
 getting into it when I realized I was almost done. What a rip off! Especially when you compare 
 it to such games as Oblivion.
  
  I'm not much for multi-player or just doing skirmishes, but at the end of the day, I paid like 
 60 for 10-12 hours if fun. And it was fun, very fun, but why can't they spend more time creating 
 a long, 40+ hours, campaign? Come on, do it right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheska_Briune
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great visuals make the game look stunning, all five captains come in to do their voices- 
 all of which adds a great touch, gameplay is exciting-for the most part, online is pretty good.
 
  
  The Bad: The incredably long learning curve can take many hours, the side cast should take lessons 
 on trying to scream when they're about to face death, uhm, is it just me, or do borg cubes disappear 
 when they blow up, and I think they had a little mix up at the space dock when writing the letters 
 on the ship (The Columbia being Enterprise...????)
  
  
  This game, while not meeting the exact expectations of fans of Trek games, it still delivers an 
 exciting and epic space adventure! When you plop your game into your beautiful 360, you're gonna 
 be in for a real treat. First off, when you get to the menu, you have the choices of Campaign, 
 Skirmish mode, Multiplayer mode (both online and off) , Options to set everything, and Extras to 
 view all the crap you'll probably never look at. First off, in mission mode, you play through an 
 interesting story (Yes, you get a good Trek game story!) , although the characters aren't voiced 
 through any scenes with chatacter models, but only with the view of you ship and whatever else 
 is in space at the moment. With the talents of the 5 trek captains, and a whole spred of extras, 
 it remains interesting enough to watch and listen to. At times, it feels as though you're actually 
 watching an epsiode or movie.
  
  There are 15 missions total, each of which can take anywhere from 15 minutes to an hour. Each era 
 gets 5 missions each, with Enterprise, The Original Series, and The Next Generation. Saddly, the 
 difficulty, and the lack of an in-mission save really make this harder than it should be. It can 
 take quite a few times until you actually complete it. Thankfully, most of the action gets better 
 once you start getting a bit past the Enterprise era, and really heats up in the Next Generation 
 Era. There's enough out of the campaign mode to keep you busy for awhile, if you're still willing 
 to do it with the insane difficulty of it.
  
  The graphics for this game are just plain stunning, with the only drawbacks being, well, graphical 
 issues at times. For one, I was playing a skirmish mode, and when the Borg Cube exploded, it disapeared, 
 with a little blast coming out of nothingness. At another time, it exploded, another cube popped 
 out in it, then it exploded as well. In another instance, I was near death, again, in skirmish 
 mode in the Enterprise Era, and my ship model said Columbia, when in fact it was the Enterprise. 
 Still, with these difficulties, the ship models in general are great, and show nearly every detail 
 you could come to expect, from the name, to the small fractures of destruction coming from the 
 ship when in battle.
  
  The music is outstanding for what is here, and makes the experience even better, and gets the job 
 done right. As for the voice acting, it's great, for the most part. The five actors for each series 
 captain do an outstanding job... uhm, except for Shatner.. who... uh..... sounds a bit elderly to be 
 playing his role, that's 40 years old. As for the extra voices, they.... get the job done, but for 
 some, just barely. The screams they make before death sound like they have constipation. Still, 
 its nice to hear the actors play their roles again, esecially all together in one game.
  
  This game is a fine addition your X-box 360 collcetion, especially if you're a Trekkie. Although, 
 if you hate space shooters, or just Star Trek in general, you may want to stay away from it... although 
 if that's the case, I hate you...... okay I'm just kidding!
  
  
  Released: December 14, 2006
  
  Price: $59.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penguintowelboy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek Legacy is a relativley new starship combat game from the well known developer of Oblivion, 
 Bethesda Softworks. The game is tied together using a vulcan scientist that wishes to become the 
 borg queen. Some of the story doesn't make too much sense with the T. V. Shows, but it's pulled 
 off pretty well.
  The actual combat is pretty good. the ships handle pretty well and they feel realistic. your weapons 
 are controlled with the left and right triggers. Phasers are most effective when you attack in 
 long bursts at short range. Photon Torpedos, which are limited in amount, don't loose damage over 
 range, but they get less accurate. because of these limitations, you will need to move your ship 
 into position in order to make your weapons most effective. this may seem dull at first, but after 
 a while, you will have a blast destroying enemy ships. The ships also move in a way that seems 
 realistic to their size. for example, the small scout ships are fast an manouverable and have weak 
 weapons, and the large soveirgn class ships are slow and hard to control, but have really powerful 
 weapons. you can compensate for sips weaknesses and strengths by diverting power to weapons, engines, 
 or sheilds. you can also just max out one of the areas if you want to just blow a ship up really 
 quicly or run away quickly. You can also control repairs for your ships, but the enemies rareley 
 target your systems so you will find that you will mostly be repairing your hull. all in all, though, 
 all of these systems make you feel like you are actually commanding a starship. all of it is really 
 fun.
  One thing that was heavily advertized about this game was that the ships would be modeled with 
 fantastic detail, and they are. Every ship looks as good, if not better, than they did on the T. V. 
 Shows. all of the weapons look really good as well. all of the fire effects are pretty good too, 
 but the explosion animations leave something to be desired. a lot of the big chunks meld with eachother 
 and when something really big explodes, a new one sort of pops up in the place of the old one and 
 that also explodes. these really could have used more work and it is a bit disappointing that the 
 game was delayed so much and that this aspect wasn't filled out. This isn't a major factor, but 
 the planets are about the same size as your ship. Because of this, they are more landmarks than 
 real representations of planets. This is good though because you can't warp when you are close 
 to a planet. Overall though the game looks great.
  Another thing that this game advertized pre-release was that it had voice acting from all of the 
 capitans. They do have this voice acting, but there are no likenesses of these capitans. and the 
 voiceovers are just the capitans talking while the camera pans over the ships. this isn't too bad 
 though because it gives you a chance to look at the beautifully designed ship models. the sound 
 effects of the weapons and explosions are really good.
  The game's multiplayer is the one part of the game that truly dissapoints. it has some cool ideas 
 and modes, but you have to go back to the main menu if you want to play again. because of this, 
 it feels tacked on.
  Although the game has some noticeable flaws, it is a solid starship strategy combat game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRookieGB
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  I must admit at first I thought, oh dear a boring space game with slow ships and average story 
 line. But .... after first hiring the game out I decided that I'd played it longer than many of 
 Demos I'd downloaded from Live Marketplace. To me this was a good sign. I'd tried Prey, Fear, Hitman, 
 Tomb Raider, PES6, Tiger etc all from down loads and ok they aren't bad, but my attention span 
 faded badly.
  
  With Star trek It was a different type of game to all the other games on the 360. A space battle/simluation. 
 Yes the voice overs and the story line add to the whole scene, and if you love startrek then it 
 will be right up your street.
  
  For me I just can't seem to put the controller down. Every successfull mission brings a new story 
 and more credits to buy the bigger ships.
  
  SOme magazines have only given this 5 out of 10 (official Xbox360) . I can understand that the graphics 
 aren't 100% and the ships do turn slow etc.
  BUT if you want a change in game style then give it a go.
  
  I hope the game doesn't finish 
 too soon as I'm enjoying it while I can.
  
  I hope theres some add-on packs coming out soon on marketplace, just to spice it up later on.
 
  
  Anyway ..... Hire it out first and then buy it after .... I did!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Rc
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  this one really took me by surprise star trek console games have never been good when i saw legacy 
 i thought this looks good but i bet it wont be, all i can say is i was wrong.
  
  Gameplay:
  the gameplay focus on a story that expands across the entire star trek timeline and 
 puts you in different situations keep the game fresh and you find that you not facing the same 
 enemy for to long.
  the biggest problem i have is the lack of Sisko and Janeway both are in the story but not for long 
 and you cant control the defiant or voyager which is a let down but if you like me you will just 
 get a defiant and intrepid class and pretend its them.
  
  The controls are a bit daunting at first but you soon become a master at the helm Graphics:
  
 I cant speak for the pc but the 360 looks perfect no problems with the ships at all Sound:
  i wasnt fond of the music to be honest but i do love my original TV music Value:
  the gamer 
 points are a real treat and keep you coming back for more they also add an extra objective to the 
 game making replays well worth it.
  
  star trek games have suffered in the past but this one brings the look and feel of the show and 
 keep it alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFenix
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Very detailed ship models, as well as the number of ships available,
  fantastic control scheme, Achievements
  
  Cons: Numerous glitches constantly pop up during 
 gameplay, multiplayer lobbies are buggy, mediocre presentation of story
  
  Star Trek Legacy is a game that is purely about starship combat. There's a storyline, and while 
 it is original, it remains tolerable at best. A Vulcan scientist has discovered a method of becoming 
 the Borg Queen, and events are set in motion from the Enterprise era that has her being followed 
 by Archer, Kirk, and Picard - with Janeway and Sisko limited to voice-overs only. It should be 
 noted, however, that the number of ships available in this game is impressive - the Federation, 
 Romulan, Klingon, and Borg are all represented to varying degrees and in stellar, next-generation 
 detail. If you're looking for Trek on consoles, Legacy is a game that will satisfy that, but there 
 are numerous hindrances that limit the overall fun factor.
  
  As previously noted, the plot is unique, yet the tools to flesh it out and make it meaningful are 
 not taken advantage of. Specifically, there is not a single viewscreen or character model to be 
 found anywhere in the course of gameplay. As a result, any immersive feeling to be had is nullified, 
 as all the player receives are voice-overs and camera pans of the starships. The voices of the 
 captains are all fine, but most every supplemental character is kind of disappointing, either they 
 were trying too hard (Klingons) or not enough. Surprisingly, the dialogue is better than one might 
 think. So, even while the voice-acting quality is ok to iffy, what they say exactly is at least 
 interesting. Lines of note include Kirk and Picard's final thoughts, as well as much of Archer's 
 discussions. As for the length of Legacy's single-player campaign, every era spans 5 missions, 
 making the offline game fairly brief and taking one extended session or two days to complete.
 
  
  The controls are half the anchor of Legacy (the other half being the Trek infusion) . For the most 
 part, they are solid - moreso in concept than in execution, but still solid. The Left Trigger fires 
 torpedoes, while the Right fires phasers. The Left Bumper brings up the Repair menu for your ship, 
 which includes Hull, Shields, Sensors, Weapons, and Engines. All the player has to do to repair 
 a given system is highlight it and click the A button (and the system will repair over time) . The 
 Right Bumper auto-focuses the camera on an enemy target - one tap focuses, while holding it and 
 moving the left analog stick allows the selection of different targets. The Left analog stick steers 
 your vessel, while the Right controls the camera. The B button controls impulse engines (on/off) 
 - holding it allows the selection of Full, 1/2, 1/4, or Off speeds. This is key for turning your 
 ship around quickly, as full impulse speed results in very wide turns and is not combat efficient. 
 The A button brings up a radial menu of options on objects (planets, ships, turrets, etc.) which 
 include Scan, Hail, Tractor Beam, etc. Holding down the X button brings up a menu where energy 
 can be transferred to weapons, shields, or engines so as to maximize a starship's effectiveness 
 at any given time. For example, do you need to deal damage to a great number of weaker opponents? 
 Maximize weapons. If you need to get to a location quickly while towing something with your tractor 
 beam, maximize engines. It's a great concept from the Trek franchise, and it works in Legacy as 
 well. Finally, the Y button is used to warp and therefore travel long distances quickly.
  
  The control scheme is, in a word, natural when considering the Xbox 360 controller. The results 
 of various command inputs are sometimes much less than satisfactory, though. Say you want to warp 
 your fleet to where the battle is going on. Ok, no problem, right? Unfortunately, 3 of your ships 
 might enter warp, but the vessel you currently had selected will stay behind and use impulse speed. 
 The number of ships that follow any given orders is not always total, which results in more than 
 a few instances of frustration. Another example is when you tell a ship to go to a certain location, 
 select another vessel, and bring up the map only to find out that the first ship is now auto-attacking 
 enemy targets or auto-flying to the wrong place. Other problems include over-steering (this is 
 far too common, and is especially frustrating when telling a ship that is near destruction to go 
 to warp from the map) , double-warping (having a ship agree to warp, stop, then warp again without 
 changing the original location) , and docking with shipyards to repair in general (there is a non-interactive 
 animation that does not always play out and leaves a ship glancing off the shipyard itself, and 
 entering an idle state) . Still more annoyances include sound clips overlapping one another (not 
 just effects, but speech as well) , framerate disruptions, camera resets on the y-axis (guiding 
 your ship straight up or down in space is unnecessarily difficult because of it) .
  
  When these problems do not occur, combat is otherwise fantastic. Basically, phasers are best for 
 shields, and photon and quantum torpedoes work best against hulls. Phasers recharge faster if energy 
 is allocated towards them, and are your primary weapon against all opponents since torpedo complements 
 can be depleted (though they can be refilled at shipyards) . There is a certain grace to guiding 
 vessels past one another and exchanging fire simultaneously, and Legacy does it well. Encounters 
 with many vessels can look spectacular, or at least when large objects such as starbases and Borg 
 cubes are not exploding and ships aren't collding with one another. For the former, explosions 
 are weak in that the objects do not break apart well (large chunks with glowing circuits on the 
 insides only do not make for a pretty sight - and this is somehow the exact same for both bases 
 and cubes) . As for ship collision, you won't be seeing any Nemesis-esque destruction from the result 
 of ramming speed . Ships merely glance off one another with no structural impact whatsoever. This 
 is extremely disappointing, but a minor complaint in the grand package of what is actually delivered.
 
  
  Take subsystem targeting, for another good example of delivering on the combat of Trek. In battle, 
 the A button functions as the gateway to selecting enemy subsystems for destruction. It works by 
 clicking the left analog stick in, holding the A button, then moving the left stick in the direction 
 of the desired system. It is a fantastic addition to combat, as it allows for the immobilization 
 of enemy ships in more than one way (taking out their weapons means that they cannot counterattack, 
 destroying their engines makes them a sitting duck, etc.) . Getting close enough to the enemy and 
 maintaining a phaser lock is what makes Subsystem targeting harder than it looks.
  
  It should be said that while the back of the packaging clearly states that it supports 2 players 
 offline, this is not true. There is indeed a Skirmish mode, but it is only for 1 player against 
 computer opponents. Multiplayer on Xbox Live supports only 1 player per console as well. The modes 
 of play are twofold: Deathmatch and Coop Wave. The first allows you to compete against 2-3 other 
 players, with varying limits to the amounts of ships you may purchase with Command Points (the 
 same currency that the campaign uses) . The object of the game is to, of course, emerge victoriuos 
 by destroying your opponents with at least one ship remaining. There are a lot of maps, actually, 
 so no complaints there. One disappointment to multiplayer is that Coop Wave does not have any Achievements, 
 though the Deathmatch Achievements are vague and do not tell you that (one asks you to destroy 
 10 Borg vessels - doing so in Coop Wave does not count) . In general, multiplayer is stable if less 
 than 4 players are involved. Merely starting a 4 player game at all is an achievement in itself, 
 because more often than not, clicking Engage seems to boot a number of players instead of launching 
 the game (when I was the host as well as when I was not) . Sometimes getting into a 4-player game 
 is hard enough, as there are many errors that the game doles out to describe failure here: Your 
 network connection to Xbox Live is not sufficient to play this match , The connection to the host 
 has been lost , Match cannot be found , etc.
  
  The single-player Achievements are quite enticing - there are some that apply to the same mission 
 that ask you to play said mission in different ways. For example, while controlling a cloak-capable 
 ship, one asks you never to use that ability. Another requires you to not be seen in the same mission. 
 Aside from those, there are Achievements for the 3 difficulties of the game, naturally called Ensign 
 (Easy) , Captain (Normal) , and Admiral (Hard) . Others include unlocking the USS Legacy, and another 
 for not losing a single ship throughout the entire individual eras. One noteworthy Achievement, 
 called Antique Collector, requires the player to keep a ship from the very first era, Archer's, 
 all the way to Picard's era without it getting destroyed. The range of Legacy's Achievements are, 
 in my opinion, broader and more satisfying to complete than most other games on the Xbox 360 so 
 far and are a definite plus to its replayability.
  
  Star Trek Legacy is hit-or-miss all across the board. As a Trek fan myself, I thoroughly enjoyed 
 observing, controlling, and battling with the iconic vessels made famous by the various movies 
 and television series. On the flip-side, the sheer amount of bugs and overall lack of polish hinder 
 the game in almost every facet of play. In the end, however, the game is stable enough to warrant 
 purchase if you enjoy Star Trek and can tolerate the moderate sound and video glitches that accompany 
 this otherwise good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tico426
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  I have been anticipating this game for months. Heck it was the reason I got myself a 360 , as I 
 could not go without a Trek game. The last one I played was Bridge Commander on the PC and i can 
 say that is the single most spectacular Trek game to date. It is even more great with the KM mod 
 that gives you all the ships and some nice little in game extras like warp battles and being able 
 to launch shuttles. It had its online probs, but it was still great.
  But this game I feel has no excuse. I really thought they would have gave us Bridge Commander 06/07 
 but it is no where near that. I'll most probably get this in the bargain bucket so I can get some 
 online gaming on, But I to say i am dissapointed would be an understatement. I cannot believe it!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_ez1006
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  First off..... I strongly think that if your a trek fan (big or small) you will get more from this 
 game. Now, to the game and what not. At first look this game is one of the best looking next-gen 
 game i've seen since chromehounds. Grafix: look polished and need little to no work. I especialy 
 liked the ship modeling, even all the ships that you don't see on any of the episodes or other 
 games. Everything about the phasers and torpeados are really accurate. Some of the explosions are 
 a little shady and need some work but overall the battle damage looks good. Controlls: are a little 
 ackward, but after about 30 minutes to an hour you'll get the hang of it. Once you get the hang 
 of the controls everything falls into place and it makes the game just that much more fun, and 
 pleasing. Game play: great but short campaign, I just wish it had a few more missions in the Enterprise 
 era, and the Original series era. Next Gen era is good but needs to move a little faster and needs 
 more depth from Sisko and Janeway. It almost seems like the DS9 and Voyager eras were an add on 
 instead of part of the actual story. Music: what can I say, its Star Trek. Enough said! Over all: 
 everything looks and sounds authentic, just like it should. I also think that there should be a 
 sequel, yeah I know, it would be hard to make a sequel with what was given. But if they did I would 
 like to see more races like the Cardasians, or the Jem' Hedar, or hell even the Breen. Just something 
 extra, and next time don't try to rush the game for X-Mass, put more time into polishing the skirmish 
 and X-Live, and try to work out the bugs BEFORE!! 3 weeks until release. As for a Rent or Buy...... 
 I would say if you are even the littlest trek fan Buy it, its worth the money....... If you're 
 not a fan of the series and are looking for a star ship based sim/shooter, Ehh, I think I would 
 rent it first before making a decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMizzle
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  First things first, I am a trekkie  but this wont influence my criticism of this game.
  Now, as a trekkie I have been looking forward to this game. Star Trek has had a lot of bad stick, 
 and I thought that this could redeem it. Now this is not a BAD game. But it has some pretty big 
 problems for 40  50 quid.
  
  Problems
  
   The camera is awkward. It can be gotten used to, but if youre a casual gamer then you might 
 get a bit frustrated.
   No in game mission save. Most of the missions wouldnt actually require it, but there are some 
 that really really do. Its very frustrating having spent a good 50 minutes setting up, only to 
 be destroyed at the last stage and having to start from scratch.
   Planets. Firstly, they are completely out of scale. If that wasnt bad enough, your ship just 
 bounces off it if you hit it. What would have been nice here is planet gravity  disable your opponents 
 engines and tractor beam them into a planets gravity. Then watch them slowly fall to their doom. 
  Nebulas. Most of them really dont hide you, and are just a disadvantage. Again, if the designers 
 had thought they could have made them so you cant see through them, or get a lock on a ship inside 
 one. This would add an extra tactical element.
   The Borg. Im sorry, but they really suck. Its impossible to control them without the 2D map, 
 and they cant adapt. So you basically sit there being pummelled. Not fun.
  
  However, the game is not without merit. The ships are really well done, and despite what Gamespot 
 have said most of the explosions look quite nice.
  Another redeeming feature is Xbox Live. Matches are great fun and it leaves the possibility open 
 for new ships, maps and maybe a patch or two.
  The story is also very absorbing, and how the era's are linked is well done, giving another reason 
 why you should own Legacy.
  
  So my final word is this. Trekkie? Definitely buy this. Hardcore? Give it a look. Casual? Think 
 twice on it. 50 quid? No. Any more than 40 and it isnt worth it.
  
  So does it redeem Star Trek? In some ways yes, in some ways no.
  
  I hope this review helps 
 you.
  
  JMizzle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  well frist off dont game companies have game testers before the put the game out for sell. frist 
 off this game controlls are off why. then we have shoot this ship shoot this one and that one and 
 off to the next 10 ships to shoot up. after about 1 hr of this it gets boring. sure the game looks 
 good and its cool to buy other ships and go off with a fleet of ships. but i wanted more to do 
 in the game. at times it feels like i am back in the late 80s. should not be when there are games 
 made like gears of war the fall of man. then we get stuck with a have done game. this could of 
 been a great game so much fun if they would of spent more time with the game. i wont buy it maybe 
 for 19,99 maybe for just the fun of playing around with star trek. but for 59.99 nope not me. and 
 the save in the game is not well done who wants to start over back to the level start. this is 
 a pain and very boring. i feel bad becouse we could of had a great star trek game. i would of waited 
 one more year for a great star trek game. so we have one more star trek game that is so so. save 
 your money and rent it from gamefly. thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosotiit
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  That was fun, well most of the time.
  
  It is a game of contrast: the very good and the bad together.
  
  The graphics are very nice 
 , (except some explosion effect) and the voices are great (especially picard with his calm authoritative 
 voice... greeeat) and most importantly the battles where fun. It is great that you can try with 
 different ship to do it again (oh but wait , there is no way to select a specific mission after 
 you completed the game !!! Wth is that loosy implementation) .
  
  5 missions (ENT) with the first enterprise with archer (could have been three really)
  5 missions 
 (TOS) with kirk
  5 missions (TNG) with Picard, Janeway, sisko (which was not enough I find)
  
  The TNG era was 
 the more diversified but could have been exploited a
  lot more. Overall fun to play , you feel like giving a 9.0 but then no mission select and no save 
 (or not even checkpoint) which makes you feel it was cut to make the deadline!!! so the product 
 aspect could be a 7.0.
  
  rgds, soso 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drewology101
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I love star trek and really love the ships and the game play the only down fall is the control 
 of the ships it takes so time to get it down but when you do it is the top dog of all the star 
 trek games.. If you are a star trek fan at all you will love it believe a old vet like me I have 
 played it all .. very enjoyable.... It there is one thing I would change it would be the campain 
 part it could have been longer hopefully the next one will be and being able to play campains in 
 all the other races would be nice too... but still a great  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farrell2k
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  The game is a bit boring, but it definitely a good game that grows on you as you progress through 
 it. The first few missions are escort and protect this, but you encounter bigger battles as you 
 move along.
  
  It took me about an hour to get used to the control scheme, so don't give up on it. Pay attention 
 to the tutorials and read the manual. Graphics are good, but not as good as they can be, e. g. station 
 and borg ship explosions look too simplistic. Sound is good - something that you'd expect from 
 Trek and the voice acting is good as well. You can tell that Shatner and Stewart weren't trying 
 too hard, but they do a good job, anyway.
  
  Multiplayer is where the game really shines. You can get right into the good stuff, big battles! 
 There's nothing more exciting to a trekkie than pounding a borg cube with 4 Sovereign class ships!
 
  
  Overall Legacy is a good purchase, but one I only recommend to Trek fans. It probably won't hold 
 much appeal to the casual gamer or non-trek fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STVTNG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say, i am a major star trek fan and i bought a XBOX 360 just to get this game. 
 Well i can say that the puchase was not in vain, the XBOX is a gud machine, however the game is 
 brilliant, yet too damn short.
  
  You start of as johnathon archer, for the enterprise series, you complete 4 missions, then on to 
 James T. Kirk, i believe its only 3 missions with him then onto Jean-Luc with 4 missions, there 
 are voice of janeway and sisko within the next gen part.
  
  It did take me a while to figure out how to play, but thats cause it was the first xbox game i 
 ever played though it is an easy game and a BRILLIANT game just way too short, id be disapointed 
 if it didnt have a skirmish mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first Star Trek game I've played. Since there are no others that really showed 
 me anything worthy. This game has one flaw the ability to control ships. There has been many times 
 I found my ships wondering the galaxy without helping out in the fight. On the other hand the game 
 does give you the ability to use any ships ever made in the movies and tv shows. The battles can 
 get really intense and the graphics of the damage on the ships are spectacular. It takes awhile 
 to understand how to organize a strike effectively. After a few hours it isn't so bad. The more 
 I play the easier it gets. If your a Trek fan this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacksbored
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  i saw this game at my local blockbuster and decided to try it out and after i few hours of gameplay 
 i can say its a ok game but far from the best startrek games the graphics are above normal the 
 ships are super detailed but the explositions are pletty weak at best the voice acting is done 
 by all the real captains which is a nice touch and the voice actings is pretty good suprisingly 
 these are the strong points ofd star trek legacy the downsides are your ship in combat turns and 
 moves very slow i know its a starship and not a tie fighter but still the other ships like birds 
 of prey move very quick while u move very slow plus u can only attack when there close and when 
 your locked on which is a pain not to mention in the show i dont remember it taking 5 phaser shots 
 to stop a small valcan ship the games grafix voice acting and general star trek feel is great so 
 if u can look past the controls u might have fun i just couldnt ignore these points 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeezoo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Star Trek Legacy is an amazing game, and the best Star Trek game I have ever played, period. I 
 have to admit, I was not expecting greatness from this game, at least once the PC version came 
 out and the reviews were, shall we say, less than positive. However, a while later the 360 version 
 came out and seemed to get a much better reaction, both from players and review sites and magazines. 
 Still, most reviews seemed to indicate that the game was only average, and only then if you were 
 enough of a Trek fan to be able to look past it's flaws. Now, I'll be honest, if you're not a Star 
 Trek fan of at least some degree you will not enjoy this game as much as you otherwise could, you 
 will simply not derive any joy from the fact that you can finally see if the Soverign can defeat 
 a Negh'var, or how well it can stand up against a Borg Cube, etc. However, there seem to be no 
 flaws to the game minus the lack of collision damage, and the out of scale planets. Since ramming 
 you opponent is not one of Starfleets preferred tactics (Picard's use of this aside, of course) 
 and most battles take place in a looping/circling fashion where ships will be hard pressed to ram 
 each other, this issue is not as big as some would have you believe. As for the out of scale planets, 
 it's annoying yes, but not game breaking. Overall, the Gameplay of the game is quite good. The 
 controls are smooth and intuitive, and there are plenty of tactical options, from firing on subsystems 
 to repairing your ship and diverting energy around. Some people will complain about the slow pace 
 of the game, but honestly, how fast are million ton 300+ meter long starships with fictional propulsion 
 drives supposed to move? (anyone who has played a submarine sim will be able to understand) My two 
 complains here are 1. The shield should be broken up into at least four sections, preferrably six, 
 instead of having only a single shield. 2. You have to hold B and scroll to set your ship at something 
 other than full impulse or a full stop. The Graphics in the came are excellent, the ship models 
 are almost photo-realistic recreations of their TV and movie counterparts. Phasers/Disruptors and 
 Photon/Quantum torpedoes also look just as they do in the shows and movies. My only quip here is 
 that the textures on the planets seem crude, especially when compared to the highly detailed ships. 
 Another problem which some may have with the graphics, from an artistic sense, is that almost all 
 of the battles take place in star systems that are full of planets and nebulas, making the normally 
 dark space annoying colorful. The sound in the game is good, not bad, not excellent. The sounds 
 for the Phasers, disruptors, engines, shields, torpedoes etc are right on, but the music department 
 is sorely lacking and sometimes the captains sound bored, as they casually discuss the fate of 
 the universe like it's an everyday occurence. ( Though for them, it is:) ) The value/replayability 
 of the game is awesome IF you have Xbox Live, or you really enjoy beating up on simple AI programs. 
 Deathmatch is exceedingly fun, especially if you get together with other Trek fans. The bad news 
 is that, at least at the time of my writing this, there is no split screen. The single player campaign 
 is neither painfully short nor long, but it really isn't long enough to keep you interested in 
 the game for a prolonged period of time. As for tilt, I loved this game, though my experience may 
 be biased a bit due to my being an at least somewhat serious Star Trek fan. In conclusion, if you 
 are a fan of Star Trek, you will probably enjoy this game a great deal, if you aren't, you might 
 want to either rent it first or wait for the price to drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadaSpeed1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 25, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  WOW... talk about visual feast. If you liked other Star Trek games, like Star Trek Command III, 
 then this is a perfect match. However, in this game be prepared to multi task like a madman and 
 give yourself time to adapt to the controls. You will really have to think, react and command at 
 warp speed!
  
  Expect to spend some time mastering controls, and visual orientation.
  But once you have it there is nothing like firing photon torpedos, and
  phasers then flipping 
 the ship around and striking again from the
  aft phasers and torpedos...
  
  Classic Trek.
  
  If you ever wanted to be captain this game captures the feeling 100%. This 
 game is about thinking, tactics, command and action. Plan your fleet as well as your tactics... 
 and you will have an excellent experience. The graphics and realism at 1080 HD are just ... well 
 you have to see it.
  
  And the story sucks you in little by little... Excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaP_Hagmen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I been wait for long for this game it good great but which do i buy it on, PC or Xbox 360, after 
 a long think about I was able to play the PC first and was left disappointed due to all the bugs 
 and almost though don't buy the 360 version, but I though why not the 360 is kicking ass over everyonr 
 these day go for it, OMG was a game, controls are far better the ships move better and graphic 
 look better plus I can play Online wohoo, the PC version is a huge let down but if you like startrek 
 and think it would be better than on PC don't buy get the 360 or you will be left disappointed
 
  
  YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robgeo
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 22, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Long time trekkie fan here. Sadly, this game does not past muster. Graphics are okay, but scaling 
 for planets and borg cubes is all wrong. Voice acting is poor, there is just no heart in it with 
 any of them except maybe Picard. Some kind of bug with Acheivements on the XBOX360 where it notifies 
 you that you have won one - and if you push the green ligthed button on your XBOX360 controller 
 to discover what the award is... it displays the award and when you try to return to the game it 
 locks up... and does not save your mission progress so you have to play the mission again. Insanely 
 long dialog between missions is boring, you will find yourself clicking through it as fast as possible 
 even though part of you wishes that maybe this next dialog will be great. In the ship purchasing 
 screen, you cannot tell what class of ship you currently own - its not a detail they give you, 
 so you have to write down what they are when you buy them, or you will not be sure what the true 
 class of the ship is. You cannot customize your ships in any way - no way to give it the name you 
 wanted. Missions are hollow, and just not believeable for the most part - if you can force yourself 
 to listen to the dull boring dialog that is. Online play is just a crummy arcarde shootem up, nothing 
 to see move along... I really wanted this game to be something really great. Guess next time I will 
 rent first and not buy it on the first day its out on the shelves at best buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  As a self confessed fan of the series, I had been looking forward to this game for some time. The 
 prospect of piloting the starships from all 3 eras got my geeky parts tingling. The game has received 
 some mixed reviews, some good, others bad. Much like Star Trek itself, it divides opinion.
  
  The basic premise of the game is to pilot a small fleet of Star Trek starships and complete 
 a given mission. The game setup is similar many mission-based games, where you have both Primary 
 and Secondary objectives that need to be balanced. Once on-route you will encounter various enemy 
 ships and engage them in one on one combat or as a coordinated fleet.
  
  The gameplay is very reminiscent of the home computer series Elite (Elite, Frontier, Close Encounters) , 
 where the combat is very much focused on manoeuvring your ship into the best position and then 
 letting lose with everything youve got; then making a turn, and doing the same again. Much like 
 naval combat, it is fairly tactical and slow paced; X-wing-vs-Tie-Fighter it is not. I really 
 loved the Elite series, so I find this style of gameplay quite familiar and enjoyable. It also 
 represents the style of combat found in the series and films: think of Wrath of Khan and the fight 
 in the Nebula and you get the idea. For me, as a fan of both Trek and Elite, it works well and 
 feels just right for these big interstellar ships. The game, however, is not without some significant 
 problems; most of which can be attributed to a lack of polish or a rushed delivery. These problems 
 dont ruin the game, but they are a little frustrating:
  
  Beware; the difficulty curve is very steep. Youll probably struggle with completing the missions 
 quite early on in the game. The tutorial feature in the game doesnt really help much, and you 
 have to persevere a little. The missions are also quite unforgiving: You might fail a mission 20 
 minutes in and have to replay the whole thing again.
  
  Another problem is the dodgy physics. Your ship will bounce off other ships, objects and even planets! 
 It is a shame, as this could have been implemented using some kind of collision damage or other 
 form of avoidance rather than a lame bounce-off effect. The planets are also woefully out of 
 scale: When you fly close they just become big balloons in space. Again, it is a shame that some 
 method of obtaining orbit or scaling the object wasnt employed; even just having the planets in 
 the background would have been better.
  
  The graphics range from quite brilliant to a bit naff. The ship models, textures, and backgrounds 
 are outstanding. You really feel like you are controlling the ships from the series. As a fan it 
 almost brings tears to your eyes. Unfortunately, when the ships break apart they do so in an N64 
 style. They basically fall apart, into a half dozen chunks, like a neatly sliced sponge cake, and 
 then fizzle away. It looks so cheap compared to the amazing model itself. There are no significant 
 smoke or particle effects. The impression is of a product that was rushed to market. You feel Legacy 
 2 would have all the graphical effects to match the stunning ship models.
  
  The sound effects in Legacy are spot on, with satisfying phaser and torpedo effects. The voice 
 acting is OK. It is not up to the Oblivion standards, but it is nice to hear the real captains 
 speak. The music is genuinely Star Trek-esque, with some nice orchestral melodies to accompany 
 the scale of the battles.
  
  The game itself is quite lengthy and is good value for money if you like Trek. A slightly tacked 
 on, but functional, multi-player extends Legacys life further, but I expect it is one for fans 
 only. The achievement points seem fairly distributed and attainable, although the high difficulty 
 may make some of them very tough indeed.
  
  In Summary, Star Trek Legacy is a competent tactical space combat game played with large, heavily 
 armed, starships that have big turning circles. If you like Star Trek and you have always wanted 
 to play a game that featured the ships, then Legacy is fun enough to warrant a purchase despite 
 its flaws. If you are not fussed about Star Trek and hated games like Elite, then you might want 
 to give Legacy a wide birth. My hope is that any Legacy 2 game fixes the flaws and will give 
 the fans the complete package that they richly deserve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judas-savior
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Well being in Australia I got the game after everyone, and this was one I was really anticipating. 
 But first of all horror struck when I saw the the PC review, and was sceptical once again when 
 the 360 review I was a bit unsure but releived a little, but yesterday I bought the game and took 
 it home after work and heres my opinion and to my surprise was extremely happy with what I paid 
 for.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is solid exciting and fun, maybe for me more so for me being a trek fan, 
 but the control scheme works well for me and after a bit of learning and practice you can master 
 it. The story is compelling and the ships and general system works well for me. Graphics:
  The graphics have good and bad points, The textues on the ships and the movement etc. are really 
 good but it also has it downfalls for example when something blows up it blows into blocky chunks 
 which looks ugly with such nice textures, but you tend to get around it.
  
  Sound:
  Loved hearing all the captains voices in one game, the voice acting of the captains was awesome 
 imo. this is an area which failed to dissapoint allthough there could  
 been some more compelling back noise or even some music like wen voyager is fighting speciaies 
 8472 lol , dunno but was happy none the less!
  
  Value:
  IMO value for me was grear as you get pulled into the batlles and you will notice the time slip 
 away and for most said the same system was annoying btu for me it was fine I havn't gotten frustrated 
 with having to refight missions.. But top value, only thing I would of liked to see is more races 
 of ships. but This is only the beginning there will be more to come I feel it
  
  Tilt:: I would say if your not a trek fan or into space sims rent the game first but if your into 
 this klnda thing or a trekker go and get it now! .. This is my first review so sorry if I left 
 alot of info out but eh? lol.. I tried to defend that which has bashed lol.. Rock on guys! *horns 
 up* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidlee3
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game and I would buy it again. I still think that Bridge Commander is the best 
 StarTrek game out.
  
  The Good
  This game has great graphics and some great voice talent. The game play is fun and has some great 
 multiplayer and single player options.
  
  The Bad
  The subsystem targeting is there but is very poor and hard to pull off. If there was a better subsystem 
 targeting then there might be a better ship repair system as well. The controls on the 360 are 
 a bit hard but ok for this type of game. I think the controls will hold back the game a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  There are demons talking in my mind as i write these words.
  The game has all the look and feel of the Star Trek world.
  
  If we look at the campaign, then 
 we start in the Enterprise realm and there is nothing wrong with that. the graphics are pleasing, 
 except when you travel through space, then they are almost fabulous. It is also the first time 
 in my history of gaming where the cutscenes are LESS then the actual gameplay. What a lovely feeling 
 that was.
  
  Still, why do i have demons? Well the introduction (training) missions on this campaign are not 
 really that good. I had to fumble around geting the shp to fight back, so they dropped the ball 
 there and that was a bit awkward. Then there is another aspect. In star trek the fight is normally 
 one on one and this feels more like a fight to get the biggest fleet. So that feels a little bit 
 off, but if you ignore these two, then the game has a few fantastic sides.
  
  1. These are not jetfighters, so manouvering is a lot more like the old seabattles and being able 
 to fire back is a reality. 2. Choices made will have consequences. It feels like they did focus 
 on this. it is not right or wrong, it is a choice. I like that.
  3. you need to balance the power your ship has. So it is almost like rock-paper-scissort. one saves 
 you, one cuts you.
  
  All in all this is a good game. And as we progress through, we will see and enjoy more. The only 
 thing i feel is that the skirmish is a little too 'simple'. But perhaps that is just because i 
 might not have unlocked all of it.
  
  Anything missing?
  
  Perhaps an 'Elite' like travel option. like an open universe to explore. It feels more an more 
 like this is just the core of something that can grow into something truly big. It feels like Bethesda 
 is starting something lasting here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trekkerguy
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  If your a Trek fan or simply a gamer who likes good Combat sims this game is for you. It has been 
 given so little credit and most reviews, including the one on this site, are very biased.
  
  rent the game if your curious but not sure because one you do you will see just how good this 
 game is. Most the reason people have been dissapointed with it is for some reason they expected 
 an RTS which the creators constantly told everyone specificly that thats not what this game is.
 
  It is the first TRUE REPRESENTATION OF STAR TREK SHIPS TO SHIP COMBAT. It is everything Trek space 
 comabt should and could be, down to the banking mechanics of massive capitol ships to flying circles 
 around the capitol ships in a small scout. Weapons effects, explosions even the effect of warping 
 across the maps and the ships look amazingly realistic.
  
  Not too mention an awesome storyline spanning the entire Epoc of the Trek universe.
  
  whether 
 your a trekker/trekkie or simply a fan of good games at least check it out though I firmly recommend 
 picking this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmaupin2003
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I'm a closet Trek fan, so I may be a little biased, but Star Trek Legacy 
 is probably one of the top Trek games of all time.
  
  First the bad. The controls are a little clunky, the ships, understandably lumber around, but sometimes 
 they seem to float in the wrong direction. Moving upwards and downwards is particularly tough, 
 as there's a limit to how far you can go and doing any sort of 360 degree loop is not possible. 
 Rolling is also not possible. It's not a game-crippling problem, but it is annoying at times. Some 
 of the smaller ships seem to zip around better, particularly the Defiant, which is just as fast 
 and nimble as in the show and is a joy to tear around ships and just dish out the phaser fire in 
 large battles.
  
  While you're fighting these battles, you'll have the option (requirement, rather) to control up 
 to 3 other ships, which can get a little hectic in the heat of the fight. Often times your ships 
 are all out dumb. It's difficult to give them specific orders and often times you'll think they 
 got the message, only to find out they're sitting off in the distance, doing nothing while you're 
 getting your butt kicked. However, when you do get your fleet working together in a large fight, 
 it's extremely satisfying and cinematic.
  
  The ship models are probably the most wonderful thing, ever. They're extremely detailed and cinematic 
 looking. The damage textures are equally good looking, however ships often will look in worse shape 
 than they are. You could have your hull at 80% and have huge holes, fires and scorching on your 
 ship. It would have been nice if they went away once you get repairs done. The nebulas look decent 
 and the planets are simply okay, but they're awfully small at times and look better farther away 
 then up close.
  
  The music is decent, but don't expect to get any of the licensed scores or themes, it's mostly 
 just generic orchestral pieces. The voices are hit or miss, it's nice to have all 5 captains in 
 there, but sometimes they seem to be extremely disinterested. It would have helped if you had something 
 other than exterior shots of the ships when they're talking.
  
  The story is a little hard to follow, in order to get the whole story, you have to watch some videos 
 that are included as extras which are nothing but hand drawn storyboards with voiceovers that fill 
 in the rest of the story. While they are really nicely drawn storyboards, it seems incomplete and 
 cheap. The story itself is believable and winds it's way nicely through the movies and references 
 individual episodes. It was nice to hear Picard talk about life after Star Trek: Nemesis and get 
 some much needed updates.
  
  Hopping online is easy and quick and the battles are just as exciting, if not moreso than the campaign. 
 Unfortunately, you can't simply start a new game after one is over, you'll have to remake it and 
 navigate through the menus, but the extra trouble is worth it when you experience a 16 ship fight.
 
  
  Ultimately, Legacy, at it's core, is a Trekker's dream game, with some incredible and cinematic 
 battles, hindered only by some glitchy controls, AI and omission of some basic features. Given 
 another few months of development, Legacy could have become something really amazing, but for now 
 we'll have to just settle for 'good.' Hopefully Mad Doc will keep at it and release some updates 
 to bring the game up to their original vision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Star Trek: Legacy is a great game that is about 2/3 finished. There is no way to get around it, 
 and we're not talking about lack of polish, but rather a gaping series of holes where a portion 
 of the finished game should be. The parts that are there: ship models, controls (for the 360, the 
 PC version is just awful) , and the franchise feel is there. Sadly, gamebalencing, variety, mission 
 structure, cutscenes and yes polish... are MISSING.
  
  While not difficult, ST: L is not a quick pick up and play game for most people... but it's not 
 exactly deep strategy either. On the whole, the game's shallow combat and repetitive (yet weirdly 
 difficult) mission structure will make you feel like you've bought a ferrari, but all the petrol 
 you'll ever get is half a tank and then BANG... pretty car... going nowhere.
  
  The sad fact is that ST: L could have been better. Anyone playing the 360 version will be able to 
 see that a few more months to finish development would have made this game a solid 8.0-8.5... but 
 hey, it's a star trek game, and apparantly breaking the stigmas attatched would have been... bad?
 
  
  Really, you can't blast away with the huge number of ships... at the tiny number of enemies... 
 and not understand that this game is pure self sabotage. The graphics and the engine are there... 
 it's just a few more missions, some fine tuning, and a bit more content that's missing. It's a 
 pity, and as a fan of those line of almost stellar (pun!) Star Trek games... and the handful of 
 truly good ones, I have to say that this comes as a real letdown. A failure, like the PC version 
 I can accept, but this ALMOST hurts in a way that an outright travesty or moneygrab can't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM_Link
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Everyone has heard of Star Trek if they havent at least seen an episode from any of the several 
 series out there. So, with a new next generation system capable of giving us some of the most beautiful 
 graphics to see, Bethesda took it upon themselves to create a new Star Trek game that could captivate 
 the look and feel of the show; mainly the ship battles.
  
  Out of the box, Star Trek Legacy looks like it came out of the movie theater itself. The graphic 
 and details of the ships themselves shows how much time they took in making everything about this 
 game look pleasing and have the Star Trek feel to it. Unfortunately, its pretty much the only 
 thing that will have the Star Trek feel to it.
  
  The controls are not as top notch as one might hope coming from a franchise that cultivates the 
 curiosity that we have for space, unlike another space franchise. The controls can range from basic 
 to darn near complex. L trigger for torpedoes, R trigger for phasers, B button for engines, Y button 
 to warp, A button to select a destination, X button for power distribution. Pretty simple at the 
 start, but once you get into holding down certain buttons to perform different tasks while having 
 enemies fire at you willy nilly, you can get frustrated pretty fast. Camera controls are basic 
 and have very little to no flaws with them. You can set them up three ways, free range, behind 
 the ship, or locked onto an enemy. However, its actually steering your ship that can get you frustrated 
 sometimes. Every once in a while the controller will not read the inputs from the left analog stick, 
 making turning somewhat difficult at times. Then once it reads it, itll try to adjust accordingly, 
 having your ship sometimes experience spasms while doing so. And when youre trying to get in the 
 right position to fire your weapons, it can be a real pain.
  
  Weapons, like I said before, are simple as well. However, each ship has their own placement of 
 where the weapons are, which can make tactical decisions very frustrating. Also, once you do find 
 the right position to be in for an attack, it takes a while for the weapon to fully lock on. Of 
 course you can fire before they are fully locked on, but the damage wont be as powerful. Which 
 brings me to my next point, it takes a while to lock on, but when you start to get out of firing 
 range, it happens way too quickly. If youre in a tight spot and you see a chance to fire, you 
 could be a split second too late and finding yourself having to circle around until you can find 
 that firing spot again.
  
  Its nice to hear the five captains all packed together in one game. However, the constant chatter 
 between the ships and the enemies makes your job fighting the controls a hell of a lot easier. 
 And for those of you out there who are keeping score, thats yet another point to the sarcasm category. 
 It just seems there too much chatter going on. I take that back, it just seems theres too much 
 of everything going on. Between enemy and your fleet chatter, between finding yourself having to 
 go to separate areas of the map at the same time, trying to worry about mission objectives, Legacy 
 was a good attempt, it had just failed on execution.
  
  Is this game down right awful? No. If you can learn the control scheme pretty well and tune out 
 some of the useless chatter, Star Trek Legacy is a really fun game and is really nice to boot. 
 Its just a shame that it feels that Bethesda worked on a long time on the graphics, and not enough 
 time on controls. Regardless, Star Trek Legacy is a must have for any fan of the series, and quite 
 possibly a rent first for anyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nhwilliams
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  I must start off by saying that if you are not in any way a Star Trek fan and you buy this gaming 
 expecting an in depth strategy or space combat game you will be sorely disappointed. In many ways 
 the game seems extremely rushed with parts tacked on that where not developed enough, and some 
 highly disappointing graphics. The ship models are extremely well done and your choice of ships 
 is decent enough. I would have liked to see more species added to the skirmish mode such as the 
 Ferengi, the Cardassians, and some small run-and-gun Mahki ships would have been a nice touch. 
 The fact that you cant choose the AIs ship in skirmish mode is also disappointing because it 
 rules out setting up re-enactments of specific battles, ie: Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan. The 
 story line is interesting and tries to explain some things you might not have known before, but 
 the timeline is a little off and it should have been fleshed out a little more. The lack of any 
 CGI cut scenes to go along with any of the story is disappointing and unacceptable for a 360 title. 
 If you go to the Extras section on the main menu you get a sense they were planning on doing 
 some CGI for the game, but all you get is a little more voice acting and some story boards that 
 go along with them. Another hint the game was rushed out for Christmas before it was ready. These 
 Extras also seem like they should have been unlocked at certain milestones in your game when 
 appropriate, instead you can view them all right off the bat basically telling you the entire story 
 AND the outcome, ruining what little suspense would have been there. While playing you will notice 
 some oddities in the controls, but they are fairly ambitious for a Trek game and perform well enough 
 most of the time. You may also notice the scale is oddly off making your ship a behemoth monster 
 flying through a shrunken galaxy. The damage system looks nice most of the time, but it to has 
 some issues. Phaser fire can sheer away pieces of your vessel like icing from a cake, while Photon 
 torpedos dont seem to have much of an effect (visually) at all, and may at times go into orbit 
 around your vessel for a few seconds before disappearing into your hull. The largest blemish in 
 this game is by far when anything of size is destroyed and breaks apart into large N64 style chunks 
 with a little pop and fizzle. This is EXTREMELY sad and there is no excuse for the developers of 
 this game in not addressing this issue. That said, if you are a fan of the Star Trek series or 
 the movies you will more than likely have a fun time playing this title, for all of its many faults 
 it is still a good step forward in Trek games (anyone remember Star Trek: Shattered Universe? shudder) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weblinks
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  okay my first thought on the game was like wow it looks so awsome but ill make a list six Pro's 
 and six Con's
  
  Pro's
  1. It Looks amazing.
  
  2. The five Captains all did voice acting very important.
  
  3. The Controls are hard at first 
 but after you get the hang of it you should be rolling.
  
  4. Realistic turning i dont want a huge ship to turn on the dime.
  
  5. Skirmish is a good 
 addon for the game.
  
  6. has the feeling of a strategy game it makes you think but is a shooter.
  
  Con's
  1. Multiplayer 
 doesn't work all the time..
  
  2. Time limit on skirmishes.
  
  3. You cant Crash into Other ships or any thing.
  
  4. Some ships seemed under powered.
  
 
  5. No Split Screen.. : (: (:' (
  
  6. Hitting the Y button and going into warp by mistake.
  
  Also here are some other things 
 people might consider a and here are my awnsers for them Its a Space Sim where you fight in space 
 you want to go to 200 diffrent planets and find nothing boring wait for the MMO if you want that. 
 okay when you have a huge ship and you are going fast do you think you should turn on a dime there 
 is a pitching physic to the game to make it more real. tell me when your driving and your going 
 70 miles per hour and can make a right turn just like that.. should be in con's but every game 
 has bugs and will be fixed later on.
  
  There you have it i really like the game im not a hardcore Trekkie been watching since i was a 
 Little boy and i loved the show back then and i think this game lives up to every thing a star 
 trek space sim could be..
  
  Theres more but im tired so ya heres what i think about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  There is a thing about Star Trek Games, they only really should appeal to Star Trek fans. This 
 game loses points because of the horrible launch and the process that everyone had to go through 
 to get this game on release day. I had to buy it at best buy because gamestop and EB said that 
 they did not even get a shipment yet... really poor launch indeed. The Story.... This game has a 
 story that spans almost all of the series... it even tries to add some of the in between time with 
 Picard aboard the Stargazer. The story is pretty good at first... then they bring in the borg for 
 all the fanboys and pretty much make the game a mess. The borg aspect does give a nod to a theory 
 about V'Ger and it's relationship to the Borg. Gameplay... This game is a tough one to get the 
 feel for, it has good controls but you have to use them like you drive a car... with very slow and 
 planned movements... this leads to a very graceful style of play that lends itself well to Star 
 Trek battles. The ships are pretty well balanced (aside from the borg) and perform as you would 
 expect... though they tend to feel pretty weak compared to other games like Bridge commander or 
 Starfleet command. The graphics. this game does the ships justice... every other game has really 
 messed stuff up when it comes to the shape or texture of ships... this one is really well done. 
 The sound.... aside from the bored sound in the voices of the major cast... this one has good sound 
 and music... not the best... but good. The multiplay. When it works it can be fun or stupid... when 
 you setup a one on one match and some tard picks a tactical cube... you lose faith in the broken 
 point limit system... you shouid be able to fine tune matches down the the hundreds of points... not 
 just a few choices that don't really limit one on one play. Also... borg ships are lame... if you 
 need a tac cube to win... your a tool. I like this game... in fact I play it almost all the time... I 
 just think it needs a patch now! Mike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fletchergary
Rating: 2.2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Single player:
  
  CONTROLS DO NOT WORK. Manual is junk. Either the manual was written for another game or somebody 
 remapped the controls before shipping. Either way it shows the crummy production values evident 
 in this title.
  
  Difficulty design is horrendous. Some missions are so easy that you literally complete them in 
 less than a minute. Others are so difficult (the silly asteroid level) that I doubt 95% of the 
 people who buy this game will ever be able to beat it. Hope they don't buy it for the kids, because 
 they are going to hate it.
  
  Slow moving, boring gameplay. Billed as an RTS - instead it is a paltry attempt at a 3rd-person 
 space shooter.
  
  Claims to have storylines and voices encompassing all five eras and captains. Flat out lie. Three 
 eras total with guest voices at best and weak story where there is one.
  
  Repetitive. Repetitive. Repetitive.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Don't get me started. UNPLAYABLE. 
 Aborts session after every match. Most matches end prematurely. I have a 8Mbps connection - thats 
 8Mbps - that flies - and this cheap game lags with only three players in the room. BADLY. Even 
 when I am the one hosting. Multiplayer looks like an afterthought. My friends and I were hoping 
 for a fun time and all three of us pre-ordered it. Within two hours of online play we all decided 
 to go back to Rainbow Six Vegas. It is the worst 360 title in my 40 game 360 library.
  
  This game was rushed to be out by Christmas. Even a downloadable patch isn't going to fix the poor 
 design.
  
  DO NOT WASTE MONEY ON THIS TITLE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m240guy
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  Wow. Where do I start on this one? Here is a game that falls so short of its own promise that you 
 are left scratching your head and wondering how long you will have to wait now until someone gets 
 it right.
  
  Let's start with a little context. The oft-delayed game was set to be released during the hype 
 surrounding the 40th anniversary of Star Trek. The fact that it is clearly unfinished and released 
 at the very end of the year leads me to believe that there was considerable pressure to release 
 before the end of '06. With that as a starting point, let's take a look at this one in the order 
 that you will encounter things. It is also important to mention that while I enjoy Star Trek, I 
 am by no means a Trekker. This being said, however, capital ship space combat is something that 
 I have waited and waited for someone to get done right. I loved Bridge Commander.
  
  From the get-go you will immediately be aware that there are no CG cinematics at all. You are presented 
 with an incredibly sub-par spacescape and some passable ships while Scott Bakula phones in some 
 context-less dialogue. In fact, the graphics are so below 360 standards that you will be put off 
 from the start. The starbases are particularly lifeless and lame.
  
  Speaking of voice acting, you will get lots of canned dialogue from all of your favorite captains, 
 but some of it just doesn't work. Most noteworthy is The Shat's performance while voicing the original 
 series era. Shatner's voice is now much too gravelly and deep to be bought as Kirk from the 60's. 
 It also would have been nice if he had Kirked it up a little more. I think we can all agree that 
 part of the charm of the original series is that the acting is laughably bad. Would... have.... 
 been fun....... if.... it were more......... like Kirk.
  
  After a long expository rant you will be dropped into the obligatory tutorial mission. Unfortunately, 
 the controls are very unintuitive and sometimes don't work. The learning curve is very steep due 
 to the poorly designed tutorial. You are quickly told how to do something, but the game does not 
 follow the more successful tutorial model of having you demonstrate your new skills a few times 
 so you are still pretty clueless after this first mission.
  
  The next thing you will likely notice right off is that the scale is all jacked up. You never really 
 have any sense of size. The designers tried to fake this by having your ships move appropriately 
 sluggishly, but the graphics are so bad that you never really have any sense of scale. The lousy 
 weapon impacts and clunky, low-poly ship disintegrations also do not help much (a starbase exploding 
 must be seen to be disbelieved in its badness) . Speaking of scale, they also phoney up planet size 
 by using the illusion that you can never get any closer than high orbit. The gimmick does not work, 
 however, and you are immediately aware that all the planets are only somewhat larger than a starbase 
 (lame) . Another horrible scaling issue comes from the size of the environments. The planets are 
 actually spaced out what might be only 50 or 60 miles apart. While at a starbase you can actually 
 see another starbase orbiting (well, let's say 'near', not orbiting) another planet from where 
 you are. If I was deploying a space fleet and starbases and what-not, I would not do so in an area 
 of space only slightly bigger than a Wal-Mart parking lot, but that's just me.
  
  Controlling your ship is easy enough but your movement options are limited in ways that can be 
 very annoying. You cannot really roll your ship over completely. It seems like you can at first, 
 but you are fixed to your axes and cannot, especially when locked onto a target. It is also irritating 
 that your ship will come to a dead stop upon exiting warp. What is that all about? Why would I 
 want to warp into combat and park?
  
  Soon it will be time for you to lead your ships into combat. You can control up to four ships at 
 once (lame) and believe me, you will need to CONTROL all four at once if you wish to have any success. 
 There are four basic fleet commands that as far as I can tell do not work at all. Very conspicuously 
 absent, though, are any commands that would be of any sort of tactical value at all. You cannot 
 establish a patrol area for an A. I. captain nor order an A. I. ship to guard something or follow 
 or anything like that. There is a rudimentary grouping system, but this is busted like most of 
 the rest of the game as it is not persistent, meaning that if I set three of my ships in a group 
 and switch to the odd ship out to check on it, I will need to re-group the others when I go back 
 to them.
  
  The weapon effects are also fairly lame. You never get any sense that you are wielding powerful 
 weapons mounted on a capital ship. The phasers for example, do not seem to do any damage at all 
 until the ship chunkily blows apart accompanied by that blast ring effect invented for the Undiscovered 
 Country and copied for every outer space movie explosion since. The torpedo lock is atrocious and 
 often the torpedo will miss on its first pass only to bungee cord back and forth around the target 
 in an elliptical spiral until unimpressively disappearing upon contact with a hull. Have the designers 
 even seen a Star Trek film? Torpedoes are supposed to be no joke! In this they are a tedious necessity 
 that you are aware of only because you will need to fire a couple when your target's shields go 
 down to quickly destroy it before they regenerate impossibly fast, and because you can run out 
 of them.
  
  Other than all of that, the combat is actually pretty fun and absorbing. The big problem is, however, 
 is that it is also always a foredawn conclusion once you have figured out your objectives through 
 trial and error. The only thing you need do to ensure that you will win every encounter is see 
 to it that you are never severely outnumbered and always control your least damaged vessel as the 
 one you are piloting gets shot at with much greater regularity. This is where another shortcoming 
 rears its head, however. The levels very frequently are designed with a few easy skirmishes that 
 lead to a big, cool space battle. Herein lies a major flaw as it is often necessary to learn the 
 objectives through dismal failure and there is no in-level saving and your objectives are often 
 vague. This puts you in the sometimes irritating position of stomping your way through 40 minutes 
 of the mission only to have a ship or two destroyed very quickly when they warp into a final objective 
 area ahead of the others (because sometimes they just do that) forcing you to start over rather 
 than lose the value of that ship or two. This is not a huge problem, though as it is very very 
 satisfying to get it just right and completely mop the floor with an entire Klingon fleet.
  
  There is a decent tactical map view that makes moving different ships long distances easier 
 but it also has a couple of problems. First, the map is 2D. How long ago did Homeworld come out? 
 Second, as I mentioned earlier, not only is the area much too small, you have precious few deployment 
 options when you start moving your ships. You would think, for example, that if you select an enemy 
 vessel and direct a ship there that it will set a course to intercept said vessel. You would be 
 wrong. Your ship will go the the point on the map that the enemy ship occupied. If the enemy ship 
 has since moved outside the range at which your A. I. captain will engage he will just stop and 
 tell you repeatedly that he is awaiting orders which you have no way of issuing. More than once 
 I have found myself shouting at the TV, Well go get him, idiot! 
  
  The online multiplayer is broken... period. It does not work so let's not waste any time talking 
 about it. I do not believe it will be fun anyway as I have already explained that tactics really 
 do not come into play. Online matches will be nothing more than everyone picking a very powerful 
 ship and slugging away until some of them unspectacularly blow up.
  
  There are also some Extras that I believe are just storyboards for CG sequences that they did not 
 make. (Laaaaaame)
  
  All in all this game is really not very good. As I said before I am a big fan of this very small 
 niche genre so I had high hopes and am enjoying playing this even with its shortcomings. It is 
 a crying shame that this game was released, though. If, like me, you are a fan of this type of 
 thing (or what this thing should have been) you have probably already come to the conclusion that 
 you are hosed as it will be years before a publisher will commit to another like this. I suppose 
 we will just have to wait. How long has it been since Bridge Commander? Only a fan of Star Trek 
 (who will love it regardless) or a fan of the genre like me (who will enjoy it but be painfully 
 aware of its shortcomings) should pick this up. And I strongly recommend a rental first. Ain't 
 GameFly great?
  
  (Note: I added a point in a couple categories after spending about 25 hours with this one.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outcastt
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Let me start of by saying if your a Star Trek purist then don't buy this game. The developers play 
 a little loose with the Star Trek time line and make some major changes that you might not like. 
 If you love Trek and are dying for a chances to kick some Klingon or Romulan tail then Captain 
 on the bridge you've found niche.
  
  This game plays most closely to the Star Fleet command games in that it's a mission driven Star 
 Trek combat simulator. This game is about combat in the Trek universe and it begins and ends there. 
 Yes there is a story but it's secondary to the all out fleet brawls.
  
  One glaring aspect of fleet combat that is missing is the ability to form your ships into task-groups. 
 The mission have multiple requirements that you could better meet if you could more easily command 
 groups of ships to perform a task rather then doing it for each ship individually. This hampers 
 the fun factor quite bit. Another slip is the AI of your squadron captains. If a list of basic 
 commands could have been provided to give the AI ships more direction once you unleash them that 
 would have help to offset the need to constantly monitor them to be sure they are doing what you 
 want them to.
  
  The game does do a lot right but falls short is some key areas that stop it from being the masterful 
 Trekkie ride it should be. Graphics while very good are not outstanding. Ship models are very nice 
 and damage is modeled very nicely. It's a blast to watch a Romulan disruptor as it stitches a line 
 of damage across the haul of the Enterprise. But overall if you played Bridge Commander on a high 
 end system then your about in the same ballpark graphically. Close your eyes when large objects 
 get blown up because they look putrid.
  
  The music is very good and follows the pace of the action very well. the voice work is ok but you 
 never feel the captains are involved in the story but are really just narrators of the events.
 
  
  This game tries very hard to be great but just misses to many targets to get there. It is a very 
 good 1st attempt and if there another game in the series I think that will be stellar. A more complete 
 fleet control interface and up tick the graphics department would have put it over the top even 
 as it is now. Here's hoping for another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borggamma1
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Star Trek Legacy is a breath of fresh air in the Trek gaming scene. This games pulls together 5 
 series into one action, packed combat game. Its very aggravating how the game was pushed back so 
 many times, but it is still worth it.
  
  I personally loved the way the game explained some things about the Borg that haven't been explained 
 in any of the series. The combat was especially riveting, and the ship models are excellent.
  
  The only issues I have are the lack of TNG era Romulan ships, The lack of authentic weapons 
 sounds for some ships (Defiant Pulse Phasers, K'vort disruptors, etc) , slow turning radius for 
 the ships even at 1/4 impulse, The Borg lack of shields (seriously when has this happened in the 
 shows?) the intrepid's nacelles don't even rotate into place when you go into warp, and the lack 
 of options in skirmish.
  
  It seems all they did was rip off the armada 2 interface instead of coming up with something unique. 
 That interface is ok for pc, but completely sub-par for Xbox 360. You can't limit ships to particular 
 classes, you can't choose opposing ships to recreate battles, and you can't even preview the maps! 
 I was also surprised by a lack of clan or fleet option for player to build teams and battle all 
 over the trek universe.
  
  Above all this game require more effort.
  
  Bethesda should get off their asses and get trekkies and trekkers to help make Trek games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redjellydonut
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  I've played about half of the single player campaign and have gotten (I think) a pretty good feel 
 for what the game has to offer. It's a clever story line, with acceptable voice work from the notable 
 actors, but as other folks have noted, the controls are semi-broken. Half way through the TOS campaign, 
 my controls simply stopped working. None of my ships would obey any commands, whether to fire or 
 change course, to accelerate or stop. I've restarted the campaign at the same save and none of 
 my ships will respond to any commands. I'm not even sure if it's possible to advance in the game 
 as matters stand now. The question this leads me to ask is: Did anyone actually test the game before 
 shipping? I'd like to add my voice to the other folks who observe that some of the graphics (explosions, 
 weapons) are of Nintendo 64 quality. When any large structure, like a star base, explodes, it explodes 
 into a handful of blocky chunks. There is ZERO excuse for such poor graphics quality. I'm not a 
 tech geek and don't know how to describe the awfulness of the graphics, but I've never seen anything 
 so poor in any 360 game I've ever purchased (Not even in Over G, an unspeakably awful game) . The 
 game play is clever and exciting. Unfortunately, much of the excitement revolves around the suprise 
 of what your fleet might do next, because whatever it is, you can be sure that you didn't order 
 it. If you select your fleet, and command it to warp to a specific point, most of the time your 
 guys will sit dead in space until you individually select them to go to a waypoint. And god forbid 
 if they should run across a bad guy, because they will automatically stop to engage it in combat, 
 regardless of whether you have a more pressing matter somewhere else. In spite of the glaring and 
 inexcusable glitches, the shabby graphics, the semi-broken control interface, I can't stop playing 
 it. The control interface, though almost broken, isn't as difficult to master as advertised. If 
 you've ever played Armada or Armada II, then you'll understand much of what you need to know to 
 execute missions successfully. The ship modelling is lovely, although occasionally the ship I picked 
 wasn't always the ship that appeared once the mission began. Also, during the course of the game, 
 your ship will look shot to hell, but is actually perfectly fit for combat. I don't understand 
 why the ship modelling couldn't reflect the actual condition of the vessel. Oh well. In summary, 
 the idea is wonderful and the execution could have been, but the reality is that Mad Doc and Bethesda 
 have presented us with a game that could've redefined a genre and instead gave us a game that, 
 because of their haste to get it to market, merely taunts us with what might have been. Maybe a 
 6 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joewagner501
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised to find the 360 version of this game is actually very good after reading all the 
 negative reviews for the PC version. Have played the single player missions only and the story 
 arc thus far is engaging. The graphics are good but not great. The sound is very good. Learning 
 curve is up there but not impossible. Mad Doc did a pretty good job of including a lot of options 
 into the control scheme. It just takes a little getting used to. The story is very much a trek 
 story line and having the voice acting done by the actual captains is a great way to get into the 
 story.
  
  The ship combat can become repetitive because you have phasers and photons. You basically fly around 
 and shoot one after the other until the enemy ships are blown up..... and that can be very fun. 
 The levels (so far) aren't impossible but will take more than a run-and-gun mentality. Jumping 
 in with both feet will get you blown into small pieces in many of the fights. Its best to try and 
 be methodical on some of the scenarios.
  
  All-in-all a fun game. Re-playability will be lacking unless you are into online multiplayer because 
 the story doesn't really branch. It would have been a great game if they had included some kind 
 of territory conquest like in Starfleet Command with the battles taking place in the environment 
 offered by this game. That combined with critical resource planets would have made this a ten easily.
 
  
  If you aren't a Trek fan, rent it and try it out. Trek fans should really enjoy the fun of the 
 missions and the good story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apetune
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  thats what i say as soon as i start, yeah all the anxiety is there, i mean finally awesome damage 
 system, great strategy, then the follow through goes caput! I love the effort though great great 
 shot, it still has a chance if it can create a more immersive and desirable replay value! i mean 
 the ship difference is so huge the ai will of course pick the best in skirmish so whats the point 
 in using anything OTHER than a battleship! although it is fun until the annoying little guard missions... i 
 hate having to go form here to there to stop the smallest ship form destroying something after 
 so long a mission! it took me only 25 min to get the hang of this, though so good job. its really 
 fun when you start to get the hang of it, except of course when you have to repair and no matter 
 how far away you run they find you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jade233
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game could have been great... with more development time it may have been. But the end product 
 is something that is fun yet flawed. I have played 4-5 hours so far. Single player only about 3-4 
 on the missions and about an hour on skirmish mode against the cpu. The presentation and story 
 so far have been the good things for me as well as seeing the ships in combat. The combat itself 
 is okay but just feels frustrating at times... which may be because I am thinking about how much 
 fun other space combat games have been like tie fighter. Granted these are larger ships but it 
 still feels like it takes hours to turn with the larger ships and makes you feel helpless at times. 
 The controls are not bad but it is difficult to manage all four ships at this point in the game 
 but I can see myself improving with each mission. The graphics are good on the ships models but 
 other parts look like last gen. Being a star trek fan makes this game fun to play but I dont know 
 if someone who isnt a fan will find enough to like about this game to warrant a purchase. I am 
 excited to continue playing but with the lack of in mission checkpoints or saves it can get a little 
 annoying to be seconds away from victory and then have to start over. In conclusion I would say 
 it is definitely a rent and a buy for star trek fans who enjoy a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usshaddon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Well you want to be a captain or admiral do ya? Well heres your chance, you are in charge of your 
 own customized army, even in the single player. This game is a really good game, and I highly recommend 
 it if you really like tactical base strategy games. This game makes you feel like youre in charge 
 of the whole Star fleet army, through the story line that is. I give this game a 9.0. The Graphics 
 are outstanding, the sound is pretty good too, and the game play is what hits it off. The game 
 play is all about using tactics and knowing how to defeat your enemy with different type of ships 
 to control. This game is very different from the pc version, and I think gamesinformer was way 
 off when they gave it their review. This game deserves a 9.0, the game is very good if you like 
 tactical strategy games, like Homeworld or the other rts star trek games. The multiplayer is even 
 fun, I love being in Capt. Janeway's Voyager ship while blowing up Picard's typical Enterprise. 
 Oh how fun hehehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Malcontents
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  There might be problems with the PC experience but the entire 360 game was fantastic IMOP..... Havent 
 played online yet so no comments there but having finished the game I'll just say it was worth 
 the dough... If you were waiting to see if the 360 version surpasses the pc.. rest assured it does... Approx 
 10 hours game play beginning to end.... No idea why the PC version was so poor in comparison but 
 dont let the dissuade you... this is a fantastic Trek experience....... Framerate was never an issue 
 for those who wonder bout such things....... game mechanics are a lil weird unless you get the idea 
 of Firing Arcs and can easily apply it in 3-d... but thats a good thing trust me..... I would guess 
 most PC control issues stem from the port to 360 also because controls ingame are intuitive and 
 easy.... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
