-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stoked
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/stoked/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Landing tricks is rewarding.
 Five real-life mountains and tons of different events.
 Great stream of incentives once you get your pro license.
 Crashes look painful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Earning the pro license takes far too long.
 Occasionally unpredictable physics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  5, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 103 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Destineer
Developer: Bongfish
Genre: Snowboarding
Date: Feb 26, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
What Stoked lacks in frills it more than makes up for in snowboarding thrills. 

  Stoked is what you get if you strip away all of the superfluous features that serve as a distraction 
 in other snowboarding games and offer some pure boarding action. There isn't a poorly constructed 
 backstory to make you care about your rider, there are no super moves to unlock, and certainly 
 no coins to collect as you glide down these open mountains. Its unrelenting focus on performing 
 wicked flips and wild spins means that it has nothing to hide behind if the gameplay falters, but 
 the diversity of your tricks and the euphoria of landing a particularly difficult move make this 
 an often exhilarating experience. There are some moments when the landing physics do not behave 
 as they should, and the first few hours that serve as an extended tutorial tend to drag, but once 
 you begin your career in earnest, Stoked is a fast, satisfying snowboarding game that fills the 
 void for digital boarders left in the cold with past games.  

           Performing high flying tricks between a row of sturdy trees is just tempting fate.    
   

  Your first task is to select a gender, race, and nationality for your soon-to-be snowboarding champion. 
 Your options are limited, though, because you can't actually tweak your facial features, but at 
 least you won't have to stare at your ugly mug during actual gameplay. Once you get on the slopes, 
 you control your body with the left stick and the board with the right. Flicking the right stick 
 up makes you jump and, once in the air, you perform various grabs by moving the right stick in 
 conjunction with the triggers. Depending on the direction in which you're holding the analog stick 
 and which trigger you're using, you can pull off dozens of real-life moves. The biggest problem 
 is landing a jump. Most of the time, landing requires only that you line up your board to the ground, 
 but sometimes you will inexplicably wipe out for seemingly no reason. Although the diversity of 
 tricks is certainly welcoming, it can be difficult to pull off an exact move during the heat of 
 competition before you fully come to grips with your massive repertoire. The learning curve is 
 steep for people not already immersed in snowboarding culture, but the action in Stoked feels realistic 
 and, most importantly, fun.  

  After going through a brief tutorial, you are free to explore any of the massive mountains at your 
 leisure. Though this sounds like a great idea, the lack of any clear objectives out of the gate 
 leads to an unfocused experience. The open-world mountains are all too sparse, with huge gaps between 
 ramps and grindable objects, which makes it boring to explore them without any goal. Each side 
 of the mountain has 10 events that you can enter, but these feel meaningless as well. You are told 
 that you need 66 fame points to get your professional license, but given that it takes hours to 
 accrue that much popularity, the beginning of the game drags before things get interesting.  

 
  Thankfully, the pace picks up once you earn that arbitrary number of points. Once you become famous, 
 sponsors will court you to wear their products, and media members will set up elaborate runs so 
 they can get footage of you performing a fancy spin or just eating snow. Most events boil down 
 to performing a specific trick off of a certain point on the map or trying to get a high score, 
 but the huge assortment of moves at your disposal, and the devious ways in which these runs are 
 laid out, make for some thrilling and often painful-looking snowboarding. Events can be immediately 
 restarted if you make a mistake, so failure serves as only a minor delay before you dust yourself 
 off and try again. It's immensely rewarding to pass a challenge that seemed preposterously difficult 
 at first, but the smooth progression ensures that you will slowly build up your skills as you become 
 more famous, so even the most challenging events can be overcome with a little practice.  

  There is a huge difference in the pacing from the first few hours, in which earning the required 
 number of fame points seems to drag on forever, and the rest of the game, when sponsors and media 
 members are constantly fighting for your attention. After every few successful runs, new events 
 are unlocked, giving you a seemingly never-ending string of new challenges to take part in. This 
 brisk pace is thrilling and rewarding, constantly presenting you with new locations to snowboard 
 and new gear. Even though the tangible rewards are small -- a new board or a picture in a magazine 
 being the biggest prizes -- the fact that you so quickly earn these prizes makes it satisfying to 
 play Stoked in short bursts, though it's easy to be sucked in for hours once the sponsors start 
 banging on your door.  

           Getting on the cover of a magazine is worth all the nasty bruises.      

  The multiplayer 
 mode builds on the foundation created by the single-player experience. Although you won't have 
 a steady stream of rewards to urge you on, you can use all of your practice time on the slopes 
 to give your buddies a virtual whitewash. In Trick, you have to land a move of your choice and 
 then your friends will have to land it as well. If they falter, they get a letter and have to carry 
 the shame of failure with them. Bring It is a score challenge. It isn't very inventive, but it 
 is fun trying to rack up a ridiculous number of points or just slam into your friend so he's stuck 
 at a disastrously low number. The most imaginative mode is called The Ground Is Lava. Here, you'll 
 have to stay off of the snow for as long as possible. Small hops won't cut it, either; you'll have 
 to find a ramp to get massive air or grindable objects so you don't set your board on fire. The 
 eight-player competition is a worthy complement to the exciting single-player mode.  

  Stoked is light on the frills but makes up for it with its tight, focused gameplay. The early moments 
 move along at a snail's pace, but once you become a professional, new rewards and challenges are 
 constantly being thrown your way. The five included mountains are all based on real-world locales, 
 which adds to the authenticity of the already realistic experience, and the variable weather not 
 only looks pretty but impacts the gameplay as well. With a stronger start and more-consistent physics, 
 this would have been a special snowboarding game. Even with its slight problems, this is a blast, 
 and considering that this wealth of content is going for a bargain price, it's an easy choice for 
 boarders looking for a virtual outlet for their shredding fantasies.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MetalHead150
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is way better than the ssx's and shaun whites of the world. Go to real mountains and 
 shred away. I myself am a fan of the higher level of realism because in real life you can't take 
 your board off midair and do a backflip. Why? cuz you're strapped in! Anyways go buy this game. 
 It should only be 40 bucks cuz its from a smaller developer. This is what shaun white should have 
 been and could have been. The controls take a little getting used to and the start of the game 
 is way slow. You have to get an arbitrary number of points before the real challenges start showing 
 up. After that though it gets way awesome. There are the typical pro challenges and contests. You 
 also get to do photoshoots and stuff which are pretty cool cuz you usually get some cool photos 
 of you doing crazy stuff. After you get all the high scores you can even pilot the helicopter and 
 jump out whereever you want. All in all a very satisfactory entry into the snowboarding world. 
 It just makes me wanna go to tahoe and shred harder than I've ever shredded before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuspendMEimBAD
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Some will compare this to Skate and Shaun White to Tony Hawk and I think that is a good comparison 
 as stoked captures the feel of actually snowboarding on a real mountain. The trick system is not 
 very easy at first, and sometimes you will feel frustrated by the way it is set up. It feels like 
 Amped 2 but with a slower reaction time. If you liked Amped, Amped 2, or enjoy realistic snowboarding 
 this is a good game for you, and its cheap, I got it for $40 the day it came out. The music is 
 not very good on the hill so youll want to bring the tunes. The actual riding is phenomenal as 
 you really feel like your going down the hill, Sometimes I just ride through the woods at top speed. 
 The difference in trick styles is between Hucker: quantity over quality and Styler: smooth spins 
 and Both have their benifits, personaly i think style is huge so i am a styler this time through 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0k3d
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  After delay, delay and several others delays, Stoked has arrived. It was made a 360 exclusive, 
 nobody really knows why, which was probably a bad idea. They would have done better in sales if 
 they made it for 360/ps3 but whatever its their choice.
  
  Stoked is the lightweight from unknown developers going against the heavyweight in Ubisoft with 
 SW snowboarding... and Stoked won. There are a lot of things to like in SW but Stoked is a better 
 game overall.
  
  Starting with the career, you begin as a nobody trying to become a legend, by beating challenges, 
 media photo shoots, other pros. There are five mountains each with 8 sides to them, with 10 challenges 
 on each side. Going back to SW, Stoked has 80 challenges per mountain, (not including media and 
 sponsor challenges) , so times by 5 is 400. SW had around 15 challenges per mountain maybe, times 
 by 4 is 60.
  The challenges are good, some repetition though.
  
  The controls for Stoked can be difficult at first but are actually fairly easy once you get good 
 at it. The hardest part is when your in challenge and it asks for a certain trick and you dont 
 know which way to move the analog to make that grab. But you can easily open the grab bible and 
 find it.
  
  The game focuses on seperating you into either a hucker or stylish rider. Both are well balanced 
 and have well balanced rewards so going either way isnt an advantage or disadvantage.
  
  All the challenges in the game, if you are decent at the controls, are easy. This is why I set 
 the difficulty in the beginning to easy. A lot of the challenges you can get the required amount 
 of points before you even get to the spot where it says to get the points. The only difficult challenges 
 would be a couple of the pros challenges where you have to remember a lot of different grabs and 
 spins without missing a gate.
  
  Along with challenges, is getting sponsored, something that should of been in SW considering hes 
 loaded with sponsors. Stoked has a lot of generic clothes to begin with and some branded clothes 
 and boards you get when you pick a sponsor. There is some variety, but the selection is nothing 
 like SW which had tons of Burton, Special Blend, etc. SW only had like 5 brands though which was 
 dissapointing unlike Stoked where you can get sponsored by brands like Burton, Tech 9, Oakley, 
 Dragon, Volcom, Vans, Nitro, Billabong, Quiksilver, Salomon, Libtech, Anon, Red, Rome, Protec, 
 Electric. Its an impressive list the only downfall is when you pick a sponsor, you dont get that 
 much stuff. Take Burton, you will get like 7 boards, couple jackets and a couple pants, which is 
 nice, but it would have been nice to have a few more things to choose from.
  
  The multiplayer in Stoked looks solid but typical ( have not played multiplayer yet) . You still 
 do similar challenges to single player only that your going against other people not the AI.
  
  Another big thing in the game is photography, dont know why. If you look at the achievements, 
 a good chunk of them require you to take pictures of yourself, the environment and other people 
 on xbox live.
  
  The weather system which was their biggest advertising point does work. In the trailers it sounds 
 really cool, but when you playing, you do notice it, but you dont really think it, its just there.
 
  
  Overall Stoked is a solid game, it has a fairly long single player, it has replay value if you 
 want t go back and play it again in the other rider style or try again with different sponsors. 
 A lot of people are asking for DLC's which im sure Destineer and Bongfish are going to look into. 
 It may be hard to find in stores but if you do have a chance to pick it up, I would recommend it.
 
  
  St0k3d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielnault333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 2:12 pm PT
Review:  the game have 5 hudge reals montains which are 360 all-around acces, this game is really for snowboard 
 fan, cause you can do prety much what you want in the game, this is all about freestyle in the 
 backcountry. 
  
  the game have very good graphic as well. if you compare the shaun white game, you'll see a hudge 
 difference beetween those game, cause like everybody said, shaun white is a waste of money cause 
 the game is horrible, 
  
  have a look in store to get stoked, actually is only 40$, which is a very good value !! if you 
 did try and like skate, you like stoked a well, cause the controll look the same, and the game 
 is more base on realistic move and environment. i'll give to the game 8.5/10.
  
  cause i would like better music in the game, and some snowpark with more ryders ! 
  
  don't 
 rent it, just buy it !! it very cheap for the quality of the game !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AquaStrider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a big fan of snowboarding games and Stoked just about hits everything I have 
 ever wanted in a game like this.
  
  The game starts out with you as a non sponsored rider aiming to become a pro. After spending time 
 exploring three huge, and I mean HUGE, mountains you begin your career as a professional rider. 
 You earn fame points by completing challenges. There are several different types of challenges 
 you face up front: Stick A Trick, Trick Or Die, and Session. Doing enough of these challenges will 
 earn enough fame to unlock sponsors and a first group of media challenges. 
  
  After you are sponsored things really open up including park like events and two additional mountains. 
 There is a pro rider on each mountain that can also be unlocked once you complete his or her checklist 
 of mini-challenges.
  
  One of the things that I liked the best was the ability to fly the helicopter around. You earn 
 a license to fly the helicopter by beating all 8 of the Session challenges on a mountain. You can 
 use the helicopter fly mode to set new drop points for yourself and for friends in multiplayer 
 games.
  
  The multiplayer mode is really cool. There are a wide diversity of game play types that are very 
 different from the types of challenges you encounter in single player. Really liked how the single 
 player mode and the multiplayer mode seems to be very tightly integrated so you can come in and 
 out of multiplayer games as you see fit. 
  
  The music and sound in the game is good; it is filled with a wide variety of diffeent genres and 
 bands. Some names may be recognizable while others may be new to you. I thought the soundtrack 
 was good and caught on that there were three additional classes of music that were turned off by 
 default that you can turn on if you like. Very different kind of music: classic rock sounding, 
 movie theme sounding, and video game sounding. Not the same type of music as the rest of the core 
 but a good change nontheless. I would have liked to see a larger offering in some key categories 
 like Reggae and Trance and man would it have been great to get some authentic 80s music. Oh well, 
 this didn't hamper my experience one bit.
  
  Game play wise I really liked the diversity of challenges and I appreciated the skate like controls. 
 I preferred them to the button combinations that have been in other extreme sports products and 
 I was also happy that the controls felt fluid and responsive. Though it took a bit of time to learn 
 the tricks I found that through play I almost had the tricks memorized (by controller layout) . 
 It would have been helpful to have controller graphics next to trick lists in challenges where 
 tricks were requirements. Maybe this is something that can be done for a sequel.
  
  I liked the backcountry aspect and the fact that I could ride anywhere I wanted. It would be great 
 to have a little more man made stuff to trick off of. Not to the point that you see in other boarding 
 games like SSX, Amped 3, or Shaun White, but a little more placement of this would be a good thing 
 to see and add to the already strong game play.
  
  The game is 40 bucks. 
  
  When you add up all of the cool features, the price, and compare Stoked to other snowboarding games 
 it is very apparent that Stoked is the strongest and, if you are anything like me, you'll come 
 to quickly realize that it satisfies just about every wish you've ever wanted to have in a snowboarding 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  There was alot of thing that impressed me about this game when I first put it in, but after a few 
 hours of playing I thought it was junk. Now, after a few days I'd have to say this is a good game. 
 It has some things that aren't great in the game but I've gotten over them now and enjoy the game.
 
  
  Some of the things that I liked about the game were the tracks left in the snow after you cut thru 
 an area and seeing the different levels of powers on the mountain. It seem cool that the snow was 
 coming down at different rates and some times not even at all. The weather system was a great idea, 
 but not as good as it could have been.
  
  The controller at first seems really difficult. After I figured out what to do, they were some 
 what alright. Not exactly to my liking but workable. The tutorial to teach you how to control your 
 boarder is terriable. I could barely figure out what to do to complete each tutorial challenge, 
 but with a little trial and error I finally figured it out with no help from the tutorial guide. 
 It as very confusing and didn't tell me what I needed to do, just lucked out with the trial and 
 error thing.
  
  That's some of good about the game. Here's what bad about the game.
  
  The snow boarder gets stuck on trees, in corners, against building, against a trackor, against 
 a fence and even once in the snow. It takes you 20 or 30 second to figure out how to get you snow 
 boarder free if your lucky. A few times I had to just end the session and start over.
  
  The refresh of a snow boarder after you crash sometimes put you pointing up the mountain instead 
 of down the mountain. It is extremely hard to get your boarder moving again.
  
  Once I learned the little things and expected them a little bit more and learned what to expect 
 out of the game as far as game play, I would say I really liked the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rogerad29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Stoked is a great game and should not be missed by any die hard snowboard fan. First off the graphics 
 are amazing from the real life weather effects to the digital powder. At first the game can be 
 a little frustrating untill you learn the controls and the pre-wind system with the right and left 
 trigger buttons. Once you master the controls and the moves this game becomes so much fun. There 
 are 5 huge mountains that are all so well done and you can also stop chill out and snap photos 
 once you earn the camera. This feature was so cool on xbox live. Many other people are hanging 
 out by the lip jump at the top of the mountain snapping photos of fellow riders hitting 720 and 
 900 of the jump. You can even unlock achievements with the camera which is cool. The game is very 
 similar to skate 2 but on a snowboard. Go buy it... Its the next best thing to actually being there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan9797
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Stoked brings forth a dynamic weather system, enormous mountains and realism to the snowboard game 
 genre, and does it all very well. Though it may be slow in the beginning, advancing your career 
 by completing challenges, it soon picks up the pace and offers a variety of gameplay. Character 
 customization is at first limited but as you gain sponsors, more items become available, from boards 
 and bindings, to hoodies and gloves. 
  The challenges are scattered amongst the hill section and offer variance and challenge while not 
 scaring away amateur players. The included "grab bible" gives a quick reference to the "how-to" 
 of tricks making it accessible to all players. The Pro-challenges are, however, rather difficult 
 as you must follow a pro and copy their tricks while trying to add your own flair in order to beat 
 the Pro's overall score. Once you beat it though, it is very satisfying.
  The mountains themselves are enormous with several different "courses" on each of the 5 mountains. 
 The courses are sections of the mountain with different levels of jump-offs, grind-rails and tree 
 obstacles. this offers a diverse universe to explore. This leads to the dynamic weather system. 
 weather varies from clear blue skies that light the hills beautifully to snowstorms that hinder 
 your view down the hill, adding realism to the environment. The snow accumulation is particularly 
 apparent when tackling certain challenges where little snowfall reveals rocks that impede your 
 progress in challenges. Attempting these challenges after a snowstorm however, is much easier as 
 the snowfall of a few feet hides the rock face.
  The landscapes are beautiful to look at and once you unlock the camera feature, you can stop anywhere 
 on the mountain and take gorgeous snapshots that save in your scrapbook in the main menu. You can 
 also take pictures on the fly from the helicopter following you so you can capture some amazing 
 tricks you will pull off.
  After completing all the challenges on the mountain you will unlock the ability to fly the helicopter 
 to get to different drop-off points.
  As for multiplayer, I have yet to shred online, so an update to this review is forthcoming. 
 
  Overall, this game looks great and although the career motivates you to complete challenges, it 
 is satisfying just to carve through the mountainside while taking the odd picture. Definitely a 
 pick-up for snowboarders and fans of the genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleAxeRX
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the audio. There's plenty of music, but most of it is not my bag. The sound effects 
 usually seem out of place and are extremely exaggerated (ie, riding on powder usually sounds like 
 riding on ice) . They added a lot of voice acting which is almost expected, voices are going to 
 say, "Whoa, you call that style?" and "I don't know, that was just BAD!" It got old very fast for 
 me.
  
  Next we'll read about graphics. It's basically all low quality or at least, below average (The 
 falling snow is white balls that fly everywhere) . The mountains in the distance look like paper 
 mache of plain white until you get closer and then fuzzy green trees pop in. The landscape is littered 
 with log cabins or stone structures in ruins.
  
  Next is gameplay. Pretty much all the animations are crumbly and cheap. All the basic grabs (LT+ 
 upright w/ RThumb, RT + left w/ RThumb) are astoundingly weak and the rider shows no style whatsoever 
 (You'd think that the Method, the most stylish grab, would be awesome in any game, well in Stoked 
 the rider stays pretty much 100% compact and doesn't tweak out a single basic grab, even the Japan 
 Air looks nearly identical to the plain Mute. The controls are pretty messy and may have been thought 
 up in about 20 seconds, it's basically the same as Skate, but with a minor tweak to ollieing, the 
 addition of prewinding your spins via left/right trigger, and the lack of function for A, B, X, and 
 Y. Also, more grabs are added as I said before, but hey, they basically all look the same, there's 
 no style in them.
  
  The game takes landings very seriously. In all challenges you need to focus on landing as straight 
 as possible or you'll loose out on approximately half your points. All the score goals (which is 
 what the game is basically made of) are set fairly high and you'll be hitting the back button to 
 start over "again and again and again x2." The pro challenges have you following a rider who's 
 score is pre-set at lets say 12533. It doesn't matter if you pass him or he passes you, what matters 
 is that you need to do the tricks displayed in the corner of the screen and then pass through the 
 first gate which will give you another sets of tricks to do before you get to the next gate. The 
 main problem is that you have to remember which tricks are coming because they often put a gate 
 right before the lip of a jump. I'm using the first pro challenge as an example and what's also 
 important in this game is that you hold your grabs all the way to the last nano-second before you 
 land, and this in my opinion helps to ruin the game even more by limiting your own style and preferences 
 on how to do tricks. Stoked is filled to the brim with poor designing and gameplay.
  
  Summary time - I'm not very stoked about this game, it looks bad, plays bad, and even sounds bad. 
 It would have been great in 2002 or maybe even before that and on the PSX. Everything in this game 
 is hugely outdated. What's amazing is that in my opinion, Amped 1 is better, SSX3 is better, SSX 
 On Tour is better, 1080 Snowboarding (Ahead of it's time) is better. I haven't played online where 
 you can race people, but the gameplay is so awful that I can't wait to go back to racing in Forza 
 2. The best thing about Stoked is that it makes Skate 2 look like a perfect ten, which if you've 
 done your homework is actually an 8/10. The second best thing about Stoked is that it's already 
 $39.99. The third best thing about Stoked is perhaps it's presentation/menus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I like to play a snowboarding game once in a while. I had not played one since the regular xbox 
 so I started searching around. 
  
  When Shaun White snowboarding came out I thought this would be my next snowboarding game to own 
 but after the bad reviews I decided to pass. I read about this game and its sounded pretty good 
 so I kept my eye on this for a while.
  
  Anyways I ordered this on friday and got it today and I have to say this game is alot of fun.
 
  
  First of all ---- For $40 you definitely cant go wrong. This game plays very similar to skate because 
 you use the right stick to jump and to do different grabs if you press the right or left trigger.
 
  
  The mountains in this game are huge! There are several drop points for the helicopter to take you 
 to and there are challenges all around the mountain.
  
  I would say this game is somewhat realistic you can get some huge air. Music in the game is pretty 
 decent it goes along well with the game.
  I haven't tried online yet but so far this game is great I would recommend it for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy098
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Every since I played SSX, I've been looking for a snowboarding game that could take it's place. 
 If I want to play a snowboarding game, I want to play it to do sick tricks, not for realism. Stoked 
 comes pretty close to that. You start off on your career and can get bonuses that make it easier 
 for your character to do tricks (I still find it hard to prewind a backflip) . The tricks are fairly 
 easy to do, and can be prewound so that you perform them faster. I like this, because it reminds 
 me of SSX. It's also semi-realistic, you can't jump 5,000 feet in the air. You advance your career 
 through fame points you gain from completing missions where you have to perform certain tricks, 
 or beat another boarder's score. I would have like to been able to gain attribute points (to increase 
 your rider's speed, trick rate, etc..) as well though.
  
  Overall, I think it's a good game which comes close to the level of fun that I had with SSX. It's 
 at least the best of the bunch of next gen snowboarding games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BioShockOwnz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Stoked is a game developed by the indie devs at Bongfish and published by Destineer. It's a game 
 that has ex-Amped developers working on it, so the extreme sports community had high expectations 
 for Stoked, but was it able to meet those expectations? Read on to find out.
  
  Design:
  
  Stoked is an open world snowboarding game, a la Amped 3 or Shaun White Snowboarding. There 
 are 5 HUGE mountains to choose from and each mountain has a ton of different paths to take with 
 completely different run lines. Each mountain is so detailed and carefully built to near perfection 
 by the masterminds at Bongfish. They decided early on to make mountains have a natural backcountry 
 feel, so you won't see grindrails in the middle of nowhere. Instead you'll be able to jib on fenches, 
 broken down tree trunks, etc. Each mountain has a very organic feel, but don't let that make you 
 think they're empty and boring, because it's just the opposite. There's a lot to ride and trick 
 off of on all 5 mountains.
  
  Stoked also offers a dynamic weather system, which will provide different riding conditions every 
 single time you go on the slopes, and a full day/night cycle.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Stoked is very deep when it comes to gameplay. It doesn't come easy. Stoked is very much like Skate. 
 It has the Flick-It control system, which will have you using the analog sticks and bumpers. They 
 did away with using face buttons to make the most realistic snowboarding experience to date and 
 they've succeeded. The controls take practice and patience. This is not the kind of game that you'll 
 pick up and instantly be good at. Stoked isn't about instant gratification, but more along the 
 idea of practice makes perfect.
  
  Stoked also offers 2 different ways to ride -- Hucker or Stylish are the 2 you get to choose from, 
 but there's a catch. Depending on how you ride throughout the progression of the game, you'll get 
 a percentage dedicated to that style. So, if you decide to ride hucker, you'll notice that you'll 
 become better over time at the bigger tricks that are more sloppy, which usually don't net you 
 as many points. This is a very nice addition to the games realistic nature.
  
  Now, onto the objectives/challenges. Each mountain has plenty of different challenges that can 
 be simple and extremely difficult. Each challenge is laid out on the mountain and when you come 
 in contact with it, you simply push X to begin it. The challenges are set up like in Amped. This 
 isn't a game where you have to suffer through some atrocious plot, but it's all about the core 
 gameplay. There's no crappy story here, because there isn't one. It's all about getting fame. You 
 start out as a nobody with crappy gear, but over the course of the game, you'll get sponsored and 
 be able to gear up in some of the best equipment out there.
  
  And like I mentioned earlier, the dynamic weather system lends itself to the gameplay, because 
 depending on the weather conditions and the amount of powder on the ground, you'll perform differently, 
 which adds nicely to the game to make it feel new every single time you go to play it.
  
  
  
  Presentation:
  
  Stoked is a beautiful game. It may not be the best looking game out 
 there, but it still wows with gorgeous visuals and a slick artstyle, not to mention the fancy menus. 
 The snow looks very real and packs into the ground when forced with pressure. Also, your snowboarder 
 will get covered in snow when he falls to the ground, but it'll come off over time. It's a very 
 nice addition to the presentation and realism in Stoked.
  
  The framerate can dip a tad at times, but nothing to be concerned about. It's always running at 
 a respectable clip. 
  
  Stoked also offers a huge selection of indie music. Most of it is very good and there's definitely 
 something for everyone. If you prefer your own tunes, though, then there is the option for custom 
 soundtracks.
  
  
  
  Online:
  
  Stoked offers the best online multiplayer to date for a snowboarding game. It's all very seamless 
 and intuitive. Get together with your buds and ride down the slopes, because it's always a good 
 time. There can be some minor lag, but nothing terribly bad. It works better than Shaun White Snowboarding.
 
  
  
  
  Overall:
  
  Stoked meets the hype. It has taken the crown from Amped as the best simulation experience for 
 snowboarding fans. It hardly ever disappoints. It's one of those games that truly keeps surprising. 
 A small developer (Bongfish) and a small publisher (Destineer) got together and made a better snowboarding 
 game than the large money-hungry companies could and deserve some respect for it. Not to mention, 
 Stoked retails for only $39.99, so it's a no-brainer. Get out there and support this fantastic 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WigadyWack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the greatest snowboarding game i have ever played. Shaun White Snowboarding 
 doesn't even compare to this great master piece and new concepts. With controls like SKATE and 
 challenging gameplay i could play this game for months and i think i will.
  
  PROS: Great Controls, Long Story, Huge Mountains, Tons of Sponsers, Challenging Gameplay, Fun online
 
  
  Cons: Not very will polished with some glitches, Biginning of Story very slow
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
 word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rusty2win57
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I am definitely a fan so far, and gave it an 8.5 here on Gamespot.
  
  The controls definitely have a learning curve IMO. Took me probably an hour. Thankfully they give 
 you a "quick reference" sheet for all the button combos when you are doing challenges (i. e. right 
 stick forward with LT pulled for a specific grab) . Cannot live without that. I haven't used the 
 in-game trick manual.
  
  The physics are good overall. There seems to be a few glitches with rails/trees and grinding surfaces, 
 but not enough to turn you away. And if you do fall due to glitch, it will restart you and you 
 can hit it again without having to do the entire run over to hit the particular spot.
  
  The dynamic weather is the best feature of this game. I have hit a few spots early when I started 
 playing where I was taking big air and then crashing into a rock face cliff -- not good. In a few 
 spots I had to find an alternate route because there is no way I could clear all the rock. However, 
 come back a snow storm or two later and its covered, and now you can hit it.
  
  I have only been on the first mountain so far (about 4-5 hrs playing) and it is huge. I can't imagine 
 how big the others are.
  
  I have yet to be online. I am not sure the online community will be too big though, being as that 
 I have ranked Top 10 on X-Box Live for scores on more than one occasion, and I am really not that 
 good.
  
  I will add more when I play some more. For now, you cannot beat it for $39.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stoked-4-LIFE
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game...... Haven't played anything like it before........ might take a little 
 to get used to the controls....... Really good..... again a few things here and there could be 
 changed...... It takes awhile to get known and get "famous" in the main mode in the game........ 
 So many tricks to do......... and in one of the first reviews critics said there was no book in 
 the game that said how to do all of the tricks but was added in...... that may be the reason why 
 it was delayed again another couple of days........ Good for the first major game made by this 
 company..... Graphics could be a little better and is a little, but not major, glitchy at times............. If 
 they make another in the series I expect it to be an AMAZING GAME!!!...... Multi Player is REALLY 
 nice........ If you're debating wether to get it or not just Get it.... GET  
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
