-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stormrise
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/stormrise/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting sci-fi universe.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Whip select control scheme makes choosing units a chore.
 Appalling pathfinding leads to micromanagement nightmares.
 Broken animations and missing visual effects.
 Total lack of important visual information.
 Tons of other annoying issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 30, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.5
Critic Score: 4.8, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 5.0, 76 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: Mar 24, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This frustrating, broken mess is one of the worst strategy games in years. 

  Stormrise is one of those games that makes you wonder, "What were they  thinking ?" This real-time 
 strategy game is, from top to bottom, misconceived, frustrating, frequently broken, and rarely 
 fun. Developer Creative Assembly has built an entire product around a fundamentally flawed control 
 scheme and neglected almost every important facet of the RTS genre. Embarrassingly busted pathfinding, 
 infuriating interface problems, abysmal mission design, substandard visuals -- these unpleasant elements 
 and many others make the whole thing an unseemly mess. It's the bizarre irony of Stormrise that 
 it's an RTS game built from the ground up for modern consoles yet it's far inferior to those ported 
 from the PC.  

  The control scheme in question is called whip select, and its Stormrise's most interesting idea -- and 
 greatest liability. The game eschews the standard top-down perspective, forcing you to view the 
 battlefield and issue orders from the viewpoint of an individual squad. This isn't a brand-new 
 innovation; a similar perspective worked to great cinematic effect in Tom Clancy's EndWar. To switch 
 to another unit, you rotate a line that emanates from the center of the screen with the right thumbstick, 
 hover it over the target unit, and release the stick. This is whip select, and on paper, it sounds 
 like a clever console-centric alternative to traditional PC mouse controls. However, initial fascination 
 deteriorates rapidly into abhorrence when the control scheme collides with the game's delinquent 
 interface and often nonfunctional pathing.  

  Your initial struggles will come when you start to spread units across the map. When a squad isn't 
 onscreen, it is represented by an icon displayed either in your field of view (when there are obstacles 
 between your current selection and your target) or along the edge of the screen, in the manner 
 of a space combat sim. When units amass in the distance, making an exact selection, especially 
 in the midst of combat, can be a nightmare. You'll waste precious seconds fiddling to make sure 
 you highlight the correct tiny icon before releasing the thumbstick, or worse yet, you'll choose 
 the wrong unit, possibly flinging your view to an unrelated unit that happens to be positioned 
 in the same general direction -- but underground. Or you may land on the wrong unit simply because 
 you can't tell what the unit type is from the simple icon that represents it, wasting even more 
 time while you fumble your way to the squad you need most. Rather than enhancing the enjoyment, 
 whip select taints every action and hobbles the few moments when the game's burgeoning potential 
 peeks from underneath this specter. It's like driving through a thick fog or running with a broken 
 leg. You can issue indirect orders, though this function is only mildly helpful and, like most 
 aspects of Stormrise, was not implemented well. You can issue such a command when controlling a 
 unit, but not when managing the power nodes that you must capture and upgrade, where the feature 
 would have been far more helpful.  

  From here, the problems begin to pile up, and the resulting tower of insanity crashes to the ground 
 in an astounding mass of broken and half-implemented features. The pathfinding in particular is 
 possibly the worst an RTS game has seen to date. Units get hung up on everything: the environments, 
 each other, and sometimes nothing at all. You might watch some individual members of a squad move 
 forward while the lagging ones get stuck in the level geometry and then teleport forward a few 
 moments later. Large units like the spiderlike matriarchs may walk directly into objects and just 
 keep walking rather than go around, and they get stuck in jittery animation loops when they can't 
 figure out what to do or where to go. Squads won't get out of the way of oncoming units, often 
 leading to traffic jams that can be fixed only by manually leading away units one at a time until 
 you can bring order to the chaos. Interpretive dance routines are common in the ranks of your infantry, 
 and your warriors often choose to run about like buffoons rather than engage the enemy or find 
 a place to still their hyperactive feet.  

           Whip select brings unparalleled imprecision to strategy gaming.      

  The campaign's 
 level design seems created almost to aggravate these issues. In the level that introduces the anti-infantry 
 vehicles called prowlers, these units must navigate through tight roadways, a task they are clearly 
 incapable of performing. In later missions, you must lead units down spiraling sets of walkways 
 to take a series of control points, and navigate through incredibly confined underground tunnels. 
 The choke points in these areas create long, frustrating stalemates due to the resulting stew of 
 practically uncontrollable units. At least in wider environments, unit behavior inspires fewer 
 headaches, but these missions are abysmal, because bad pathfinding and unnecessary micromanagement 
 lead to losses that could have been avoided if your units had simply done what you had commanded 
 them to do. At first, the option to group units into control groups of three (yes indeed, you can 
 only combine up to three units in a single group) seems like a tempting way to soften the issues, 
 until you realize that creating groups only compounds the pathfinding absurdities.  

  Even should you overcome these roadblocks, you'll find that units are extremely slow to respond 
 to orders, taking their time to move out of the way as if they need to give it some thought first. 
 Want your hero unit to get out of the way when his health is quickly diminishing? Don't count on 
 it: he'd rather perform a series of useless animations, and then die -- which ends the mission -- rather 
 than follow your command. Not that it is always clear why your hero (or any other unit) is losing 
 health in the first place. All too frequently, you will watch a health bar slowly diminish, yet 
 the absence of bullets, lasers, or nearby units will make you wonder where the damage is even coming 
 from. This is because animations and effects often go missing. Enemy rangers might collapse in 
 a bloody heap, apparently from the fire of your hovering hunters -- but because these airborne units 
 are stuck in a jittery loop, you won't see any laser fire. In fact, Stormrise goes out of its way 
 to not give you important visual information. Once units are grouped, you cannot see their remaining 
 health, which is an enormous problem if you include a commander in the group. Should you want a 
 better look at the battlefield, you might try pulling up the overhead view, though in doing so 
 you will find the most useless piece of garbage that has ever been passed off as a map.  

  This smorgasbord of horrific design is all the more heartbreaking when you consider the game's 
 potential. Yes, Stormrise is brimming with terrible ideas poorly executed, but the grim, futuristic 
 setting and cool-looking units, such as the soaring rift worm, show elements of real promise. Two 
 factions, the Echelon and the Sai, clash over the future of the planet after a cataclysmic environmental 
 disaster, and both sides' moral ambiguities lead to a few different twists and turns to the tale. 
 The story isn't always easy to follow, but emphatic voice acting and a few atmospheric touches 
 keep the narrative interesting, even if you aren't sure what's going on. Sadly, poor production 
 values cast a shadow on these few bright spots. When masses of units collide, Stormrise can offer 
 a mild visual spectacle. Otherwise, low-resolution textures, poor lighting, and muddy, uninspired 
 art make the game look a bit homely.  

  The basic gameplay also showcases some decent core ideas. You must capture and link power nodes 
 to accumulate resources, and you can upgrade them with shields and surprisingly effective turrets. 
 This concept isn't that new, but it's a solid one that keeps you pressing forward. And while using 
 the terrain has been an important aspect of other strategy games, few offer Stormrise's sheer verticality. 
 You can place snipers (called infiltrators here) on ledges and move infantry behind cover, and 
 once you become familiar with each unit's attack range, careful positioning can open up some intriguing 
 strategic options. Sadly, knowing each unit's range is even more important than you would expect, 
 given that if you give an attack order, the unit will move right up to its target, rather than 
 attack from the most distant possible range, as in every other RTS. This leads to more micromanagement, 
 lest your rangers wander directly into their targets as if they just want a hug.  

           No matter how long you wait, the textures never pop in.      

  Stormrise's multiplayer 
 component gives rise to its greatest ideas. Before you head into battle, you can customize your 
 powerful commander unit with different weapons and abilities, which is a nice touch that gives 
 you the element of surprise. Up to eight players can battle it out, and like World in Conflict, 
 Stormrise offers drop-in, drop-out online play. At least here you can leave behind the single-player 
 campaign's oft-frustrating mission objectives and concentrate on capturing power nodes while crushing 
 the opposition. Multiplayer skirmishes offer the most hints at what the game could have and should 
 have been, and a few micromanagement lovers may enjoy exploring their units' alternate attack modes 
 (the matriarch's acid storm is fun to play with) . However, you're still dealing with all the control 
 and pathfinding issues, only now, you might get stuck on friendly units that you don't get any 
 direct control over. If you really want to showcase your skills on the leaderboards, you can participate 
 in ranked matches, but maddeningly, the game allows uneven teams, which is just out-and-out absurd 
 in a ranked contest.  

  There are more nightmarish issues, of course, such as how the terrible enemy AI ignores your attacks 
 or rushes past your powerful stalkers in endless, scripted waves. And how the broken checkpoints 
 and single save slot mean potentially saving at an inopportune time, forcing you to restart a mission 
 from the beginning. And the way the action continues after you save the game, but doesn't let you 
 control anything for several precious seconds. Suffice it to say, Stormrise is a broken debacle 
 that is in no way deserving of either your time or your money.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SoAxFeaRx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 7:14 am PT
Review:  Another low score without warrant. Some of the issues people are having with this game, are because 
 they think they can play it like other RTS games.. including End War. And you can't. Your infantry 
 don't have super vision to see people around corners. The vehicles don't have boosters to make 
 them jump over things that are in their way. Pathfinding is not an issue, you playing the game 
 is the issue. Quit clumping your units up, and quit telling them to blindly goto a point 20 miles 
 across the map. The units follow YOUR orders, not their own.
  
  For instance, I have noticed people using the Move To command, which is what they teach in the 
 first minute of the game, as the attack command, and then they wonder why their units are just 
 running to the spot. Geez.. I wonder? Did you really NOT pay attention to the tutorial? Open the 
 instruction manual at all to see WHY you are having an issue?
  
  The game was meant to be played with real tactics. What your units see, or can be verified to them 
 from other units, is ALL they can see or shoot at. They don't know magical paths because they are 
 programmed and should "know the map".. thats just stupid. In a game where positions and the path 
 you take means all the difference, why should the units be programmed to follow a perfect path 
 automatically without someone showing them or telling them the correct way? Doesn't that defeat 
 the purpose of a true 3d RTS experience? Otherwise, it would be just like playing any other RTS. 
 No thanks.
  
  The people complaining about artillery and being able to siege, also are playing the game wrong. 
 The mechanics of the game don't allow an artillery piece to magically see things like you would 
 in any other RTS that gives you "god view". You should be targeting with aircraft and the cheap 
 $100 unit that actually adds a type of target designator for other units. If the artillery could 
 do that, then what would stop anyone from just building art. at startup and just bombing away? 
 Nothing. 
  
  No offense to anyone, but the people who just don't "get this game" in what it is and is trying 
 to do. Don't even deserve to have a game like this. Let alone, have a game like this being supported 
 the way it is over at stormrisers. com ... 
  
  The only "bug" I have found, are the animation issues. And honestly, they aren't game breaking 
 in the least bit. CA is almost finished with a patch to fix practically every single issue people 
 have been claiming, even ones that are inherent in the mechanics, just for the simpletons who can't 
 think about more than one unit at a time.
  
  This game gets a solid 8.5 , would be an easy 9 or 9.5 without the animation issues. And im sure 
 when the patch comes out my score will immediately STORMRISE! :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HypnoMonkey
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 1, 2009 3:31 am PT
Review:  The whip selection COULD work if you could group your men into bigger groups. being able to put 
 them into groups of 3, while managable isn't exactly the greatest thing for moving large amounts 
 of men around the battlefield. Then again even with that, the control nodes that you have to capture 
 should not be selectable when they're at the back of the map MILES away from the battle and anything 
 remotely useful in an attack... ive spent too long flicking about the map just because i turned 
 the camera and now its like a different place. leading to at least 30 seconds until i've figured 
 out what direction the enemy are in.
  On a good note, The story line is manageable... that being said CAN NOBODY THINK OF AN ORIGINAL 
 STORY ANYMORE!!!!!!
  why oh why, for the love of budda (who seems to neglect game designers) does every single game 
 be about... good guy, turns against his friends due to the government (or other organisation) having 
 an evil agenda and planning to wipe out everything, once the now good guys (who are technologically 
 inferior, wow what a shock) turn against him with them turning out to be the bad guys and were 
 using the good guy... COME ON!!!! WTF.
  in short the guys who designed the units, WELL DONE =) seriously the units are really quite cool.
 
  the guys who designed the game play, well... i hope you all burn for turning a potential good 
 game into a massacre of the RTS genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: storrmbringer
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2009 3:31 am PT
Review:  First up - The game itself isn't bad. There have been alot of negative reviews, and I don't think 
 many of them gave the game a proper chance it deserves.
  If you are looking for a game that looks fantastic, then this is your game. RTS fans however, need 
 more then fluff, so the game had better deliever. And in that respect it does. It has alot of the 
 things that make for a great, deep, immersive gaming experience. Unfortunately, the control aspect 
 of the game is let down by frustrating controls. I think however, the makers are on to something. 
 And while they may not have got it right 100% the first time - they can learn from the mistakes 
 made here.
  I would recommend this game to anyone who is looking for a RTS - but, in order to really enjoy 
 it, you must be dedicated and willing to put the time in. If you're more of a casual gamer - give 
 this a skip, and look for something a little less challenging and time consuming. That being said, 
 it should keep anyone glued to their seat for the duration of the time spent playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zigzag149
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Difficulty: Normal/hard
  Graphics: Good
  
  Let me start by saying this game is not for every one, but if you stay with it and get the hang 
 of the controls you may find it enjoyable. it took me 2 or 3 levels to get them completely, the 
 story is not bad and it has no glitches (as far as i can tell) , Not a bad start.......... if they 
 make i second one i may take a look at it. 
  
  The big problem with this game is that.... its an RTS that's hard to control mass units.......... 
 the whip is fast and effective but you can only control 3 units at once (in a group) . An RTS is 
 suppose to be about controlling mass army's bidding them agents each other. Its just harder then 
 it should be to control your army, id say rent it, I like that its like nothing else iv seen witch 
 is rare but it needs some rethinking........ lol even tho its a little late..... you no being out 
 in the market and all 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarcusPrime
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  To say this is a bad game is an understatement. I really tried to enjoy it or at least give it 
 a try, but the game play is so sloppy that you have to force yourself to play more. I'll give an 
 example. This game is advertised as an RTS so even though its on a console it should be easy to 
 select the units you need and get them to go where you want. However the camera controls are so 
 poor that it is nearly impossible to get a unit into battle without dictating every single move 
 it has to make to get around obstacles. This game is sort of like a First Person RTS because you 
 control units from there point of view, but because you can't get an overhead view you can't just 
 tell a unit to go across the map. It is line-of-sight only. By far the worst part is getting all 
 your units to go to the same spot. You have to select each unit individually and then tell them 
 to move up, but if you move them up to far ahead (aka out of shooting range of the rest of your 
 units) they will easily be lost in battle before you can send help. This then forces you to move 
 each unit a little at a time which then takes 10 times longer than it should. Why not just be able 
 to select a bunch of units at once and send them out together? If you have read this review I hope 
 you get a small sense of how bad the game is. Don't buy it, don't rent it, don't play it for free. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Baron13
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I'm not very good at writing clear paragraphs on the good and the bad of a game so im just going 
 to break this down into positives and negatives. 
  
  Positives
  - Once you get use to it the control scheme works very well.
  - The two factions are very different. 
 No two units are alike however the game is still exceptionally balanced
  - The campaign does a good job of getting you first use to the control scheme and then use to the 
 two different factions and their units
  - Multiplayer is a lot of fun with many different maps and anywhere from 1v1 to 4v4 combat. Players 
 are able to join mid game as well if so desired by the host. Makes it so there is almost no wait 
 for a game.
  - Very different feel for a strategy game which many people may like
  - Already is being supported by CA with at least two patches and a number of tournaments and clan 
 matches set up for the near future. Some against the developers.
  
  Negatives
  - A number of animation errors in the retail version. It will look like your units are not attacking 
 or have moved pass their target or just die all of a sudden on some occasions. However everything 
 that should be happening is happening, it just does not look like it is. A patch has already been 
 promised to fix this.
  - Graphics are nothing special
  - The campaign is hard until you get the fell for the control game and type of strategy this game 
 employs.
  - Very different feel for a strategy game which some people may not like
  
  In the end this game is a lot of fun and I will be playing the multiplayer for the foreseeable 
 future. I wont lie, its very different from anything anyone has played before but once you get 
 use to that and except changes it brings you should be in for a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JT1228
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  From the word go I really liked this game, the setting, the sci-fi technology of the units ( Battle 
 suites ,ect ) the environment ( ruined cities ) and the fast paced ,crunching combat.
  
  The Whip control take some getting used to for sure, but once you get it down, it works wonderfully, 
 and as a PC Strategy gamer, its the best system I've seen thus far on an console RTS for unit selection 
 and control. I really like how you can select one unit and have it move to the same location as 
 another just by clicking on the other units icon, even if its on the other side of the map.
  
  The graphics are fine , this is a strategy game, not a FPS where small details are everything, 
 plus i'd rather they spend time making a great game than just one that looks good and has nothing 
 else to offer.
  
  The node ( building) aspect of the game works very well. Take it over, upgrade it for defense and/or 
 energy production, as well as a reinforcement point for your troops.
  
  Now there are a few bugs, but nothing that breaks the game ( and a launch day patch tells me they 
 are going to support/fix it ) and the multiplayer match setup is kind of goofy, but works.
  
  If you have any love for RTS in sci-fi settings , and the patience to learn the whip system 
 , then this game is for you. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryfe777
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  Seriously, I would've bought this game just to control a dragon flying over a post apocolyptic 
 city. That's just me.
  
  While the learning curve for the innovation involved in this game is rather steep, the payoff is 
 equally satisfying. You... control... a... dragon...
  
  I found the graphics and sound effects sufficient, the detail of the units is very good, and the 
 overall atmosphere to the maps was typical 'oh crap the world is in ruins' fare. This game isn't 
 for everyone, especially those who are used to playing RTS on their NO2 breathing super computer 
 (aka their girlfriend) . You have to approach for what it is: An innovative RTS built for the console.
 
  
  Better camera, or just more, controls would make Stormrise a much better game. Half the time I 
 'whip select' a unit and the camera is showing me their left arms, or right. 
  
  Stormrise is a very innovative game and for those who have patience for its steep learning curve, 
 and those with real girlfriends, it would be worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorShmurger
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  What do we know about rts games... over the top view, lots of units on screen, and of course base 
 building. But dont forget that this is not a pc, its a console. And we should look at it like at 
 a console game.
  This game offers the player to directly connected with your troops, so every kill is a pleasure 
 and every death is a loss. The whip select system is quite good for a job to be done, but it could 
 be better. For example the creators could mark units in one colour and buildings, (those defensive 
 posts, and the one where you can buy units) in another. Still when you get the hang of it, it becomes 
 pretty easy ,but its still needs some time.
  Speaking about the game play, its nice, action packed and detailed. Combat situations are shown from 
 a good perspective, so you'll be right in the thick of it. Units are detailed nicely , and are really 
 beautifully made, unlike in some other games..
  The hero system is also interesting, when you can have a yours personal character. There are upgrades 
 and weapons for you're hero , which you have to unlock first. 
  Whats more to add here.. well the in game sounds are quite good, unit speech is not boring like in 
 some games. Music starts playing when the fights start, so even if you don't see anything, the music 
 will tel you that you're units see the enemy.
  SO for the end i can only say, that this game have'nt disappointed me at all i've got what i was 
 hoping for, nothing less. A little fix with a unit/building selection selection , some minor changes 
 in unit way point finder (sometimes in a squad of 3 , one unit stays behind) and the addition of 
 maps and this game will show his potential. I really hope so. My personal score is 9/10
  Did i mentioned i like sci-fi vs. magic games? Nope? So that's why i give such games a pretty high 
 score. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
