-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Street Fighter IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/streetfighteriv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous character models, animations, and background art.
 Comprehensive multiplayer modes.
 Accessible but nuanced gameplay.
 Plenty of replay value for completionists.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No tournament mode.
 Online play suffers if either fighter's connection is slow.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 18, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.3, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 2,034 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Feb 17, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Robust and challenging single-player modes, strong online multiplayer, and gorgeous visuals make 
 this a must-have for any fighter fan. 

  It's obvious that each iteration of the long-running Street Fighter series has been carefully tuned 
 and tweaked to the finest degree, and nowhere is this more apparent than in Street Fighter IV. 
 The lessons learned in the franchise's 20-plus years have been used to prune back the core fighting 
 experience to create something truly special. Street Fighter IV isn't a success simply because 
 it's one of the most technically complex 2D fighters ever made, it's a success because it's also 
 wrapped inside a layer of absolute accessibility. Never has the old "A minute to learn, a lifetime 
 to master" adage been truer than it is here.  

           Six new characters join the Street Fighter IV roster, all with their own unique backstories 
 and abilities.      

  The Street Fighter fundamentals have remained consistent over the years; your job is to knock out 
 the other guy or gal. All 12 of the classic world warriors -- Ryu, Ken, Chun-Li, Blanka, E. Honda, 
 Zangief, Guile, Dhalsim, Balrog, Vega, Sagat, and M. Bison -- are back and playable from the outset, 
 and they're joined by six brand-new and diverse characters. Abel, a mixed martial arts grapple-style 
 character; Crimson Viper a female fighter with sweeping, airborne fire attacks; Rufus, a rotund 
 fighter whose body makes him a bit of a sight gag despite his deceptive speed; and El Fuerte, a 
 pro wrestler whose rushes and air throws make him a slippery foe. Ryu and Ken's sensei, Gouken, 
 also makes his playable-character debut in Street Fighter IV. Naturally, he didn't teach the boys 
 everything he knows, so when they meet again he has a few tricks up his sleeves, including a horizontal 
 and vertical fireball EX move. The game's new end boss, Seth, fills the last spot and joins the 
 list once you've unlocked everyone else. Character balance is absolutely spot-on across the entire 
 roster, and as a result, you should never feel that you can't compete simply because you've chosen 
 one character over another.  

  You'll need to finish the game multiple times and in special ways to unlock the complete character 
 list. Doing so will make fan favourites Cammy, Sakura, Akuma, Fei Long, Rose, Gen, and Dan playable. 
 Like previous games in the series, Street Fighter IV lets you perform powerful super combos, but 
 it has removed air blocking and parrying completely. Developers Capcom and Dimps have added a completely 
 new gameplay system: focus attacks, a new multipurpose offensive and defensive ability that can 
 be charged to one of three levels by pressing and holding the medium punch and kick buttons simultaneously. 
 There's no onscreen bar to show how charged your attack is, so you'll need to rely on the progressively 
 darkening ink splashes surrounding your character model. Each character features a unique focus 
 animation, so you shouldn't have any trouble working it out after a few rounds with each. Focus 
 attacks make you vulnerable to damage because you need to be standing still to charge them (though 
 you can dash forward or backward to cancel them) , but the trade-off is that you'll absorb the first 
 hit without the penalty of an animation reset, allowing for an instant counterattack if you land 
 it. They can also act as armour-breaking moves, shutting down more-powerful attacks. Successfully 
 landing a fully charged focus attack will deal damage and crumple your opponent to the ground, 
 giving you the chance to follow up with an unblockable hit as he or she falls.  

  The new mechanic also lets you use part of your EX power-meter charge to exit animations early 
 and chain bigger combos together. They take a little getting used to and some serious thumb dexterity, 
 but once they're mastered, you can perform moves such as dragon-punch stalls directly into super 
 moves or use them to juggle players in midair with multiple hits. Your revenge meter builds as 
 you take damage, whereas the EX meter fills as you dish it out. EX power rolls over to the next 
 round, but revenge must be built from scratch each time. This becomes a crucial risk-versus-reward 
 mechanic. Do you take hits to build revenge and power up an ultra attack, or do you deal damage 
 to burn your EX on improved moves, cancels, or save it for a super finisher? The flexibility of 
 this system means that you're free to play according to your strengths and style. But just like 
 reversals, EX power-ups, and ultra combo attacks, focus attacks serve to mix up the experience 
 only for veteran players; such is the game's balance that they have never been required to win 
 a match, and they act more as an additional weapon in the arsenal of a skilled player. They're 
 waiting for you when you want to take a step up and learn how they work, but well-timed basic punches 
 and kicks are just as effective.  

           Classic world warriors make a return with gorgeous new character models.      

  The 
 single-player mode is robust and has a lot to offer across several components. Arcade mode pits 
 you against a set number of fights from your unlocked-character roster and culminates in a showdown 
 with Seth. Along the way to your goal, you'll always encounter a rival fight. These are regular 
 fights accompanied by an in-engine exchange with your opponent. They're a welcome mix-up but often 
 add nothing to the character's storyline because some fighters clearly don't even know why they 
 hate one another. Each character's adventure is bookended by an anime-style cinematic movies that 
 explain his or her motivations for attending the tournament. They're quite short and keep story 
 to an absolute minimum, but they get the message across and do a reasonable-enough job of filling 
 in the gaps. Given the amount of additional content shoehorned into this game, we were slightly 
 disappointed to find that no bonus levels have been included, especially since we had high hopes 
 of reliving our car and barrel smashing from Street Fighter II.  

  Regardless of whether you're down with busting out a tatsumaki senpukyaku at will or think it's 
 some kind of egg-noodle dish, there's a difficulty mode here for you. Eight levels ranging from 
 very easy to hardest are available, so you're sure to find one appropriate for your skill level. 
 That said, even at the gentler difficulties, Street Fighter IV is no cakewalk because your opponents 
 will occasionally mix things up with surprise super and ultra combos. First-timers will have no 
 trouble picking up, playing, and learning as they go. Playing on the medium or above difficulty 
 will also enable score tracking, letting you submit and compare to other players on the game's 
 online leaderboards.     

   

  Street Fighter IV's training mode will challenge even experienced brawlers to improve. Given that 
 SFIV straddles the line between classic SFII and SFIII gameplay, there's bound to be some confusion 
 about which of your old mainstay combos work and the timing that you'll need to pull them off. 
 The training mode is an excellent resource and is one of the biggest jewels in the SFIV crown. 
 Once you've chosen your character and your sparring partner, you'll be able to pose them in either 
 a standing, crouching, or jumping position, toggle CPU control (and adjust its intensity) , or give 
 player two control of the action. There's even the ability to switch to your opponent's character, 
 record up to 10 seconds of custom moves, and loop their replay. It's a great way to practice your 
 evasion, attack timing, and counters without requiring another player or needing to search for 
 online games. As you'd expect, there are plenty of switches to fiddle with here, including changing 
 your target's block mode, stun frequency, ultra and super power-bar start, and regeneration levels. 
 Live attack data can be enabled to show how much damage your moves are dealing, whereas input display 
 can show you which way you're pushing the sticks and mashing the buttons.  

  A built-in move list is available through the menu and details all of your characters' skills, 
 saving you the hassle of fumbling around for the manual when you can't remember if it's a double-quarter-forward 
 fireball with a kick or a punch, or finding out which moves have EX variants or armour-breaking 
 properties. Though training modes aren't new, the amount of control here will have a genuine impact 
 on your game, and can be used to pinpoint, and subsequently correct, your play shortcomings.  

 
           Super and ultra combo finishing moves really rub it in your opponent's face with drawn-out, 
 flashy animations.      

  Training mode aside, one of the single best features of Street Fighter IV is the Challenge mode, 
 which is made up of several sub-modes. Old faithfuls such as Time Attack and Survival mode make 
 an appearance and see you completing fight after fight to best your rival before the timer runs 
 out or you empty your vitality bar. The new addition to Challenge mode is Trial mode, a multitiered 
 training tool that will teach you not only how to perform moves, but also how to string them together 
 to best deal damage. Although the Training mode gives you the full arsenal and space to try it 
 out, in Trial mode you'll need to perform a specific manoeuvre or combo to continue. The five normal 
 difficulty levels cover basic character-specific moves such as dragon punches, charge moves, and 
 throws, but they get significantly tougher as you progress to cover specials, canceling attacks 
 with focus, and stringing multipart combinations together. If you can get through these and feel 
 up to the challenge, there are an extra five levels of bone-crushing general-purpose moves designed 
 to help you improve your competitive play.  

  Street Fighter IV supports both online and offline multiplayer modes. In offline you'll be able 
 to go head-to-head with a second player using your unlocked characters. Online you'll be given 
 the choice of either friendly Player matches or Ranked games. Winning a ranked match awards you 
 with battle points, which are used to both show off your prowess and help with the matchmaking 
 process, though you can search for games beyond your skill level. Stat tracking will let you see 
 your competitor's win-to-loss ratio for the session. And if you're after the true arcade experience, 
 you can toggle online competitive challenge mode on and off to work with single-player. Just as 
 you would expect in an arcade, if you're battling the CPU and someone issues a challenge, your 
 game will pause and you'll automatically accept the invitation. Once the game has finished and 
 you leave the multiplayer lobby, you'll restart your offline game from where you were. You can 
 set it to either player or ranked matches as per your preference. We'd recommend leaving it off 
 if you're keen to just play through arcade matches, given that we received back-to-back invites 
 while reviewing. We played online against opponents with both strong and weak connections, and 
 even at slightly less than full connection strength, you'll receive an offline-like, seamless fighting 
 experience. Poorer connections are more akin to a slide show, although we did manage to find games 
 with supposedly poor connections that played quite well. There's also no online tournament mode 
 to be found here, a surprising omission given its inclusion in the downloadable game Super Street 
 Fighter II Turbo HD Remix.  

  Though it was unavailable for us to test at time of review, Capcom has confirmed that at some time 
 postlaunch a free download dubbed the Championship Mode Expansion Pack will be released and will 
 let you record, upload, and download player match videos. The patch will also add three more point 
 systems -- Championship, Tournament, and Grade points -- and improve matchmaking for beginner and mid-level 
 players. We're hoping that the patch also addresses players who leave games early to avoid point 
 loss, considering that currently there's no penalty for bailing if it looks like you're going to 
 lose. Collectors also have plenty of work ahead of them, with coloured outfit variations, taunts, 
 medals, icons, and text tags being rewarded for completing online and offline challenges. These 
 can be assigned to your online profile and are unlocked by finishing games with certain percentages 
 of your vitality bar remaining, dishing out perfect victories, or successfully performing reversals. 

  Street Fighter IV's visual presentation is outstanding. The art style appears a lot more adult 
 this time around, swapping the bright Saturday-morning kids' cartoon looks of previous games for 
 large, menacing characters with bulging muscles and environments with more muted colour palettes. 
 The game's pseudo-cel-shaded character-art style uses thick black borders and splattered ink to 
 great effect, while fast, fluid animation sees your favourite fighters dance across the screen 
 with grace. Long hair flows and trails, facial expressions contort and grimace as you deal blows, 
 and eyes bulge as opponents see an ultra attack successfully executed. We observed a few minor 
 character-model clipping errors during play, such as legs passing through each other and the odd 
 missed sweep when we were sure that we should have landed a hit, but these are small quibbles because 
 they appeared few and far between. Battle environments are a mix of old and new, reinventing favourites 
 such as Guile's airbase tarmac (complete with destructible plane wings) , Blanka's jungle walkways, 
 and Chun-Li's marketplace alleyway. New environments include a secret science laboratory, a highway 
 underpass, a classic martial-arts dojo, and the rim of an active volcano.  

  Audio is a particular high point in SFIV, and though the J-pop soundtrack and cheesy intro theme 
 will be driven into your head within minutes, it's also worth mentioning the subtle environmental 
 effects that go otherwise unheard in the heat of battle. The cheers of crowds, the rattle of old 
 trains, and the barking of dogs in alleys all help create a genuine sense of immersion. Purists 
 are even given the option to choose between Japanese and English voice-overs during cutscenes and 
 as characters enter the ring.  

           Blotchy ink splashes and thick character outlines are used to give the game an incredibly 
 stylish look.      

  From our extensive play on both platforms, the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of the game 
 appear identical both in terms of visuals and performance. Even during the most frenetic battles, 
 the frame rate remained solid. Both versions of SFIV offer an optional hard-drive installation, 
 and though it lowered load times from about 30 seconds per game to the 10-second mark on the PlayStation 
 3, on the Xbox 360 it had no tangible effect, presumably because those loads are already around 
 10 seconds per match. Xbox 360 analog sticks seemed slightly easier to perform ultra moves with, 
 though the Microsoft controller's D pad left plenty to be desired. By contrast, the DualShock 3 
 analogs felt slightly sluggish, but the D pad made double fireballs and ultra combos easy. Your 
 best bet, of course, is to invest in a good arcade stick or one of the controllers designed specifically 
 for this game.  

  Street Fighter IV will welcome you with open arms, whether you're a lapsed fan concerned that you've 
 been out of the loop for too long or you're dipping your toes for the first time. Amazing presentation, 
 intricate and enjoyable fighting gameplay, and long-term appeal with online play make this a must-have. 
 Street Fighter IV is undoubtedly one of the finest examples of the fighting genre in this generation. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (153 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BelzebuVlad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Ok, before everyone starts flaming me and giving thumbs down on this review I beg you to read it 
 and only after that, if you don't agree thumb it down. So Street Fighter IV, I bought it, played 
 it and... while I understand why some may rate it 10, 9 or whatever, this is my opinion, and that 
 is: this is like any other 2d fighting game out there, and that is not acceptable in 2009, gaming 
 has evolved but Street Fighter hasn't, the graphics are the only thing that really stands out, 
 but the overall GAME itself, could be a lot better. I was addicted of the first couple Street Fighter 
 games and it's variants, Alpha, Ex and such, I spent many nights playing with my little cousins 
 and little brother knocking the hell out of each other, and it was damn fun, damn great, but that 
 was around 1998, 1997? or even farther than that. the Street fighter games had no rival with it's 
 frantic style and ranged attacks, but come on! Street Fighter plays like a refined version of any 
 other Street Fighter game since SFII, and for that we have the 15$ SSF2THDRemix, nowadays paying 
 so much for that the SF4 package is outrageous. On PS3 we've got Virtua Fighter 5, with only THREE 
 buttons and a lot of depth (one of the three buttons is a GUARD button, you have to press a button 
 made to GUARD, not only walk backwards and accidentally defend from an attack! I'm defending a 
 6 hit combo and when I realise it, I'm across the screen from walking backwards) , Soul Calibur 
 4, not as good as it should and as it was but it provides a lot of customization, adding immersion 
 to the game, and with so many game modes, many unlockable characters, plenty to do. MK vs DC, haven't 
 tried it yet so i can't review it, but as far as I know they aimed to return to it's roots and 
 as a franchise, you can't say they haven't made risks.... do you see where I'm trying to get here?
 
  So Street Fighter IV is very primitive for another sequel of a game with 20 years and dozens of 
 iterations, the game revolves around arcade mode, fighting the AI one character after another, 
 hadoukens and the same old combos, trying to defend while walking backwards... Graphics are fun 
 to look at, Ken and Ryu look like their arms and torso are made of balloons, but besides that all 
 you do in this game is arcade, versus local or online play, practice and... challenges! where you... fight! 
 There are a few unlockables, like: different colored sprites, two or three alternate costumes, different 
 catch phrases... nothing really substantial to keep you fighting the same AI opponents-Street Fighter 
 is a great series that doesn't seem to realise where it stands nowadays. Giving so much money for 
 it is an abuse, cause it stands as a good game on an arcade cabinet, not on a PS3 or Xbox 360.
 
  Street Fighter... R. I. P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shidira
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  Street Fighter has been around for over 20 years and still has one of the largest followings of 
 any fighting game. This game series revolutionized fighting games and set many standards that are 
 seen in fighting games even now. This new Street Fighter, while not setting any new standards, 
 is a great game with much in common with the previous ones, while adding new twists of it's own. 
 Like any game, it also has it's weak points. 
  The last boss of the arcade mode, Seth, is pretty unoriginal. He has many attacks from many of 
 the other fighters and can be a pretty hard character fight, even on easy, if you're not used to 
 combos and when to attack and when to stay back. When fighting arcade, even if you're good, sometimes 
 the computer AI can be extremely frustrating, as it's like stepping into a professional boxing 
 ring as a rookie, especially against the likes of Zangief and Seth. The combo controls for some 
 of the characters are pretty bad, as the 360 controller is very rough to use on a lot of these 
 combos, but are pulled off well if you buy the joystick, but who want's to sink even more money 
 into the game just to compete with the hardcore online? The single player time trials and survival 
 modes are fun, but they get harder as you advance, and given there are 20 stages per difficulty, 
 it gets not only tedious, but can be extremely frustrating to finish, especially since there are 
 titles, icons, and other things unlocked from finishing these. In single player, there is also 
 a Training Mode, which also gives titles, icons, and other things when you finish it, but even 
 as far as 4th stage, the attack setups they tell you to do are a lot of times unresponsive and 
 you can spend quite a bit of time trying to finish just one simple combo. When trying to find a 
 game online, which can take some time, you won't know if a game is full until you try to enter 
 it, wasting much time trying to find a game if you get three or four in a row that are full. There 
 are some other problems with the game, but honestly, don't let these detract you from this game. 
 There is still more good then bad to this game.
  The combat flows really smoothly. You can punch, kick, do a super, or even an ultra and can change 
 at any time, leaving a bit of unpredictability in the battle in online play. Once you get past 
 the "finding a game" issue, the game itself runs smooth online, even if there is a little lag. 
 The character selection is pretty large and the hidden characters really aren't hard at all to 
 unlock. For the most part, the characters are well balanced, though most people tend to play either 
 Ken, Ryu, or Akuma anyways. The fighting style of the characters is great. You can pick someone 
 like Dhalsim for his defensive abilities or you can pick Zangief for his insane power hitting and 
 so on. Each character is built for something in particular, so you can choose the type you fight 
 with against another type. The art is fantastic! The way they combined 2-D fighting with a 3-D 
 environment is excellent and the destructive environments is really fun as well. The music, while 
 probably not many's favorite type, seems to fit the game well and isn't too bad. The Super and 
 Ultra combos were well designed and require skill to pull off, not button mashing. The arcade mode 
 tried to produce a little bit of a story for each character, and while some of the stories are 
 a bit dumb, they did a pretty good job of trying to give each character a story that fits them. 
 Although some of the titles, icons, and such are, at times, almost impossible to achieve, there 
 are so many of them that they're fun to apply to your account and some of them are pretty funny, 
 once you start to get a good selection of them.
  Given the bad this game has, the fun and excitement this game offers far surpasses it. This game 
 is great for anyone who enjoys fighting games or anyone who's a hardcore Street Fighter fan. You 
 can spend hours a day playing the game, and even if you're just looking for achievements, this 
 game will keep you at it for quite a while. Overall, I'd say this is an excellent game and, though 
 it didn't add much new to the genre, most people will enjoy it, unless you're just an anti-Street 
 Fighter person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fezilla
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:27 am PT
Review:  So, as the deck mentioned, this game looks and plays great. Very fluid animation, great character 
 models, and great backgrounds all make for a very pretty experience. The controls are great too, 
 so this pretty game also plays wonderfully.
  
  Then why did I rate it less than GS? Because I'm a pansy and got my ass handed to me way too much 
 XD
  
  I'm not necessarily a fighting game guru or anything like that, but Super Street Fighter II Turbo 
 back in the day I beat with every single character in the higher difficulties. And with my better 
 characters (Cammy, Ryu, etc.) on the hardest difficulty available.
  
  SFIII I never really played extensively, although I did do a couple playthroughs. I played normal 
 with no significant trouble whatsoever, and I'm confident with some practice could have conquered 
 the harder settings as well.
  
  SFIV? I can barely drudge my way through normal difficulty. I mean, I appreciate everything this 
 game does right, which happens to be a lot. But I simply can't enjoy it because the game is so 
 punishingly hard.
  
  My suggestion? Rent it first. If you like the game and what it does well, which isn't that hard 
 to pull off, and you don't have the same trouble I had? Go for a buy, because it is a great game 
 if you don't mind getting beaten down every match. And if you're completely awesome and/or I just 
 suck? Go for it. It's a good game. But based on my experience, I'd advise a rent first, because 
 to find satisfaction from this game is like trying to get water from a stone for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaden_Arbiter
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 9:03 am PT
Review:  Here we are with the sequel to the original Street Fighter series that was one of the greatest 
 hits of its era, yet that... happened to be...22 years ago... and the game mechanics have hardly 
 evolved any more than a young newborn who learned how to take his first few steps or grabble aloud 
 to receive a plate full of food as he sits angry and hungry for more. Let's just speak with cliche': 
 'this game was great two decades ago and because I am able to play the same game today with a prettier 
 face it can only be equitable to the top pier of gaming quality in comparison to everything around 
 it.' I'm either being delusional with that comment or being biased without care to what makes a 
 game undoubtedly good by quality standards instead of personal preference.
  
  Now let us begin with my assessment of this game and prove to anyone who may listen that this is 
 a title that has been showered with hype for too many years past its prime, and people need to 
 become smart enough to grow out from a cocoon of personal preference and see that reason shouldn't 
 be denied, especially in the case of this series.
  
  --Mode Overview:
  In Street Fighter IV you have the option to choose from Story Mode, Versus, Challenge, Online, 
 and the old Training Mode. Story Mode is ultimately the most appealing and positive aspect of this 
 game, for each and every character has their own anime opening and closing cutscene that emphasizes 
 a personal storyline along with the dogma they represent as an individual. Story Mode is broken 
 into eight fights -- none of which have any pretext, they're essentially random -- the final fight 
 opening with a short real-time introduction of Seth, whom you are about to fight, who had been 
 constructed from the abilities of many original fighters from the SF series and only just introduced 
 into this title -- but what is this, a Cell wannabe from Dragon Ball Z? Capcom didn't exactly hit 
 their own originality mark here as you can see, especially since his personality seems blandly 
 starched with 'you are not meant to like me because I'm not a nice person' and his Silver Surfer-stylized 
 naked physique only makes you wonder why he doesn't choose to wear any clothing, why his face is 
 the same as Abel's, along with other common expressions of logical proof that remain completely 
 ignored by Capcom.
  
  Now aside from your cliche concept of what composes a bad guy, Story Mode's cutscenes are enjoyable 
 to watch time and again and, like I said, they set a positive standard for the mode in general. 
 In Challenge Mode you will be able to participate in a challenge of attacking time, survival, and 
 quota stylized trials individual of the previous two challenge preferences. In this mode whoever 
 you choose and complete a challenge with will receive a respective color bonus here and now, there 
 limit being 5 to 6 skins while the Xbox Live downloadable costume of that character will have them 
 by default. For starters, time attack is certainly a challenge but easily develops into something 
 as difficult as defeating over 20 opponents in the course of two minutes with 10 second margin 
 increases every perfect and 3 to 5 second increases per regular victory. Survival practically works 
 with the same standards, only that it is stretched over twenty survival segments, each segment 
 having a quota of at least 8 victories before being confirmed complete.
  
  And in Trial you take up challenges as variable as defeating an opponent who leaps in the air at 
 a consistent pace without attacking you and needs to be defeated before the clock meter reaches 
 zero. Each Challenge Mode preference has a "NORMAL" and "HARD" setting. NORMAL challenges that 
 are completed at full are worth 10G; HARD challenges are worth 20G, respectively. As you can see 
 Capcom didn't leave the player hardly any incentive to compete in Challenge Mode, as the gamerpoint 
 value of the rigor you have to tread with isn't substantially backed by anything other than a very 
 small gamerpoint bonus added to your status aside from a random title or two to use online. 
  
  In Versus Mode you are open to one-on-one fights: human vs human and human vs cpu -- nothing 
 special here.
  
  In Training Mode the character movelist interface is the general avenue of concern: each attack 
 is usually titled as strange Korean and Chinese nuance or phrase that is not easily pronounceable 
 and can only be considered out of proper placement and pretentious by theme. It is also quite difficult 
 to comprehend what command input is being told to you and punch/kick icons set a very ambiguous 
 example that probably should have just been left out completely. So yes, here there are many problems 
 to deal with even though everything is complacent.
  
  Now for the final mode, Online, you may either select from "Ranked Match" or "Player Match". Despite 
 being ranked there aren't any win or loss ratios accompanying the system, only a small title below 
 your gamertag along with an icon, both of which are of personal preference to the player. I don't 
 see why Capcom decided that that would be the more appropriate choice when it could only prove 
 rigorous for a player playing ranked to interpret whether his opponent is experienced or a beginner; 
 what essentially happens here is that the player must learn the pre-conditions for the titles that 
 they see and use that knowledge to figure out the level of the person they will contend against. 
 This is only a silly concept at best and Capcom should have known better than to make such a mistake.
 
  
  --Controls/Mechanics:
  Thankfully there isn't very much to explain in this section, for if you played any of the many 
 original Street Fighter video games you will be aware that this title isn't fundamentally different 
 by all essential means, it is only more 'pretty' to be precise. Now what constitutes the "prettiness" 
 I am speaking of you may wonder. Well, the new innovations in IV are what are known as focus attacks -- attacks 
 that give off a beautiful artistic black wavy brush effect as they are unleashed -- and a super special 
 move that incorporates a real-time cutscene and a traditionally larger set of damage to the opponent 
 as anyone may expect. 
  
  Aside from those two mechanical add-ons there is also a cheesy 'counter' system that can only be 
 initiated at the very second a hit would have landed on your character, the usual configuration 
 being to hit back x. However, the character simply shines golden and repeats an original animation 
 once the 'counter' succeeds, meaning that it was likely added on for necessity purposes, not as 
 a deliberate innovation to the mechanics to make the game more substance based. 
  
  So there we have it, it is the same old instantaneous fighter, meaning it doesn't have transitions, 
 combo stringing, character movement fluency, and holds a strong incentive to spam because there 
 is virtually no skill parameter at all to the game. Being a 2D fighter side-stepping is also non-existent 
 so it's only natural Capcom felt the need, at the very least, to throw in a counter mechanic; but 
 that alone, unfortunately, can't make up for the 22-year disparity that exists between the original 
 arcade version of Street Fighter and this title. 
  
  --Graphics/Music:
  After all of the monotony of Street Fighter IV we see environments that are relatively appealing 
 and, by majority, have an event or another taking place behind your character as you fight. The 
 characters themselves are also very well rendered with appropriate textures and appealing body 
 proportions from those such as Chun-Li and Cammy. The music, however, is lacking heavily with only 
 one or two lyric based songs and no melodies. The dialogue is pretty average but with three to 
 four separate victory stances and dialogue for each character it has been made into a fairly positive 
 element in the game. The sound effects, on the other-hand, repeat continuously and can grow mildly 
 upsetting at times.
  
  --Bottom line:
  I understand many of you out there enjoy playing as one of your favorite original characters whenever 
 you would be allowed the opportunity and there is a fair element of challenge to this title that 
 causes you to be invigorated for another round, but the bottom line is that Capcom has slapped 
 objectivity in the face far too long with the subjectivity of people, and this terrible representation 
 of innovation can't be any more testament to that claim. 
  
  My final rating is in comparison to any other 21st century title, so unfortunately Street Fighter 
 IV could only fall short at best in the face of fighters such as Dead or Alive 4 or Soul Calibur 
 IV that have taken the opportunity to evolve above a standard fanbase and into the real world of 
 competition. Inundations of more of the same simply aren't going to appeal to those who are objective, 
 and looking at Street Fighter IV is the same as trying to grasp meaning behind a painting that 
 simply has an appealing image to it and nothing else.
  
  My final rating: 4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazinVash
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  This game had the biggest hype I've seen in a long time, and when I finally got it I was thrilled. 
 but as time went by I started to realize it wasn't that great. The offline play is pretty kool 
 the arcade mode can range from stupid easy to break your disk and melt your controller so you don't 
 ever piss yourself off again hard. The Challenges were like they said a Challenge, I understand 
 that they gave some crazy ridiculous things to do, but I blame the controller, and I'll get into 
 that later.
  
  The sound and Visuals of the game are Excellent It has epic music that fits whatever stage you're 
 in and the background reacts to how you beat up your opponent and the animation is pretty good 
 in my opinion. 
  
  All in all the offline I didn't have a problem with minus the controller bs factor, but when you 
 get to the online part, thats where you really notice all the bad stuff about the game. First off 
 you try to find a game, and it takes forever because it's either unplayable or the rooms are full, 
 but when you finally got there after 2-10 minutes (For me atleast) of waiting you get into a room 
 where you see a Sagat, Blanka or Bison, Ryu. I don't like to complain but the way they made the 
 game made these characters the most over powered simply because there's no more air block/ air 
 parry and they do their Anti-Air haha newb attacks. I understand you shouldn't jump in the air 
 and blah blah blah, but when you're getting spammed with fire balls and your controller doesn't 
 respond as quickly as you do it's pretty much annoying and makes you very inpatient after that, 
 and lets not forget the terrible 360 d-pad which does moves you don't want to do, I can't tell 
 you howmany times I put in a Hadouken command and got a Shoryuken come out, but when I played it 
 on a PS3 controller it happened rarely. I've never had this problem in any of the other SF games 
 until this one and it will cost me my 360 if I kept playing it. 
  
  Although you can buy a controller (if you have the same problem like me) I don't like that i have 
 to pay $40 for a controller that will probably only work for that one game, I don't know about 
 you guys but I have to spend money on more important things like college so I can work with Microsoft 
 and make a better responsive D-Pad than the one I'm playing right now.
  
  So as for the game entirely I say if you love Street Fighter and you can look over the controller 
 and cheap fighting issues, it's a must get, but if you want a game that doesn't take a lot of patience 
 just to have some type of fun.... wait till it's like 30 dollars or play it at a friends house 
 cause you'll regret paying full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sausageroll_78
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, When you look back at street fighter One and Two, Then you go the stupid 
 titled street fighter games, All amazing all have different quailtys I mean, I have played this 
 Twice none stop, (With a Tea break) . And i must say honestly Its not amazing once you've done LOADS 
 in the game, Its good if you are new and not amazing because you can enjoy the losing because when 
 you Win your like "Yes i can't believe i beat him" And your all happy you can win stuff on it. 
 Its like when you get Won 20matchs in a row achievement or something, And you get that your happy.
 
  Its a game were as you Know to much as it were, you'd be bored.
  But if you love that you know loads and are a geek onit and you don't get bored then fine with 
 me.
  Theres a little story to this game, not going into detail. But its abit of a let down this game, 
 I hate how if you go into 3-D graphics say were you can see half his body from the front and half 
 from the side at the same time, Your attacks look boring. I mean i like the 2-D idea makes the 
 game feel more interactive, My opinion don't Judge.
  I like the 1v1 Online its extremely fun.
  I havent got it on my game history don't ask why I 
 think i've hid it because my mates ask me i thought you had Street fighter and i don't know how 
 to show i do :)
  MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbailey184
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2009 8:49 am PT
Review:  I was very disappointed in this game, but not surprised. It seems like this franchise has always 
 suffered from cpu opponents that rely on cheap shot tactics to win fights. The result is a flawed 
 experience.
  
  It's too bad, because I love the characters and the new graphic look is great. Still, there are 
 enough fighting genre games that don't have this flawed combat mechanic that I can't really endorse 
 this title.
  
  If you're a strong fan of the series, than everything I'm saying won't really apply to you. You're 
 either fine with it, or have adapted to it. If you're relatively new, however, I strongly urge 
 you to look elsewhere, and save yourself a ton of frustration. If you're curiousity gets the better 
 of you, do yourself a favor and rent it. I'm really glad I did, and I'm sure my bloodpressure is 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anikoui
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  I was lucky enough to play Street Fighter 4 over a year before its release on the consoles. I am 
 a student as San Francisco State University, and our campus was one of the first locations in the 
 country to have a SF4 arcade system installed. I could've bought three copies of the game with 
 the amount of money I spent on that arcade game. I don't regret dropping a single quarter into 
 that machine.
  
  Street Fighter 4 is the fighting game I've been waiting for. I've always been partial to 2-D fighters, 
 and while I enjoy playing 3-D fighters like SoulCalibur, Tekken, and Virtua Fighter, they are nowhere 
 near as entertaining to me as most of the games in the Street Fighter franchise. I loved Marvel 
 vs. Capcom 2, Streetfighter vs. SNK 2, and Street Fighter 2 & 3. Street Fighter for tops them all 
 by a large margin.
  
  I have encountered hundreds of different styles of player on XBOX Live. I've been whooped on by 
 the likes of a cheesy teleporting Dhalsim, a cracked-out El Fuerte, and seemingly unstoppable Sagats 
 that tiger-fire and tiger-knee their ways to perfects. It is imperative that you learn how to use 
 more than one character, as matchups are key to success.
  
  Timing is the key to success. It takes days, if not weeks, to perfect combos, as you must learn 
 the timing for each attack. Aside from Akuma, Ken, and Ryu, every character has a very unique fighting 
 style that will provide you with endless replay value and depth. 
  
  Single player can get boring, so I highly recommend signing up for XBOX Live or connecting your 
 PS3 to the internet so that you can play against other people. Online play can lag a bit at times, 
 but has never been a big problem for me (I use my laptop as a wireless adapter to my XBOX360) . 
 
  
  Overall, Street Fighter 4 is worthy of the highest possible score. 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3dfxMan
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Plain out dont waste your mony here and go buy Soul Caliber. this game can and will be a pain in 
 the butt for anyone that isnt a SF junkie and knows how to button mash with skill... the computer 
 is just sooo much of a pain that it will take forever to get to Seth if new to the game style even 
 on very easy.... the computer will block instantly and graple you down to a sliver of life before 
 you know it and before u even touch them. The new characters added are great, but the unlocking 
 of the old ones are a pain due to having to beat the game through with each character.... and Chung 
 Lee looks like she's on man hormones due to her hands and big fing legs (i dont care if she works 
 out, there bigger then Guiles)
  On the other hand this does bring back memories of the old days, and the graphics are amazing, 
 along with the cartoon cinamtics add the old school feel as well... all in all its a good game 
 for the hardcore, or the people that like getting pissed off and like buying new controlers..... other 
 then that wait and rent it or dont even bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DenPacWOLF
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 8:22 am PT
Review:  I do not play fighting games and have not owned a Street Fighter game since SF2 on the SNES. My 
 main reason for picking up SF4 was to relive the old days with some of my favorite characters. 
 
  
  Gameplay: Being an inexperienced 3D fighting gamer, I found this game difficult to play and took 
 around 8-10 hours to beat the story mode with Chun-Li on "Medium". Some of the controls for special 
 moves are very hard to pull off.
  
  Pros: The storyline for each characters are interesting. The game is fast paste and graphics are 
 amazing. The challenge modes are enough to keep replay ability going. As a non-fighting gamer I 
 found this game very addictive and yes, this game brought me back to the arcade/SNES days with 
 a 21st century upgrade. 
  
  Cons: Even on the easy settings some of the enemy AI and the main boss are extremely difficult 
 to beat. Thanks to Web 2.0 you can find various strategies to defeat any character. 
  
  This game is very fun and addictive and recommend buying this game at full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rvnfn520
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 6:37 am PT
Review:  When it comes to fighting games, there is really no middle ground; fighting games are either really 
 good, or just plain horrible. Street Fighter IV falls under the really good category. 
  
  This is actually the first Street Fighter game that I have purchased, and I must say that I am 
 thoroughly pleased. One thing that I noticed right away was the game's difficulty. Even on "Medium" 
 difficulty, the computer gave me some problems. Don't let that scare anyone away from getting this 
 game because I am rather new to the series and I am still learning some of the ropes. Either that, 
 or I just suck at this game. One thing that I think contributes to the difficulty is the game's 
 controls. Executing the combos on the 360 are a bit tricky, but that is something that can be fixed 
 with a little time in Training Mode. It can be a bit frustrating early on, but once you get those 
 combos down you'll really start to enjoy the game. The combos are flawless and fluid in their transitions; 
 which adds to the game's appeal. 
  
  Graphically, this game is beautiful. Even with the 3-D output, it still gives off that classic 
 arcade vibe. In my opinion, Dragonball Z: Burst Limit is the best fighting game graphically, but 
 Street Fighter IV is a close second. I think this game sticks out even more graphically if it is 
 played in HD. 
  
  Overall, this game is challenging, but in a good way. Sometimes it can be fun to beat up on the 
 computer on a easier difficulty, but the feeling you get after winning a close fight gives more 
 excitement and satisfaction. In my opinion, this game is great. For anyone who is unsure about 
 getting this game -- I would recommend renting it first to see if you like it... I just don't want 
 to be the reason that you feel like you've wasted $60 if you end up not liking it. For anyone who 
 is a fighting game enthusiast -- pick this game up; you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Wow this is probably the most frustrating game I have played since the NES days. In my opinion 
 this game feels dated when comparing it to games such as Soul Calibur IV. The lack of 3D movement 
 makes ever fight turn into who can spam the most moves in the quickest time. Instead of more of 
 a head game like in SCIV. This would be ok if everyone was fighting on an equal playing field. 
 I heard there is a joystick controller you can buy that works alot better than the 360 one. That 
 means you would have to spend even more money if you want to compete online. Also if you don't 
 buy a joystick then you will have to buy a new 360 controller about once a month because the moves 
 are so taxing on the analog that it will wear it out quickly. But more on online in a minute.
 
  
  The single player is very hard and cheap. Playing through the arcade mode on medium difficulty 
 which is 4 out 8 difficulty settings is very frustrating. I am pretty good at video games and it 
 can take up to an hour to go through the 8 stages. I also played the old SF games so I can only 
 imagine what it is like for newcomers to the series. I have a feeling there won't be many. The 
 story for each character is done in anime and doesn't really leave any lasting impression. The 
 other single player modes are time trials and survival. There are 20 stages on each of these modes 
 on normal difficulty. I have reached level 9 on both and have about gave up because I am afraid 
 I might break my 360 if I play much more. Oh yeah there is also a hard setting... uh no thanks. 
 The problem with all this extreme difficulty is that you must play it to unlock the characters, 
 icons, titles, etc. I have put over 20 hours into this game and still need like six to seven characters. 
 But the original characters are so much better and well crafted that most players won't use the 
 new characters anyway. Only 1 or 2 seem to be fun to use. Oh and I have beat it with 15 different 
 characters on the arcade mode. Zangief is the cheapest computer character to fight against. Don't 
 say I didn't warn you. Alas the music and the announcer are annoying as hell.
  
  Now for the online play. You can search for a match but when you find one and try to join it; the 
 session is almost always full. The reason I say almost is because players do join my game. I tried 
 to join numerous games (at least 20) and could not join any. More problems are that I am the host 
 and seem to lag where my opponent doesn't. I am not even sure how that is possible but when I kick, punch, block, 
 etc there is split second delay and that can mean all the world in a fighting game. My opponents 
 however don't seem to have that problem. Anyway I know it is there because I pull off moves way 
 more seemlessly offline. Granted I am below average at the game winning about 25 to 30 percent 
 of ranked matches but that is not the reason for the low score or the complaints. The problem is 
 that in a fighting game like soul calibur I fought plenty of different opponents. There were the 
 4 or 5 popular ones but many different fighters were used and won with. In SFIV almost every fighter 
 uses Sagat, Ryu, Ken, or Akuma. With the occasion Zangief or Guile. That is ok unless they are 
 overpowered and they must be because when players use different characters I have noticed that 
 my chances of winning are greatly increased. In other words players spam fire balls and uppercuts 
 until they beat you. Not much strategy and just pure skill. Which I guess is ok for the 20,000 
 or so that are good at the game. The game is just not beginner friendly at all. All fights virtually 
 look the same and so is the case when I do happen to run into an inferior opponent. The only way 
 to have fun fights is to pit certain characters against each other. 
  
  There are some good points and some fun to be had with this game though. The graphics are amazing 
 and give you an almost saturday morning cartoon feel. There are plenty of characters (25) to choose 
 from. The new super combo and ultra combos look really good and add a little spice to the gameplay. 
 There are a good number of unlockables and a competent stats pages that keeps track of your number 
 of fights online, medals earned, etc. Also a fight against a friend can be fun as much for nostalgia 
 sake as anything else. The game is fun for a weekend rental with a buddy.
  
  Overall if you are a SF nut then you probably think my review is crap but I am writing this for 
 players new to the series. Save your money and rent this game if you are a big fighting fan. I 
 wish I would have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  At one point of your life I bet someone has told you that fighting is not the solution to any problem. 
 Well think again. In Street Fighter IV people all around the world participate in a no holds bar 
 fighting tournament to separate the maggots from the butterflies, the shorts from the pants, and 
 the wieners from the hotdogs. Some fight to become a better person (I don't know how that works 
 out) , while others just fight to search for the ultimate culinary recipes, but in the end fighting 
 is the answer to everythingaccording to Street Fighter IV. :)
  
  If you haven't guessed it by now, Street Fighter IV is a fighting game down to the core. The objective: 
 Beat down your opponent before he or she does the same to you, simple concept but incredibly difficult 
 to master. just like chess. In Street Fighter IV you are given three types of attacks: a weak attack 
 (fast) , a medium attack (moderately fast) , and a strong attack (slow) . You also have the ability 
 to perform ultra combos by stringing together a button sequence within the allotted time. With 
 that said, one could easily button mash his or her way through a fight, even a baby could it, but 
 at the expense of his or her own life of course. 
  
  In Street Fighter IV every action counts; one false move and you can say goodbye to your health 
 bar. Whether you like it or not, Street Fighter IV requires you to be quick on your feet- as well 
 as your hands. Every action can be nullified with a quick and decisive counterattack, and every 
 weakness can be exploited if you can chain the right moves together. To truly master the game you 
 have to know your opponent well. You have to dress like them, eat like them, brag like them, taste 
 like them, and smell like them. Not really, I'm just pulling your leg; however, you need to remember 
 not to underestimate your opponent. 
  
  Street Fighter IV retains the same look and feel of the previous Street Fighter titles. The character 
 models are now rendered in 3D with an updated look to them, and the level environments are essentially 
 the same but are enhanced with bright and vibrant textures to create a stunning amount of detail. 
 It's the same Street Fighter experience with a fresh coat of paint on- which isn't necessarily 
 a bad thing. 
  
  Overall: Street Fighter IV is one of the best fighting games to date. It may look like the same 
 game to you with updated graphics, but with minor tweaks in the game play, character models, and 
 levels the whole Street Fighter experience feels re-vamped and new. Now get out there and serve 
 some Hadokens!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnson1542
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 12:12 am PT
Review:  Street fighter 4 is the next step into next gen. fighting games. They raised and set the bar for 
 Tekken and King of Fighters. The visuals is bueatiful. While playing this game you will be blown 
 away by the characters and how they look. The gameplay in this game is very solid. If you have 
 played any of the street fighters, it seems very familiar. But they also incorporate some new features 
 in the game. Now their is a revenge gauge. This lets you unleash a deadly attack on your opponent 
 if you execute it correctly. But the drawback is it only fills up if you get attacked. What else 
 is brand new to the series is the focus attack. If you learn how to use this tactic correctly you 
 can absorb a hit from your opponent and immediatly counter or dash out of. Their is a variety of 
 characters to choose from even though online everybody chooses ryu or ken. Overal this game is 
 a must rent or buy. It is truly a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esimmond
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  There comes a time when the giants of the past take on the more skilled new generation. Street 
 fighter brings 2D fighting back to the forefront when games such as Tekken and Mortal Kombat have 
 made 3d almost standard. The 2D graphics are clean and give a sort of anime feeling, while the 
 Ultra Combo Cut Scenes make it clear that it's graphics are no where near lacking. With the ultra 
 combo and super combo adding new ways to take down half of your opponents light, it still maintains 
 its classic fighting idenity. There is no doubt that if you were a champion when it comes to using 
 Ken and Ryu's powers, that your skills will seamlessly transition onto this platform. But if you 
 have never ventured into the tournament of fighters, the learning curve is not as steep as you 
 thought it would be. Needless to say, most of street fighters skills comes in your ability to keep 
 up with the fast pace action. Training and challange levels that allow you to properly learn your 
 fighters moves and combos. While it takes practice to keep up with the speed of the game in order 
 to truely master your character. Obviously each character has their own strenghts and weakness, 
 but as long as you can take that strength to unbeatable levels, the tournament poses no threat. 
 However online play is a different story. You can buy custimizable custumes and show off your icons 
 as you gain a reputation from fight players all over the world. Overall Street Fighter IV has more 
 than lived up to its name, it has engulfed a new generation of fighters while making the wisdom 
 of the old generation establish their place in the tournament of fighters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainHarley
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 1:14 am PT
Review:  There's no need for a rundown of game mechanics, the gist of Street Fighter, or the like, you can 
 find that anywhere in some other reviews. I will cut to the chase here; this game is awesome.
 
  
  What game are you playing right now? 
  
  "Well, I-" 
  
  Who cares? It sucks compared to Street Fighter IV.
  
  I am a big 2D fighting guy, so maybe 
 that has something to do with it. But frankly, people who don't play fighting games can enjoy this 
 one plenty -- and it may be the game to draw them deep into its intricate innards where they can 
 feast on the savoury buffet fighting game fans have been enjoying for some time now. Sure that 
 kind of makes this game sound like engaging in cannibalism but it is actually way cooler than that, 
 and also more complex in terms of execution (the legal and moral aftermath of cannibalism is likely 
 far more complicated than that of a game of SF4) . In fact, having played this game for in surplus 
 of 100 hours, I cannot lie in saying I am playing the game to anywhere near full potential. The 
 Focus Attack ability presents opportunities that I have not mastered yet and essentially presents 
 an entirely new game beneath the surface of such a simple mechanic. I would dare to say I put more 
 strategy into the average 60-90 second bout of SF4 than I do into the average 20-40 minute RTS 
 game online.
  
  The roster is impressive on the consoles, and unlocking the characters is a bit of a drudge, but 
 whatever. I like fussing around with the whole mess fo them. For having 24 fighters, the game maintains 
 an impressive balance in spite of the torrent of tears some players uncontrollably unleash at the 
 mention of Sagat. Additionally, of the 24 fighters, the majority of them really do feel different 
 once you have a mastery of the basic strategy behind each one.
  
  Online play excels, as much as I have seen a fighting game manage. I am rarely disconnected from 
 during a match, lag is scarce, and opponents are plentiful. I am quite happy with how things have 
 gone over XBox Live all in all, a much better experience than Soul Calibur or Dragon Ball Burst 
 Limit either offered. Though some gnash their teeth at the lack of variety in online opponents 
 (hence Ken Fighter IV) , there is an easy remedy to this; play a different character, and observe 
 as your unfamiliar attacks dominate the low level players accustomed to countering exclusively 
 sweeps, fireballs and dragon punches.
  
  All in all, this is my most played game of the generation. I rarely become addicted to video games 
 in the most intense way, but SF4 has done it. My left thumb has developed an oddly placed callous 
 from constantly charging the joystick on my 360 controller (which may or may not be broken by my 
 aggressive and inept handling) . I am thinking about this game when I'm not playing it. When I play 
 other games, I am often thinking about SF4. In fact, I kind of have a hard time even playing other 
 games anymore. Weird, I know, but it's just that good. 
  
  So, for the average dude, this game is just awesome. Buy it, love it. End of story.
  
  For 
 fighting game people, how does it stack up? Well, compared to the offerings of this generation, 
 it is by far the best game released in the genre, and Virtua Fighter 5 aside (which is a very different 
 beast) , I would say it is the only fighting game worth considering for serious competitive play. 
 Street Fighter 2 HD Remix is a fantastic game as well but I prefer this; the visuals, superior 
 online play, and expanded roster combine with easier input windows to make this game more accessible. 
 In comparison to other Street Fighter games, I find this is more fun than SF3 Third Strike, and 
 I have been able to play more technically than I could ever accomplish in 3S as well. In terms 
 of sheer fun factor, however, Marvel vs Capcom 2 continues to reign supreme as both an excellent 
 duel of wits and reflexes in 'serious' play, and a great theatre of the absurd party game for the 
 casual arena. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xequtra
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:46 pm PT
Review:  ---Visuals ---
  
  The whole game has gone have been blended with a spark of both 2D and 3D for the ease of creation 
 unlike what was done in the past to eliminate doing to much work. Yay! Joke in the laziness club, 
 though, it has always been fun playing a strictly 2D game... though, the crispy duck of 2D can 
 be flash implemented... O well, at least it looks pretty... though the Pile Driver are 100% funny 
 to witness in the due to the number of honker grabbing seen if you have really sharp eyes and see 
 the hand placements, surprising the female fighters don't slap them across the face...
  No lawsuits yet? *confused*
  I'm royally disappointed that there are no old Street Fighter II 
 stages, it would of pushed the scores up a bit...
  
  
  
  ----Audio ----
  
  I'm sorry, but the English voices in the game, along with some of the Japanese ones are just wrong 
 and don't fit the part in this game...
  There's just no old music from Street Fighter IV remixed in this game... but there is just one... 
 but I was a bit disappointed... okay to a point... but meh... it isn't me who's going to suffer 
 here...
  
  
  
  ---Gameplay ---
  
  All the original Street Fighter II characters are back except for Dee-Jay and T-Hawk, though, they 
 would of been over kill in this game, so fair call on the dev crew, along with the supers and all...
 
  This game has gone back to its grass roots along with a few extras within the game allowing for 
 better balance in the game, though, chances are... the Revenge Attacks may prove to be quite overpowered 
 in the dying stages within the game and may not allow new players to actually be given a chance... 
 though they may be button mashing in the first place...
  New Characters to give a new sense of newness about the game along with the biggest Street Fighter 
 series news to come out of it and that being the reveal of Gouken, so top efforts there along with 
 the balance in practically all the characters... well... maybe not all... But it is close to and 
 the boss here is actually overkill along with all the previous games and other fighting games. 
 Though, I did find the boss far too hard to actually use... But it is finally balanced! (To a point)
 
  
  
  
  ---Longevity ---
  
  Without friends coming along for the ride and play with... don't expect it to last too long as 
 a solid title... 
  
  
  
  ---Stab Time ---
  
  Woo!
  
  Sakura is actually back! Along with Dan... (He is harder to use than the norm)
  Story is actually 
 not that bad at all
  The Nacho Libre fighter (El Fuete) = the best new character conceived!
  Graphics not that bad 
 at all
  Some of the stages are quite decent...
  
  
  Boo!
  
  I can't even use the Xbox 360 controller that well in this game!
  Some moves just far too strong!
 
  Not good by yourself
  Unlocking stuff is just not that fun and considered to be very painful
  Party with the game as 
 just new can be disappointing
  Rufus is the worst conceivable idea ever!
  Rufus = big loss of marks as I really hate him
  Rufus is hella annoying as a character! Mika 
 would be 100% better  (
  Old stuff would of kept me happy...
  Voices + some of the music is just plainly bad choices
  Old stages from Street Fighter II would 
 be hella good! Eg... Vega's (or Balrog for Japan)
  
  
  Finishing Note: If you are looking for a Tekken Replacement, maybe this isn't for you unless you 
 are a big fan of Capcom... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NEEBUCKLER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game has undeniably upheld the traditional platform of it's predecessor, Street Fighter, in 
 every way. Not too much or too little, this game has the perfect balance of what's needed to give 
 today's fighting games a new hope and satisfaction of what's later to come for the fighting genre. 
 From the simplicity of the character attacks, aside the not-so-user friendly d-pad, to the, oh-so-sweet, 
 arcade player request option that actually gives you the feel of being in an actual arcade room 
 by allowing random players to challenge you in a ranked or player match while you're playing in 
 arcade mode; this game has definitely bumped its kind a step up on the quality ladder. With plenty 
 of old and new characters to choose from and master, there's not much room for bordeom left with 
 SFIV. Not to mention the achievements line up is very realistic in terms of attainability. There's 
 plenty of options that allow you to experiment with each character's moves and performance in the 
 title menu and also some pretty interesting stories and artwork for all of the characters included 
 in SFIV. Plus, last but not least, in your ranked matches you're actually given the option to kind 
 of personalize yourself as a player outside of your gamer tag w/ titles or mottos that might best 
 describe you or yourself as a fighter w/ customized icons too, that you might choose to accompany 
 that title with. 
  
  Now for the negatives, which there aren't that many. I mentioned the d-pad being not-so-user friendly 
 and it isn't. Unless you've sanded down the d-pad or your xbox360 controller or started the transition 
 process from the d-pad to the analog stick, there's not going to be much room left for consistency 
 when it comes to executing some of the harder attacks that you want to perform when you want to 
 perform them. Though they've developed and put out a couple new mad catz controllers specifically 
 for SFIV for better game play, most still want to be able to buy a quality game and play it the 
 way it's meant to be played with what you already have. And I was also kind of disappointed that 
 there was no spectating option. I thought that that was a given for all of todays fighting games 
 but apparently for SFIV it isn't. Maybe they'll put out an update for spectating... who knows. 
 But the pros far outweigh the cons and this games is a definite buy for any SF fan or anyone who 
 like fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark12000
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  SFIV is a great game, but I knew that bringing back all the old characters from SFII and only making 
 6 brand new characters would have a down side. After I beat the game with Ryu using all of my same 
 ol' techniques and combos, beating up all the same guys that I beat up in SFII, it really felt 
 like i've played this game before. 
  The gameplay is PERFECT and the graphics are AMAZING but there just isn't enough new about the 
 game to justify the $59.99 price tag ($69.99 here in Canada)
  I know that a lot of people were not super crazy about SFIII, but at least there were a whole bunch 
 of brand new characters to try out and use, and a new way of playing by having to choose which 
 super move you took into battle with you. There was just so much more to do. SFIV is like "a step 
 forward and two steps back".
  I didn't realize just how much "Street Fighter" that i've played over the years until I played 
 SFIV. After you get over the amazing graphics, it pretty much ends up being a game that you have 
 played many times before. 
  I was lucky that the game was sold out when I went to buy it, because I ended up getting everything 
 I wanted out of the game with just a rental. You could just rent it too and save a lot of money. 
 SFIV is definitely a must play, but not necessarily a must own.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAVEZero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Coming from the days when quarter-dropping was an insatiable addiction, and a misprinted win quote 
 that spoke of a certain "Sheng Long" is Street Fighter IV, the latest in Capcom's long line of 
 Hadoken-infused fighters. Let's just get this out of the way: if you've played Street Fighter II 
 before, better Super Street Fighter II Turbo, you're right at home here. The speed, combos, and 
 controls will hearken back to days of Fighting's past.
  
  'Ink Bleed'
  
  Street Fighter IV is a visual stun-feast of the highest degree. Placing the game on a three-dimensional 
 look has offered up more ability for detail in each character, from the Shotokan's flame-like Hadoukens, 
 to an opponent's facial deformation after a hithell, the biggest use of jiggle physics are found 
 in the use of one character's overweight belly (not a girl) . Interactive stage effects are back 
 as well. Remember kicking Ken into that iron barrel, breaking it in half on his USA port stage? 
 Here, the stages are much more vibrant than before with toppling shelves, falling store signs, 
 and even a poor Chinese guy who can't hold on to his bike, all in effect with each fall.
  One of the best additions to the vibrant look is the ink-splatter art style. Focus attacks, some 
 character's Specials, and even some Ultra combos all carry this inky streak in black and white 
 variants. However, you'll see (and have seen) this style more in any video sequences that are available 
 for unlock as you play. It sucks, because a while back there was some commotion about how the Ink 
 would appear in the menus. But those with HD's will find disappointment hard to come by.
  
  
  'Hit Traders'
  
  You remember that jump HK, HP, Shoryuken combo you used to wipe clean 
 the smug faces of your friends in SSF2T? Well, it works here too. Let me say what we're thinking: 
 if you were good with Ryu, Ken, Blanka, Chun-Li, dadadayou get the rest. Yoshinori Ono, the game's 
 producer, has succeeded where a lot of designers and producers fail  actually fulfilling a promise. 
 His notion of 'old meets new' is heir apparent in the fight system. Along with classic combos, 
 the new Focus Attacks have opened up mile-long possibilities to coincide with EX attacks and all 
 new Ultra Combos.
  Focus Attacks are IV's replacement for the dropped Parry system found in SFIII. By holding down 
 the Medium attack buttons, your character dons an inky black aura around them. While in this stage, 
 the fighter can absorb an attack, and unleash a counterattack that stuns the opponent into a 'crumple' 
 fall, thus setting them up for whatever soul crushing combo you've had in wait. But hang on, dude! 
 Focus attacks can only absorb one hit. You Focus against an EX Hadouken, getting smacked with the 
 second hit will be imminent.
  EX attacks make a welcome comeback from SF3. Simply pressing the basic motion of a special attack, 
 but instead pressing two of the attack buttons enables this amped-up version of the original. For 
 example, hit two Punch buttons instead of one for an EX Sonic Boom for Guile. These have been great 
 combo enders for III and now IV. But for the aspiring pro, more advanced moves such as Focus Attack 
 Dash Cancels and EX Dash Cancels to add on to your combos. I won't describe them at length here, 
 but seeing these in action is a sight to behold.
  
  'New Challenger (s) ' 
  
  Question: What would a revival of a classic franchise be without some new characters? Answer: A 
 screw-over to its fanbase. Luckily, we get a total of six new characters into the Street Fighter 
 mythos:
  
   Crimson Viper  An Agent of the S. I. N. Corporation that is holding the tournament. Tasked with 
 testing the company's BattleSuit in the competition.
  
   Rufus  Master of the belly jiggle physics. American fighter that holds a one-sided grudge against 
 Ken.
  
   El Fuerte  An impossibly fast Mexican Luchadore wrestler looking to hone some very crappy cooking 
 skills (Best ending in the game, I swear) .
  
   Abel  Seems you can hardly have a SF game without a character that has a grudge against the 
 main boss. Abel is this season's Alex, but his backstory is quite interesting. A French Mixed Martial 
 Arts fighter.
  
   Gouken  Yes, fansGouken. Ryu and Ken's master makes his first playable debut in SF. But for 
 the love of God, don't play him as his students. In the interest of being spoil-free, just unlock 
 him and go.
  
   ??????  Wellc'mon. You can figure this one out.
  
  
  'Finish'
  
  I would love to give you a tour of the LIVE-enabled gameplay, but that will have to come at 
 a later time. But playing the game locally with a few friends is fun enough. You'll hear cries 
 of despair and reminiscence of past games alike, so grab some friends and a few beers and play.
 
  And while many gripe over the anime cutscenes, I thought they were okay. Campy and cheesy? Yes, 
 but who doesn't love at least some of that. Not to mention the animation is actually halfway decent.
 
  But in closing, Street Fighter IV has done what so many folks said that it would do: brings back 
 the old, preserves it, and introduces new. It's tailored enough so that casual players can jump 
 in and have fun at anytime, yet complicated enough for the pros to have some fulfilling tournaments. 
 Nothing has been lost in the transition, and while some may gripe over what was removed and what 
 could have been, even the detractors won't be able to stay away for too long. In short, for fans 
 of Street Fighter, fans of fighting, or fans of gaming in generalget this game. Trust me, disappointment 
 won't be an option here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bergerkings
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  good game. not perfect but good. although it can get frustraiting and confusing at times. to start 
 off i played the original street fighters a long time ago so i sorta understand the characters. 
 first the goods, great street fight combat and usual unique characters. the online mode is good 
 if it works the way u want and the icons and titles are a cool idea but it could be fustraiting 
 at times. for example when first search for games it takes like 2 min to find some matches. then 
 when u chose one ur basicly playing the lottery as to which one will work... if it doest and says 
 that that party is full or unable to play then u have to start all over again. also, when u create 
 ur own game its posible for a very good player to join and get a perfect twice and ur left wondering 
 if this is how it always will be. also u can only play as characters u unlocked in arcade. and 
 there is no penalty for quiting out... like either turning off ur xbox or going to dashboard. finally 
 the attempt at the story is.... confusing to say the least. each player has his own story line 
 and each one has so many holes and unanswered questions that u dont even know what just happened. 
 anyway the overall game play of the game itself is fantastic where as the game in its entirety 
 has some rough spots (very course sandpaper rough) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hall0606
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  The Street Fighter franchise has been around for 20 plus years and Capcom have recently released 
 the latest game in the franchise Street Fighter IV. Whether you're a veteran street fighter player 
 or new to the scene Street Fighter IV caters for everyone. The Street Fighter IV is simple to get 
 use to and at the same time has many layers of complexity for the more hardcore Street Fighter 
 fans.
  
  Compared to the past Street fighter games one of the first things you'll notice about Street Fighter 
 IV especially veteran players is the games new graphical visual style inspired by Japanese sumi-e 
 paintings. The characters and environments are rendered as 3D models and have a cel-shaded/hand 
 drawn look to them with added splatter ink and ink smudges for added visual effect during fights. 
 The street fighter characters have never looked so good especially the facial expressions when 
 damage is dealt and received. 
  
  Veteran Street fighters shouldn't be worried even though the character models are in 3D this is 
 not the Street Fighter EX series all over again as the game stays true to its roots as the game 
 plays out on a 2D plain field like its past iterations. In fact Street Fighter IV plays more like 
 Super Street Fighter II Turbo while still borrowing elements from other past Street Fighter games. 
 The flow of the fights are quick, slick with good animation for each of the characters, in fact 
 a lot of the combos and tricks that worked in Super Street Fighter II turbo will work here too. 
 Street Fighter IV retains the traditional six button control scheme with new features and special 
 moves integrated into the input system, mixing classic game play with additional innovations. Pressing 
 both light attack buttons will perform a throw, both heavy attacks will perform a taunt or personal 
 action and pressing both medium attacks will perform a focus attack. 
  
  Speaking of focus attacks it is one of the new mechanics introduced in Street Fighter IV. Simply 
 put a focus attack will allow a player to absorb one attack and also counter attack with an unblockable 
 attack if fully charged. Yes I said fully charged as the focus attack has different levels of charge 
 with varying effects. As mentioned before Street Fighter has a lot of layers of complexity for 
 the more hardcore players, the focus attack system is just one of them. You see anyone can pull 
 off a focus attack from the get go however it takes real skill to actually master this mechanic. 
 Focus attacks combined with dashing can be used to move through single hit projectile moves such 
 as guile's sonic boom or Ken's hadoken. Focus attacks can also be used to cancel attacks such as 
 Ken's fierce dragon punch. Opponents can stop a focus attack by using any two hit move or two quick 
 normal attacks. 
  
  Along with focus attacks the player also has access to special EX moves. The EX bar located at 
 the bottom of the screen is a bar that is split up into four quarters. A player can fill their 
 EX bar by performing and landing attacks the more you attack the more the bar will fill up. When 
 one of the small bars fills up the player has the choice of unleashing an EX move or they can save 
 it for later. EX moves are basically powered up versions or a characters normal special move that 
 do twice the damage such as guile's flash kick or his sonic boom. 
  
  If a player chooses not to use their EX moves then eventually the EX bar will fill up to its max 
 and gives the player access to his Super combo attack. A super combo can usually be performed by 
 modifying a characters specific special move such as kens super move which is a modification of 
 his hadoken. To execute the player would have to perform a double fireball (hadoken) motion and 
 the press of a single punch button. 
  
  Along with the EX/Super meter the player also has access to an Ultra combo. An Ultra combo is a 
 much more devastating combo attack compared to the Super combo. Compared to the other mechanics 
 in the game Ultra combos are long and very cinematic in fact this is the only time in the game 
 where the camera will break away from its normal position to focus on the player performing the 
 Ultra combo move. To the side of the EX/Super meter there is another bar called the Ultra combo 
 gauge. Filling up the Ultra combo gauge is the opposite of how you would fill up the Super combo 
 in the fact that now the player has to take damage in order to fill their Ultra combo gauge. Pulling 
 off the Ultra is the same as pulling of a Super with one major difference in the fact that the 
 player now has to press all three punch or kick buttons to pull of the Ultra combo move. 
  
  Ok so what about the characters and modes of play? Well Street Fighter IV doesn't disappoint 
 here either. The game brings back in all original 12 playable characters from Street Fighter 2 
 Championship Edition along with 6 new characters to the street fighter series Rufus, El Fuerte, 
 Crimson Viper, Abel, Gouken and Seth who is the new boss character for this outing of Street Fighter. 
 Along with this another 7 characters taken from both the alpha series and also Super Street Fighter 
 2 The New Challengers/Turbo bringing the total to 25 characters available to play in the game. 
 
  
  Street Fighter IV also boasts a number of gameplay modes which include, versus, challenge, training, 
 online and also the traditional arcade mode. The traditional arcade mode allows a player to pick 
 from any of the 25 playable characters some of which have to be unlocked. During arcade mode you 
 fight one random opponent after another before reaching what is entitled a "Rival Battle". Each 
 of the 25 characters has a rival such as Ken whose rival is Rufus as he wants to lay claim that 
 he is the greatest fighter in the U. S. A. Each of these rival battles has a nice little in game 
 intro before the fight begins. After the rival battle you will fight the main boss of Street Fighter 
 4 Seth who is a very tough opponent to try and defeat. At the beginning and end of arcade mode 
 you are treated to a short anime intro and ending sequence, which is my first major problem with 
 Street Fighter 4. The anime intros and endings are very bland, do nothing to advance the story 
 or even tell you anything about the character you just picked. As an anime fan I would say the 
 intros and endings are poor in quality and lack detail. 
  
  Versus mode allows 2 players to battle it out against each other or a single player against the 
 CPU with any of the available 25 playable characters. Challenge mode offers a range of challenges 
 to try out your skills these include Survival, Time attack and also trial mode which teaches you 
 simple and advanced combos that you can pull off for each character. Take note that pulling off 
 the more advanced combos takes practice and not to mention that you will probably never be able 
 to pull these off against another player. There is also a Training mode which allows plenty of 
 sparring.
  
  Street Fighter 4 also brings its own online mode which is pretty fantastic and hardly suffers from 
 any lag. There are two options for online ranked and player matches each allowing only a 1 on 1 
 lobby system, which may disappoint some people after playing Street Fighter HD Remix with its six 
 person lobby system. 
  
  There are a number of nice slick tunes to complement Street Fighter 4 although I didn't find all 
 of them as memorable compared to Super Street Fighter II Turbo HD Remix. Also the boy band intro 
 music for Street Fighter 4 I find quite catchy and rather enjoyed. 
  
  All in all Street Fighter 4 is a throwback to Super Street Fighter II Turbo with plenty of new 
 mechanics added to freshen things up rounded out nicely with plenty of quality gameplay modes new 
 and old. The game is simple to pick up and play but has many layers of depth and complexity so 
 mastering it will be a challenge. 
  
  http://gamebloglive. blogspot. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rktPYZQShWz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 2:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Street Fighter IV and the menu screen came up the first thing I noticed 
 was how annoying and poppy the title song was. Unlike the badass song I had heard on the commercial 
 for Street Fighter IV. I then started Arcade mode where this message popped up that I failed to 
 read because I just wanted to start playing. After randomizing and getting Blanka I started the 
 first fight. About half way through it just froze and someone just joined the game ruining the 
 progress I had in that fight. After restarting three to four times I realized that message was 
 the problem. After going into options and changing it I then could have some fun with the game 
 without being disturbed. Why they would make the "storyline" part of game to have it so random 
 people can join and screw over your game is beyond me. I could see Xbox Live Match... why not just 
 click that if you want some Player vs Player action?
  
  I then picked Dhalism and this time finished his "storyline" in Arcade. I realized right off the 
 bat the storyline was bogus. I kept hearing about a tournament but not once did it make any sense 
 traveling around in random parts of the world fighting random people for a tournament which would 
 "restore a river's water." I hated the combo list because instead of making things just a little 
 easier they do red dots and kick/fists and lines. Immediatly I was overwhelmed and button mashed 
 my way to victory. I finally found out how to do some "special attacks" on my second playthrough 
 which I found really hard to do because of the 360's joystick. 
  
  Another thing I found really frustrating was the difficulty. Call me a "noob" or "loser" but I 
 have never played Street Fighter so I chose Easiest... one of the nine difficulties. I was still 
 comboed and beaten to a pulp at few points. Seriously this pissed me off I could see this being 
 acceptable for a few difficulties up but for Easiest wow. 
  
  In the end all I have to say is Street Fighter is not the game for me. Its too slow... too complicated.... and 
 not beginner friendly. Everyone needs to start somewhere and I picked Street Fighter IV and it 
 gave me to no mercy and no break. I do love fighting games but to me this is punch to balls for 
 the fighting game brand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javier
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 7, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  Some people may faint if someone dared to say that The Godfather movie sucked, even people who 
 havent watched the movie may faint because it is considered one of tthe best movies ever made and 
 being that, most people turn a blind eye to any of its existing faults and rather live in denial 
 and blind fandom.
  
  Street Fighter is considered to be the pinnacle of fighting games; a madness that started in the 
 early 90s and that I was part of. 
  There were too many variations of Street fighter 2: Super Street fighter 2, SF2 Turbo, Hyper Fighting, 
 Turbo HD, etc. etc.
  
  Now we have Street Fighter 4; or what we could better name Super Street Fighter 2.5.
  
  There 
 was a substantial jump from SF2 to SF3, but besides the 3D animations, the jump from 3 to 4 its 
 very poor. You get the same roster of Super SF2 minus Dee Jay and T. Hawk, maybe guilty of being 
 politically incorrect, plus 4 new characters and some others recycled form the SF Alpha series, 
 so there arent that many new faces.
  
  The presentation is very uneven. Remember when the game was first announced? The beautiful watercolor 
 animation? This gorgeous animation is the intro of the game, and when you choose "arcade" from 
 the main manu and select your character, you are presented with another animation...
  I read that a very prestigious studio supposedly made the animations, but I think they changed 
 them at the last minute with something that Capcoms President son made. 
  
  The animation supposedly tells the story of the character before rumbling with the rest of the 
 cast, but the story doesnt make any sense even if you see it through the eyes of different characters. 
 
  
  The King from Katamari Damacy makes more sense than some of the idiotic storylines of some members. 
 In Abels "cinema" he meets Chun Li and the interaction seems like a bad porno stereotype with 
 VERY bad acting.
  The movements are choppy and the characters are drawn lazily (just look at M. Bisons cap and try 
 to find its perspective, who drew it? Dali?) .
  And look at the gallery section of the menu, there is an awful drawing of Ryu right at the start, 
 he looks like an ugly relative of an uruk khai.
  There is an announcer that only says inane, stupid and obvious things, like the guy who is giving 
 an opinion and nobody is really hearing it but he keeps talking even when nobody cares if he is 
 there.
  The stages offer some kind of interaction like when you are standing near some rack full of barrels 
 and get hit, the barrels would tumble down but there are not that great nor memorable, just serviceable; 
 it would be better to have the watercolor effect of the intro as a background during all the fights.
 
  
  The actual in-game movement, what is really important, is great; animations are fluid and very 
 expressive and the dragon punchs and hurricane kicks have never looked better since the almost 
 20 years they have been around.
  
  Its worth noting that the special attacks are simply mapped so its very easy to learn the attacks 
 of each fighter contrary to other games that you need to input absurd combinations just to make 
 a silly kick.
  Unfortunately using the gamepad for this game sucks big so for every 10 tries of an special attack 
 you will only pull it 6 times; this gives you a sense of insecurity since you are not certain if 
 you will perform that counterattack move in time or link a combo instead of making a backward jump.
 
  You can buy the arcade stick if you got the money so the final price for being able to play this 
 game "correctly" would be the same price of a Wii (game+stick) .
  
  
  The difficulty is variable, the final boss is the king of cheapness; he is not challenging, he 
 is cheap and you have to resort to cheap ways to beat him leaving you with the feeling that the 
 path you went through honing your skills was worthless since in the final fight you have to resort 
 to being cheap. Occasionally some fights vs. the CPU can be difficult and sometimes frustratingly 
 uneven depending the character you picked. 
  You can have fun by yourself but I found it even more frustrating than Ninja Gaiden II sometimes, 
 there were time when I saw my punch going through the other guy and not registering the hit
  This game is better played with friends since you will all be in the same conditions of awkward 
 controllers and the CPU cheapness far away.
  
  I think the leap from SF2 to SF3 was better than the one from SF3 to SF4, I find it just as a recycled 
 SF2 that doesnt bring something new to the table that isnt done already on the Alpha or EX series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadKarma5g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth every penny and should be played online . Tons of unlockable colors , titles 
 and icons, the combos are just as fun, easy and challenging as in super street fighter 2 turbo. 
 The super combos and revenge moves are awesome eye candy . My only gripe is having to pay microsoft 
 points for alternate costumes : ( , and the alternates are cool too. The boss character is kind 
 of dull but Bisons on the roster. if you like quick fighting action against online opponents and 
 your friends this game doesn't dissappoint. so why am i still typing now , well gamespot says i 
 need to have a 100 word minimum so this better submit this time....... eyyyyy ok now gonna try and 
 submit again ........ oh by the way any1 who picks akuma when i pick Dan is it really necessary 
 , i mean comon when i kick your ass you have to pull his revenge move .... lol ..... best thing 
 pummeling the toughest characters with the weakest ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan747
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  street fighter 4 is a pretty good game in my opinion i think after you beat the game with all the 
 characters and unlocking them all but of you get xbox live with it it gets a little bit interesting 
 when your fighting a person you may not know its a very good game to play if your a beginner or 
 an advanced player of the old street fighters but the part i hate the most is Seth!! he pisses 
 me off sometimes but what can i do about it its just a game when you unlock him he has the worst 
 stamania and the worst defense in the game so how do most of us get our ass's handed to one of 
 the worst players in defense and stamania i still love the game no matter what people say about 
 it cause i saw a guy who rated a one he's just mad because he not that good at it if you love sf 
 4, halo1, 2, and 3, assassin's creed, gears of war 1 and 2 i want to be all of you friends okay 
 peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encablossa
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 19, 2009 3:44 am PT
Review:  I forgave challenge mode for being impossibly ridiculous, I forgave being not able to pull off 
 ridiculous combos online, I forgave the 360 controls being absolute bull. One thing I couldn't 
 deal with is people online exploiting the weaknesses the game has. I see the same easy characters 
 over and over, the same spam and easy tactics over and over.
  
  This game has poor controls, these controls are made for arcade systems not the 360. You'll always 
 find it hard performing moves consistently. When you take it online you might as well forget about 
 performing the impossible combos. I've bought into the hype and I was disappointed.
  
  Any Character other than Saget, Ryu, Ken, Akuma is useless. Because you can just spam fireballs, 
 shoruken and win the game. No effort needed.
  
  Unless you are willing to shell out $100 on an arcade controller, this game is outdated and poor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter IV is a 2D fighter game. The game continues the series with classic characters and 
 some new ones. The story of the game is okay. The cutscenes in arcade mode don't tell you much. 
 I recommend to watch the movie, Ties that Binds, first. Tie that Binds is a prequel to this game. 
 The main villain is Seth, a guy who wants to rule the world. I didn't think the story was great, 
 it's understandable but boring. One cool thing is that some character's endings follow right after 
 other character's endings. The graphics of this game are great. The in-game graphics are 3D. The 
 special videos has wonderful water-color graphics. I also liked the anime cutscenes but I wished 
 there are more. The graphics are 3D but the gameplay is 2D. I personally like 2D fighting more. 
 The gameplay is the same as the old Street Fighter games but with more features. The new features 
 include Ultra Combos and Focus Attacks. There's also a new mode called Challenge Mode which will 
 test you skill. I enjoyed this game very much but I get tired of fighter computers. I prefer to 
 fight other players but I don't have Xbox live so I have to fight people who are in the same room 
 as me. 
  
  Story- 8
  Graphics- 9
  Gameplay- 9
  Enjoyment- 10
  
  Final Score- 9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlaklyon
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:33 pm PT
Review:  Just Like waiting in line at the amusement park to get on that one kick ass ride, The wait was 
 long but, oh so worth it once it was your turn to ride! Only played it for a short while but I 
 enjoyed this game a lot! my favorite character is still Cammy and Chun Li but, the new characters 
 are a site to behold as well. you start off with 16 but that number increase as you play the game 
 with various characters. and you WILL play this game again, and again. Not just for the unlockable 
 characters, movies and, etc. its because the game is that much fun to play. the real bread winner 
 of the game is the 1 on 1 fighting. and Xbox live delivers that. However, sometimes the server 
 lag and stutters will slow you down and mess up your timing at some points. What I loved about 
 the game is that it was still old school 2D fighting with a fresh new 3D coat of paint. Also on 
 the plus side, the game fixed and tweaked all of the problems that plagued the other SF games in 
 the past like, the CPU using charge moves with out having to charge, WTF hit detection issues, 
 rubber-band AI, its all gone! its like SF3 third strike was the girl next door that went on a long 
 summer vacation and came back, blossomed into a beautiful woman! it might be a old dog but, it 
 has a new trick. the focus system. this will allow you to lay down some nasty one hit attacks. 
 combine that with the old yet new fighting system you have come to love over the years, and you 
 got a game worth paying for! the one thing I didn't like was the lack luster anime prologues and 
 epilogues for each character. they just seemed out of place to me. what the hell happened with 
 that anyway? did Capcom run out of money producing the game? Well, that was easy to over look and 
 it wasn't bad but, it would of been much better if they had of used the actual game models and 
 art style to stage the cut scenes than to go the anime route. stuff like that make anime overrated. 
 will mostly you aren't playing SF4 for the story you are playing for the game. Not to fear, it 
 delivers that in spades! I implore you to buy this game and play it until you pass out of exhaustion. 
 thats will be the only way you can survive playing against other people on XBL anyway! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simplyafreak
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 17, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I didn't spend enough time on the game or maybe its just not my type of game. But I'm sorry 
 I found this game to be really hard even on easy. After playing this game on Medium With Ken I 
 made it half way through and fought Crimson Viper, lets just say things didn't end well, she was 
 a professional at making me look bad. So after an hour of losing to her I played it on easy. I 
 made it all the way to Seth. Kicked his butt the first round but then wow on the second round he 
 owned me. I thought the Viper chick was hard this guy threw me around like a rag doll. After threw 
 my controller in rage. I Decided to played as Vega on Easiest and beat it no problem. I wouldn't 
 say I regret renting it but I'm happy I didn't buy it. If I offend any one with this review tough 
 luck. And yes there is a possibility I just suck at the game. As for the Graphics its a beautiful 
 game I mean how could you not love seeing Zangief all 3-D like. The Animations in this game are 
 sick. although I got tossed around I also enjoyed watching it at first. That guy Seth's ultimate 
 attack where he sucks you into him was pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 10:15 am PT
Review:  Street Fighter IV came out on arcade last summer in Japan & here as well. It was released four 
 weeks ago from today & hyped to high heaven for a very good reason. But some Street Fighter fans 
 (myself) were very worried how it'd turned out. I've been an Street Fighter fan since early 1990's 
 & always been an fun game to play. Does this game revive fighting genre or it's just another fighting 
 game that'll be collecting dust after few months of playing it? Here's my pros & cons of "Street 
 Fighter IV" for Xbox 360.
  
  Pros
  
  Great gameplay (Focus Attack & Revenge Gauge)
  Four New Characters (sort of)
  Anime Cut-scenes 
  Great Sounds, but...
  
  Neutral
  
 
  Great Online Multiplayer, but I haven't play it
  Doing an ultra moves on certain characters can be difficult at times
  
  Cons
  
  Seth is 
 the CHEAPEST boss character in a long time
  Directional pad stinks
  Capcom caved into Street Fighter fanboys by putting Dan & Sakura instead of different fighters
 
  C. Viper is useless against Seth & Rufus isn't all that great.
  Blanka's voice is jacked up!
  
  Despite those flaws that I listed, it's still an great game 
 to play. But I'd rent it before forking over 60 dollars plus tax. Better yet, borrow it from an 
 family member or friend to try it out. In my opinion, Street Fighter IV does more than revive it's 
 fighing genre from the grave, it'll be around for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyowns
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 7:28 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played another street fighter for a good amount of time, but i still love this game. 
 Its a solid all around game and fun to play with friends. I mean REALLY fun to play with friends. 
 The online doesn't lag too much and i love the balance of the characters. However i am not a die 
 hard street fighter fan, but this game was great. 
  
  Gameplay:10 Very fun to play
  
  Controls:9 Work fine, i surggest an arcade stick
  
  Replay value:10 Great for playing with 
 friends. Never gets old
  
  Freshnes: Brings back a classic fighting style
  
  Story:5 Doesn't really matter, not meant for a great strory
  
  Graphics:10 Looks awesome and 
 flows nice
  
  
  Camra:10 Its hard to mess this up on a fighting game
  
  Online:8 Is pretty solid, but finding a game and havibng it only last for a minute can be fruasterating
 
  
  Single player:7 Good chllenges to keep you going. However the last boss in arcade mode is annoying
 
  
  Final thoughts: A very solid game for any one (street fighter fan or none) . A game every one should 
 give a try and a cgame that lived up to the hype. I have no complaints on it that are big.
  
  
  Give it a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 7:32 am PT
Review:  HADOKEN!! WOOOOoooooo!!
  
  Ahem. Sorry about that. But that's what this game does to you. It sends you back years to when 
 you were a little kid, first discovering Street Fighter 2. Be it by arcades or the SNES & Mega 
 Drive versions. All those great , happy emotions come back with a giddy excitement. You shove the 
 disc in the tray with a huge smile on your face, in second you're on the character select screen, 
 greeted by loads of familiar faces. Inevitably you pick Ken or Ryu. Its just the way it is. Your 
 first match, in shock from the absolutely gorgeous graphics you wonder how they've managed to make 
 your favourite characters look so amazing in 3D. A feat not imaginable until now. You immediately 
 remember the classic moves & a few Hadokens & Shoryukens later & your convinced this is the best 
 game ever! Street Fighters back & its as though its never been away.
  
  Now if you're new to the series this may be lost on you. & for that you have my pity. Its something 
 everyone should be able to experience. Don't for a second think this wont be great for you too 
 though. Its brilliant for so much more than the happy memories & emotions it makes us oldies feel. 
 
  
  For a start the graphics are outstanding & will impress even the biggest graphic whores that we 
 have today. Fantastic animation, the effects, camera angles & design are all top notch. All the 
 characters are bulky & carry real presence, bobbing about naturally all running at a flawless & 
 silky smooth frame rate. Vibrant, bold colours that make a great change to the drab colourless 
 worlds of most games fit in naturally to the somewhat dark story. Seeing the combo finishes in 
 effect is a thing of undeniable beauty as the screen explodes in an orgy of colours & completely 
 OTT moves. 
  
  The gameplay is as tight as a nut. Every character is really well balanced, each carrying their 
 own strengths & weaknesses. All have the potential to be deadly in the correct hands. To keep things 
 accessible, characters mostly share the same input commands, depending on their fighting style. 
 This means you wont be fighting your memory trying to remember their moves but focusing entirely 
 on the fight & every character is usable after just a few goes as you get used to the styles. There 
 are a couple that require more thought, but nobodies forcing you to use them. With this, you'll 
 be able to hold your own against a veteran after only a few hours. Don't expect to win though as 
 there's depth to the combat that can only be discovered from prolonged play, which I'll get to 
 in a moment. But you will at least be able to put up a fight.
  
  As for SF veterans, you'll be pulling off familiar & favourite moves instantly. A few intricacies 
 have been altered as new frames have been added along with different timing for getting out of 
 attacks & into new ones. Along with a handful of new characters for you to try your hands at. Each 
 are quite useable & will take a considerable amount of time to master, just like the classics. 
 
  
  Now for those worried about depth & fans of SF3 that are worried about it going back to its SF2 
 roots with the possibility of dumbing it down, just as I was, don't need to worry at all. Just 
 like the parry in SF3 dramatically changed the fights in SF3, the new focus attacks in SFIV do 
 the same. Holding the 2 medium attacks will charge a focus attack, these act as a guard breaker 
 if held long enough as well as a way of taking single attacks without damage. If hit once while 
 charging you'll be able to immediately attack, stunning your opponent for a second. But if you 
 let your opponent get more than one hit in, it will break your focus & land you in a whole world 
 of pain. But what depth it really adds is in its integration into combos. Activating a focus makes 
 it impossible to move for a moment after the hit connects. This can stopped with a double tap of 
 a direction making you dash. Known as a focus cancel, this can give you a window of opportunity 
 to pummel your opponent as they are still dazed from the focus attack. You can use it to cancel 
 specials too. For example if you do Kens heavy Shoryuken you can do a quick focus cancel on the 
 3rd hit, then quickly do another. Creating a 6 hit Shoryuken. Not as easy to pull off as it sounds 
 as they require perfect timing only hours practice will perfect. & if you want to discover all 
 of its intricacies with all your characters moves it will take months, possibly years. & someone 
 who puts the time in to discover these will be near enough unbeatable. 
  
  This is all before I even mention the EX moves & how Ultra Combos can turn the tide of a battle. 
 Trust me when I say, there is more than enough depth here for the veteran fighters, just buy it 
 to find out. The whole going back to Street Fighter 2 roots is more of a marketing ploy to pull 
 back the old players with their favourite characters from back in the day. Something SF3 suffered 
 from as people didn't take to the new ones too well & were lost without many of their favourite 
 characters not appearing. 
  
  For people not so naturally gifted at the game to figure these out themselves there is a trial 
 mode that has a select number of these combos for each & every character with all inputs needed 
 to pull them off. So even newcomers can do it if they are willing to put in the time. Timing for 
 moves & cancels however will have to be worked out for yourself. As unfortunately, it wont demo 
 the move for you. This can be quite a difficult barrier to overcome on some of the harder challenges. 
 
  
  But for the most part it strikes an perfect balance. Newcomers can be competent enough at the game 
 to beat it after a few hours & never need the intricacies offered to enjoy it on a casual level. 
 While the hardcore fighters have more than enough content here to keep them going for as long as 
 they want. Even the moves seem a bit easier to pull off. Zangiefs piledriver being one. Even with 
 the poor 360 d-pad I never had any problems. I don't know if it compensates for the crap d-pad 
 by making them easier but I always managed to pull off every move I tried with a very high success 
 rate. For once your not fighting against the pad trying to pull off attacks. This makes a much 
 more enjoyable & skilful fighting game. 
  
  The game has plenty of other challenges to keep fighters coming back for more too. There's the 
 before mentioned trials for each character, which alone will take weeks upon weeks to fully complete. 
 Then there's Survival & time trail modes that manage to keep things interesting with different 
 levels of challenge & numbers to beat. All unlock artwork, Titles & icons that are tied to your 
 profile. & there's absolutely loads of these to get. Along with the normal Story mode where each 
 characters stories are told & extra characters can be unlocked. 
  
  This is where my only gripe lays. The incredibly cheap computer. On harder difficulties it is completely 
 unfair & hugely frustrating. All charge characters can pull of moves too fast to be possible by 
 any player & the last boss is incredibly cheap with overpowered moves & tactics that im sure would 
 be impossible for any human player. 
  
  But sticking to AI fighting is besides the point anyway & if you stay on easier difficulties these 
 problems don't tend to present themselves. But the real point of a game like this is in person 
 vs. person fights. 
  
  Now I don't normally bother talking about online side of games as its not something im interested 
 in. But for this game its just so right. It comes into its own against other humans. These really 
 get the blood pumping & adrenaline flowing. So much you'll end up messing up simple moves in a 
 panic. The sweat, determination, anger & unblinking focus in a particularly good fight are all 
 very real. Its feelings no other game can match. The competitive nature like this, only you against 
 one other human everything determined by skill. Getting a pummelling to only come back, get a few 
 hits in & strike the ultimate combo at precisely the right time, making the screen explode, picturing 
 your opponent crying into his pad & you jump up, punching the air & screaming in victory is a completely 
 unique feeling to this game. Others create a similar sensation, but none to this level. If the 
 player is in the same room, its even better. But you cant argue with the convenience of it finally 
 being online & as long as you pick your fights with strong connections  completely lag free. Even 
 in low connection fights I never experienced any real lag that lasted more than a second. The only 
 thing its missing is a lobby system where you can get an army of fighters & play winner stays on 
 for days on end.
  
  The only real flaw with the game is me. I just haven't got the time to discover its true depth 
 for myself & fighters as a whole are a weird genre to me now. There was a day I would study every 
 frames of animations, perfecting my game. I guess ive just grown out of that, but its something 
 im not willing to do anymore. That is the only thing, actually that, the cheap computer & I miss 
 some of the SF3 characters, are the only things stopping this getting a 10/10 score from me. If, 
 however you are still into the whole perfecting yourself on a game like this, feel free to give 
 it that extra point. You really cant do any better. Amazing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IgotNoGoodName
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:50 pm PT
Review:  I've had street fighter for awhile and i love it to death i can still put it down and play other 
 games but once you've learned what there is you cant seem to forget it thats good. simple move 
 set and new systems make for complicated at first glance but simple in your hands gameplay. Im 
 a big Guile fan so i dont care too much if the major rift raft has a story that doesnt relate to 
 my number ones (i also enjoy playing as Balrog) . But it seems capcom is sucking this genre down 
 to nothing! this is where the review goes sour.
  
  The story. plain and simple is one of the biggest problems the game has made for itself, everyone 
 opening for the characters animated story (which was awesome at first glance!) is longer than the 
 head scratcher endings. if your getting this for the story let me tell you look up the movie on 
 youtube or something so you can get enough backstory to leave you slightly less confused. None 
 of the stories explain anything! they kind of do but kind of don't! not to mention capcom is afraid 
 to loose the majority of their fans by changing the story and letting ryu off his mountainess pedistool 
 that is by the looks of it wearing on him too. Guile is still in search of Charlie. Ken is still 
 Ryu's rival with no real fight to settle the score. Everyone still wants to hurt Ryu to feel good 
 about themselfs. And as far as story goes this doesnt end in the game prepare to buy comics for 
 the explination. I love street fighter but pushing Ryu out of the way for a plot isnt going to 
 kill the gamers make him the same but not the main storyline!.
  
  Overall for gameplay i love this game alot of the fights are just amazing and the hydouken and 
 shoryuken have never looked so good (but please that doesn't mean we wanna see it every 3 seconds 
 have some class) and i enjoy that Guile is a harder character to learn because that just means 
 stay off my turf haha. but if you havent gotten this game yet and you want to try it out i got 
 nothing to say to you other than get it. it's still worth a looksy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoBlueDragonEX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:34 am PT
Review:  The popular fighting series is back! Street Fighter IV has been selling like crazy since its release, 
 but I finally managed to get my own copy. After a few weeks of Street Fighter action, I'm finally 
 ready to write my review.
  
  Street Fighter IV is famous partially due to its beautiful Okami-like graphics. I'll have to agree 
 with this. From the opening movie to the Focus attacks to the Ultra combos, the waterbrush effects 
 definitely make the game look better. The gameplay largely remains unchanged from previous installments. 
 You choose a character and beat your opponent into submission using melee attacks and special DBZ-like 
 special moves. The only new changes to the combat are the Focus attacks and Ultra combos. The Ultra 
 finishes are similiar to Smash attacks in Brawl: They are finishing moves that usually send your 
 opponent into Oblivion (Not the game) . 
  
  The roster in Street Fighter IV has over 20 playable fighting machines. These characters range 
 from the all-purpose Japanese wanderer Ryu, to the big, Ken-obsessed man known as Rufus. Each character 
 has their own backstory in the Arcade mode, and they also have their own special moves and attributes. 
 My best character currently is the Yoga master Dhalsim. He can stretch his arms and breathe fire! 
 As in every fighting game ever known, you'll have to unlock new fighters by playing through the 
 many game modes. I never knew you could play as a Bruce Lee impersonator, but what do I know? 
 
  
  Street Fighter IV also has its fair share of problems. The arcade mode, which is basically a Story 
 mode, features unique Anime sequences for each character. This may sound really cool, but the sequences 
 say NOTHING about the character! It only shows that there's a huge tournament going on, and the 
 character has to go kick some ass. The Anime sequences aren't the real problem here, though. The 
 real thorn in the butt is that the final boss, Seth, is the cheapest character in Street Fighter 
 history. Even if you're playing on the Easiest difficulty, he still has these unlimited unblockable 
 super moves that he pulls out whenever you actually score a punch. Also, he looks like Dr. Manhattan 
 from Watchmen (Not a problem, just an observation) .
  
  I expected Street Fighter IV to be this huge revolutionary game that's gonna change 2009 gaming 
 forever, but I was wrong. It's still a very good fighting game, but the hype makes it sound much 
 better than it really is. If you're a fan of the series, a fan of fighting games, or if you just 
 like seeing guys beat the crap out of each other in gorgeous waterbrush effects, this is definitely 
 your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masian123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:20 am PT
Review:  I rented street fighter 4 one day cause I wanted to see I would like it. It turned out I was hooked 
 on it like a bum on crack. It was very fun playin online and very fun multiplayer. The arcade though 
 was the thing about actually liking this game like I grew up watchin my uncles playing street fighter 
 but I was that good so I never developed as a good street fighter character. So I go and try out 
 arcade n I play on easy so I get to the 3rd match n Im confident that I would beat arcade and I 
 had ta face um I think abel or whatever and he just does this grab move over n over n im sitting 
 on my couch like what the hell this game is really pissin me off right now so I try n try n i cant 
 beat ( maybe cause i suck at SF4) but I cant beat him so im pissed off in my seat wantin to through 
 my xbox controller at my dads 46'' LCD tv but then I just turned off the game thats y I think SF4 
 deserves a 9 cause of how challenging the game can be for begginers at SF. but I like the characters, 
 graphics, gameplay, in this game thats I give this game a 8.5!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerobeam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:44 am PT
Review:  I don't expect to garner alot of support for this, but here goes... Let me begin by saying that 
 I've been playing Street Fighter (SF) since '92 and have played every SF to release since then 
 (including the EX's and Alphas) . I'm not a fan... and that's still the case after having played 
 this one. First off, the gripes. SFIV has remained largely unchanged from other SF's with only 
 one or two differences; chief among these are Focus attacks and uhhh.... there's also pathetic, 
 non-sensical, 30 second long cut scenes that, I guess, serve as some type of ridiculous story for 
 each character. It's hard to pick which is the most asinine with candidates like becoming the world's 
 greatest chef by entering a fighting tournament, and a love story between a monster with the mind 
 of a six year old and his "mama." Focus attacks are attacks that, when you hold down the buttons 
 long enough, allow you to break your opponents guard... or you can cancel your Focus attack to, 
 uhhh, trick your opponent into thinking you were gonna do it, yup this game is full of that kind 
 of depth. Matches really come down to no more than who can get their special attacks off better 
 or who's better at throwing low kicks; but that's only when you're fighting against a human-controlled 
 opponent. When fighting against computer-controlled opponents, each character will continuously 
 spam their three different special moves, I wouldn't even really call it A. I., but that's really 
 no different than any other SF. Another low point of the game is the final boss, a robot... or cyborg... android? 
 I dunno, but Seth isn't as much of a challenge as he is a blantantly overpowered character. I won't 
 go into detail about just how cheap he is, as you can read about it on any forum. Supposedly this 
 game has significantly balanced all of the characters, though I'm not so sure; you can't tell by 
 fighting the CPU and 95% of the people you play online use Ken (that is, when you can actually 
 start a match) . When I think fighting game, crazy me, I kind of expect there to be a substantial 
 amount of fighting, not Hadoken and Shoryuken contests. I mean, is it really fighting when you 
 can beat your opponent from across the screen. I'm not going to get any further into my anti-Street 
 Fighter rant, so I'll get to scoring. As far as SFIV goes, IMO its the best SF to date. Graphics 
 are nice, the mix of 3D graphics with the 2D play style works well. The character models look good 
 and the facial expressions they give when they take damage are pretty hysterical. Soundwise, the 
 tracks are forgettable except for that "indestructible" song, cause when I think Street Fighter, 
 I think pop music. On the plus side, the game has an option that allows you to choose between english 
 and japanese voiceovers for each individual character. Having English-speaking Ken battling Japanese-speaking 
 Ryu just feels right. Controls for the game aren't really a strong point. All the classic half, 
 quarter, and full circles, as well as all the other irritating directional movements are there; 
 but this can be a problem on the 360 controller. As far as gameplay goes, the game offers standard 
 arcade and VS modes. There's a Training mode so you can try out all the special moves and combos 
 that you won't use during actual gameplay. SFIV also features a challenge mode that lets you collect 
 medals and other rewards like different colors for clothing and different taunts for characters. 
 Overall, the game was more irritating than it was fun for me. As a SF game its a ten but as a fighting 
 game I'd give it a 5.5 or a six; eight is the happy medium and that's where the score comes from. 
 If you've always enjoyed SF then this one won't stop you from doing so, but if you don't care for 
 SF, this one won't change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHadoken
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by listing the pros and cons of this game.
  
  Pros:
  -Old School action that hasn't been seen in awhile.
  -Easy to pick up and play.
  -Old school 
 gamers will appreciate it.
  -Easy ultra and super combo button selection.
  -Seeing the old school characters.
  
  Cons:
  -Controller doesn't respond all the time
  
 -Costumes are very clich.
  -No characters from alpha.
  -Seth is a waste of space...
  
  Essentially, Street Fighter 4 is a game that should be in your collection. It is very fun, easy 
 to jump into, and has some replay value. The story mode is put together well with all the characters 
 having their own individual cut-scenes. I didn't like some of the selections for a character rivalry... 
 Why wouldn't Ken's rival be Ryu? I can understand Ryu's being Sagat, but Ken and Ryu should be 
 rivals in Ken's story. Also, why does everyone online use Ken? I understand that they gave him 
 easy combinations, but cmon... Step out of your boundaries and try some new characters. Seth is 
 an over-powered, move stealing, son of a b***h, but once you beat him once, you will see his flaws. 
 Online is ok at best. There should have been a lobby where people can watch fights and after, challenge 
 the individual who won. Kind of like the DOA 4 online. I get tired of seeing the screen "sorry 
 couldn't join the game." But enough about Street Fighter's flaws, it is a very well put together 
 game. Any old school fan of Street Fighter who doesn't already have this, should go out a. s. a. p. 
 and buy it. You will be seeing me online for awhile. You will probably recognize me as the only 
 person who plays as E. Honda :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassy94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:40 am PT
Review:  Okay, I am not a huge street fighter fan, last time I played was around 7 years ago with some kind 
 of street fighter 2 remake, infact, that was the last time I played any fighting game. That was 
 when I was 7-8 years old, so I wasn't doing much more than button mashing.
  
  I didn't buy any extra equipment for this game, no fighting stick etc. I use the analogue stick, 
 and it is very accurate. I can pull off almost all the moves (albeit not always on first go, only 
 had the game 2 days, gimme a break) . Medium is very manageable after practice, try training mode, 
 it's really useful.
  
  I love the challenge of unlocking everything for your full street fighter experience. There is 
 also a tournament mode DLC coming out (for free, may I add) that will add a new mode of playing 
 to make the gameplay even more exciting.
  
  Speaking of gameplay, it is very smooth and varied between characters, I've played like 5-6 hours 
 now and I haven't even touched arcade mode just because playing any kind of match is fun.
  
  The graphics are done in an artistic style and are, to be frank, FANTASTIC. I love seeing Ryu's 
 Hadoken clash with Ken's in an awesome display of an explosion. The 3D artistic style somehow fits 
 the 2D gameplay perfectly, but be careful, you may get lost looking at the art and forget about 
 the game itself. I saw my older brother do a little arcade and the anime cutscenes look great and 
 go well with Street Fighter IV in my opinion.
  
  This is an amazing game, a must buy. You will not go wrong whether your casual or hardcore, fighting 
 fan or not. This is a game that takes minutes to learn, and a lifetime to master. Hell, my 8 year 
 old brother managed a Hadoken within 6 seconds of holding the controller (and it wasn't an accident, 
 I told him how to do it and he did it) .
  
  So, go do yourself and Capcom a favour and buy this game. 
  
  
  
  Presentation 9.5
  Graphics 
 10
  Sound 9
  Gameplay 10
  Lasting Appeal 10
  Overall 9.6
  
  Remember, don't listen to the people who say it's too hard, this review was copied from my IGN 
 one a few days ago, since then I have done arcade mode on a few characters on medium difficulty. 
 I have also played 4 online games and won 3 out of those 4 (BTW the online is great it has no lag, 
 soon to be tournament mode for download for free will make it even better!) . My 8 year old brother 
 has also completed 3-4 arcade modes on the difficulty "Easiest" and unlocked 2 characters.
  
  This just shows how this game is for everybody. I've said it before and I'll say it again; 
 go do yourself and Capcom a favour and buy this game. 
  
  EDIT: I now have over 50 hours playing time and I am not bored. I can do every move in the game 
 and can complete Arcade mode on the hardest difficulty. There's nothing to it but a bit of practice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 5:22 pm PT
Review:  One of my all time favorite games and definitely my favorite fighting game; Street Fighter has 
 been built on a solid foundation from the word go. The latest entry into the series is no less 
 than stellar. I heard about it over a year ago and was shocked, but yet excited. This is the game 
 I use to skip school to play. I ruled my local arcade and still have tricks up my sleeve not many 
 can compete with. Not to say I'm the best (cause I have taken many a beat down) but it's a game 
 when done well never gets old. With SF 4 you get a lot more challenge with new and old elements 
 without letting go of what was essentially a classic so many years ago.
  
  I initially wasn't going to get the game, but being that gaming was in a slow time of the year 
 I didn't see why I shouldn't get it. So I got it brought it home and fell in love all over again.
 
  
  Story -- As loose as ever and in some cases completely irrelevant to you having fun. Here goes though.... you 
 play as one of many different fighters who hear about a fighting tournament and have their own 
 reasons and personal gains by participating. Pretty much that's how most fighting games pan out 
 right? Well all the popular characters return: RYU, KEN, CHUN-LI, and GUILE to name a few. To be 
 honest though the story serves no purpose nor is it required to have fun. 
  
  Graphics -- This is a strong point of this game. SF 4 uses slashes, swirls, and aura effects to 
 the fullest. Each character is animated and drawn well and with style and presence. Muscles flair 
 and ripple, shirts sway and flutter, and effects are used to their full potential. The back grounds 
 are all vibrant and in some cases interactive. At its core though it's all fluff and could have 
 been achieved with lesser graphics. In this case the game just looks magnificent.
  
  Sound -- The sound is done superbly, and with two language options (once you beat the game) there 
 shouldn't be any complaints. To hear Ryu utter his famous SHO-RYU-KEN!! is to live the fight. With 
 all the other characters who speak things are also done nicely. The music is reminiscent of SF 
 2 days and pumps you up while fighting. The Announcer also does a great job even if he repeats 
 himself often. 
  
  Game play -- In a game like this game play is where you make your money. The controls have to be 
 on point. The mechanics have to click. You should feel every punch, kick, scratch, and bite. This 
 is exactly what happens, too. Even though the 360 controller is a chore to work with in many cases 
 the controls still manage to be tight. From time to time though it may be difficult to execute 
 moves like Ultra Combos. Ultra and Super combos are collected by taking damage and dishing damage 
 respectively. Watching this and executing them at just the right time are not only crucial, but 
 exciting to pull off. Most of the fighters are balanced, but if you ask me there are still stand 
 outs that are quite adept to any attack. Take GUILE for instance.... he covers ground attacks and 
 air attacks with an almost unfair advantage. If you are a master of the controls it can be extremely 
 hard to apply offensive tactics where he is concerned. When you talk about Street Fighter you are 
 usually talking excellent control schemes.
  
  Replay value -- There is plenty to be had here take online, hidden characters, symbols, titles, 
 and challenges.... the question beckons how can you miss? You take the game online and things get 
 that much more fun and extend the life of the game for a long time. You could easily spend 50 hours 
 with this fighter and still be entertained. 
  
  Sure I'm a Street Fighter fan, but when I say this is a great game it's not just fan boy talk. 
 This game should be bought, but most definitely warrants a rental. With online features, great 
 game play, and diverse characters you can't go wrong. With that being said BEWARE THE FEARSOME 
 DRAGON PUNCH this game packs PEACE!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKXIoriYagami
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:30 am PT
Review:  I dont think there is a single gamer who has never experianced the sf games. If you have not played 
 a street fighter game you cant be called a gamer because its so obviously the best fighter series 
 to date and the fourth installment is no doubt the best. I cant imagine how many more hours i will 
 put into this game because it is just so much fun that i seee myself playing it even when street 
 fighter 5 comes out. The new characters like Crimson viper are great editions to the sf4 roster 
 and they fight great. One thing i noticed and loved is the non laggy online play. I honestly have 
 never played a fighter that is this lag free making it already one of the best multiplayer games 
 of this year. I was anticapating this game for the longest time and i cant believe its finally 
 here and for me its quite possibly an early game of the year. Even going back and playing the classic 
 street fighters does not beat this its just an instant piece of hardcore perfection that nobody 
 should miss out on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheLegndofzelDA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 11:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a review with newbs of the series. Back in the day I dabbled around with Street Fighter 
 and enjoyed it, but never got in depth with the game. For many gamers who are new to the series, 
 this is the case.
  
  First off, if your looking to buy this game to play mainly online AND are new to the series, stop 
 reading this now. I rented this game, to the advice of the other reviewers, and discovered this 
 game has amazing graphics, fun gameplay, and lots and lots of content. The replay value is infinite, 
 seeing as there is always room to improve, however i must emphasize my point. This game is hard 
 played offline, even harder online. If you are not up to get your ass kicked alot, dont bother. 
 Otherwise its very enjoyable if you take the time to practice the moves. I would rent it first, 
 see if you like, go from there. Nice work capcom. This game makes me wish i was a diehard fan with 
 experience in the game, I can only imagine how much fun it can be if your in that position 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohit
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 8:49 am PT
Review:  Contradiction? Not really. Gives you so many moments where you want to throw the controller at 
 the screen, specially after you go against characters like zagat, zieflef or the guy who whirls 
 you around. Not sure if it's my machochistic nature, but that's what also makes it a lot more fun. 
 Its fun just to do the different trials, trying to do the special moves and combos. I'll be picking 
 up one of the arcade sticks when they are back in stock: maybe that improves my game a little?
 
  
  a) Hard Controls: Combos extremely hard to pull off
  b) Cheap AI, crazy boss levels. Very easy is probably the right level for me (Ranges from Easiest 
 -  Very Easy -  Easy -  Medium -  and 3 more harder levels) .
  c) Great graphics and since its that tough, makes getting wins extremely fulfilling.
  
  Bottom 
 Line: Awesome game inspite or maybe because its that tough.
  
  Oh yeah, one more thing: Does not have the overblown characters like DOA. Kickers have big thighs 
 as you would expect, and sumo wrestlers and just big. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oloph
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 5:48 am PT
Review:  Street fighter 4 looks and plays great, there is no doubt about that. I also found it to be a lot 
 more accessible than the previous installations in the series. It is incredibly balanced and fun 
 to play with friends - which is really what I look for in a fighter. However, it is all about the 
 special moves and tricky directional input, at least if you do not have an arcade stick. It also 
 has very few moves and plays slow. If you compare it to Soul caliubur 4 or particularly Doa 4 it 
 falls short on a few points. It is accessible but you need to know the special moves in order to 
 make it into a competitive fight. Both Doa and SC are much faster, have more moves and combos and 
 do not rely as heavily on flashy special moves. The strategic elements gets downplayed in SF compared 
 to Doa. If you like slower gameplay and fireballs, SF is for you if you like strategy and fast 
 combos, go for Doa or SC. SF is good but not the best fighter, it's just below SC and Doa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHILRYABKIN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter IV is 2009's most anticptated fighting game of the year and it lived up to the hype. The 
 graphics look awesome for this game on both the 360 and PS3 it looks great and it plays great. This 
 time old things and new things return. The Super moves from Super Street Fighter 2 Turbo are here 
 and the Ultra combos from the Alpha series are here as well. It's easier to do a Special move now. Just 
 flick the analog stick 2 times and than press the R8 or the Left trigger buttons to do a special 
 combo. A new thing that is there is there is a Power Strike where you hold both the Punch and Kick 
 buttons and then they get stunned for a few seconds. Then if you have right timing you can pull 
 off a Ultra Combo while doing some massive damage. All 12 World Warriors from Street Fighter 2 are 
 in this game. A few from the Alpha series like Sakura and Dan make an apperince. While new characters 
 like Abel and Rufus fill in as well. There are quite a few hidden characters like Akuma, Fei-Long, Cammy 
 and Gouken. But you will unlock most of the characters within a week or so. The stages are also very 
 cool as well. Like a Russian train yard and a old Japanese temple. While there are remakes of the 
 Air Field and The Chinese City from Street Fighter 2. The online is nearly flawless. There is almost 
 no lag whatsoever. You can just have a quick match and have tons of fun. There is also a ranking 
 system and you can even add a title to your name. There are also some Anime cutscenes from the game 
 which tell the story of each character. They can last a minute or 2. They can sometimes look very 
 serious or very funny. Overall Street Fighter IV is a must. It's the game we've been waiting for 
 quite sometime now but it's finally here! The only bad thing is that M. Bision isn't the Final Boss. It's 
 Seth a really cheap character who can sometimes copy your moves and teleport behind you. Also the 
 game is a little bit too easy but other than that it's worth the money for this aweosme game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onep
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  Wow. Everyone has that game that sticks out from your childhood. Mario Bros., Zelda, Punch Out, 
 etc. Mines Street Fighter. I picked up SF 2 for the SNES and probably logged 100+ hrs on it as 
 a kid. I got tooled in most fighting games but Street Fighter? That was one of the only games I 
 can say I truly mastered in my youth. Fast forward 17 years and here I am playing The HD remix 
 off XBL and getting destroyed on easy. What happened? I lost all faith in the SF games that enriched 
 my childhood.
  
  Then I pick up SF 4 a week ago..... This game made feel like I felt when I was 11 years old getting 
 SF 2. The game has every element that made the SF franchise the king of console fighting games 
 (sorry Mortal Kombat) while adding next gen elements that make it relevant in todays gaming climate. 
 The graphics and animation are top notch, beautiful. The controls are tight and moves that seemed 
 impossible with the xbox d-pad in the HD remix are almost effortless in SF 4. The difficulty seems 
 about right. Medium is a challenge but isn't too cumbersome if you're using a fighter you're familiar 
 with. 
  
  The trial modes are standard fighting game fare, time trial, survival mode. A new trial actually 
 awards you for pulling off certain combo's and moves. I find some of them rather difficult but 
 then again I don't have hours to spend practicing a move like I could when I was 12. The multiplayer 
 function is pretty good. I found it VERY hard to find a match to fight in and usually had to create 
 my own lobby and hope someone joined me. I said screw this and started playing arcade with my fight 
 request open and honestly I never got to fight an actual arcade match because ppl kept challenging 
 me! It really had that arcade vibe, except when I lost I didn't have to go to the back of the line.
 
  
  Bottom line, this is a top shelf fighting game. Probably the best I've played for the next gen 
 (Soul Calibur being the second best) . If you enjoyed playing the SF games of old this is a must 
 buy. If you're a fan of fighting games this is a must buy. Playing this game is like getting back 
 with old friends from your childhood who have grown up and matured, but at their core are still 
 the friends you love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roybarnsleyfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:48 am PT
Review:  
  It is over a decade since Street Fighter III first hit arcades, but Street Fighter IV is finally 
 here.
  It brings the old cast of Warriors back with 6 new characters (Abel, C Viper, El Fuerte, Rufus, 
 Ryu's old Trainer Gouken, and the new final boss Seth) for another World Warrior tournament. 
 
  This is an incredibly fun game with fantastic graphics and great multiplayer. The online play 
 is a great challenge with loads of people to play, and (most of the time) there is no lag when 
 playing online. However, multiplayer is taken to another level of fun (even more than most games) 
 when playing one on one with a friend locally. I honestly believe that there is nothing more fun 
 in gaming than having a great fight with a mate on street fighter.
  New features in fights are EX moves and Ultra combos. Game modes include Arcade, Training (a great 
 place to try out moves that you're having trouble with) and challenge, all of which are great, 
 but it is multiplayer where this game really shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tangyorange
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the basics here.
  
  Graphics: This is one of those games that when i loaded it up I just thought it was darn cool. 
 The art style is very unique and every character has a fluid look to their animations. Everything 
 seems a little over done, which is great considering the series' trademark cartoony look. The backgrounds 
 look amazing this time around and I still see something new that I didn't see before occasionally.
 
  
  Sound: Yes, I agree that the theme is a bit corny but aside from that the music is fairly good. 
 I don't have any of the stage themes running inside my head for hours, but I don't find myself 
 wanting to play the game in headphones either.
  
  Control: Truly, this makes or breaks a fighting game and it is spot on here. I have yet to try 
 to do a combo and blame the game for not being able to pull it off. Every punch and kick flies 
 out at the moment of depression perfectly. That being said, if you playing this on your xbox buy 
 a new controller that is tailored to the game. Yes it costs extra, but it's almost necessary to 
 get the most fun out of the game.
  
  Replay: As with all fighters there's always room to improve so I'll set this very high.
  
  
 That said, this game is a street fighter fan's dream come true and that is exactly what they set 
 out to make. So if your buying the game for the first time and dreaming of going online and having 
 a 90% win rate then your buying the game for the wrong reasons. Alot of people, me included, have 
 been playing SF from its first fighting game iteration and have a good grasp on combo's and moves 
 before we even loaded up the game. if you ask most of the time a seasoned player would be happy 
 to show a new player how to do some new things though. SF IV is a continuous example of why 2D 
 fighting games are so loved by many. It comes down to a game of quickly and decisively out thinking 
 your opponent. Buy it?? Yes, I think you should. It's great fun and the online community is great 
 compared to most games. 
  
  Happy Hadoukens to all!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard_Prime
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I don't think a game has ever made me as happy as SF4 has done in the past 2 weeks. I've been completely 
 immersed in it, and have played nothing else since it's release. I still remember watching hours 
 of live video feeds prior to its release, and thinking that I might be setting myself up for a 
 disappointment later on by bringing my hopes up too high, but surprisingly my expectations were 
 oblitherated. 
  
  Let's get one thing out the way - technically this game is a masterpiece. Absolutely gorgeous visuals, 
 the fighters have never looked better, and each is animated very fluidly. As a big fan of character 
 animation, which is a huge draw for me in any game, I was very impressed here. They did not cut 
 any corners and every character has a ton of frames and just looks great doing any move. Levels 
 feel alive and there's a lot of stuff going on in the background sometimes. Music overall is great, 
 and the voices are very well done, both in English and Japanese. For instance it's awesome how 
 Ryu will shout Hadoken differently in English and in Japanese. 
  
  Gameplay is tight and SF veterans will feel right at home. You have a ton of combos at your disposal, 
 which range from the easy, to the difficult, and to the insanely hard. There's a lot more variety 
 now with all the EX moves, focus, cancel attacks, and so on. Love the fact that the dash is back, 
 I use it so much. 
  
  Online is great overall, and most of my matches are virtually lagless. They clearly put a lot of 
 effort here to make it work, and I'm glad it turned out like that, this was the aspect I was most 
 worried about. The titles and icons you unlock are cool, especially the ones for doing the harder 
 challenges. Looking forward to the CE patch which will enhance the online. As with HD-remix, there's 
 a massive pool of talent online - prepare to get your *** handed to you. But you'll get some spectacular 
 wins as well. Newcomers don't get discouraged, you can play in player matches that are way less 
 serious overall. 
  
  Thank you Capcom for creating this masterpiece, I'll be playing this for a very long time. 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsylvester
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 9:34 am PT
Review:  I really want to like this game. I really do, but this is simply a very old school (i. e. like an 
 old arcade game designed to keep you pumping quarters into it) fighting game with a new coat of 
 paint (albeit a pretty one) . I love the look of the game and the character animations, but this 
 game is simply way too difficult to get the hang of unless you're one the online players that must 
 play this game 24/7 and do nothing else in life. I appreciate that this fighting game has alot 
 of depth to it, but unless you have a sick amount of time on your hands that you would only want 
 to devote to learning and perfecting how to pull off SuperCombos and UltraCombos (which the CPU 
 seems to be able to pull off continuously) , then you're better off moving on. The game is otherwise 
 barebones (as opposed to say Soul Calibur, Tekken or even Virtua Fighter) with only the typical 
 training mode, arcade mode (with a ridiculously cheap final boss - even at easy!) and challenge 
 mode - in addition to the online mode where, unless you're an expert dork at this, you will get 
 your buttocks handed to you. 
  
  Not a bad game, but I would rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:33 pm PT
Review:  So i heard alot of Hype about Street Figher 4 so i went and got myself a copy from my local gameshop 
 Thinking its going to be a good game.
  
  How Wrong i was.. Firstly The Fighting system is Really outdated compaired to Soul Calibur and 
 the Tekken series where you have alot of Combo's to use. On Street Fighter 4 all you can seem to 
 do is a few Special moves that are really hard to pull off and a some basic punches and kicks and 
 some grapples.
  
  I Played on the most easy setting and i still got my butt whooped mainly down to the Combat mechanics 
 the A. I which is pretty Brutal for a beginner to fight aginst. Its not really a Bad thing having 
 a hard Computer to fight aginst. But theres a limit I
  
  The Graphics are Pretty and the Sound is nice thats one thing i will give the game credit for. 
 It has a Really nice artistic feal to it and almost looks like the game is cartoon style with Cel 
 shading with 2d Spirtes all Mixed in. So the Graphics are really nice and do stand out from most 
 fighters.. The Sound is pretty good also With some of the English voices sounding really good and 
 fitting for the characters.
  
  But the game all around feels Hard, clunky.. And all in all not a fun game to play im Personaly 
 going to stick with Soul Calibur 4 Thats another Thing ive Noticed. no Character Creation whatso 
 ever... Kinda Borring since you only get a few Characters at the start and unlocking the rest is 
 a Pain. 
  
  Personaly i feel this game was a Big waste of Money and is totaly Over hyped.. Do your Self a Favour 
 dont buy this game and get Soul Calibur 4 or even better Wait for Tekken 6...
  
  By All means Street fighter 4 is not a Bad game but the Game seems to have sold and got good reviews 
 for the name and not shallow and Bland gameplay.
  If you Enjoy the Street Fighter Series then Kudo's to you. Since you will have a Blast with the 
 game. However if your comming to this from outside of the game and never having played the old 
 ones then do your self a Favour and stay away from the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjasRmammals2
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 11:46 am PT
Review:  To be honest Street Fighter lost me awhile back sometime between the Alpha series and EX series. 
 Then Street Fighter III showed up but I didn't care by that point and only Ken and Ryu were there 
 from the original line-up so I just didn't have any interest. Then lo and behold Capcom practically 
 remakes Street Fighter II and I instantly digress into a ten year-old version of myself. It's just 
 a good mash of old-school gameplay with a fresh coat of paint.
  
  Anyone who's played a Street Fighter game will instantly be able to pick up most of the fighters 
 and throw out Psycho Crushers and Tiger Shots in no time. Classic characters play exactly as they 
 used to, so if you used to mop the floor with your little brother as Guile chances are you still 
 could. Controls are tight considering the 360's controller isn't really optimal for this type of 
 fighter. The d-pad is pretty useless since it's so low on the controller and the joystick on worn 
 controllers might confuse your Dragon Punch motion with a quarter-circle forward if you aren't 
 careful, but with some practice you can keep that from happening. I'm hoping to get some play time 
 with an arcade stick soon, I think the six-button layout will add comfort to the whole experience. 
 The addition of Focus attacks is an interesting one. I haven't quite gotten used to them myself, 
 but I can see how useful they can be. Getting these focus attacks down could give you an edge over 
 your opponent, but it does a good job of not being oppressive as they can be stopped with a couple 
 quick hits, a throw, or a character's special move with the armor break attribute of which every 
 fighter has at least one. Also, people are pretty used to having those 'super' energy bars at fill 
 as you attack and defend in 2D fighters and it's in this one, as well. However, there's two of 
 them now. Your Super bar which fills as you attack and block, and then your Ultra bar which fills 
 as you take damage. Now, whereas the Ultra bar only has one use, unleashing a character's Ultra 
 Combo once the bar is at least half full, the Super bar is divided into 4 sections and these partitions 
 can be used individually for more powerful versions of special attacks. For example if I fire off 
 a normal hadoken as Ryu it's the same old blue energy traveling across the screen, now if I throw 
 a hadoken using two punch buttons instead of one it becomes the EX version and it's literally a 
 ball of fire flying across the screen faster than his normal hadoken, it will consume any projectile 
 weaker than it and keep going. The Super bar, once full, can also be used to unleash a powerful 
 super combo. This usually isn't as powerful as a characters Ultra-combo but the ultra bar empties 
 after each round whereas the Super bar will stay how it ended the previous round for that match. 
 The ultra combos do a great job of keeping people in the game. If you are having a tough time with 
 someone with them getting you to around 10% of your health and they're at around 60-75% if you 
 can land you Ultra combo on them your suddenly back in the game since now their health is most 
 likely very close to yours. It keeps people on their toes an entire match and gives you that little 
 bit of hope that you can still win.
  
  SF4 offers many things to do as a single player. First off there's the classic arcade mode which 
 begins with a short (thank god) animated (poorly) cutscene setting up the story of whichever character 
 you choose, in turn the arcade ends with one as well. Mostly these movies don't really make sense 
 and leave a lot of questions I didn't even know I asked unanswered. However, if you are coming 
 to Street Fighter for some sort of epic tale of heroism and the like then you are a long way from 
 home, my friend. Anyway, the arcade mode has the classic 7 levels of difficulty that SF2 also had. 
 From easiest to medium to hardest the game has a difficulty for everyone. Medium is no joke though. 
 Once you get to the later fights on medium you might as well be playing on hardest because I didn't 
 really notice a difference between the two other than medium's first 5 matches. The arcade mode 
 leads you to Seth, the new villain of Street Fighter and his brutal ways. Seth is pretty much a 
 combination of several characters with Guile's sonic boom, Ryu and Ken's dragon uppercut, and Dhalsim's 
 stretching heavy punch and yoga teleport, just to name a few, at his disposal. He can be a frustrating 
 fight for quite awhile until you get used to him. 
  
  Secondly, the challenge modes offer a little something to do that isn't so directly competitive 
 but will help you in learning basics and advanced techniques to smite your foes. Trail mode being 
 particularly useful in that it'll run you through characters special moves and combos one by one, 
 not moving onto the next technique until you complete the current one. Aside from the trial mode 
 there's survival mode that offers many levels of difficulty and special conditions that get harder 
 as you progress through the many opponents gaining health for each victory. The amount healed after 
 each fight is different depending on the survival level you choose with usually the later the level 
 the less health you get back. There's also a time trial mode which is the standard beat a certain 
 number of opponents in a little time as possible. This mode also offers several separate levels 
 with different CPU difficulties, time limits, and number of wins required. There's also a training 
 mode which is nothing new and pretty standard these days. It features the usual stuff; pick your 
 character, pick who you'll beat up on, set if you want your opponent to just stand there, crouch 
 while blocking, turn it into a CPU opponent on hardest, or let a friend play against you and fight 
 for all eternity.
  
  Let's look at the Xbox Live features. Of course, it offers ranked and player matches for the serious 
 and not so serious. My favorite feature being the fight request settings that can allow people 
 to challenge you to online ranked or player matches (your choice) while you play through the arcade 
 mode. Gone are the days of making a lobby and waiting for someone to join, or trying to hunt down 
 players only to get "lobby is full" because someone beat you there. Now, you can just fight while 
 you wait which is so much more entertaining, frankly I think it was a brilliant idea. More fighters 
 from now on should follow this example. The ranking system in SF4 is a simple one. If you win you 
 gain points, and if you lose you lose points. There are no levels or milestones just points. Also, 
 the more points someone has the more a victory over them is worth and the reverse is also true. 
 Sadly however, there are no tournament modes yet. Reserved for future DLC that will be free. That'll 
 add some new life to the online community for SF4. Now the live isn't without its flaws. I hardly 
 get an accurate representation of another person's connectivity. The bars meant to show me their 
 connection usually doesn't show up at all, which at first I took as a sign of a bad connection. 
 After playing with several dozen people that the game told me had bad connections I noticed that 
 most of those matches were lag free and went smoothly. On the other hand I'd have supposedly good 
 connections turn the game into a slide show, a rare instance but it happens. I can't seem to trust 
 the connectivity bar so I just end up accepting every match and hoping for the best and 90% of 
 the time everything goes fine.
  
  All in all SF4 is a very fun and addictive 2D fighter that happens to be in 3D. It's a must own 
 for any fighting game or Street Fighter fan. It'll be a seriously fun rental for everyone else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrunkGrizzly
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:35 am PT
Review:  
  I've played SF on my SNES when I was kid, so I've been anticipating this for quite awhile. However, 
 I rented the game first and I STRONGLY RECOMMEND RENTING IT FIRST. The reasons for this are as 
 follows:
  
  1. Very Challenging: 
  I first played on the default setting of medium, only to find the last character (Seth) nearly 
 impossible to beat. He does not even give you the chance to get up. That being said, start out 
 on EASIEST. I stuck with EASIEST in order to unlock everything. Also set the matches to best of 
 2. Let's face it, unlocking things can be tedious and you want to finish as quickly as possible. 
 (Special note) When playing as the old man Gen, the computer be more difficult. Even on easiest, 
 the computer just loves wailing on the old man.
  
  2. Sketchy Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer is at best sketchy for this game. For both ranked and player matches, it shows three 
 people to choose for a fight. Connecting to these people can be frustrating. I've tried to join 
 numerous people, but persistence pays off. It's just a nuisance. Then there is the game play. Players 
 with icons, and banners that say "killer" will be the challenging ones. Unlabeled people, who knows. 
 The fights can be a bit choppy at times, detrimental when timing combos, supers, and ultras. Also 
 when playing ranked matches, after beating someone, some people disconnect to avoid losing points. 
 Straight up lame.
  
  3. Story!?
  It's the same evil corporation. Find what kind of evil technology they are making , blah, blah, 
 blah. Beating the game with each player shows their story with the tournament. They're silly (el 
 fuerte, Rufus) , disappointing (Rose, Abel) , or lame (Blanca, Zangief) . I wasn't expecting a riveting 
 plot, but come on writers you can do better. The anime looks nice, if you like anime.
  
  4. Joystick, what joystick?
  Buying a joystick pad is about $99. It's easier to do do harder 
 moves, and it's easier on the hands. Seriously though, who wants to shell out another $99 bucks? 
 Keep this in mind, when you see the joystick icon with online players. They have an advantage.
 
  
  Since I've listed some of the drawbacks, let me tell you why this deserves a 9:
  
  1. Graphics and camera angles:
  The graphics are stunning. It's hard to blink, when both the 
 characters, their actions, and the background are so visually appealing. Even Rufus's shaking body 
 fat will hypnotize you (his happy trail will break that spell) . Their facial expressions are priceless 
 with ever blow they receive. The effects are also amazing. The fire balls and magics will shimmer. 
 Then doing ultras, the change in camera angles are purely sweet. Especially when the camera follows 
 an opponent launched in the air, you get a upfront look of the fear on their face.
  
  2. Training/Challenges:
  For newcomers and fans alike, challenges are a good place to start. 
 The challenges go from the basic moves, to specials, to supers, and then ultras. The difficulty 
 varies with the character, but it's helpful none the less. There are also the frame interrupting 
 moves, that are crucial for quick combos, more for the experts. While it gets difficult quickly, 
 it's a good place to sharpen your teach with each character.
  
  3. The sense of achievement:
  There are times when you want to throw your controller out of frustration, 
 when an opponent stages a come back. There are times when you feel in control. There are always 
 players out there you can match up with. Always room for improvement. Especially when it comes 
 to beating the countless Ken players out there (yeah, he may be popular, but his moves are predictable) . 
 My last fight, Akuma vs Abel, tied up 1-1. I was
  ultra ready and could finish him off with it. Unfortunately, i was running out of room to execute 
 it. The pressure was on. With my back to the wall and his mits at my throat, I launched Akuma's 
 ultra. The screen went black and Akuma's rage was unleashed. I can only imagine the obscenities 
 my losing opponent yelled, when he unplugged his network connection. 
  
  It's fun as hell, it's hard as hell, RENT IT FIRST.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 10:31 am PT
Review:  I've got a knotty history with Street Fighter, but it's one that I cherish nonetheless. Though 
 I was certifiably baffled by the original (my local arcade had the version with the huge rubber 
 buttons) , Street Fighter II seized me completely. And so on, well into the Alpha series, with a 
 few odd turns into Vs.-land. (For some reason, Street Fighter III never took off in the ecosystem 
 I inhabited. Maybe that says something.) At first, I thought Capcom was arbitrarily dropping the 
 loaded numeral on Street Fighter IV. How come the other seemingly endless iterations can't count 
 as true sequels? Is it the recycled sprites? I still sort of feel this way, but I'm willing to 
 let it slide on account of effort: Capcom really tried with Street Fighter IV. What might just 
 be my favorite game ever has been iterated on lovingly and carefully, and this has given me an 
 excuse to get caught up in it all over again.
  
  Street Fighter IV is Street Fighter at its best. It's not the obtuse canvas for virtuosity that 
 Street Fighter III was, nor are its subtleties bogged down by anything like Alpha 3's alphabet 
 soup of "isms." All the stuff that makes it go is more or less plain to see, and more importantly, 
 easy to execute (comparatively speaking -- if double-quarter-circle motions give you cramps, expect 
 no quarter from even this game) . In the hands of someone who's merely okay at 2D fighters, the 
 new system's discrete parts allow for the kind of nuanced play previously the strict domain of 
 experts. Simple-to-execute "Focus Attacks" (think: interrupts that you can unleash by simply hitting 
 both medium attacks) can be "dash-cancelled" to goad and lead opponents. Similarly, you can use 
 up portions of your super meter to supercharge your regular specials. The results vary: the "EX" 
 version of Guile's sonic boom goes real fast; meanwhile, Ryu's hurricane kick turns stationary, 
 but hits your opponent a whole mess of times.
  
  Old pros, on the other hand, will exploit the game's crazy, multi-layered grammar for Youtube-shaky-cam-worthy 
 results -- stuff like canceling certain special attacks by inputting Focus commands when they connect, 
 in order to cut losses after a block, or double-up an attack. It's the sort of stuff that I can 
 sometimes pull off in training mode. The scant few times I do so in a real game reinforces the 
 overwhelming impression I've gotten from playing Street Fighter IV over the past few weeks: that 
 this game contains multitudes. In another life, I'd be mixing it up with the guys who write the 
 FAQs. In this one, I'll have to settle for practice mode.
  
  When I peer down that rabbit hole, however, what is essentially a whole new game emerges. Strict 
 tiers exist in the hardcore Street Fighter IV community, constructed by some precise calculus developed 
 through months and months of arcade play. In this world, a character like Vega is puny, and given 
 equally-matched players, should hardly ever beat Sagat, who occupies the "god tier" all by himself. 
 What does this say about me and my friend, old hands at 2D fighters and Street Fighter in particular, 
 given that we rocked each other repeatedly in ways that defied this logic? It means, basically, 
 that we're not playing the same Street Fighter IV that the guys on Shouryuken. com are, and that's 
 fine. Our version is cool, too. 
  
  I fully expect our worlds to collide online, though. Street Fighter IV, in many ways, feels like 
 it was conceived to lure in lapsed players. The original eight (plus the four old-school bosses) 
 are playable from the start, and anyone who hasn't forgotten how to shake out a fireball will at 
 least be proficient. How often will that group encounter the fighting game shock troops, those 
 who cut their teeth on the gray-market Street Fighter IV cabinets that have trickled into game 
 rooms outside of Japan? And what will happen once they do? Is the insular tournament scene about 
 to break open in a big way?
  
  Who knows. Ranked matches are governed by a sort of Elo-style rating system anyway. And this is 
 by no means the first fighting game to ship with a serviceable online mode. (Full disclosure: We've 
 been playing on retail discs over Xbox Live and PlayStation Network since this morning, and performance 
 is so far, so good.) But then again, no other fighting game can come close to claiming Street Fighter's 
 juice. Capcom has also exhibited some real commitment to community building, evidenced by the fact 
 that it's releasing a free update that adds layers to matching and ranking functionality inside 
 of a couple of months. In all, I'm feeling good about my future as it pertains to playing Street 
 Fighter IV, despite the fact that I set foot in an arcade about twice a year.
  
  I already see myself teetering on the edge of total commitment, to the extent that I'm seriously 
 considering dropping money on one of those high-end MadCatz arcade sticks. If you're anything like 
 me, then Street Fighter IV is certainly worth your money, and more significantly, your time. Old 
 habits die hard, and muscles evidently have a long memory. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onyx99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:44 am PT
Review:  I remember leaving school (sometimes early) , or on the weekends going to the local arcade and spending 
 enough quarters on SF2 to wash all the clothes I've ever owned. I loved the game itself, whether 
 I was playing against the CPU, a friend or a random stranger, it was playing the game that I loved.
 
  
  Those feelings came back as I started playing SF4, the music, the images, the sounds were a stimulus 
 to take me back to my youth. Then I played the game; I started with Chun-Li my all time favorite 
 character. It took a turn or 2 for my thumbs to rmember the old combos, but once they did I was 
 in heaven. I went through the arcade mode, got some achievements, titles, icons and had lots of 
 fun. (sidenote Seth is the worst character in the game, and thats all I will say about him) .
  
  Now that I felt like a kid in an arcade again I decided it was time to delve deeper into nirvana 
 by playing xbox live mode. The first person I played used Ken. Jump kick, low kick, uppercut, I 
 remembered that pattern. I beat him easily. The next person I played used Ken. Hurricane kick, 
 uppercut, over and over again. I remember this pattern frommy arcade days too. The next person 
 I played used Akuma, I shuttered alittle but I was looking for a challenge. Fireball, Air Fireball, 
 teleport, SuperCombo, over and over again. Then then next guy used Ken again.
  
  It was now that I noticed a larger pattern. Ken, Akuma, and sometimes Ryu. I have played well over 
 200 online fights and 90% of the people I've played used these three characters and and the same 
 fight combos for each. Occasionally I run into Zangief user that just does the green fist until 
 he's close enough to grab you, this is annoying but I welcome the change up. 
  
  I also like Ken but I refuse to use him in online matches now just because everyone else is. After 
 i thought about it I remembered that the same was true in the arcade a ton of Ken users following 
 tired old patterns. All of them complaining when I beat them because I know what they are going 
 to do before they do it.
  
  I love SF4 but people playing online need to mix it up a bit. The balance between the characters 
 is good enough where any character can match another. I am proof of this because I use Rose, Sakura, 
 Chun-li and sometimes Dan or even Dhalsim and I have well over a thousand BP's from fighting Ken, 
 Akuma, and Ryu. Just take the time to learn someone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmokeBombMass
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:06 am PT
Review:  **THIS REVIEW IS MEANT FOR PEOPLE NEW TO STREET FIGHTER OR FIGHTING GAMES IN GENERAL**
  
  In many gamers' eyes, the Street Fighter series is the holy grail of all fighting games. After 
 quite some time, the new entry in this legendary series has finally arrived. Its deep mechanics, 
 balanced roster, and strategic game play make it a classic for the tournament player and fighter 
 junky. Unfortunately, these may be the only people who will get a great experience out of this 
 game. The novice player is almost guaranteed to be chewed up and spit out.
  
  On the surface, the mechanics of the Street Fighter seem relatively simple. There are three punches 
 and three kicks (light, medium, and heavy) . Combinations of these buttons along with a movement 
 on the directional pad, analog stick, or arcade stick (If you're so lucky to have one) will cause 
 your selected character to do a special move. Each character (25 in all) has their own unique move 
 set, which interestingly are generally shorter than move sets in other games and seem fairly easy 
 to pull off (before you learn how precise with both control and timing you have to be that is) . 
 An outside person who had never seen or heard of Street Fighter would probably label it as an extremely 
 simplistic fighter. Quite the contrary though, Street Fighter takes more skill, timing, precision, 
 and strategy than any other fighting game I've played. Street Fighter is easy to get into, but 
 incredibly difficult to master.
  
  Every fighting game has its own unique mechanic though. It just takes some time and patience to 
 learn. People who took the time to master Street Fighter II will probably feel right at home here. 
 Unfortunately though, Capcom seems to truly make it almost impossible for the novice, and even 
 average player to learn Street Fighter's mechanics. 
  
  There doesn't seem to be any progression in the learning curve of Street Fighter. Since the community 
 surrounding the game is mostly made up of decade dedicated elitists who seem to spit on anyone 
 new, it's up to Capcom to show the player the ropes. But single player component offers no such 
 help. The A. I. is overly difficult, even on the easiest setting for some. The A. I. pulls off split 
 second uppercuts, chained special attacks, and immediate Ultra moves that only a computer could. 
 It almost feels like you're being cheated at times. Street Fighter IV also comes with a Trial mode 
 to show you your characters attacks and combos. This would be the perfect way to show the ropes 
 to new players; but the combos they require you to pull off require absolute precisionand without 
 a way to skip ahead to other moves or have a video showing you these moves, it's almost completely 
 useless.
  
  The only way to really master the mechanics of the game is to play with other people. But since 
 the community is built up of skilled players who have been playing this series for over a decade, 
 you're better off trying to fly without wings. Unless you can find another person with an equal 
 or similar skill level willing to spend several hours learning every combo, knowing every hit box, 
 and mastering precise control, there's almost no other way to ace the game's mechanics.
  
  But don't let these things stop you from taking an interest in Street Fighter IV. It's still an 
 amazingly fun game when played the right way. As long as you have friends equal in skill level 
 who are willing to play with you, Street Fighter IV can be a blast. Just don't expect to jump into 
 the bread and butter online mode and have a fun, balanced, relaxing time.
  
  For diehard Street Fighter and fighting game fans, Street Fighter IV is probably a 9/10 or maybe 
 even a 10/10. But the game just isn't easily suited for anybody else. People with time, dedication, 
 and endurance may have what it takes to get into Street Fighter. Everybody else is better off renting 
 this game and taking what they will from there. You may just find out that you're over ten years 
 too late.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JenniFRESH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:18 am PT
Review:  Overall, I think Street Fighter IV is an excellent game considering I've never been all that into 
 fighting games. The graphics are great if you compare them to the older, original versions. One 
 of the reasons I did not give this game a higher rating was due to the nearly impossible-to-do 
 power moves. The special moves aren't too difficult and I am finally able to some of the super 
 combos. The ultra combo, however, I have still not mastered and I am finding it quite difficult 
 to do so. All the jerking back and forth that I have to do with the joystick gives me thumb cramps. 
 Aside from that, I must admit I was not a fan of Seth, the boss you are required to fight at the 
 end of arcade mode. He was practically impossible to beat and after the couple hundred losses I 
 endured, I finally prevailed. The very last thing that I found to be a particular annoyance would 
 be the constant fighter challenges that would pop up during arcade mode due to my online activity. 
 I had barely even learned the controls and already I was being thrown into fights with people that 
 had mastered the game. It took a while before I realized you can easily change your settings to 
 avoid these exasperating requests while you are still in your "n00b" phase of the game. Despite 
 all the minor frustrations and pain it caused me in the beginning, it is pain well-inflicted because 
 I have thoroughly enjoyed every minute I spent playing Street Fighter IV.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doorman1810
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The game play of Street Fighter IV gives the feel of standing in the arcade taking on all punks 
 with a quarter in their pocket and a chip on their shoulder. The ability of on-line friends to 
 jump in to your one player arcade game completes the arcade illusion. "Another Challenger Enters 
 the Ring!", is a phrase that I had all but forgotten.
  The character selection is good. All of the classics are there and all are equally balanced.
 
  This game could have been a 10 if not for the awful end boss. Seth?! Really?! Terrible character 
 design. Terrible Ultra Combo. Way unbalanced difficulty between the first and second rounds.
  Seth is really the only thing I could find wrong with this game.
  The icons and titles that are 
 unlocked by playing Xbox Live ranked matches are a bit weird and unnecessary, but they don't detract 
 from the overall quality of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orkk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a great Street Fighter Fan. I remember way back in the day when every character 
 was limited to their one or two move command lists. Now it has become an intricate fighting game, 
 complete with focus attacks, ultimates, combos, new special moves, and a compilation of almost 
 the whole Street Fighter gang. The game itself is great, with a great balance of characters, other 
 than some noob characters and a few spammers, but fortunately gamers still seem to have the gaming 
 honor code, and won't do that (much) . The only thing that could have made this game better is if 
 they had my favorite character, Charlie in it. Oh, how I miss him, he is and shall remain always 
 my favorite Street Fighter. Guile may be my second, and even similar to Charlie, but he'll never 
 fit in the puzzle. Overall I give this game a great rating for uniqueness in a classic, and a great 
 character setup, which could have been better if they added ALL the Street Fighters in it, but 
 what the hell. If you are a fan of fighters, or if you aren't you should without a doubt, buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onyx79
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  It has been so long since the last Street Fighter, I have almost started to forget some of the 
 character's moves.
  From the moment, Capcom announced Street Fighter IV, I am confident I was not the only one checking 
 regularly on updates for the game and checking out when the release date will be.
  But it is here, and it is fresh too! Capcom has managed to bring back to life the Street Fighter 
 franchise after the so so Street Fighter III. Do not get me wrong, I liked Street Fighter III and 
 I still play it from time to time on the all mighty Dreamcast but I'm not here to review the said 
 game, I'm only saying that Capcom should have kept all the original Street Fighter 2 crew and should 
 have added the new roster of character from the third chapter.
  A mistake they sure have not made in Street Fighter IV. All of our favourites are back. As a bonus, 
 we also get some characters from the Street Fighter Alpha series (Like Rose, Gen, Sakura, Dan, 
 ...) but we're also getting a bunch of new faces.
  The new characters, namely C. Viper, Rufus, El Fuerte, Abel and Seth are nicely integrated into 
 the large selection of characters, in other words, they do not feel like outsiders, they feel like 
 proper Street Fighters (to me anyway) .
  I know a lot of people, mostly critics, are saying that Seth is just the cheapest character around, 
 but hey, so was M. Bison in Street Fighter 2. I do not believe the latest chapter should suffer 
 in its review because of Seth.
  Anywho, the presentation of the game is flawless, from the very stylish intro movie to the 3D rendering 
 of the characters, and the 3D stages, everything feels fresh and new.
  The animation of the characters is outstanding, everything is so fluid. There are some minor graphical 
 issues, such as a fist going through your opponent's body or a foot through their costume and so 
 on so forth but nothing major.
  The game is very accessible offline, it is easy enough to pick up and play, learn the moves through 
 the new Challenge mode. One thing though is the online play, if you haven't played or trained on 
 this game before hand, stay away from online fights, you'll quickly come to regret fighting someone 
 online. 
  I personally found that the game does not quiet match you with someone of the same level. And most 
 of the players online are really experienced so my advice is train well and give online a go. At 
 the end of the day, the more you'll loose, the better you'll perfect yourself for the next fight!
 
  I could go into technical fight details here but I won't, there are enough reviews out there of 
 this marvellous game that will teach you the inside and out of Street Fighter IV.
  I cannot stress this enough, this IS the best fighting game there is out there. Capcom has done 
 it again, pick yourself a copy either on consoles (PS3 and 360) or on the PC. This is a game that 
 has to be tried to be fully appreciated.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dxnets
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  I could not wait to play this game. Now I'm crying over $60 I spent on this piece of trash. I tried 
 arcade mode first. Thinking that I knew how to play fighting games, I chose medium. I was wiped 
 out in 5 seconds. I figured (hopefully) that the training and challenges modes would help me improve. 
 They did, but only in that I now know how to perform useless and impractical combos with ridiculous 
 excuses for special moves. 
  
  Each move requires either a directional input (my favorite) or a quarter/half turn (annoying as 
 hell) . In MK or Soul Calibur (good fighting games) , you need only to do things like up, up, down, 
 left, B for an example of a difficult special move. In SF IV, however, it requires quarter turns 
 or half turns, and even sometime Z formation or holding one direction for two seconds before pressing 
 another direction. For your ultra and super moves, you need to quarter turn not once, but twice 
 and mash buttons at the same time! These difficult movements are coupled with an irresponsive system, 
 recognizing correct inputs about 1/4 of the time. The challenges mode asks you to perform carpel 
 tunnel-inducing button combos that are not credited unless your opponent is not blocking the attack. 
 And btw, he blocks almost every attack, so do not waste your time there thinking it will improve 
 your skills. 
  
  I am currently going to exchange this trash that requires a massive amount of time and dedication 
 to simply beat the arcade mode on a level above very easy for Halo Wars because I only play fun, 
 not impossible games. I am a very busy college-bound kid who cannot sit for 50 hours (which I regrettably 
 did) and teach my muscles to do perfect quarter turns in order to have "fun". This game cannot 
 be played by the simple, casual gamers who enjoy a nice run at the arcade mode every now and then. 
 I cannot recommend this game to anyone who has even a shred of life outside his parent's basement 
 and his Xbox 360. Even the slightly hardcore (like me) will be plagued by this daunting test of 
 "How long can you go without a real life". 
  
  I am disappointed by Capcom's blunder. I tried my hardest to like this game, but I cannot live 
 in denial. I do not care about how the Gamespot admins will react to me thrashing this all hype 
 and no substance title. I do not care about the 25 inevitable comments from you all saying how 
 wrong and stupid I am. I do care, however, about people who will waste money on this poor excuse 
 for a fighter. And btw, the online play lags very much. So even if I could play the game, it would 
 not let me. I am not lashing out from frustration or anger. I am being rational and practical. 
 So heed my warning: DO NOT BUY THIS GAME
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  Capcom successfully bring the 2-D fighter back to the arcades and consoles. Thats not to say that 
 Street Fighter IV will set the industry a fire as it once did, but it sure makes you feel like 
 you are playing back in the day. Basically this game has appeal of the yesterday gamers, and I 
 find it hard to be appealing to new gamers. 
  
  The graphics have been updated. They have a 3-D feel for a game that is completely 2-D. THe graphics 
 are ok. They aren't going to stand up well against other fighters such as Tekken, Mortal Kombat, 
 or Soulcalibur, but it does bring a new look to fighters combining pen and ink with 3-d. 
  
  The controls are well done, they are percise, well set up, and make the game really. As you 
 get to know your fighter (mine is Ryu) you will get to know how to link combos, and make yourself 
 virtually invincable. Since this game takes place in between II and III (why it's called IV I don't 
 know) most of the II controls are included, and a few of III controls are inc. The make control 
 added was the unblockable hit that you get while you charge MP and MK. It does add for some new 
 ways of taking down foes. 
  
  The music and sounds are all there, updated, and the game sounds wonderful. It feels like you have 
 an arcade game in your home. 
  
  There are lots of unlockables in the game, including characters, costumes, videos, and art work. 
 XBL has the ability to buy more costumes (and I am hoping more characters) . There are also tons 
 of achievement scores to unlock on XBL. They aren't lame ones either. Most can be done with practice 
 and patience. 
  
  The true fun from this game comes from vs. with a human player. Granted there are tons of people 
 out there with more expierence and will make you feel like you've never played the game before 
 once they beat you with a perfect. The CPU can only get you so far with your practicing. So spend 
 plenty of time training prior to going on line with you skills.
  
  Speaking of the CPU, it can be unforgivingly cheap when it comes to anything above medium. Mostly 
 that comes from the final boss Seth (his cheapness rivals even that of Gill from SFIII) . This may 
 make you want to throw the controller across the room. Just play it on easiest to unlock everything 
 and then challenge the game on a higher level.
  
  SFIV isn't going to change the way we game like SFII. In fact if you've already downloaded SSF 
 IIT HD re-mix, chances are you have played this game already. I can recommend this game to die 
 hard fans, and casual fans alike. As far as newbees, it's worth a look, but I flasher games will 
 beat it out in comparison. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevH1986
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:27 am PT
Review:  street fighter 4 brings out the best of nostalga in any fans of the franchise, seeing ryu and ken 
 hadeouken each other left right and centre is truly a sight to behold. the only drawback i found 
 with the game though is the incredibly hard difficulty settings. Even on medium difficulty the 
 single player can be a torture, but if you like a challenge this a must buy.
  One of the most impressive additions to SF4 (in my opinion) is the ability to accept challenges 
 online whilst you are playing the single player, this allows you to instantly accept a challenge 
 from someone and get straight into a fight, brilliant!
  There is a lot to keep you entertained, whether it be the single player, the time trial or the 
 character challenges that keep you busy, you will certainly feel that this was 30 well spent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: humanflash1983
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 5:54 pm PT
Review:  You know I really love what Capcom has done here with Street Fighter 4 but I must say if this game 
 takes place between Street Fighter 2 and Super Street Fighter 2 Why the Hell is Rose, Dan and Sakura 
 in this who are Clearly Street Fighter Alpha Characters if adding them into the Game was a Fan 
 Fad... Why not add in any Street Fighter 3 Chracters just for the hell of it, I mean I can't be 
 the only one who would love to see Sean, Dudley, Q or Remy in the Game Really you can utilize the 
 DLC on XBOXLive but I really think they can pro long this game with really good DLC like new stage, 
 costumes and yes Characters Come on Capcom give us Street Fighter Fans More, we want more. Oh yea 
 I almost forgot when the hell are we going to see Marvel VS Capcom 3 what keeping that so long 
 we all want that game to come out... I'm just saying Capcom has a lot of weapons and there not 
 using them right expecially with Tekken 6 around the corner Marvel VS Capcom 3 would be a Great 
 Addition to the Capcom legacy along with other titles like Capcom VS SNK 3... Hey it could happen 
 right?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x8VXU6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  Ok this has to be the best fighting game ever!!!!!!!!! you can compare this to SF2 and for years 
 that was the best fighting game around. Now lets get into The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly. 
  The Good 
  Most of ur favirote SF characters r back and looks great. The graphic r beutiful like 
 a water color painting. Every character is looks awesome from Ryu to sasuka (everyone but Seth) . 
 Online play is good as well. They made it so u can see if u and the other person has a good contection 
 so you two wont have lag in ur matches. I wont go on and on about the game pplay cuz I no u heard 
 all about already. 
  The Bad 
  Their really isnt that many bad things in it but two things, Seth and Viper. First with Viper, 
 she has to be the most annoying character in the game. all she ever do is shock u and kick u with 
 her fire. now let get on Seth, he looks like the maker ran out of ideas and said lets make a silver 
 guy that can do everyone moves. But PLZ don't let this stop u from buying the game. 
  The Ugly 
  There is no ugly in this game but me. I suck at it (I just got it yesterday) . 
  
 
  Overall this is a REALLY great game to kick off 09. This is a Must Buy for all gamers out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  In this game you pick one of 16 characters that are not locked to play. Then you have to unlock 
 the other 9 using some of the 16 characters. There are alot of things in this game like there is 
 a arcade mode (story mode) there is a versus mode that you just versus against the cpu of other 
 characters or you can do two player. There is a mode that you can set up a name and a pic on the 
 side of the screen but you are going to need Xbox Live. The online in this game is really terrible 
 and the connection is really slow when you fight another player. There are alot of stages that 
 you can play at. During story mode the game has a cartoon at the beggining and at the ending of 
 the players story. The story of each person is short and each player has a rival. The sound and 
 music in this game is really amazing. The game without the tourney mode is smaller then what some 
 people were expecting. 
  
  The good of the game is that there are alot of stages and characters. The music and sound in this 
 game is really awesome. The graphics are pretty nice. Versusing other players in the game is really 
 awesome.
  
  The bad of the is without the tourney mode it seems really a small game. The online lags alot when 
 you play against another person.
  
  Overall this game is a really great fighting game to play. I rate this game 9 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalDuo1886
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 12:43 am PT
Review:  This SF4 is by far the most interesting/intriguing SF out to date. Some people may argue that 3rd 
 strike is better, and to be honest, it depends. You can compare minor mechanics changes, which 
 haven't change how old school players play one bit, or the ost (original soundtrack) , which if 
 that's the case, then 3rd strike wins :D, cause the music in this SF isn't exactly the type of 
 music you would expect in a type fighting game like this 
  (the intro speaks for itself) , but overall their no major changes, but the fact that the character 
 models are 3D. It still in a 2D platform setting, and still delivers the same. I'm personally still 
 a 3rd strike fan at heart, but you'll see no bias here, and I 100% assure it :D.
  
  The minor changes old SF fans will see off the back, is that they are no more parries, which is 
 actually pretty good, seeing how relentlessness people we're with them in 3rd strike, which kind 
 of isolated the series with Veteran SF fans only, which obviously wasn't fair to someone new who 
 wanted to get in on the fun, so they change it. The new replacement is a new move called "focus 
 attack" which requires you to press two buttons 
  ( usually punch and kick) , but control schemes can be changed. And what this does is knocks you 
 out to point where you can't do anything, but take abuse. It isn't that easy to pull off most of 
 the time though, cause unlike parries, Focus attacks can be counter if not timed right, and be 
 backed fire, which = oh no! I also noticed a lot of people don't use this move to much, but as 
 time goes on, it will used a lot more once the game is fully understood.
  
  Another unique add on, and I hope that stays is a new come back move called Ultra Attack. It a 
 flashy and entertaining and kind of cinematic, that if it lands, tells your opponent that the match 
 isn't over yet. This move is just like the old EX bar, but fill up by being attacked. , which makes 
 this bar your top priority bar, sense you will be attack, but whatever fill up first I say :D. 
 The Ultra Attack (depending on the fighter) aren't that easy to pull off. Some need to set up your 
 opponent or wait for a opening, and some don't sense different fighters have different ultra's, 
 like for instance charge back fighters like Guile needs there opponent to pursue them in order 
 too pull it off without missing + needs to charge in order to pull it off. These fighters I've 
 noticed are usually the fighters that aren't really like by everyone due to the timing difficulty 
 most will have, but its makes them unique and not a over used fighter like *cough* Ryu and Ken 
 XD. Anyways, you'll need to play around a bit to figure out which fighter and Ultra works for you, 
 just keep in mind that these moves can easily be blocked, based all the unique aspects it has that 
 I explain before, cause you can see it coming a mild away, so again timing is key.
  
  Overall this is the best it going to get when it comes being a balance SF game, even though one 
 can argue it hasn't change dramatically such as difficulty or the fighters, it still a change, 
 and great change if you ask me. It still carries true to the old school fans, but as for the new? 
 I can see some complaints coming down the line for new players, but obviously they will just have 
 to adjust or just wait till another fighting game to QQ (cry) about, cause fighting game never been 
 games for the weak or impatience. It for sure a collector item for any fighting fan, and I wouldn't 
 based getting this for the multiplayer, cause unfortunately fighting games online never been due 
 justice compare to shooters, but if you're looking for a game to play and have fun as fighting 
 game fan solo or with family and friends then this game, is right for you :D! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Alan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  There is an intrinsic quality of Street Fighter that accounts for its continuing popularity: beating 
 the crap out of people is fun (in a game!) , doubly so if it's your boastful friend who needs taken 
 down a peg or two. Few titles have made as big an impact on the gaming landscape as Street Fighter 
 II. With an iconic cast of characters like Blanka the big green freak and Zangief the big Russian 
 stereotype, matched with easy-to-grasp controls and a burgeoning arcade scene, it led to an explosion 
 in competitive gaming and a deluge of inferior wannabes. 18 years on and 27 sequels later, arcades 
 have become the bastion of glue-sniffing teenagers addicted to one-arm bandits and electronic poker. 
 What, then, is the relevance of Street Fighter in an era where most fighting games are niche titles 
 for hardcore players?
  
  Wisely, Capcom have gone back to the drawing board and built on the success of Street Fighter II 
 rather than its successors. The original twelve world warriors return with their unique moves and 
 personalities, while new challengers fit comfortably into the existing roster: ludicrous luchador 
 El Fuerte and Rufus, the kung fu master with scary wobbling man-breasts, are balanced with the 
 more serious femme fatale Crimson Viper, mixed martial artist Abel and Ryu's sensei Gouken. Arguably, 
 one of the main draws of the game is to see the stunning actualisation of the original cast in 
 3D. Vibrant and silky-smooth animation is peppered with calligraphic strokes and ink blots to jaw-dropping 
 effect. 
  
  Although the new characters are excellent, it's hard to resist the draw of old favourites like 
 Chun-Li and Guile. It's like meeting an old friend you haven't seen in years: you've both matured 
 and got a bit fatter, but there's still an undeniable rapport under the surface. Old pros will 
 be pulling off fireballs and dragon punches within minutes while newbies will appreciate the intuitive 
 "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" approach to the fundamental mechanics. 
  
  However, this doesn't mean things are easy. Street Fighter IV is a classic Capcom game from the 
 outset: tough but fair, unforgiving but rewarding. It doesn't make any concessions to newcomers 
 in the form of tutorials, preferring to drop you in headfirst and get an absolute kicking before 
 turning to the instructions and reading up on the intricacies of combat. Even the tutorials are 
 impossible to me to complete, although I'm not sure if that is indicative of the game or my skills. 
 New focus attacks allow players to parry opponents' strikes before countering, while Ultra combos 
 can easily turn the tide of battle. As you are attacked and take damage, a 'Revenge meter' builds. 
 When filled a character can unleash their most powerful attack, which can take off half your opponent's 
 health in a matter of seconds. Paradoxically, the game both embraces and shirks simplicity. Focus 
 attacks are much easier to perform than the notoriously difficult Parry system from Street Fighter 
 III, but there are so many gauges flashing on-screen that it can become a bit overwhelming.
  
  Combat is a grittier, altogether different experience from the over-the-top madness of Marvel 
 vs. Capcom 2 and the Street Fighter Alpha series. Punches and kicks connect with meaty sounds and 
 visible grimaces of pain from the victim. Slower pacing allows for more strategy than fast reactions, 
 which is reflected in the online play. Compared to the recent (and superb) Super Street Fighter 
 II Turbo HD Remix, in which fights can be over in mere seconds, battles in Street Fighter IV feel 
 more meaningful and considered. As someone who normally loses at HD, this means I get to enjoy 
 more time getting beaten up than staring at a results screen. 
  
  The online aspect of Street Fighter IV is a mixed bag: while the integration of online challengers 
 during your solo game is a nice touch, searching for games is an entirely different matter. To 
 put it bluntly, it never really works and you'll be punted back and forward trying to connect to 
 a game for several minutes at a time. The greatest fun from a fighting game is always to be had 
 when playing a friend in the same room and in this respect Street Fighter IV is no exception, but 
 once finally connected to an opponent online there is an admirable level of tension with no game-breaking 
 lag to spoil the fun.
  
  Street Fighter IV is a wonderfully crafted title that will enthral both veterans and curious bystanders 
 in equal measure. More importantly, it's a successful reinvention of a classic franchise and a 
 deliciously unpretentious slice of unadulterated fun. It raises the bar for the genre before savagely 
 beating the competition over the head with it: this challenger has easily become the new champion.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2009 12:52 am PT
Review:  Well, I have to say that this game is pretty damn good. Everyone that played Street Fighter II will 
 just take the controller and play like if it was Street Fighter II.
  
  The entire game is awesome, nice 2.5D graphics, new awesome characters, beautifull movies for the 
 story and many others nice things.
  
  The thing that I really appreciate of the game was the trial mode, it's the best way to learn new 
 combo with others characters for beginner and even adept of the game. The online is cool, it offer 
 a lot of challenger and that's maybe aother way to improve your skill in Street Fighter IV.
  
  
  Only two things really made me upset.
  
  1. The boss, Seth is such a bad character, 
 it's like the developers were having a lack of creativity and just come up with this sh***y character!!!!
 
  
  2. They are no characters of Street Fighter III (even if Alex was the only really cool new character) , 
 hey put characters of Street Fighter Alpha's series and Street Fighter II' series, but not Street 
 Fighter III?! Well, I think that's a shame.
  
  It's a pretty good game even if you never played it and for those like me) that played a lot at 
 Streeet Fighter II on the SNES, that's what we can call, a masterpiece.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: greaseman05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 10:14 pm PT
Review:  this game is all about competition. after unlocking all the characters, you can still unlock all 
 the extras like avatar, concept art, etc. in challenge mode. 
  but thats just good for filling the gap till your buddies come over and the real fun kicks in. 
 there is no such satisfaction as pulling of an ultra combo just as you are about to lose and you 
 turn things over or just winning perfect.
  
  the characters are all balanced out very well. just some moves are annoying to pull of with the 
 gamepads analog stick either on ps3 or xbox360 although in my opinion the 360 controller is a little 
 easier to play with.
  personnaly im getting used to the pad but if you are a hardcore fan you probably already have or 
 will buy an arcade type controller. pad is fine with me.
  
  at launch capcom already had 2 dlc costumes packs and a championship mode is coming soon.
  im 
 a little upset capcom charging for the costume packs since other fighting games already have multiple 
 costumes from the very beginning or are available to unlock.
  
  online fights are supposed to run very good with very little or no lag, unfortunatly i havent played 
 online myself yet.
  
  the visuals and sounds are top notch. the game has a very nice art style, nicely animated stages.
 
  after beating the arcade mode you can choose between japanese or english voices which is a nice 
 feature in my opinion.
  
  unfortunatly there are not too many stages included. most stages repeat themselves they just differ 
 in terms of weather or daytime.
  
  weither you're a fan of 2d fighting games or not, you will definatly like this game, specially 
 playing it with your friends, at home or online.
  
  enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmartini87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I've grown up on Street Fighter since I was little. The game was always spot on with controls, 
 characters, moves, etc. You couldn't find a better fighter out there, maybe Mortal Kombat competed 
 with it but I felt they were completely different styles of fighters. Many people these days didn't 
 believe a 2D fighter could compete with the 3D world. Street Fighter IV blows that right out the 
 window. All the classic characters are back, now in HD and boy do they look good. The controls 
 are responsive, though a bit getting used to on a joystick but soon after picking up the control 
 you'll be pulling of combos left and right. A few new characters have been added to this years 
 game and they seem to fit well into the Street Fighter universe. The only problem I have with SF 
 IV is the final boss, Seth. He seems a bit out of place in the Street Fighter universe and alot 
 of the time beating him, even on medium, is just as much about luck as skill. Its unforunate to 
 see M. Bison forced to step down as the lead boss in SF IV but it doesn't take away from the gameplay 
 too much. Though the last boss is frustrating, its just as satisfying when you beat him. I hope 
 Street Fighter IV brings back the old style of fighting, because though 3D is good, the classics 
 can never be beat. 
  
  - Martini 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carmine_The_Man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 9:44 am PT
Review:  This is the first SF game I've ever purchased, and I must say I'm impressed (and frustrated) . The 
 game has a great classic, arcade feel to it, and the music is perfect. There really isn't much 
 to say about the gameplay alone, it's a fighting game, with a big variety characters and moves. 
 There is also two nifty little super and ultra gauges at the bottom of the screen. The super bar 
 fills up or decreases depending on what attacks you do. The ultra (Or 'Revenge') gauge fills up 
 when you take hits from the enemy. When either is full you can press a button combination and perform 
 a super or ultra move (Ultra being the most powerful) , in which your character will do a devastatingly 
 awesome attack. 
  
  The controls are normal for a fighting game, and sometimes the big combos are hard to do with a 
 normal analogue stick and a lot of times you will get them wrong (Or at least I do) , though there 
 have been controllers released specifically for this game, I heard they are pretty rare. Still 
 though, I haven't had this game long and I'm yet to master all of the moves.
  
  The graphics are great, and the game has a lot of flashy effects and little mini cut scenes before 
 you do a super/ultra move, these really add to the fast-paced gameplay. The background also does 
 a weird flashy screen when you finish off somebody with a super/ultra move (And there is an achievement 
 for doing this 300+ times) .
  
  One thing that really gets to me about this game though is how hard it is. I don't know if it's 
 me that just sucks (I've hear others complain though) but I can't even complete the game on medium 
 difficulty, and any other difficulty wont unlock characters or achievements, but this is a good 
 thing as it encourages gamers to actually TRY to get better instead of just getting through it 
 without a challenge.
  
  The game also has online play and versus play, online has both ranked and player and consists of 
 your basic fights, no different game types. The only problem I have with this is when people spam 
 the same moves over and over, but they're not that frequent anyway.
  
  In conclusion, great game, worth a buy, but VERY challenging to newer SF players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0oJazZMano0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:44 am PT
Review:  I must admit I was mildly sceptical when this title was finally confirmed for release, having experienced 
 some of the pale sequels or 'sub-sequels' as I like to call them, I was concerned SFIV was going 
 to be a pretty but flawed game that wouldn't stand next to the iconic SFII and the slightly less 
 known SFIII.
  
  How wrong I was!
  
  All the original characters are back including the SFII Turbo posse, (excluding Deejay and Tomahawk, 
 I hated Tomahawk though so no real loss) and SF veterans will be happy to know the special move 
 controls are almost identical to the old school controls of the games of old. Meaning older fans 
 will be able to jump right into the acton and have a pretty good chance of pulling of a dragonpunch 
 or sonic boom. The additions to the moves list however is quite simply breathtaking. The ultra 
 and special combos inparticular are fantastic and amazong to watch. I soon found myself swearing 
 at the screen after being robbed of a victory by some flashy special move, which totally reminded 
 me of the old days of SFII around my mates house on a saturday afternoon, battling it out with 
 the then meager roster of eight characters.
  
  Arcade mode varies depending on the difficulty setting but simply put it is a very enjoyable experience. 
 The Challenge modes are probably what you'll find to be the hardest part of the game, starting 
 of really easy and gradually becoming impossibly hard! Some may be put off by the harder difficulty 
 arc on tougher challlenges but this doesn't really effect the game on the whole and the challenges 
 are optional.
  
  Verus mode is great and online play is good but needs in my opinion a slight revamp, hopefully 
 via an online update in the future. the lobby system seems very basic and there is no tournament 
 mode, BOO!
  
  Some slight online issues aside though this game has my vote for Game Of The Year, (so far...) 
 
  
  -Amazing Graphics, (apart from the monkeys somersaulting on the inland jungle stage, they look ridiculous 
 to be honest)
  -Amazing Gameplay,
  -Great Sound/Music, (I even like the cheesy theme music, it's infectious)
  -Highly Addictive,
 
  
  I do however feel that the scope for additional DLC is vast. Imagine a 'Lost and the Damed' stylee 
 download adding for instance the SNK Fatal Fury characters or even better still and this is the 
 one i'm praying for, a Marvel Superheroes DLC. Street Fighter verus Marvel is one of my favourite 
 Arcade games of all time. I know it's probably a big ask but I can dream :)
  
  If you liked the original incarnations of Street Fighter then you will adore SFIV, I know i do.....
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: redshimmy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:16 am PT
Review:  After picking this game up because of the massive hype and i also needed a fighter for my xbox 
 360 i was not left thinking ive just lost 30. The colour and flow of the game is something from 
 another planet and i haven't found any bugs or lag while playing.
  
  On the other hand DO NOT BUY IF YOUR NEW TO STREET FIGHTER OR DON'T HAVE TIME TO LEARN!! The game 
 is very hard to play and well impossible master! If you have weak temper you'll end up going through 
 20 xbox's after you've tried to beat the last boss and failed, and failed, and failed .................. 
 (yes smashing stuff up) but dont give up! the best part of this game is when you think there is 
 no hope and that KO is about to happen to you and then BANG! you nail the ultimate combo and win 
 the game wooooooooooooop!!!
  
  If your not a veteran of fighting games don't buy unless you can be bothered to learn .......... 
 the hard way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrOoLeR11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:00 am PT
Review:  The only problem i have with the game is the online "lobby" it is not much of a lobby at all not 
 to mention extremely hard to find a match unless you are playing with friends.... also the feature 
 enabling you to have someone join while you're playing arcade mode is clever, but gets annoying 
 very quickly, especially if you haven't gotten all the characters and just ends up being turned 
 off after you get the achievement for it most of the time anyway. If people want to play online 
 they just need to go into the live lobby..... very easy and I doubt people are so lazy that they 
 need to be pulled into a match. If they are they shouldn't have bought the game in the first place. 
 The character selection is pretty goo but the characters are really unbalance at times....
  like the fact that Zangif's regular attacks are stronger than some characters' special 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMSL
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Although I should have been doing homework over last weekend, I took a trip to gamestop and asked 
 for a copy. I took the game home hoping it would be worth the 11 year wait. It was.
  
  Street fighter IV, if you couldn't tell by the title, is a 2D motion fighter with 3D graphics. 
 Although it doesn't have such a huge array of characters like Brawl did, it still has about 20. 
 You could argue that some characters are replicas of each other, but that is untrue. Some characters 
 may have the same special moves, but with the variation in style and use of these special moves, 
 they are quite different and characters are worth unlocking.
  
  The gameplay itself is, put simply, amazing. There is one problem with the 360 version of the game 
 and that is the D-Pad. If you push down too far to the right on the D-Pad, the game will sense 
 that you pushed up so it's very hard to pull special moves off with characters like Blanka, Vega, 
 and Balrog. Other than that though, the gamplay is very fun to play.
  
  Graphic-wise, this game doesn't shine as much like games such as Halo 3, Gears of War, and other 
 games released after 2006 on the 360. However, the game does have a unique art style. Focus attacks, 
 which are performed by holding down the mid Punch and kick buttons, release a line of black ink 
 on whichever body part the character attacked with. It may sound stupid but it looks beautiful 
 and adds some Japanese culture into the game. Character expressions were big in this game... literally. 
 If you use an ultra combo with characters like C. Viper, up close to the opponent, their faces will 
 stretch a mile wide. They obviously wanted to add some humor into this game.
  
  There is 1 major problem in the game and that is, SETH. This guy uses the cheapest moves ever. 
 If you haven't heard of Seth before, he has attacks from every character in the game (almost) and 
 uses 1 technique that acts as a vacuum to pull the player close. Once he's done that, you better 
 say mercy. He will then do a grab technique that throws you into the air then spirals you down 
 to the ground. Keep in mind that this is on the "easiest" difficulty.
  
  Well there you have it. Street Fighter IV is an amazing game with minor setbacks and Seth. In fact 
 Seth is what made this a "9.5" if it weren't for him, it would be a 10. If anyone has a cheap (as 
 in cheap combos) guide to beating seth, PLEASE. Tell me. Anyway, thanks for reading and go play 
 some SFIV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loneskater52
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Being a child of the 90s street fighter craze, I found myself esctatic to hear that Street Fighter 
 IV was going to be hitting the shelves after a decade. If your like me, the sound of a good Hadoken 
 brings back some great nostalgia. I was still skeptical though and decided to wait until the GameSpot 
 review...9... I was sold. Bought it that day. Little did i know the frustration to come...
  
  I am the kind of gamer that likes to hone my skills and climb to greatness. I eventually like 
 to be able to dominate my competitors in all areas of combat. I came home and cracked the case 
 to SF4 and began my training right away. My friend and I began to go through all of the characters 
 and attempt their Special and Ultra moves. This is were the game began to have problems. The Special 
 and Ultra attacks (along with the backgrounds and most of the game) were visually stunning, entertaining, 
 and leave the even the most advid SF fans fully satisfied, but once you work past Ryu and Ken, 
 the Special/Ultra moves (and even a ton of the basic moves) BECOME INCREDIBLY MORE DIFFICULT. I 
 have yet to see Guile's Ultra move due to the complexity of the move ("charging" plus a VERY akward 
 thumb movement) . These problems stem from the inaccessable, arcade-style button/joystick configuration 
 that leaves Xbox players at a disadvantage and the overall akward set up of the game.
  
  The Button/Joystick Config: The button configuration was kept true to the original Street Fighter 
 acrade buttons, and here in lies the problem. Light, Medium, and Heavy punches and kicks are all 
 there but the main problem lies in the joystick/d-pad. Almost of the Ultra moves (and even alot 
 of the basic moves) require a complex movement of the Joystick or D-pad (Some look like lightining 
 bolts while others just feel akward to a 360 controller) . These complex movements are based off 
 the original arcade joystick movements. These movements are damn near IMPOSSIBLE to perform consistently 
 on an XBOX 360 joystick or D-pad. The game mechanics are simply unaccessable to the XBOX360 controller 
 (and its Horrid Dpad) . The akward joystick movements seriously hinder you fighting ability (COMBO 
 LINKAGE!!!) . Train as you may... you won't be rifling off Guile's Ultra move in battle left and 
 right so don't plan on it. 
  
  Overall Setup (Strategy) Pt.1. Arcade Mode: After me and my buddy spent days practicing and tried 
 millions of Ultra Move attempts, we decided to hit the arcade mode in hopes of beating some familiar 
 a**es. Like a sheep walking into a lion's den, I set the game difficulty on Medium. My friend and 
 I were KO'ed nearly immediatly. The game has 6 difficulty settings ranging from Easiest to Hardest. 
 These settings definitley do not reflect their name. The AI is able to pull off extreme combos 
 seemlessly without any gap in timing while you are left taking an unfufilling beating. "Why don't 
 you just get good at combo's and blocking?", you might say. The linking of combos is again, thrown 
 back to the old school acrade style of combos where movement but especially TIMING are pivitol. 
 It requires not only perfect timing, but "Focus Canceling" which is complex as h*ll in the first 
 place. "Focus Cancelling" (cancelling a move in mid-frame in order to set up a combo) into a bada** 
 combo is, once again, very inaccessable due to the awful joystick/Dpad setup on the 360. You will 
 VERY RARELY be able to pull off a decent combo against an EASY computer opponent; much less throwing 
 consistent combos at a HARD opponent. Ultra moves also require some sort of combo set-up to be 
 effective in battle (ex: hitting you opponent into the air, leaving them unable to block/dodge 
 your Special/Ultra Move) . This is also made virtually impossible by terrible Arcade to 360 transition. 
 You find yourself not being able to link combos together, resulting in your character pausing (without 
 blocking) , leaving yourself disgustingly open to abuse from the AI, which by the way, never misses 
 its timing on a combo.
  
  Overall Setup (Strategy) Pt.2. XBOX live (Online) mode: After getting my a** thoroughly shalacked 
 on medium and barely squeeking by very easy, my buddy and I thought "This game is rough. Lets play 
 online. If we can't whoop a** consistently wih these controllers and funky moves, then noone can 
 right." We set up the surprisingly convienient "fight-as-you-wait" feature and were soon challenged 
 to our first match. The beatings began to rain down from all directions after that. We were no 
 match for the good Live players either! The good Live opponents WERE ABLE to pull off combos, and 
 they WERE ABLE to link combos into Ultra Moves. "What gives?", me and my friend thought. After 
 some research, I found how the good online players could play almost like the were on an aracde 
 machine while the rest of us sturggle to throw three punches together. Thats because they bought 
 the Street Fighter Acrade FIGHT PAD. This fight pad is an accessory to your Xbox 360 that acts 
 as a controller but is set up like an arcade with a fully functioning joystick! BS I proclaimed. 
 I did some more research to find out that these things (for cheap on Ebay) are selling for $99!!!. 
 This appears to be the only way to hold a candle to anyone decent online or arcade mode. This ruined 
 the game for me. I refuse to pay $99 dollars in order to be good at Street Fighter IV...
  
  Overall Setup (Strategy) Pt.3. Challenge Mode: Once again, great idea by Capcom, limited by the 
 controller/joystick setup. They have the typical, survival and time trial challenges which pits 
 you up against time and multiple opponents consecutively, but what had potential was the Trial 
 mode. This mode was created in order to teach the player the combos of their character respectivley. 
 Although this is a good idea, you can try FOREVER and still never complete trial mode. The movement 
 of the joystick and timing of the buttons just never seem to flow due to the insolvency of the 
 Xbox Dpad/joystick. This is EXTREMELY FRUSTERATING, thus ruining challenge mode for me.
  
  I say this is the biggest RENTAL game I have ever seen because if you are like me, you cannot pass 
 up an opportunity to have Ryu and Ken back on your screen duking it out with E. Honda and Chun-Li. 
 And if you are a gamer that only cares graphics and isn't worried at acceling at the game, then 
 disregard my number review score and give it a ten. But if you like to rule your domain and love 
 Street Fighter, rent this one and find out for yourself how unwelcoming this new game is. Anybody 
 wanna give me a fight pad?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayhokkuu
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:17 pm PT
Review:  very good game, and to put it simply it's street fighter with 3D graphics. Other than that, if 
 you've played street fighter you can stop reading here. for those that haven't, read on : street 
 fighter is a great game series with fun interactive gameplay that never gets old. but, unlike other 
 fighting games, the cpu's are nearly impossible on your first run no matter the difficulty. another 
 good point to the game is it's all skill, but online play and hard cpu's are usually cheap as hell. 
 some of the characters are hard to use, but i've gone right as far as choosing Ryu (the main character) 
 as my fighter from day one. other fighters aren't as easy especially with the hard to read manual 
 on controls and that's the only way you'll learn how to do moves. But other than that, you basically 
 choose your fighter and stick to 'um or you'll get smashed by the cpu's and online fights. But, 
 still a good game overall and i'd say one of the best fighting games of all time (at least up there 
 with super smash) . those of you reading this to find out if you want to buy it or not, i highly 
 suggest buying it, it's worth the $60, TRUST ME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vonstalhein
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2009 3:00 am PT
Review:  Disclaimer: Street Figher IV (SF4) may not be suitable for gamers with high blood pressure.
  
  SF4, the latest in a genre, and often child-hood defining series, delivers a heavy one-two-three 
 blow of adrenaline, frenetic combat, and anuerism inducing frustration. It's gorgeous to look at, 
 although you'll seldom have the time to sit back and admire the animation and backgrounds until 
 you're playing 'winner stays on', and it's just as fluid to play. I can't, however, bestow any 
 superlatives on the much-lauded beat 'em up, because there are flaws. Some serious, some not so, 
 but let's dispel the hype firstly shall we?
  
  Getting down to the nitty gritty, as t'were, takes a moments reflection. There are plenty of peripheral 
 issues, niceties and features that surround the core fighting mechanic, but it is ultimately, (un) like 
 a boxer with a face only a mother could love and barely two brain-cells to rub together, the fighting 
 that counts.
  The combo system is tight as ever, with special moves relying on strength of punch/kick to vary 
 the moveset and animation, and the super/ultra combos utilising the left triggers/bumpers. For 
 the most part, Capcom have kept the super moves simple, throwing in the odd 'hold' button presses 
 to mix things up. However, without the benefit of a stick (i'm talking Hori not a cane to punish 
 your erstwhile street fighting colleagues with) the button presses, especially in tight spots, 
 can be infuriatingly inconsistent. 
  However, the counter system works like a charm. If you can drag your peepers away from the plethora 
 of toned posteriors, you can execute a counter, which will absorb damage and confer it to you upon 
 successfully clattering your opponent. Counters can be charged to a level of block-breaking brutality, 
 but at the mercy or subsequent, faster attacks that negate your counter altogether. All told, it's 
 a lovely risk-reward scenario that adds a good deal of depth to proceedings. (more so than say, 
 an empty swimming-pool level, which, having parenthesised it, would actually be quite cool) It 
 also means, no matter how consistent your pummeling, you have recourse to turn the tides of battle.
 
  
  (Hope all this talk of flowing and water isn't making your bladder ache)
  
  Ultimately, this game deserves judgment based on how it plays with  
 It's frustrating, put it that way. Balance plays a large part in this, or lack thereof. Forgive 
 me my obtusity for not mastering every single play-style and character before positing this, but 
 some characters are just better than other characters. I hate to rely on anecdotal evidence, but 
 the fact seems to be, whomever you are playing can interrupt your grinning winning streak simply 
 by reverting to Sagat, doing a few heavy kicks, and then over-powering you with the sheer manliness 
 of his chest scar. Characters other than Ken, Ryu and Sagat seem to be exaggerations of a certain 
 play style, be it ranged, up close or combo driven. This means that apart from in the hands of 
 an exceptionally skilled brawler, the holy trinity of Shoryuken, Hadouken and.... the hurricane 
 kick thing are by far the most effective movesets. Not even El Fuerte's insanely cool cooking penchant 
 can turn a Hadouken into a flambe'd fillet of veal. By that i mean, he can't counter stuff very 
 good like.
  
  To summate: SF4 is a worthy addition, probably the best of the series, but best played in short 
 doses should you want to avoid game-rage, and the entirely real possibility of starting up your 
 own street (living room) fight. In such an eventuality, take it from me, a failed shoryuken will 
 be punished mercilessly.
  
  Danndandandandandandan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebvan
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 2:09 pm PT
Review:  So over this past weekend I decided I was going to rent the new Street Fighter game. I've been 
 hearing lots of praise for the game and wanted to give it a go. From playing the game for the past 
 5 days or so, I can tell you that it is definitely worth your money to rent it, and probably worth 
 your money to buy it (if your into fighting games) .
  
  Graphics - The first thing that pops out at people when they put in SF4 is the new cel (ish) -shaded 
 graphics. I don't know if any of the engines or graphics from Prince of Persia were put into this 
 game, but I definitely had the feel that the new Prince of Persia game and SF4 had a great deal 
 in common. The characters feel cartoony, but not too cartoony. In addition, the graphics all run 
 smoothly and all the super combo and ultra combo mini-cutscenes flow well.
  
  Sound - I'm iffy on the sound in this game. There definitely is A LOT of sound, and even A LOT 
 of good sound; but it's kind of overkill. It goes from J-Pop, to announcers, to screaming, to yelling, 
 to grunting, and so on. I guess what I really mean is that the fighting sounds in the game (the 
 yelling, screaming, general fighting SFX) are done very well, but the menu music and announcer's 
 just drive you insane.
  
  Gameplay - SF4 doesn't really try to reinvent the wheel in terms of gameplay, but there are a couple 
 new nuances to this game which add to the experience. All the combos are the same and if you've 
 played any Street Fighter game before, you'll easily master the combos again. down-over-ACONSTANTLY. 
 The main new features in terms of gameplay are the revenge bar and focus attacks. The revenge bar 
 is Street Fighter's way of having rubberband physics. Like in some racing games, if you crash early, 
 it's easy to come back because the computer seems to slow down for you. With the revenge bar, if 
 your getting your ass wooped early on, you're attacks will have more damage when they do finally 
 land, FURY IS GIVETH! Basically, fights will stay closer. The focus attacks are kind of cool in 
 the sense that they are semi-unblockable, but that's about it.
  
  Features - One big gripe I had with Street Fighter was the lack of truly different things. There's 
 your standard arcade mode, a time attack, and a survival mode. But that's about it. I would have 
 loved to at least see some sort of tournament mode. The multiplayer is pretty cut and dry too. 
 I will say though that the quality of matches on XBL is very good and there is almost no waiting 
 time in lobbies for a fight and the matches are generally lag free.
  
  Overall - Like I said earlier, this game is a definite rent and a possible buy. If your familiar 
 with the SF series then rent the game first and see what you think. If your not familiar, then 
 I would say download the demo of Street Fighter 2 Turbo HD Remix on Xbox Arcade and see if that's 
 your kind of style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adakin01
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:56 am PT
Review:  Aw-some graphics for a animated 3d fighter and is all its cracked up to be. Immense Graphics and 
 stunning game play. 
  
  I have described it briefly in that paragraph. But yet it has so much to offer. It is very similar 
 to the astonishing street fighter 2 super hd remix edition. The moves you and i know to be the 
 all famous Hadoken has also been digitally remastered to bring you the best graphics, to make you 
 feel as if is right in front of you. Also their is now a super and a ultra bar which allows you 
 to do your 2 new hadokens as well as the original one. the ultra one is a short cut scene which 
 really shows you the hadoken as it is formed and is fired as it pummels into the opponents defenceless 
 body.
  
  So their is much more to offer and if i were you reading this with no copy of street fighter iv, 
 I would run down to the shops right now and go get my copy of possibly the best street fighter 
 so far..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 9:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is a really good fighter. To me it was better than any of the other fighters out for the 
 360. But after you unlock the people on this game it kind of just gets boring i mean i like it but 
 after you beat it, it just gets a little old.
  But still it kept my attention while i played it, it was a great fighting experience.
  I felt 
 they could have put a few more of the old street fighter characters in this one. But all in all 
 this is worth playing if your not a fighting fan it should still capture your attention for a while 
 to me it was good but im not gonna give it a perfect. But it still was a good game i only have a 
 few complaints.
  Its really confusing to try and read the command/move list, because you have to try to read the 
 little font and stuff. And even when you figure out how to do the moves they are still a bit complicated 
 because it involves you spinning the left stick around and pressing a high punch or high kick to 
 complete a ultra finish or super combos. But other than that it was a pretty good game besides the 
 pointless animated cutscenes. I give this a 8.5 out of 10 because it had me entertained for a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidussnakem
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I don't have much to say besides play the game. The effects of the ultra attacks are amazing, the 
 gameplay is just fantastic and the multiplayer is perfect to improve your skills around the world. 
 I was a little worried about the graphics in the game because they were changing, but I must say 
 they changed for the better. One of the most annoying features in the game though is the fact that 
 the computer relys too much on focus and ex attacks, even though this makes you a better fighter 
 it doesn't save you all the time. This is one of the greatest fighting games ever and needs to 
 be in every fighting game tournament. It's one kick ass game!!!! It was well worth waiting for, 
 and fighting against the best in the world is the best part of the game. I also enjoy the fact 
 that fighters online don't talk too much trash because the tides in battle can change quickly if 
 your not careful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: varkdm
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter IV Review, 360 (review system) & PS3
  
  I have a confession to make before I embark on this review. It is something I have had to come 
 to terms with over the years, even more so over the last few weeks. I am not a fan of the Street 
 Fighter games. I've played them and enjoyed them to an extent, but I've never felt that enamoured 
 with them. I was quite happy to ignore SF4, however my friends and the games media refused to allow 
 that. Holidays had to be arranged with the release date in mind, gaming nights were booked up and 
 challenges were issued, months in advance. The reviews were all good, some sites have given it 
 a rare "10/10"  I couldn't miss out on this and so decided to join in. Was it worth it? Does the 
 game deserve the accolades? Sort of...
  
  As I said, I'm not a fan of the Street Fighter series, the only time I got to play the games was 
 at friends houses, where they had many hours, if not days, of practice with which to soundly beat 
 me every time I picked up a joypad. With that kind of introduction it was never going to have a 
 chance with me. I enjoyed the Mortal Kombat and Soul Calibur series, SC4 being my favourite beat 
 em up to date and MK3 being the first I really enjoyed (I had that annoying three hit combo and 
 net launcher move on Cyrax, down to a tee) . My skill with these games is passable, I'm certainly 
 not bad but I would not bet money on me ever winning a match. With beat em ups in general I enjoy 
 playing against friends and beating the single player challenges. So that's where I'm coming from 
 with this review.
  
  So let's start with the basics  graphics and sound are all good. The game has a unique cell shaded 
 style that really makes it stand out. Everything is 3D, all though you can only play from one side 
 of the screen to the other, there is no depth to the arena's, as well realised and colourful as 
 they are. Special moves and combo's result in pleasing screen filling graphical effects and more 
 often than not, moments of comedy, where the temporarily frozen image on screen, results in an 
 entirely amusing facial expression on the victim. It's these little flourishes that add so much 
 to the multiplayer experience, at least when playing with people in the same room. Like so much 
 of the game, this is mostly lost when playing online or the single player. The sound effects are 
 crisp and fitting, the music is exactly as cheesy as it should be. The announcer voices are annoying 
 and irrelevant and the voice acting is terrible. All the staples of a beat em game then.
  
  In terms of what challenges the game has to offer, well there is an awful lot to get through. There 
 are sixteen characters to begin with and several more to be unlocked. I don't know really know 
 how the new characters fit in, compared with previous games, but they all seem equally stupid/over 
 the top/far fetched as any other characters. The impression I got from friends who are apparently 
 in the know, was that they mostly play quite differently to the existing line up and they offer 
 some new challenge and welcome variety. I found myself favouring C. Viper, a female executive in 
 a weapon clad business suit. Like so many high powered female business executives, she shows no 
 remorse or mercy as she electrocutes, burns and earthquakes her way through those in her way. 
 
  
  The single player has many different game modes to offer, split into arcade, training and six lengthy 
 challenges. The training mode is a useful place to hone your skills and learn each new characters 
 moves. This generally doesn't take too long, as the game uses a mixture of simple technique with 
 impeccable timing, rather than complex series of button presses. This is the first beat em up I've 
 played that seems better suited to the analogue stick than the d-pad. Moves are generally initiated 
 by swirling the stick in a specific motion and hitting an attack key. The motions vary by character, 
 but the premise remains the same. 
  
  What is really important is when you execute a move, a slight misjudgement will leave you critically 
 open to counter attack. Hardest of all to time right are the super and ultra combos. During the 
 fight you have three gauges  your health, your ultra meter and your combo meter. Health is as 
 you would expect, the ultra meter charges as you take damage and the combo meter charges as you 
 hand it out. Once the ultra meter has filled past half way, you can pull off an ultra combo. If 
 it hits home, it will generally hit your opponent for half their health  it's a match winning 
 move, but you have to have taken a pretty solid beating in order to get access to it. Your opponent 
 can block this and you can also just completely miss them. It takes longer to activate and is trickier 
 than the other combos, so when you actually land one it's a great feeling. The same can be said 
 for the super combos. These are slightly weaker versions that are executed in a similar way, but 
 drain your combo meter instead. You can also trade in some of your built up combo points to super 
 charge your special attacks, making them hit twice instead of once. This system works well and 
 gives a losing player options even when the fight seems hopelessly lost. The simplicity of the 
 controls means that mastering the game is a matter of learning to read your opponent and time your 
 attacks. All of this makes the versus game mode a joy to play. I got to test it out with four friends, 
 with the usual winner stays on rules. Whilst I was easily the worst, it was still enjoyable to 
 occasionally surprise them. There was a lot of taunting and laughter throughout the session, from 
 that perspective this game is certainly a triumph.
  
  As I mentioned before, for me there are two key areas, I've just covered the versus game play, 
 so now a look at the single player game mode. Without a doubt, the most fun to be had here, is 
 in the Challenges. There are three types of challenge, each has two difficulty bandings which are 
 further split down into many increasingly tough sections. The challenges range from mastering moves 
 and combinations of moves, against a static opponent; to having to beat a selection of opponents 
 with only one health bar; to having to defeat several opponents within a set time. Winning each 
 section grants one of the games many unlocks. Unlocks come in the form of titles, icons, costume 
 colours and in game taunts. There are hundreds of these unlocks  which is good and bad, I could 
 not tell you what any of the titles or icons I've unlocked actually mean. The different coloured 
 costumes are virtually unnoticeable and most of the taunts are pretty pointless, they don't even 
 have much comedy value either. I can't help but think that with all these unlocks, they had the 
 right idea but failed in it's implementation.
  
  The other single player game mode is the traditional Arcade mode, where you fight your way through 
 increasingly tough opponents, uncovering a simple storyline as you progress, before fighting one 
 or two boss characters to complete it. Completing the arcade mode typically awards you with a character 
 unlock, so it's the best way of getting access to the full array of characters available. Whilst 
 this is the mainstay of any fighting game, its SF4's single biggest failure. I've seen the reviews 
 that grant this game full marks and having now played it, I can't help but think those reviews 
 were written by raving fans of the series, no normal human being could possibly find the arcade 
 mode "enjoyable". Each character's story is told through a mixture of in game and animated cut 
 scenes. The in game cut scenes are nice enough, the animated ones are terrible. As is usual none 
 of it makes any sense  so why bother? Either do it properly, or just don't do it all. Having completed 
 the arcade mode with numerous characters now, I could not tell you what the plot of this game is, 
 or what the plot of any of the characters is. However, this is a beat em up, so it's hardly the 
 end of the world. 
  
  The cataclysmic failure of the arcade mode is simply the difficulty. For the most part you can 
 work your way through the standard opponents, often you will encounter one character amongst them 
 who will take many attempts to defeat, usually because their fighting style in the hands of the 
 AI, turns out to be a perfect match for your own style and that of your chosen character. I personally 
 found Zangief and Chun Li to consistently challenge me, but I know others have found various different 
 characters to have this effect. This isn't so bad, however what makes it more frustrating than 
 it needs to be, is what happens after a defeat. What everyone wants to do in this situation is 
 try the fight again, as quickly as possible. Rather than just giving you the option to do that, 
 you have to tell it you want to proceed, then re-choose your character and their costume, before 
 it plays the line-up animations and irritating announcer voices, before the match starts. I'm sure 
 when reading this, it sounds pretty petty of me to bring it up, but really.. you try this game 
 on arcade mode and you will see how quickly it really gets on your nerves.
  
  I have not yet got to the bit about this game that particularly upsets me. The final boss, Seth, 
 is some sort of android that mixes a selection of moves from different characters, combined with 
 the ability to teleport. Whoever designed this boss must have been sponsored by Microsoft and Sony 
 to do it, the numbers of smashed controllers must be astronomical. I've heard of at least two so 
 far and I've been tempted to destroy an inanimate object or two myself, when playing against him. 
 Even on the easiest possible setting (the default is "medium", below that you have "easy", "very 
 easy" and "easiest"!) , he is a complete arse. The teleporting around makes it hard to line up any 
 attacks (they are all direction based, you can start a move but he will instantly teleport behind 
 you, making the move void) . I can't prove it but I'm sure he "cheats", ignoring blocks and special 
 attacks when he is setting up his own. I've also seen him in the street kicking puppies, smuggling 
 weapons to 3rd world dictators and I have it on good authority he was behind all the dodgy deals 
 in the banks for the last ten years. It's the cheapness of these boss fights that makes it so infuriating. 
 
  
  This effectively destroyed the single player for me, any beat em up I get will see equal action 
 against friends and against the AI. The arcade mode is so poorly thought out, that I simply can't 
 be bothered to keep playing through it to get all the unlocks and accolades, my heart can do without 
 the strain and my wallet without the burden of replacing smashed controllers. 
  
  So, in my humble opinion, I can only recommend this game to people who know they will extensively 
 use it for playing against other humans, online or in person. If you like to spend a good amount 
 of time beating single player challenges  be warned, this game is for the super human or the sadist 
 amongst us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspartan1992
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:41 am PT
Review:  street fighter 4 debut was last yr around august 2008 and shook japan's arcades for months till 
 the console release. The game is now in 3d graphics, but moves like a 2D game with one dimension 
 of movement. The story is taken between sf2 and sf3 timeline so, it goes like this on a timeline:
 
  Street fighter alpha
  street fighter 2
  street fighter 4
  street fighter 3
  
  Graphics: the graphics are top notch, and nearly make your jaw drop in amazement.
  
  sound: 
 some of the english and japanese voices are cheesy, but once you beat the game you can switch them 
 out on which voices you like best for any character seperately.
  
  Gameplay- the game play is 10% street fighter alpha, 30% street fighter 3, and 60% street fighter 
 2. The game also brings in new characters abel, el feurte, rufus, and crimson viper, who have their 
 own unique style and should offer amusement for street fighter newcomers and veterans to master.
 
  The game play is as addictive (if not more) sf2, has the mindgames like sf3, and the combo system 
 somewhat feels like a mix of all the street fighters, for ex. Ken's target combo is taken from 
 his sf3 counterpart, his LP and LK combos are taken from his sfa counterpart, and his long combos 
 are from his super turbo counterpart. the unlockables will satisfy you, the the challenges will 
 challenge and hone your skills, so everything is here to make newcomers veterans.
  
  Like i said the game will have you addicted, and you'll find yourself playing 100 games (like the 
 old days of sf2) and dont realize it until you look up at the wins and loses.
  
  i highly recommend this game to all street fighter newcomers and veterans, and this should not 
 be missed by any fighting game gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BorisSoad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:09 am PT
Review:  Street Fighter is a game I've never played when I was young. Simply because I wasn't born back 
 then. Time to set things straight. I was looking for a fighting game for a long time. Soul Calibur, 
 Dead or Alive, Tekken. I've downloaded demos from those titles. They were cool, but not what I 
 was looking for. Then the SF HD remix was launched. I tried it, not expecting much. I was suprised, 
 the game rocked, although it was very old. 
  
  From that moment on I was looking forward to this game. And it was everything I expected it to 
 be. Every character has their own reason to join the tournament and every character has its own 
 storyline. The story isn't fantastic, there are three cut-scene per character, but it still is 
 fun. You get to know each character better. The story mode is simply called arcade, and is really 
 old-school. You have to play through the mode withouth saving. If you die, you can try again from 
 where you were, but you can't save. 
  
  I was slightly dissapointed in this, but after a couple of times I kind of liked it. Of course 
 there is the versus mode, in which you can fight your friend or a CPU. There is a challenge mode, 
 in which you have to achieve challenges. Of course. There is a time trial, a survival mode and 
 a trial mode. I thought trial was the hardest. This is O. K. but for me it doesn't really add anything. 
 
  
  The xbox live battles are probably the best thing about this game. They are so intense and you 
 get such a kick when you win. This never gets boring. 
  
  There is a ranking system, and you can unlock icons and titles by doing certain stuff. This is 
 fun and winning a new icon is really fun. This is a great addition, altough it's just a small thing. 
 
  
  Shamefully there are a couple of small things I didn't like. One of them, and the worst, is Seth. 
 Seth is the bald and silver boss at the end of the arcade. He can do all sorts of moves, but then 
 better. And what I hated mainly about him was the fact that you can defeat him better without using 
 any moves. I mean, that sucks. It seems there also is a difference between fighting him with different 
 characters. With Sakura it's really hard, while with Ryu at the same difficulty I could own him 
 with my eyes shut. That brings the second bad thing: there really is a lot of trouble unlocking 
 characters. You can't see how to unlock anyone. The first six are simple though, just complete 
 the arcade with a couple of guys. But Akuma and especially Gouken can give a lot of trouble. I 
 have them both now, but I still don't know for sure what to do to get them. 
  
  The characters are really great, by the way. Nearly the whole cast from SF2 is there. The new characters 
 aren't the strongest ones, but are great too. C. Viper, Rufus, Abel are great additions to the 
 game. 
  
  Overall: SF 4 is awesome. Just awesome and I would recommend it to anyone who likes fighting games, 
 altough it can be quite hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombiebrian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  Lets get the Flaws out of the way first! 
  
  1) Seth, One hell of a cheap boss if you throw your pad when you get beat somewhat unfairly by 
 a boss that teleports next to you and instantly grabs you you'll hate him.
  
  2) Akuma and Sagat are grossly overpowered as such when you play online expect the cheap players 
 of this world to use them often. 
  
  3) The challenge mode where you pull off combo's you can pull off 3 hard combo's but if you cant 
 do the fourth no matter how hard you try then your stuck at it and will eventually (probobly to 
 go to bed) have to give up and do all three combo's again.
  
  4) The stories of all the characters havent really changed all that much Sakura for example is 
 just the same as is Sagat, you'd think in all these years something would have happened.
  
  5) Not one SF4 Character has made it not has the brilliant Parry system from that game that was 
 probably the highlight of that game.
  
  6) minor quibble but where are all the arena's there should be loads and i'd still like to throw, 
 smack people into barrels etc.
  
  You know sf4t will come and i look forward to it i hope it addresses some of the above. 
  
 
  The game is Addictive you find you spend a whole lot of time on it perfecting your skills The 
 challenge of online play will keep this game great as long as it's popular. If you liked SF2 or 
 any SF game this is a great version and graphically good to look at but dont go in expecting a 
 gaming revolution the truth is the formula is the same and even a bit stripped down in places but 
 when the cake is this good does anyone care.
  
  I advise you all to pick this game up at some stage whither it be in the bargain bin (you'll have 
 a long wait0 or brand new it's worth it's money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warp10ck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Think I was 11 when SF2 came out and that game blew me away, was wasting money at the arcade and 
 feeling like a king everytime I used Ryu's hadouken to finish someone off.
  And allthough I loved SF3 third strike that game did not impress just as much as SF2 did.
  
 
  
  So Street Fighter IV did the game deliver ? yes it did and more.
  First of all I am glad to see that they had most of characters from SF2 in this game and a couple 
 of new ones my favourite being Rufus Fat Bastard's marcial arts cousin (get in my belly) .
  
  All the SFII fans will feel right at home only problem is that the 360 controller can be annoying 
 to play with and getting the combo you want at the right time can be a little difficult, so getting 
 another controller is highly reccomended for that real Street Fighter experience.
  
  And my reason is for not giving this game a full 10 is that it is really hard to play ,seriously 
 been mostly playing in hard mode but even the easiest mode can be really difficult at times.
  
  And this game might scare of the casual players and all that remains is the hardcore players 
 wich I think is a little sad because I like playing this game casualy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarNone101
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm so drunk writing this review I dont even feel like telling you how great this game is. If your 
 wasting your time reading this review, don't bother I'm drunk and this game is BLISS.... Now go 
 buy it if you haven't already. Well I see there is a hundred word minimum and I'm just gonna ramble 
 until i meet the quota. So like i said this game is awesome, contender for GOTY, but I doubt it 
 wins that award. Good enough to be nominated tho... Ryu is amazing, Ken is amazing, Sakura is a 
 good as she's gonna be, what more do you want from me. Multiplayer is seamless, the game's difficulty 
 is perfect, and it deserves to carry the street fighter name. Did I mention that the graphics are 
 awesome. so go ahead and send us your bones!!! well I dont really know what else to say about this 
 game, k this is probably one of the most worthless reviews ever written but this game is soo tight 
 I just had to make sure I showed Capcom some love for this one... Now I think I'll get back to playing 
 more SF4. Im sure all you ppl who have wasted your precious time reading this know exactly what 
 I'm talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I played about twelve hours of SF4 until I hit the massive boredom point where i'm not seeing the 
 reason to play it again in a long time. The game has some shining qualities, and some displeasing 
 flaws. Read on.
  
  The graphics of the game are a mixed bag of amazing artistic features and unimpressive technical 
 display. The fighters looks quite good and move in an impressive way, with tons of great animations, 
 yet the backgrounds arent that great. Some of them are good, but the other half looks like if they 
 were ripped off a PS2 game, most importantly on NPC's in the background wich looks kinda blocky. 
 The hand drawn lines that modify some combats effect like focus hits are nice looking, even more 
 during the finish pose of your fighters.
  
  The gameplay is rock-solid, with enough stuff to keep the newcomer entertained, as long as they 
 don't try the ultra macho online competition where every tactic works, cheap or less cheap,, since 
 you see, people want to win. I myself tested some cheap tactics, and managed to get my 10 win streak 
 achievement with a neat focus strike when my opponent would stand on his feet, locking him on the 
 ground until the KO. There's some good fun to be had if you've got the skills, and the thrills 
 of kicks and fists exchange can be amazing.
  
  A fighting game is as good as its fighting system and its fighters, right? Well, Street Fighter 
 doesnt bear the flame so well in 2009 than it did in the 90. You see, some of them wear tight outfits 
 with plastic spaulders ( m. bison, it used to be cool, but now, not so well) some others have extremely 
 ugly design ( chun li, guile, zangief ) and so on. I understand its good for nostalgia, but newcomers 
 may just laugh at some of the characters and get turned off by them. I, for myself, used to play 
 the old SF's and I kinda hoped they'd change some of the character design, wich smells too much 
 of the 90' galore and fashion that is now pretty much dead.
  
  That said, unless you're a SF fan already or a fighting game lover, this game won't hold much of 
 your attention, as i'm already bored with it, yet I've played tons of fighting games wich held 
 my attention a lot longer than this one. It may be because it has a '' I overplayed this 14 years 
 ago'' feel and that 1/3 of the characters are a Ryu variant ( Akuma, Ken, Sakura, Dan, Gouken) 
 with some slightly different move palette.
  
  The game is easily recommendable, but for me it didnt make it very far. Oddly enough, the game 
 ditched my attention due to the fact that half of the cast of characters are down-right ugly or 
 uninteresting to play has. When I'm certain this game is not worthy of all the big website 9.5-ish 
 scores, I give it an 8.5 out of 10. Recycling ideas is sometimes good, but after a decade, it doesnt 
 work as well for me.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbonczyk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter IV is a great game in almost every respect. It has a great mix of single-player 
 modes, an awesome art style, and great fighting mechanics. 
  
  I havent gotten into the multi-player aspect of the game, so i really cant comment on that. However, 
 i do have to give props to capcom for implementing the option to allow other players in the community 
 to challenge you while you are playing arcade mode.
  
  All your favorite characters return such as Cammy, Chun-Li, Ryu, Ken, and many others. Each character 
 has many of their classic moves, as well as new ones such as Focus Attacks and Ultra Combos. 
 
  
  Really their are only two negatives on this game.. one is the theme song.. a boy band ??!! WTF? 
 That horrific song almost made me return the game (almost) .. the second is the AI. The AI will 
 find a cheap move to use against you and execute that move over and over and over and over again. 
 There are ways to counter these moves, but not before it makes you want to throw your controller 
 at the TV screen.
  
  Frustration and bad theme song aside, this is the best Street Fighter yet.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahahaG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 5:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first had seen this game was coming to Xbox 360 and PS3, I was excited beyond belief. When 
 you think of games you played as kids, or fighting games, almost anyone could bring up Street Fighter 
 and Street Fighter 2. Now, 11 years since Street Fighter 3, we get Street Fighter 4, and I will 
 vouch, this game is worth the $59.99 price tag on it. Street Fighter is the same as always control 
 wise in this game. If you can remember the combos from 2, you can easily pull them off once again, 
 and even if you can't, and you prefer the classic button mash, that's alright here too. You start 
 out the game with some characters already ( I believe 12?) and you can also earn many more. The 
 game gives you many difficulties ranging from easiest to hardest, and packs a challenge the whole 
 way through. 
  There are clips this time around for each character in Arcade, and you also have an option to have 
 random people challenge you while playing, that are playing on Xbox Live. This brings up an Arcade 
 like feeling, but can also get a tad annoying every now and then when you can't get off a match. 
 Also, the final boss is quite a doosie. Seth is probably the most challenging boss in Street Fighter 
 history today, having a move set with moves from multiple SF characters.
  The last thing this game has is of course, its multiplayer and online. The multiplayer is great 
 like always, giving you the opportunity to play a COM or a friend. The online is great, but if 
 somebody has a horrible connection, it will lag pretty bad. For the most part though, I've only 
 had 1 bad scenario out of about 40 matches online. This game is a great fighter for anyone, and 
 probably the best game to be released this year. It gets my top honor in that, and will leave many 
 of its players saying Hadouken! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinconSixEcho
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 3:18 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Street Fighter IV over a year ago, I had heard it was going to be a prequel 
 and thought that Capcom had no right number this number 4 if it wasn't a sequel. 
  Over the next several months I followed scattered news articles about the game and heard it was 
 fantastic. I even saw some screen shots and thought, "This isn't my Street Fighter." I said this 
 because I've been playing Street Fighter since 1992 in the arcades and unloaded tons of quarters 
 over the years when a new iteration of the game came out. 
  The screens of Street Fighter IV appeared to look cell shaded and seemingly water colored. Again, 
 this wasn't my Street Fighter.
  Two months ago, I saw video of Street Fighter IV and became excited with the 2D gameplay with the 
 touch of 3D movement when a character performs a Ultra move (basically a fatality) .
  Last Tuesday, my pre-order came in and the game hasn't left my 360 since. It's fun. Nothing more. 
 
  There isn't a deep story to any of the characters but they make more sense than what we have seen 
 in fighters like Dead or Alive 4. And yes, I am a fan of Dead or Alive series.
  The classic Street Fighter characters like Ryu, Ken, Chun Li etc. are all back. Gone are Dee Jay, 
 T-Hawk and so forth.
  The graphics can only be appreciated when seeing the game in motion, when pulling off a Ultra combo 
 the camera goes into 3D and makes for some incredible impact angles for a character. 
  I have to say that this game was meant for arcade players and just doesn't feel legit when playing 
 on a 360 controller. I'm still trying to track down a fightpad controller that was released for 
 the game which has been said to improve the controls. 
  Keep in mind that this game isn't perfect, the cartoony feel that resided in the other games is 
 gone and has been replaced with exaggerated facial expressions and mouth movements that one would 
 see in a Kung Fu movie that is dubbed in English. I think that if Capcom was going to take this 
 series in a new direction then they could've implemented arenas in where you push your opponent 
 through multiple tiers (Dead or Alive, Mortal Kombat vs DC) .
  I have played online and have to admit that there is lag and that takes away from the experience 
 and cannot be overlooked when it occurs. I know there are complaints about people using Ryu or 
 Ken 75% of the time but who cares? No one ever complained when someone picked a character that 
 he/she didn't like in an arcade. You sucked it up and dealt with it. Online play has disconnected 
 some players from sharing the fun competitive spirit that fighting games have been known for.
 
  For the fighting fans then this game is a must have. I would've given it a 10 if it weren't for 
 the online issues.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: venomdeo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing ,this review will show why. The graphics are what I expected in the way that 
 they are great. The character models are well done and the animations are nicely done also. The partical 
 effects add that cool factor to the special moves and makes it that much more exciting when your 
 move lands.
  
  The game play takes me back to the old days of fighting games. The moves are really easy to learn, but 
 some are not so easy. The way I see it isn't that the way fighting games work .The AI can be cheap 
 sometimes ABEL and SETH ,but over the years of me playing these types of games they all had characters 
 like that and the AI did cheap moves. that's the nature of the beast. The online play is really 
 good I've been fighting my friends online ,and I think it runs great.
  
  The characters you have to unlock really doesn't take that long and most fighting games I have 
 played ,have had ones to unlock am I rite?
  
  To sum up everything I have to say ,I really like this game alot. This game is Old school with the 
 look of This generations graphics which is fine by me. If you like old fighting games with great 
 graphics you should pick this game up!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guzhead
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I remember the days when I would go to the local arcade and drop quarters into this game for hours. 
 BUu the younger generation wouldn't know anything about arcades and I wouldn't be surprised if 
 you don't even like this game. To some it may seem out of date but to me it is a classic. The A. I. 
 is extremely difficult in a good way because it pushes you to be better. Though anything below 
 medium is way too easy. You should be able to beet it with almost all perfections . Even if you 
 haven't played a Street Fighter game in 12 years you should still be able to remember some of the 
 moves. The moves aren't very difficult and having an arcade stick would help in this area. The 
 360 controller is problematic with ultra combos and does not always react properly to quarter turns. 
 Online play is smooth and the other types of play I have yet to try. I say just go out and buy 
 it! With out the Street Fighter series fighting games mite not exist today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdgeJM
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 9:36 am PT
Review:  It's been hard to avoid the Street Fighter IV coverage over the past few days, it's all over your 
 favourite games websites, all over Xbox Live and it somehow finds it's ways into nearly all conversations 
 between gamers at the moment, why? I didn't understand, being a 90s kid, I was raised with the 
 likes of Tekken, Soul Calibur, even Super Smash Bros but Street Fighter? That game seemed old history 
 to me.
  
  I had no idea of the huge following it's accrued over the years, and I couldn't understand the 
 hype around it. So, I bought it yesterday to see what all the fuss what about having never dragon 
 punched may way to victory, set someone on fire with blue flames or even imagined a green Brazilian 
 monster.
  
  I have to say, it's quite a game. It's completely different to all the other fighting games out 
 there, it's simple (most characters only have around 10 combos, which when Tekken has pages and 
 pages of combos to memorise, seems pedestrian in comparison) , funny yet sophisticated, and hugely 
 stylised (well, in this version any way) .
  
  My first venture was into the game's training mode, which is easily one of the best ways to get 
 a simple grasp of your first hadouken, hurricane kick etc. but you really need to play against 
 the AI at least before you can start to fight properly - believe me, when you play an actual fight, 
 you won't have time to be decoding the near-gibberish command list for Blanka's ultra move (I had 
 to google how to do it, I'm sorry but + PUNCH doesn't suffice, how the hell do I ?!)
  
  You can then either brave the game's online mode with (I assume) people so good at the game it 
 surpasses reason, with a few unfortunate n00bs like myself thrown in for their amusement, or you 
 can try arcade, time attack or challenge mode to prepare you for the human-controlled opponents 
 - challenge mode, though I haven't used it just yet, seems a good opportunity for n00bs to pick 
 up some combos, as from what I've seen in an IGN Strategize video, what you do in that mode is 
 perform attacks as prompted, an efficient way of learning to perform combos on demand. 
  
  While doing this, you can try to get some of the game's achievements, which all seem (to me at 
 least) geared towards the veteran players, with achievements like "beat Arcade mode on the hardest 
 difficulty" - yeah that'll happen, I can't even do medium yet.
  
  Aside from these modes, Street Fighter doesn't offer much else, but if you're buying a fighting 
 game, it's because you want to introduce someone's face to Chun-Li's foot as some kind of realistic 
 explanation for the completely ridiculous size of her thighs, but hey maybe you're into that sort 
 of thing. 
  
  Even though the game has difficulty issues, which are admittedly to with me rather than the game, 
 the game's graphics are stunning (the focus attacks, and the black paintbrush-line effects they 
 create are gritty but beautiful) , I've grown to love the game's completely insane characters (it's 
 super dynamic cooking time...) , and this game is more balanced than any other fighting game I've 
 ever played - when you lose, you don't want to throw the controller, it feels fair that you've 
 lost, rather than the Dead Or Alive 4 boss which caused a special type of anger within me.
  
  If you haven't played Street Fighter before, this is the best place to start, but be prepared 
 to train up before you brave the online community, and for 30 at most places online, the game 
 couldn't be better value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnvb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 8:52 am PT
Review:  This is a great flashback to old school 2D fighting games with new updated killer graphics. I LOVE 
 the animation in this game. It is beautiful to watch.
  
  The button/joystick pattern combinations fighting style is very enjoyable and satisfying to pull 
 off. Especially when your having a hard time with some difficult move (s) and you finally get it 
 right. It is different then what you might normally get with modern fight games that are usually 
 nothing more than a deceptively beautiful variation of 'paper-rock-scissors'. Don't get me wrong, 
 I still enjoy games like "Soul Calibur IV", but I just want to point out that this is a little 
 different. It is probably safe to say that "Street Fighter IV" has more depth. BUTthis also leads 
 to more difficulty, considering the fact that you will have to learn how to basically master the 
 character's moves (and combinations) that you are using in order to progress in single player mode. 
 This can add to extreme levels of undesirable frustration, and therefore you end up with an overall 
 bittersweet experience. Fortunately, any multiplayer mode is enjoyable enough to compensate for 
 the aggravation associated with the cheep A. I. in single player.
  
  I wish that there was a 4 player tag team mode, but that is just a minor quibble. StillCapcom 
 would make me a happy camper if they would throw out a reasonably priced 4 player tag team mode 
 downloadable add-on! : )
  
  I do think that it is a relatively good thing that this game is hard, I just don't understand why 
 it has to be so hard. If I had an arcade style joystick then things might have been different, 
 but I don't, and the xbox360 controller only adds to the frustration. To be honest I'm pissed off 
 the more I play this game that there was no reasonably priced combo deal worked out for an arcade 
 joystick to come with the game; along the same way that Nintendo incorporated the motion control 
 board with "WiiFit". I would probably have been willing to pay a combination pack fee of around 
 say $89.99 for this, but I'm not going to invest money in a joystick for the ridiculously outrageous 
 cost that they are going for on the market right now. It's a greedy outrage, and it's unfair to 
 people like me who just want to be able to play the game the way it should be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8torjim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  I never was a Street Fighter fanatic. I played the original and tinkered with the various sequels 
 through the years, but never devoted a lot of time learning all the moves to become a Street Fighter 
 god.
  
  That being said, i decided to give this game a shot after reading all the glowing reviews. As many 
 user reviews have been saying, this is an extremely difficult game for the novice or average player... 
 i am will to bet that even a seasoned pro would have some difficulties with it. Not that the game 
 is bad... it is not. It is a FUN game and everything you would expect from a SF game. The visuals 
 are stunning, and there is plenty to do. However, unless you have zero life and are able to spend 
 countless hours practicing, the average player will have a difficult time getting by most of what 
 the game has to offer. Forget trying to become proficient at the complicated moves with the 360 
 controller... its not going to happen. Its mind numblingly hard to pull off a good majority of 
 the special moves... the Ultra Combo is just not going to happen in the fast paced game vs the 
 CPU. Having to mash 3 buttons after doing the required motions with the left thumb stick usually 
 only triggers the Special Combo. The challenge mode has a training mode so you can practice the 
 moves... good luck. I am yet to get passed the 3rd trail, i just cant trigger what i need to do. 
 I have been able to beat Seth to unlock Fei Long... took me forever... and that was on easiest 
 mode with Able. I cant imagine fighting him on a higher difficulty. 
  
  This game will have you pulling your hair out and screaming at the TV. Its not a bad game... and 
 if the controller was a bit more friendly it would be that much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrystalSnake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 12:55 am PT
Review:  First things first! The graphics, yes they are great, especially if you like the whole anime look. 
 Both the old and the new characters look and move fantastic, they even make the recently SSF2T 
 HD remix look shabby and dated.
  
  But you already knew this game looks great! You've already seen the screenshots, watched the HD 
 trailers, and have no doubt read the countless reviews, all of which have several pages just telling 
 you how good the game looks.
  
  So how does this phoenix reborn actually fly? Well if you're like me, let's say, getting a little 
 more seasoned with each day. You'll remember this game all too well!! The memories of the countless 
 evenings after school, which you spent round at your friends pummelling your SNES pad till it hurt. 
 And then weekends, which you spent most of the day in a grubby video store; hammering away at the 
 buttons of the latest version of what was considered by many, the greatest fighting game of all 
 time. You'll remember the familiar sounds of the "Hadoken's" screaming from the door ways of nearly 
 every self respecting arcade in the country. Even if your were in a different country, in a totally 
 strange arcade you never had to look for this game. It was probably the only arcade cabinet with 
 15 people stood next to it, all itching to have a go at beating the guy, who just refused to get 
 of the player one stick. You know the GUY! He was just that little bit quicker than everybody else, 
 which in turn made everybody else that little bit more determined to beat him.
  
  So what exactly does my reminiscing have to do with Street Fighter 4? Everything!!! After all the 
 spit and polish, this is Street Fighter! This is exactly the same game! The single player, lets 
 face it, nobody ever really played SF for the single player experience. Character stories, yeah 
 their in there, and not the best you will ever see. You beat several randomly selected computer 
 opponents, before you get to the last guy SETH. Now this is definitely one of the games biggest 
 disappointments. You beat Seth the first round, and think ok not too bad. The second round begins, 
 and then you think "You Lose", what the hell? You see because Seth, during the transition from 
 round one to two, went shopping at the SNK school of final bosses. I mean this guy is cheap!!! 
 Special move after special move, countering everything you do, and then teleporting behind you 
 to perform a nice unblockable throwing manoeuvre. Honestly this will pretty much ruin your single 
 player experience with certain characters. I mean try beating Seth with Dhalsim on medium difficulty, 
 and you'll quickly want to smash your game pad, and your game disk whilst simultaneously banging 
 your head against the nearest brick wall. So be prepared to get so frustrated with the single player 
 that you will be tuning the difficulty down to easiest, just to beat Seth.
  
  Next we have the Multiplayer Mode. Yep you and your pals can once again grab a pad, substitute 
 the root beer for a real beer this time. And start arguing all over again, just who is better Ryu 
 or Ken? But then we have the Xbox Live mode, should be fun right? Well actually no! There is no 
 proper matching system in place here; you can set the filter to look for the most stable connection. 
 And guess what you get back five matches all from players with poor connections. The lobby tells 
 you whether the player has actually created a VS lobby or is playing the single player with the 
 Fight request mode enabled. So you try to connect to the guy hosting the VS lobby, only to get 
 a message saying the lobby is full. Fair enough, you try and connect to one of the guys with the 
 Fight Request mode on. And sure enough you get another message "unable to play", so you start another 
 search. Again more matches are found, however when you try and connect to any of the matches you 
 keep getting the same messages as before. Now get this, turn on Fight Request mode and start a 
 single player game. Suddenly you'll be lucky to get through a cpu opponent without being constantly 
 challenged by other players. Again many of the players the system matches you with, have little 
 to no connection strength showing next to their gamertag. However I have played many of these players 
 with alleged poor connections, and there has been no lag issues at all.
  
  To summarise, this game looks beautiful, plays like the Street Fighter we all know and love. Has 
 one of the most frustrating end of game bosses in history and some seriously strange multiplayer 
 issues. Perhaps with this little revival, Capcom may now finally grace us with the next instalment 
 of Street Fighter as a reinvention of the franchise as opposed to a reiteration, full 3D anyone? 
 If Midway can do it I'm sure you can do it better Capcom.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jobo030
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:32 pm PT
Review:  After reading every game site's review on this game it sounded like a classic but im sorry classic 
 games are for everyone. Their are 8 difficulty levels you would think u would be able to fit into 
 one the 8 levels... WRONG. I started on medium got destroyed both rounds one was a perfect round 
 for the CPU so i went down to the easiest to boost my self esteem because after playing this game 
 way back in the day i thought i would be decent. but i had to think again becasue even then it 
 was a struggle. Oh and then i get to the last level and meet Seth he @#@#$@#%$@#$# impossible. 
 He full of cheap moves and seems to be able to throw u even when your not near him. and being a 
 person that likes to complete the stories and then work up difficulties this game was a big piss 
 off. 
  
  Next the controls are terrible. Well for your console controller that is. Im sorry im not going 
 to go out and buy a stick for one game. Most moves involve the same movements but with a extra 
 few buttons. So when you try to do the harder move you end up do the other one. Or u go up to high 
 and end up jumping or you get to eat fist for taking to long. Then the their is control were it 
 says to boost um im sorry can you explain how to boost. What, do i have run around in circles until 
 my characters decides to do the move. Also their is the ultra combo, i could write a whole entire 
 review about this but i might start swearing. All i have to say is after 5 hours in training mode 
 trying to complete one i have yet to do it, and yet my enemy has no trouble doing it every 2 seconds.
 
  
  Next their is the challenge modes i completed the first stage of normal time attack and i thought 
 here would be something worthwhile to try and finish but once again this game is able to prove 
 me wrong. At first i thought their was only 5 stages and after finishing stage 4 i moved to stage 
 5 i find out their is more. THEIRS 20 OF THEM. And now i cant beat stage 7. What does stage 20 
 involve, my guess is they give you 10 seconds to fight every fighter and then remove 5 secs after 
 every fight. That would be a logical set up seeing as where i am in stage 7. 
  
  Now for the reasons this game did not get a 1 out of 10. The visuals are spectacular. Well at least 
 in the opening for the game. The fighting the visuals are decent but could have been better. If 
 i could find one word to describe all female characters i would have to say: BOOBS. Though im am 
 not complaining. As for the one thing i saw getting beat up on by reviewers which was the voice 
 acting. I thought their was great voice acting, and i can believe they were putting down Blanka. 
 Blanka is a freak and so he should sound like one. He souldn't sound like a scholar or some jock. 
 Multiplayer is decent and playing with my brother is the only time i have had fun playing this 
 game. 
  
  In my closing thoughts. If you like achievements dont play this game thinking they will come easily, 
 because this game does not want you to get them. In Fact i think this game has a mind of its own 
 and thinks its a failure when ever you get an achievement. If you want a fighting game go get soul 
 caliber at least you can accomplish something. Otherwise they said 2008 was the best year for games 
 so their must be something to play. I rented Street Fighter and even that is a waste of money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macker33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  WOW! all i can say is that chun li really is a work of art,, i have never before seen anything like 
 it in a video game...
  
  I gave the game a 9.5.. the 0.5 drop is for the lack of bonus rounds, the fact that the boss is too 
 hard and maybe there should have been an extra one or two modes (and i dont mean hyper or turbo) .
 
  
  Well its really SF2 but better and this is a good thing.. its easy to pick up for a quick fix,,, the 
 animations are stunning and the actions tight.,, Sound is good except for chun li speaking english 
 which is too weird to even think about,, maybe more could have been done with the backgrounds and 
 i understand the reason for walls but they could have been more varied..
  
  Heres hoping for plenty of free DLC.
  
  All in all a great fighter but i wish there was more,, worth 
 every penny i paid for it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberspider2
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I've played a ton of fighting games in the past, specifically super smash bros.
  But after I've purchased and played super street fighter 2 thdr, I changed my mind. 
  
  Let's 
 get started. Street Fighter 4 makes an absolutely superb presentation. 
  Once you get started, you have the choice to play the starter set of fighters' 
  campaigns. if 
 you finish a campaign, you have unlocked only some of the features. the unlockables are indeed 
 plentiful. they have also added some new fighters as well.
  
  multiplayer is silky smooth but to find a quick ranked match is like to find your way out of a 
 mirrored maze. 
  
  street fighter 4 is not a good game for someone with anger management issues. it is also frustrating 
 for new players.
  
  the training mode is a good add-on but isn't a sufficient trainer for noobies.
  
  
  learning 
 some of the moves is hard, and can make you scream profanity across the neighborhood.
  
  some the AI is overpowered, even on easy difficulty.
  I recommend getting a great joystick if 
 you want this game to be smooth.
  
  
  
  
  overall, this game is purely, the best fighting game of this decade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandolphScott
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 22, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter 4 is a good game. Don't get me wrong here about that, it is. However, I feel that 
 quite a few things slipping through the cracks when it comes to "professional" reviews of the game. 
 First and foremost, the online play is, as of this writing, broken. On the first night, I hosted 
 and played twenty lag free matches. It was heavenly, and terribly fun. However, every night since 
 then has been a nightmare. I can try to create a room, and wait over thirty minutes and get no 
 opponents, despite their being hundreds of thousands of people playing the game. When I use quick 
 match, I get constant messages of "unable to play" (and it never says why) or "lobby already full."
 
  
  Funny thing is, they keep popping up on my search results after wards, over and over. This also 
 happens in player matches, where the lobby is only one on one, and you also regularly lose connection 
 in player matches after only one match, without a chance to rematch. You could play offline, the 
 game does have survival, challenge trials, and other activities. But the arcade mode itself is 
 completely broken by the end boss, Seth. His AI is seemingly still set to "Kill people and make 
 them pump more quarters into the arcade cabinet" which is silly as this is a console release. He 
 can basically read your controller inputs and react faster than any human reasonably could, ever. 
 To the point that he can teleport directly behind you on the first frame of a hadouken done at 
 a distance for a SPD or his money shot super.
  
  Add to that the fact that the game makes you play through arcade mode to unlock a good chunk of 
 the games more appealing fan favorites such as Sakura, Dan Hibiki, and Cammy, and you have a formula 
 for serious frustration. At the core though, it's hard to deny SF4 is a rock solid game. The fighting 
 mechanics are a meshing of SF2 and SF3. The EX attacks are back, like an old friend I'm glad to 
 see them. Throws are also handled exactly as they were in that game, which is much better. Though 
 it is disappointing that each character has only one super, and Ryu is tragically lacking his shinshoryuken. 
 Ultra moves are also a welcome and exciting addition, though some are just super moves with a move 
 or two tacked on.
  
  They add needed flair to the game, and make use of the 3D character models. Great game, but Capcom 
 has a long way to go for this game to live up to it's nine plus markings on most websites. Maybe 
 add a "Let me play this game with another human being right now, please." button, right after they 
 patch Seth to not being so insanely cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:03 am PT
Review:  Back in the day, you were cool for hadokens and shoryukens with Ryu and Ken, being able to pull 
 out Guile's most powerful combos, and much more. That's right, Street Fighter 2 was the game to 
 be playing at home, and more importantly, the arcades. Now, 20 years after the first Street Fighter 
 game was released, and after some okay compliments (Alpha series anyone?) and the unusual but fun 
 3rd Strike, we have Street Fighter IV. But should this have stayed as an idea, or is it a good 
 new step in Street Fighter, and fighting games, direction? 
  
  First off, the gameplay is the main focus of attention here. And to be fair, THIS IS STREET FIGHTER 
 IN THE PUREST FORM! Everything from the strict timing of cancels to the precise movements of quarter-circle 
 moves, is the same as ever. This is how to make the perfect pick-up-and-play game for veterans. 
 Beginners, don't fret, Capcom has kept you in mind to. Some of the precise moves, such as the hadoken, 
 have a few more frames to hit the move (s) . Also there are many difficulty sliders to help you along 
 the way as well as a trial modes to learn about every character. If you are a beginner reading 
 this review, the word of this game is PRACTICE! Practice, practice, and more practice will help 
 you with this game. If you aren't up for learning every single move, you can button mash and have 
 a good time, but is not recommended. But this isn't just a rehash of older games with new characters, 
 in which there are six, which are all awesome in their own ways. You now have focus attacks, and 
 offensive and defensive move done by holding M. Punch and M. Kick which, depending on how long you 
 hold down the two buttons, will turn into and unblockable attack, while sucking up an attack. Then 
 there are the ultra combos done by inputting the Special Move commands but holding down either 
 all of the punch or all of the kick buttons, depending on the character. These are very cool and 
 very cinematic attacks that can take up to half of an opponents health bar. The catch: the meter 
 fills by taking damage. Ouch is what you will say as the meter builds up! These sound like simple 
 improvements to the game, but mix them up into the gameplay, and you have yourself a bunch of variety!
 
  
  The graphics are very, very stylish! I am a big fan of art, and it looks like a paining coming 
 to life, even though the characters are now in full 3-D. Die hard fans may be upset about this, 
 but personally, I think that it is a fresh new direction in its own respect. A cool feature is 
 when you unleash a fully charged focus attack, and a black ink trail, which looks as if done by 
 a brush, follows the attack. The muscle-bound characters may be a little much to take in, but given 
 the context of the game, it fits. To make things more interesting, every successful hit on a character 
 makes a different facial expression appear. Throwing a attack makes an opponent's eyes widen while 
 getting hit makes their eyes pop out and their tongue flap. Over exaggerated, but very cool knowing 
 that it is there.
  
  The sound is one area where I wish some things were different or not there at all. Worst off being 
 the announcer. With maybe five different lines, he overstays his welcome almost immediately. Voice 
 talent also needs a makeover and A. S. A. P.! The Japanese voices are great, go figure, but the English 
 voices are, with no exaggeration, some of the worst I have ever heard. Its like they aren't even 
 trying, at least trying to be serious that is. Then there is the music. I am a fan of J-pop and 
 dance music, but is Indestructible really the best intro song they could get? I mean its catchy, 
 but there are much better choices out there, and some that aren't as repetitive... however the background 
 tracks are catchy and beat fueled techno mixes. As for the rest of the sound effects, the are standard 
 Street Fighter fare, all the familiar naming of the move as it is pulled off, grunts, and yells.
 
  
  As for the for the modes of play, there are the standard fare of trial, survivor, arcade, and online 
 modes. Without hesitation, I will speak for many and myself when I say that Seth (the final boss 
 of arcade mode) is a cheap bastard! The first round is alright, while the second round you have 
 to rely on mostly luck and some skill. While using an assortment of teleports, full screen-reaching 
 punchings, unblockable/unescapable throws, and cheap ex specials, Seth is sure to be the hardest 
 and cheapest final boss to a fighting game yet! Even on the easiest difficulty his is still a pain. 
 But to unlock characters you must stick it out and fight him. On top of the arcade mode, you have 
 hundreds of medals, titles, and icons, and even colors for your characters uniforms to unlock. 
 This is one game that you will be playing for months to come just to get all the unlockables.
 
  
  Overall, SFIV is a great follow up to the SF legacy. Long time fans are sure to find something 
 to bring back that nostalgic feeling, while newcomers will be throwing their first hadokens and 
 sonic booms with the big leagues for months and years to come. Just don't expect the perfect fighter 
 without some flaws, and you are A-OK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkeyJab559
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  So yeah, the new faces are interesting. The gameplay has been tweaked a bit. The graphics are lush 
 and pretty to watch sometimes. However, at the end of the day, it's the been there done that Street 
 Fighter that we've all known since we were dumping quarters on it in arcades as kids. Still, it's 
 nice to know that the new generation get a Street Fighter built from the ground up from them. And 
 it's a nice bit of nostalgia for those of us who've loved it forever. Personally I'm a Guilty Gear 
 fan, so I don't think I'll ever see a game that can satisfy my full desire for speed in technique 
 the way that Arc System Works can, but then again, that's why the game has Cammy, and in that, 
 I will say that they do a good job of balancing things. You got your average ol' Ryu and Ken fighters 
 that people will always start adapting to, your really fast Cammys, Chun-Lis, and Crimson Viper (A 
 nice addition to the speed roster) And of course your hard hitting Zangief and Balrogs, so forth 
 and that. Multiplayer is so incredibly smooth for most connections, it'll be a rare occasion to 
 see a glitch, so that's really nice and makes the fights online really give a feel of an arcade 
 style human on human butt kicking. There's not much bad to say about Street Fighter, other than 
 the incredibly cheesy animated sequences (excluding Dan's because it's Dan of course) and the rather 
 irritatingly short endings that don't often explain anything at all (cough cough Ryu cough) . Only 
 other thing I can note is that I was disappointed at the complete lack of Street Fighter III characters. 
 I personally think that Urien, Makoto, Ibiki, or Hugo would have been fun to have in the game. 
 Other than that, It's a very solid fighter online and off and a nice addition to the series. One 
 I would very well recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterg500
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  The first 3 hours of play was attempted using the basic 360 controller. The D-Pad was practically 
 usless, and the left stick had a little to much swoosh in it to pull off some of the more complicated 
 moves. For instance I could roll off Ryu fireballs like a machine gun. But the dragon punch was 
 really tough to pull off. The Ultra moves were really tough since the button placement was so bad. 
 So I went out and got one of the after-market fight pads and my play and enjpyment went way up. 
 Took it up another notch to the fight stick and my performance is 10 tens better than it was with 
 the fight pad. So as a game SF4 rocks and is the best of the series in my opinion. But you have 
 to have the right tools to really enjoy it and be competitive in the online play.
  The graphics, sound, and game play is the best I've seen. The boss is great as are the anime stories 
 for each fighter. Go get the game and a fight pad and enjoy it as much as I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beausof
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The Game itself has outstanding graphics, Gameplay that pretty much mimics the older EX series 
 which is a love it or hate it concept, Catchy soundtrack and sound effects and of course replay 
 value.
  
  What took away a couple of points for me is the online connectivity. i had thought the connectivity 
 on the Super HD Remix was bad, But this is completely unnacceptable for the avg user. wait times 
 when hosting a rank game can vary from 60 seconds to a full on 5 minutes! When connecting to a 
 player using the custom option the refresh time for me is usually 60 seconds. not too bad but the 
 problem is if for some reason you cannot connect to the selected player you are forced to refresh 
 again waiting an additional minute. i dont know about others but this game usually gets me pumped 
 up to play and play again and in that state 60 seconds is a lifetime let alone a 3-5min wait if 
 you wish to host and half the time no one even shows up. i highly doubt its from lack of people 
 online the fighting sticks and xbox 360 copies are literally flying off the shelves. my connection 
 is good to excellent so this only leaves the games sloooow match up system when playing online. 
 I bought this game strictly for online play as many others may have also so this lack of decent 
 connectivity kills the entire games overall score for me.. if not for the catchy music i would 
 just turn off the game all together. capcom seriously needs to work on this in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trillofer1986
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:35 am PT
Review:  I got the game the same day it came out and since then ive been trying to make an easy and continuous 
 Sonic Boom from Guile... even in the training mode, even checking out the movement list... i don't 
 know if its me or what but its almost impossible to get it unless i just press everything at the 
 same time :S: S The same thing happened with a lot of other moves for different characters. The 
 timing and precision of the combination has been made extremely hard for the average player (maybe 
 pros or hardcore gamers can get it faster) . 
  Difficulty for the arcade mode is kind of silly because even in the easy mode... its hard :S I 
 played the boss Seth with almost all characters and he's still there.. with all the teleporting, 
 black hole and super powers... Its like as soon as he falls, he's up and he's hurting me again 
 with a supper power that should take about 2secs to make but as its the CPU its made in 0.5 :S 
 i spent 2hours last night trying to beat him, i was close but he makes a super hyper power and 
 destroys me ...
  
  As an advise, i would say rent it first and check out if you can handle it, if its ok, buy it its 
 still pretty good, if not, return it because you will get really frustrated.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dan3721
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 6:49 am PT
Review:  Ill start off with the intro. It's really cool and imaginative, but the song is sounds like something 
 off of a high school musical. Its not THAT bad, but it wasn't what i was expecting. At least its 
 not too annoying.
  
  The arcade is fun. It's too bad they don't have the bonus stages though, those were pretty fun 
 IMO. And then comes Seth... I hate that damn guy, i spent 2 hours with Chun Li trying to beat him. 
 If you get to close, he throws you. If you are too far - he uses sonic boom. If you are in between, 
 he will combo you/jump on you and do the thousand kick. If you are in the air he does his 15 hit 
 shoryuken on you. If you are on the ground he teleports a lot making it impossible for you to block 
 because you dont know where hes coming from. This sucks especially with charge characters. Not 
 to mention the move that sucks you close to him, and his special which he happens to use usually 
 when you are about to hurt him bad.
  
  Online I would give the game a 9.5, only because finding a match can be a bit tedious sometimes. 
 Quick match isn't exactly quick because chances are you will probably select a full lobby. The 
 actual fighting is fun online, I didn't see too much lag. A couple of occasions I ended up fighting 
 people that lagged, and therefore had to play in 2 second intervals. Happy to say i still won, 
 but it was weird. The thing that sucked the most though was that people always picked Ken. It was 
 annoying until i figured out how to beat all the Ken users. Just use Blanka and his charge attacks 
 Now i can beat most anyone, my biggest streak was 8, i lost to someone that played Cammy! i really 
 wanted that achievement... oh well. I spent my first couple days online, which is why only have 
 3 characters unlocked
  
  Just on a side note, the icon and titles thing is awesome. I use the Legendary Loser title (because 
 I hate bragging) and the joystick icon. I have a bunch of titles unlocked though, some golden ones 
 that you get for beating hard mode trial challenges, but well talk about that later.
  
  As for the achievements, most of them are simple. You just play like you do and boom, you'll get 
 em. There aren't really hard achievements, except for maybe winning 10 (online) matches in a row. 
 There is one i'm curious about, its the last achievement. Im guessing that's if you get ranked 
 first in the online ranking, because its description is something like 'best in the world' or something 
 similar. But yeah, as long as you keep playing like you do, most likely you will get all of the 
 achievements.
  
  The challenges are fun too, and actually have some reason. You will get your first 2 unlockable 
 costume colors doing the challenges. My favorite one is survival, just because you actually have 
 to think a little bit. Time attack is simple too, as long as you do decent. Trial on the other 
 hand can range from "piece of cake" to "OMG WTF I CANT DO THAT WITH 2 HANDS..". All of them are 
 fun additions, which add tons to the replay value of this game. I could see myself still playing 
 this in months to come, without being near done.
  
  There really isn't much to say about the options, other than that you can change the voices from 
 English to Japanese (which I recently found out changes the title song's language) in both the 
 cut scenes and gameplay. I prefer English, only because I like to know what they are saying. The 
 subtitles have a tendency to hide in white backgrounds, making it hard to read. You can also change 
 your button mapping in the options, so if you perhaps used an emulator with a controller, and set 
 it up a certain way, you can replicate that on your 360! I instead relearned the controls, not 
 so hard really. (I use joystick BTW, i never really like the d-pad - the joystick is just as good 
 as anything else) .
  
  The gallery is awesome, unlocking artwork and design prototypes is sweet. I just wish i could read 
 Chinese because I have no idea what it says on some of the pictures (i'm mostly interested in what 
 the ones on the Guile pics say) . To be honest I wish they would have some more artwork in there 
 (there is a lot, but i just like those types of things) . You can also re-watch unlocked intros 
 and endings of characters, along with credits and opening movies/edits, perhaps even trailers.. 
 The pictures are categorized into Characters, Stages, and Official - which shows some promotional 
 artwork.
  
  The last thing i will talk about is the DLC. So far you can get the brawler pack which unlocks 
 you a few costumes for some of your characters. I wont be buying it, instead ill wait 'til they 
 release all the packs and make a cheaper combo pack. I heard about it coming to DLC around April 
 30. I also heard of a new game mode called Champions, which implements a replay feature. This is 
 old news BTW, so i wouldn't trust me on those last 2 statements.
  
  So overall, the game is awesome. It just doesn't get old, there is too much to unlock and do. I 
 am pretty good at the game so far, i lost a bunch of BP recently. Whelp, I'm off to go unlock some 
 more characters, ill leave a point based overall score here.
  
  9.8/10
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeWrath
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:52 am PT
Review:  First impressions often are what sticks the most with gamers, and a big impression to me was the 
 AI. No matter what moves I would attempt on any difficulty the AI had no troubles at all countering. 
 Where as if the player tried it, of coarse the counter/block/dodge/whatever would fail, leaving 
 the player in a world of hurt. Even lowering the difficulty had no lasting affect as the PC gave 
 me about another 2 secs of game time before being helplessly pummeled into the continue screen.
 
  
  Also, as with so many games nowadays, menus are next to impossible to read unless you have a HD 
 TV. Making navigation for those of us who can't drop a few grand on a new set for our gaming, quite 
 frustration and an eye sore. 
  
  It has been a long while since I've felt such frustration where I've wanted to throw the controller 
 through my TV, so thank you Capcom for reminding me why this game is best left to arcades with 
 a giant cabinet that I have no financial responsibility over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rethis
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 3:07 am PT
Review:  Graphics 7
  Could the characters be any less artistically appealing? The designs have eyes way too close together. 
 While their outfits seem to have intrinsic detail their hair throws back to something from a previous 
 badly rendered last generation console.
  After the beautifully created renditions of the characters from street fighter alpha and through 
 street fighter 3 I can't see how these graphics are acceptable to anyone.
  
  Gameplay 5
  One step forward... ah forget it let's go back to the mechanics of street fighter 2. If any other 
 franchise tried to pretty up an old rendition of their game they would have been butchered by every 
 critic out there. 
  While there is a bit more than the simple block, fireball repeat until they are close enough then 
 dragon punch the mechanics were not made with the thought process of why the other characters have 
 failed to be balanced before. If you have to charge one characters move it makes it predictable 
 and eliminates the character from the contest. Why will everyone play ryu and ken? Because they 
 are just more able to handle different opponents. Their super attacks are better than all the other 
 characters. 
  I'm just throwing this out there but something could have been done to make the characters more 
 usable for beginners while limiting the fireball, fireball, uppercut flaw. You have a staged power 
 bar use it. If it required energy to unleash these supermoves but you have to use combo's to up 
 the meter you will get a great deal more dynamic play out of the game. Strategy and not repetitive 
 motion would become the games handle and no match would be quite the same.
  
  Sound 3
  Is that Justin Timberlake? Why capcom, Why? The rest is all pretty much stock.
  
  Animated 
 story gets an honourable mention. Would have been lovely if you kept it in the same style. Yet 
 it was only for the intro and ending of each character. Certainly doesn't redeem anything.
  
  In conclusion
  Papa didn't get a brand new bag. It's the same old worn down one with a new 
 handle. The ultimate iteration of this series still stands as Marvel vs. Capcom 2. Approachable 
 by new players yet with expert options that allow for depth with a system that made many of the 
 plentiful characters as lethal as Ken and Ryu.
  It's fun, it's fast and frenetic.
  
  But then all fighters suffer the same issue of balance.
  Hayabusa has ruled DOA since DOA 2
 
  Yoda Sucks in Soul Calibur 4 - really the never ending flurry master who wowed us in the Clone 
 Wars (the only real good part of that movie) has to Super Cancel? I know super cancelling when 
 I see it Namco!!
  Sol badguy is so grotesquely overpowered it wasn't worth playing anyone else.
  
  Maybe fighters 
 are inherently flawed. No-one is proving otherwise. I think this and then plug in my copy of Soul 
 Calibur 2 for xbox. Can't someone make a decent version of any of these wonderful titles.
  
  It's not hard. You had it right once.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droymac
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:30 am PT
Review:  Street Fighter IV is a refreshing take on the Street Fighter series with polished 3D graphics, 
 new special moves and characters, and a new parring system similar to what Street Fighter III had. 
 This game is fun!
  
  One of my favorite features of SFIV is the new challenge mode, which includes a training mode that 
 teaches you special moves and combos for any character you choose. This is not only a great tool 
 for those new to the world of Street Fighter, but as some one who has been playing since SFII's 
 debut on SNES I have also found great use for it.
  
  The only downside to this game is the online multiplayer, which is somewhat irritating to get set 
 up. There is a longer search time for available matches, and once the game has found a list of 
 online players for you it takes a couple of tries to find some one who either has a fast enough 
 connection or hasn't already been matched with some one else. Not like HD Remix, where it is all 
 done for you automatically. One good thing about online multiplayer is the match maker setting, 
 which allows you to choose who you are paired with by skill level (stability, same skill, more 
 skilled, ect) . Another interesting online feature is the arcade challenge mode that lets other 
 players challenge you online while in single player arcade mode, which is a good way to skip the 
 hassle of multiple failed match making attempts.
  
  Lastly, arcade mode features new opening and closing cinematics for each character in anime style. 
 Not only are they fun to watch, but they help tie the characters and each of their individual stories 
 together and make the game that much more enjoyable. There are also short in-game cut scenes that 
 add a personal touch to each character.
  
  All in all, this game is a blast to play. Even online, despite the amount of time it may take to 
 actually find a match, once you get going it's tons of fun. It is well balanced and gives new players 
 the tools to learn the game faster and easier, while old school "Street Fighters" can pair with 
 other experienced players. If you are a fan of the fighter genre, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 1:22 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) Great looking environments, character models, and fighting animations.
  
  2) The controls are great and have been tweaked and refined to perfection so its easier to pull 
 off different moves and they are very responsive.
  
  3) Online mode is a lot of fun and it keeps track of all your fights and records and all of that 
 stuff.
  
  4) The single player mode is challenging and is very addictive.
  
  5) A variety of different characters to chose from and all of them have their own unique characteristics 
 and special moves.
  
  6) Huge list of combos you can pull off so there is always room to improve in this game.
  
 
  7) Classic controls are still here so its easy for a veteran of the series to pick up and play 
 and even if you are new it doesnt take more than 5-10 minutes to get the hang of it.
  
  Cons:
  1) No tournament mode.
  
  2) Single player mode is short.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NbAlIvEr10000
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Yeah its been classified as another 2D fighting game that could raise the ranks of next-gen fighting, 
 or any fighting game for that matter, to a new level. Indeed, it has, but its not all cracked up 
 to what it should be. Yeah its a great representation of what the next-gen fighting games could 
 be like, but that's just exactly what it is -- another 2D fighting game with just a little more 
 flash than usual. The graphics are what show the gamers its true colors. However, the game play 
 is just mediocre compared to most. The combo system is in no way as intricate as it should be. 
 Its very repetitive and has no style. The ability to counter anyone's combos makes the game both 
 easy and annoying at the same time. The new Ultra Combo system that has been added in this game 
 is not very satisfying and is none the least a nuisance. The mere fact that to acquire it you have 
 to get your ass whooped for a little bit to even be able to use it. Not only that the only move 
 that you can acquire through the offensive is the Super Combo meter which actually takes more than 
 a single round to even gain. The game has no class and shouldn't have EVER been a next-gen prodigy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haziqonfire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:02 pm PT
Review:  The so called 'king' of fighters has returned, to a genre that has become way too complex with 
 32 odd button combination's and way too many gimmicks -- how does Street Fighter IV fair? Does 
 it brings life back to a slowing genre?
  
  Gameplay.
  
  Street Fighter IV is back with the series heading more towards the direction of Street Fighter 
 II -- In the sense that it unlike Street Fighter III, there is no air blocking, there are no parries. 
 What is in the game is the Focus attack and supers and ultras, which work very well with the game 
 play.
  
  Right off the bat what you will notice is that the character roster is very big and diverse and 
 it is very balanced. None of the characters feel over powered (except for the annoying boss character, 
 lamely named 'Seth') . 
  
  The game controls incredibly well, even with a 360 control pad, you should have no problem getting 
 good and getting used to the controls. What you should be aware of though is that it will take 
 some practice, which is what makes this game so good. If you strive to get better and better, you 
 will absolutely get your bang for your buck with Street Fighter IV.
  
  The most enjoyment you will get out of this game will come from the following modes: Online matches, 
 Arcade mode, Challenge Mode, and Time Attack/Survival Mode.
  
  The online has worked great thus far, providing very little lag. However, you do get a few 'cannot 
 connect to game' messages, but this might be due to the game just releasing and the game handling 
 the huge amount of people playing the game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  One look at this game and you can tell, its pretty. Its damn pretty. The art direction is very 
 water painting/cel shaded and it suits the game well. The game also runs in 60 frames per second 
 which is silky smooth.
  
  Each characters animations are well done and very smooth and look damn awesome when playing.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound design in this game is awesome .... except for that brutal main theme song -- most of 
 the characters themes are great and so are the sound effects.
  
  Presentation:
  
  As I said the game looks pretty and the menu layout is nice. However, a quick warning to SDTV owners 
 -- Capcom hates you and it shows with this title too. Just like Dead Rising, it is very hard to 
 read the text. It is somewhat readable to me, but to others it might be a problem. Though since 
 the game doesn't have a big emphasis on story telling or anything, its fine, but it is kind of 
 annoying.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  
  Street Fighter IV is one of those games that will last you a long, long time thanks to the stellar 
 online mode. Its addictive, its fun, and its just awesome to Hadouken anyone who stands in your 
 way. I've already played a bunch of 'epic' fights with other people around the world, however, 
 I've also played matches with sore losers who kick you out of the game because you win or disconnect.
 
  
  Besides the online, you have an addictive arcade mode, a great challenge mode that teaches you 
 how to play the game and pull off combos with different characters, there is a time trial mode 
 and a survival mode. 
  
  All in all, there is a lot to do in the game and you will not be disappointed by laying down the 
 $60+.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  I used to be a big fighting fan back in the day, primarily with Mortal Kombat and Street Fighter 
 II. After the games got to complex I drifted away, only playing some fighters like Super Smash 
 Bros due to their accessibility.
  
  If there is one game that will bring back life to the genre, it is Street Fighter IV. It is a game 
 that is very accessible for anyone to play, but also has a huge amount of depth for anyone who 
 is looking to get good at it and play it for months on end. 
  
  If your looking for a good fighter, Street Fighter IV is it. In fact, it's probably the best fighter 
 you'll play this generation, or better yet, in the last 10 years. You will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Gonna burn some muscle.
  
  
  Street Fighter 4: A BRAND NEW Street Fighter video game. That's right, not a "Turbo Edition" of 
 an existing one, not a crossover fighter with SNK or someone else with reused sprites from 1996, 
 a brand new actual fighting game, and you can even unlock Sheng Long, the fighter EGM magazine 
 made up for an April Fools joke back in 1992. Proof positive that a fly stepped on in prehistoric 
 ages will have huge ramifications in the future. 
  
  Story : Street Fighter 4 takes place after the events of Street Fighter 2, and judging by how every 
 character from Street Fighter 2 appears here without a change to their look, style or personality, 
 it's safe to say that nothing of note happened during Street Fighter 2. Well, Bison died and came 
 back to life, and that seems to be it, so in case you didn't dawn on this sooner, the Street Fighter 
 story is equal to your typical children's action cartoon, complete with obscenely muscular men 
 throwing punches that their giant biceps couldn't handle. I've seen a handful of Street Fighter 
 animes in my life (and one really bad movie) so I'm electing to adopt the series "Street Fighter 
 2: V" as the official franchise canon, if just for the hilarious catchphrases and episode titles 
 such as "The Natural Energy Wave: The Secret of the Natural Energy Wave" and "The Iron Man with 
 the Secret Mission: The Ultimate Rescuers are Dispatched." Speaking of which, when you play arcade 
 mode, you are greeted with a unique anime cutscene introduction and ending for each character, 
 and you'll be lucky if the prologue and epilogue are even connected, as there's often no rhyme 
 or reason behind the depicted events. I'm rather partial to some of them though, such as Fei Long's 
 attempts to film a kung-fu action movie about fighting terrorists is being threatened by Bison's 
 real terrorists, and Zangief seems to insist that he protect kayfabe and prove that wrestling is 
 real to little kids. 
  
  It's funny how regression can be viewed as evolution sometimes. Just as how games like New Super 
 Mario Bros and Mega Man 9 became hit sensations for stripping away all of the changes made in the 
 last decade and a half to their forefathers, we have Street Fighter 4 working its ass off to erase 
 the existence of Street Fighter 3 from the consciousness of the consumer conscience. The last Street 
 Fighter game (well the last actual Street Fighter game) stuck with luscious 2D art and animation 
 over disgusting but then-vogue 3D polygons (stressing the word polygon) , disposed of almost all 
 of the original characters in favor of some fresh and interesting faces and invoked a parry system 
 that turned freak gamers with ungodly timing into quarter-dumping deities. It was bold in retrospect 
 and several longtime fans will swear by its last revision, Third Strike, as the best fighting game 
 ever made, but the absence of Guile's manly backflips proved too unnerving for the mainstream audience.
 
  
  The only mention of Street Fighter 3 in this game is a brief cameo by the Yin/Yang boys in one 
 of the cutscenes. 
  
  In their stead, we get all 12 characters from Street Fighter 2, all fighting like it was 1994 all 
 over again. They look the same, they act the same, they fight the sameor at least try. It would 
 appear that old age has shortened the length of E. Honda's arms as he doesn't have the gusto to 
 reach out as far as he used to for his thousand hand slaps. Inversely, recent steroid scandals 
 have done little to phase Zangief's resolve as the latest in performance enhancements allow him 
 to walk through fireballs and piledrive opponents with Ivan Drago-like efficiency. And Balrog developed 
 a personality beyond being a general goon. You can unlock other characters too, namely all the 
 predictable fan-favorites: Akuma, Sakura, Dan (though Dan has never fit into a game more than he 
 does here) , Cammy, the previously mentioned anti-terror martial artist Fei Long, Gen for some reason, 
 Rose for some other reason and SHENG. Gouken appears to be his name, and he makes a formidable 
 impression in his first game after about 16 years of starring in assorted fan-fiction pieces.
 
  
  I like most of the new characters, if just because they're not Ryu clones but have unique fighting 
 styles, though originality is not a strong suit in their design. C. Viper is an amalgamation of 
 every single female character (and a few effeminate men) from SNK in every way possible. Abel's 
 fighting style is supposed to resemble that of some kind of jacked up mixed martial artist, except 
 his backstory depicts him as made in a lab, so perhaps he's a play on Fedor Emelianenko, but without 
 the charisma. El Fuerte is the cooking El Santo, a luchador, following the recently installed guideline 
 that every freaking fighting game franchise MUST have a luchador; though he's less about grapple 
 attacks than he is about running a lot and confusing opponents. Rufus endears himself to me the 
 most; he's a fat guy with victory speeches too long to be read within the given time (I'm sure 
 one of them involves masturbation) and he's got some fun surprise attacks in his arsenal. Finally, 
 Seth, the final boss, is a big blue naked muscular man, and thus a ripoff of Super Smash Bros Brawl 
 ripping off Watchmen. 
  
  The new characters are unique enough in their approaches that it gives whiny punks who cry for 
 change (like me) something to experiment with while the rest of the world latches on to Ken. And 
 I'll admit that there exists the obvious advantage in using so many familiar faces in that anyone 
 that's played Street Fighter 2 can immediately pick up Street Fighter 4 and hit somebody with little 
 a learning curve. Call an unfair advantage over the recent attempts at new and original fighters, 
 the Arcana Hearts and Battle Fantasias and hell, even the Mortal Kombat vs DC Universes of the 
 world. The gameplay mechanics here best resemble Street Fighter 2; as in, no illogical air-blocking 
 or parrying, and thus the fireball becomes a tactical threat again. Despite the near 16 year old 
 gameplay style, some new tweaks and in particular, the outstanding art direction, give Street Fighter 
 4 an aura of freshness to a long stale series. The painting-esque style, the brush-stroke effects, 
 the over-voiced mid-fight trash-talk (which you can flip from English to Japanese if you're trying 
 to impress someone in your mind) , the smooth animation and the dynamic facial expressions all work 
 together to bring these age-old characters to life in ways that pre-drawn 2D sprite artwork never 
 could. Even the recent remake Super Street Fighter 2 HD Remix feels lifeless and pre-programmed 
 in comparison. 
  
  About the gameplay tweaks; in the place of parries, there's some kind of super EX attack that you 
 charge up and release with the X and Auhhh, I mean MP and MK buttons. This can absorb a single 
 blow and still strike, and likewise can briefly stun your opponent or break their guard. These 
 are more supplemental than mandatory (i. e. YOU DON'T NEED THEM) but they help if you know them. 
 Your super meter is fragmented, and you can use smaller portions to release stronger versions of 
 your special attacks or one big super special attack which I guess is kind of like Street Fighter 
 3. On top of that, there's a side meter that fills as you sustain damage, and you can unload a 
 really strong, really flashy super duper death murder attack once it's full. So the learning curve 
 for a fighting game veteran is rather small, but I wish the game had some optional in-game tutorials 
 to explain the newer concepts to new players, being that Street Fighter 4 is more or less the sole 
 ambassador of the 2D fighting genre (to my dismay, getting someone to play Guilty Gear is easier 
 said than done.) I know it's rather old-school to force the user to read the instruction manual, 
 but most gamers of this day and age would rather not acknowledge its existence. Manuals are a relic 
 from an age where trying to explain concepts in games would waste precious bytes of data on the 
 restricted memory formats of yesteryear. 
  
  The game has this large insistence on making the user unlock stuff, regardless of value. To unlock 
 the hidden characters, you'll have to find yourself beating Arcade mode with every existing character 
 in the game. Fortunately, you can turn the difficulty down all the way, set each fight to one round 
 and fly through a single character's life story in five minutes. You have to go to Challenge Mode 
 to unlock alternate character palette colours, costumes, concept art, movies and very useless crapand 
 this part is reluctantly important; you can create a virtual persona that solely consists of in-game 
 one-inch avatars and pre-determined titles like "punch-drunk!" and "full of beans!", both of which 
 need be unlocked rather than just letting the players choose their own slogans and personalities. 
 
  
  There exists this long series of Survival mode challenges (beating opponents with a set time or 
 health limit) and trial challenges (perform certain moves and combos for each character) within 
 the game. The former is flawed because each series of challenges is more or less the same, repeated 
 50 times over. The latter is flawed because the game offers no way to preview the combination you're 
 trying to execute (like in a Tekken or Virtua Fighter) and thus you have no frame of reference 
 for how to perform the task at hand. Both of which are flawed because most of the rewards are crap; 
 you can barely survive a 20-man edge of your seat gauntlet challenge and only unlock a single title 
 like "master student." And there seems to be hundreds of these titles and avatars in the game, 
 crying out for you to unlock and spend an ungodly amount of time repeating the same 5 minutes of 
 gameplay 50 times over.
  
  So completionist freaks are going to have their hands full for awhile. The rest of the world need 
 only bother with the other, more conventional fighting game modes. Arcade mode is what it is, though 
 the AI can put up a bit of a fight. In a strange twist that I'm sure is meant to mimic the arcade 
 experience of being challenged by random strangers, you can allow random players online to challenge 
 you mid-game, which I quickly turned off being as how if I wanted to face human competition, I'd 
 go to the ONLINE mode instead. Fortunately, once you do opt to play online, the experience is by 
 and large lag-free, the human competition is more than game, and you can find hours of your life 
 slipping by as you decide to go for one more match. 
  
  Truth be told, any issue I could nitpick about Street Fighter 4 won't really present an effect 
 on the desired gameplay experience of the player. Said desired experience being "unlock all the 
 damn characters, then just play online or versus with friends until Street Fighter 4 Turbo comes 
 out" And really, Street Fighter excels at being so friendly to play with others. You can gather 
 a bunch of old buddies together from the Street Fighter 2 days and relive your memories with new 
 technicolour visuals, or learn the new tweaks and challenge Kens from all over the world. Street 
 Fighter 4 walks a thin tightrope, giving hardcore shoryuken. com forumites something new to tinker 
 with, exploit and complain about while dunking quarters in the arcades for the next ten years, 
 and providing the old fans a chance to sonic boom/flash kick their way back into the limelight. 
 
  
  Pros : The Street Fighter 4 intro cutscene is rather stylish.
  
  Cons : The Street Fighter 4 main theme is some kind of boy band abomination
  
  4 stars
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7X4Lif3
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Where should i start with this one? Not only is this game AMAZING its one of the best fighting games 
 there is today. What i like about this game is that the classic characters are back and cool new 
 characters! Another thing is that its finally in 3D which is pretty good and its good by how the 
 characters look with the enviroments. One bad thing is the online gameplay its just that it can 
 be a slow connection because of the other players internet. The sound Fx on this game are just excellent, and 
 the bad thing i kinda miss the tournament mode. But other than that this game is worth buying and 
 waiting for. This game is EXCELLENT! i like what you can do with the classic special moves not only 
 does it bring back old memories it will just look better!!! I just gotta say Capcom did really good 
 this time and hope to see more great games on the way. This game is probably one of the years best 
 fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GearhardBanger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:00 am PT
Review:  Where the hell are these "Mad Catz" controllers?
  Yeah, that's right they released them in the US and Japan because somehow it must be "better to 
 do so". Maybe us Europeans wouldn't buy as many? Sales not as good? No demand? Whatever, this has 
 always gone on since I can remember.
  This game is virtually unplayable with the standard Xbox controller. Scratch that, it's complete 
 and utter dog **** with the normal pad. I doubt I'll be playing this again until I get a decent 
 controller for it.
  I wish I had this on PS3, the d-pad on that is sweet enough, I have many vs. fighting games for 
 PS2 that play great with the Sony controller. How can Microsoft fail to manufacture a decent d-pad? 
 It beggars belief. Ok, the controller is very ergonomic, trigger buttons great, sticks great, d-pad 
 rubbish. 
  So, Street Fighter 4. Basically I would not recommend anyone buy this game unless they have already 
 bought one of the arcade style joysticks or the Mad Cats fight pad. It's that important. You will 
 not be able to pull off the ultra combos when you absolutely have to, say like if you've been on 
 the last boss for 2 hours on hard mode and it's 1-1 and you both have a tiny bit of life left, 
 when you get a split-second chance to hit him or die yourself and start all over again maybe losing 
 the next 20 fights. Yes, it's annoying. 
  The graphics and sound on this are good, but I can't comment properly on the playability until 
 I feel comfortable with a controller. So Mad Craps, Mad Shats, I will call them based on past purchases 
 of their cheap nasty gaming accessories, where the hell are these fabled wonderful fight pads? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgmann16
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:40 am PT
Review:  Before I say anything let me make it clear that my rating of this game is based off of the fact 
 that I apparently suck at it. I've never been a huge fighter fan, but games like DOA and brawl 
 give me hope. I've always seemed to be very good at DOA 4, perhaps because of the blistering speed 
 with which you're required to play. 
  
  I do recall playing Street Fighter II quite a bit in my younger years but I can only assume that 
 I was terrible at it back then as well. Here's how bad I am. Medium settings, I could not get past 
 the third round no matter how hard I tried. It seems that the timing aspects of Street Fighter 
 just aren't within my capability to grasp. In my defense, as I said I'm a DOA player. There are 
 a plethora of moves for each character in that particular fighter and no gimmicky ultra or super 
 moves that try to balance a round out by giving you a one hit kill when you've almost been beaten. 
 I do think this system works for Street Fighter simply because the moves are so difficult to pull 
 off. The button combinations in games like Tekken and DOA have always seemed far more difficult 
 to me however they are a bit more loose to facilitate fluid combat. Street Fighter uses extremely 
 simple combos and focuses on the ability to string them together. Problem is the button combos 
 don't seem to work. I really couldn't string together three or four of the simplest special moves 
 playing as Ryu, let alone nail an ultra or super move when I needed it most. 
  
  I suppose if I have the time to sit down and play this for hours on end and learn the techniques 
 I could get good at it.. but I really don't feel like it honestly. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkdave
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:27 am PT
Review:  You'd think Capcom, a gaming company who have prooven their weight with such series as Megaman, 
 Resident Evil and Devil May Cry, would be able to make a good sequel to a classic arcade fighting 
 game 10 years after the last one came out.
  
  Yup, Street Fighter 3 came out in the late 90s, so capcom has had a very long time to think about 
 this game and develop it. So why is it that this is nearly exactly the same as all the other street 
 fighter games!
  
  Why hasn't this game gone 3D??? Some people may not like 3D fighting games, but what's wrong with 
 Soul Calibur or Virtua Fighter?
  
  Also, there are hardly any new moves, aside from the ultra combos (which you won't do more than 
 once every 2 or 3 matches) . Why not change people's movesets? I know this might upset people, but 
 what if you had the option of keeping the classic moveset if desired? Each fighter has about 3 
 slots for special moves, so why not make some new specials and give the player the option to change 
 them out for different ones and strategize.
  
  Most disappointingly, the graphics are HORRIBLE. I don't care what gamespot says, if you take 2 
 screenshots, one from street fighter 2 or 3, and one from this game, and you make them even slightly 
 lower res, you won't be able to tell the difference between the two. It's probably just the art 
 style, but still, I would be slightly more pleased if they made some sort of aesthetic change, 
 nevermind gameplay changes.
  
  My guess is that capcom didn't want to lose any of their old fans by doing anything too risky since 
 it's been 10 years since the last game came out so it would be easy for this series to fall off 
 the radar. But by doing this, I doubt they'll make any new fans since (I'll say this again) they 
 made the exact same game as the old street fighters. This is nothing more than a cash-grab. So 
 if you're like me and haven't really played/enjoyed the past street fighter games, avoid this one 
 like the plague. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javiergf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:15 am PT
Review:  This game feels and play almost exactly as 1992's street fighter 2. The graphics are now in beautiful 
 3D-HD and I was surprised of how fast are the loading times on the 360.
  The graphics are pretty good although and the momements are special combos are great but on the 
 closest distance they look a little bit too "cartonish" and not as great as other games.
  The best part of this game is definitely playability, it is great, hours and hours of fun and it 
 is without a doubt the best fighting game out there.
  
  Another great addition is the online play, so easy and quick to start a game with a contender anywhere 
 in the world, a lot more fun than playing alone.
  
  If we have to put some cons, I would say that it doesn't feel so much different from SF2 and also 
 that the difficulty is pretty hard.
  
  Executing the super combos is way to tough, especially when the machine won't make a mistake executing 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizik89
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:16 am PT
Review:  As a kid who grew up in the 90's i remember sitting in my basement and ripping street fighter II 
 turbo on my SNES and it was honestly one of the best games i have ever played. 
  
  Fast forward 17 years and omg a new generation street fighter game is coming out. Obviously because 
 of my old love for this series i decided to rent it and see how she goes. Unfortunitely, this game 
 seems to be one frustrating thing after another.
  
  There are characters like Ryu and Ken who seem to have fairly simplistic attacks and special moves, 
 but even the supers and ultras with them are hard to pull off for most people. Then ill switch 
 it up to some new guy or a person like M Bison and they have even more ridiculous button combos 
 to pull off their cool power attacks.
  
  The AI in this game is also insane. Playing the game for the first time on VERY EASY i could not 
 get past zangief who as soon as i would get into striking distance would just pick me up fly up 
 into the fair spin like a beast and powerbomb my face into the ground doing hella damage... i dont 
 even want to know what "Hardest" is like..
  
  I would also like to note that many of the characters in this game seem almost too sluggish and 
 clunky to have any chance with another fighter (ex Honda) . It doesn't help when the gameplay seems 
 to freeze for a split second when you hit some guy, almost like the games letting you know "yes 
 you connected with the hit".. its just stupid and messes your combos up.
  
  People who have the time and patience might be able to get good at this game and enjoy it. (maybe 
 my previous child self of 17 years ago) But for people like me who now work more than they can 
 play... this game will give you a lot of grief as you try to figure out why the hell you can't land 
 many of the fighters supers or ultras.
  
  graphics 7/10
  controls 3/10
  sound 7/10
  gameplay 5/10
  
  overall 5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astrotoby
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:17 am PT
Review:  i strongly doubt that if this game was a new title - and not the classic title Street Fighter - 
 it would be getting celebrated like the second coming of jesus and friends.
  
  An enjoyable game, quite hard though for the casual laid back player - i just don't get the massive 
 hype surrounding it. button smashing, and does it really do anything that hasn't been done before.
 
  
  Graphics are gorgeous - no denying that - and its great to see a ol fighter like this getting the 
 treatment it deserves. The new characters don't endear themselves that much - and most people will 
 find them selecting ol ryu / ken - or one of the other original cast. This to me shows that this 
 game gets by on nostalgia alot - and also shows that the new characters are not giving the game 
 much new to get excited about.
  
  good to see they have put more effort into the plot - and i can't not suggest the game to someone, 
 its fun, but just don't think it is gonna revolutionize your gaming experiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtlanticRock
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't wait to get this game in my hands... for anyone who's reading this that means they have 
 no clue what to expect from a Street Fighter game, because any fan of 2D fighting games already 
 know what this is all about.
  
  The game is a mixture of Street Fighter II and Street Fighter III, they included so many new fighting 
 mechanics so that experts and newbies can join in on the fun with no problem. They slowed the game 
 down (certain characters like my main: Vega) but it's still fast paced. Unlockables are a plenty 
 in this game and give any fan of the series to keep coming back for more single player action. 
 Challenge Mode is something I haven't had much time with but I can tell it's something to keep 
 the achievement hunters in check.
  
  The story is the only downfall in the game, the anime intro's and endings seem so retarded and 
 short they make no sense. I also wish DeeJay was one of the characters in the game to make it from 
 the classics but eh, i digress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dliv666
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Like many of Capcom game I have played, SF4 constantly calls on the player to display skills which 
 have been developed through previous games experience. Without this you will be left wondering 
 aimlessly with no progress inside many of their games with no support being offered. Good examples 
 of this are LOST PLANET and DEAD RISING. 
  
  SF4 simply as far as I can see really not suited to the XBOX 360 Controller and to a standard definition 
 TV. Also even though I have played previous SF games I am amazed by how difficult it is to perform 
 the SUPERS. I have tried for over an hour in training mode to get Guile to perform his SUPER/REVENGE 
 moves to no result ............. I pity the players who will tackle SF for the first time.
  
  Even though games like FABLE 2 are too easy at least they are accessible.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9_point_9_5
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok, sit down and take a deep breath, because what I'm going to say might shock you.
  
  I do not care for, I do not like, Street Fighter 4.
  
  From the first day I heard that this 
 game was going to be in 3D, I had my doubts. I had my fears. On February 17, 2009, the sum of my 
 fears had been confirmed. Capcom had presented me with Street Fighter EX 4.
  
  I get a very familiar feeling from SF4. Not the familiar feel that Capcom had promised though. 
 Not the familiar, old school, throwback Street Fighter we waited 10 long years for. Instead, I 
 get this familiar feeling that I've been here, done this before. 
  
  12 years ago, in 1997, we were presented with a 3D Street Fighter on the Playstation, Street Fighter 
 EX plus Alpha. Gamespot reviewed it and gave it an 8.3, which is not bad. SFEX was an interesting 
 game. It had decent gameplay, some new characters, ok graphics, and some new and interesting gameplay 
 mechanics. For the most part, you could describe SFEX as, Jump attack, normal, special, super, 
 super-cancel into another super. That's about as deep as the game got. 
  
  Jump back to the present and SF4. After spending unnecessary time unlocking characters that should 
 be present and playable from the start, you have to then play through the challenge modes to unlock 
 more useless, trivial things like medals, titles, icons, and colors. The only redeeming quality 
 is the existence of the Trial Challenges, which serve to actually teach you the mechanics of the 
 game. However, I digress... remember what I said? Been there, done that. Didn't we get to do that 
 in SFEX? Remember performing combos that they teach you in the training mode? Yep, definitely been 
 there, done that. Your combos will also be very familiar. Jump attack, normal, special, super, 
 ultra. Occassionally you'll break that up with Jump attack, normal, special, Focus Attack Dash 
 Cancel, special, super, ultra.
  
  I also remember SFEX having some very clunky, stiff, rigid, and sloppy feeling characters and mechanics. 
 Though it was a cool, albeit short lived, departure from the standard SF game, it was very clunky 
 and rigid. Something about EX was always off, always wrong... the characters just didn't handle 
 quite like they should. Maybe it was the 3D models that seemed inherently clunky and rigid.
  
  It should be noted, that there is very little difference in the feel of Street Fighter 4. The 
 characters, while they look great, are simply eye candy. The characters feel clunky, stiff, and 
 rigid. The gameplay is sloppy. After each successful attack, the game seems to have a brief pause, 
 as if to show off that the attack connected. It feels like some of the SNK games, in how they seem 
 to pause with each attack. The game itself is overall slow and sluggish. Then we come to the "new" 
 focus attack. New, only in the sense of animation, but definitely not in execution. The Focus Attack 
 is simply the new Alpha Counter, or SFEX's Guard Crush. Once again, been there, done that. The 
 only real new thing about the Focus Attack, is that you can cancel it into a dash. (FADC... Focus 
 Attack Dash Cancel) This is the only thing new about it, and while it does create opportunities, 
 it's still only mildly different than an Alpha Counter or Guard Crush.
  
  The graphics of the game really do speak for themselves. Some people complain about the character 
 models not looking good, but I like them. But graphics don't make the game, and SF4 is no exception. 
 Same for the sound... it's ok, the music is ok. It's nice to hear some re-done versions of old 
 SF tunes, but again, the music does nothing to improve on the rigidity and clunkiness of the gameplay.
 
  
  All in all, SF4 (EX4) is not a terrible game. What it is, is an ok fighter, with very pretty visuals, 
 and a thinly veiled attempt at being something new. It's NOT a new, groundbreaking game. It's NOT 
 a throwback to classic Street Fighter gameplay. The "replay value" that they put into the game, 
 is nothing more than a waste of time to get you to unlock things and use characters you would otherwise 
 not care about, or would believe should be available to you from the start. Again, the only redeeming 
 quality is the Trial Challenge mode which acts as a tutorial, but you'll never play it again after 
 completing it... if you even care about completing it to begin with. In the end, what this game 
 is NOT, is Street Fighter 4. What it IS, is Street Fighter EX 4. Been there, done that.
  
  There is, however, a glimmer of hope for this game. We all know that Capcom never gets it right 
 on the first try. The SF2 series took 5 iterations before they got it right. The SFA series took 
 3 tries, and the SF3 series took 3 tries. Lets just hope that with the 360's and PS3's ability 
 to provide us with Download Content, that Capcom chooses to upgrade the game with DLC, instead 
 of doing the classic Capcom move and making us dish out more money for and upgraded version of 
 the same game on a different disc.
  
  Do not believe the Capcom Hype Machine. This game is a HUGE disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VengfulPlatypus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  SFII was a instant-classic. Clearly one of the best games in vg history. Six years after, SFIII 
 came out, but it didn't have the magic SFII. But more than a decade later, SFIV comes out and it 
 comes hard. SFIV is arguably the best in the series and the best fighting game this generation. The 
 fighting in SFIV is polished within an inch of it's life and is so pure it literally appeals to 
 casual and hardcore. It can best be described as "accessible to play, hard to master". It is one 
 of the most balanced games ever made of any genre. The game is also pure eye-candy. An amazing 
 art style combined with incredible animation gives you, what is sure to be one of the best looking 
 games of '09. In short, it's one of the best games and will be one the best games of '09. Goty 
 contender count:1
  
  graphics:9.6
  gameplay:9.7
  replay: very high
  
  real score:9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter 4 is a game that can please both purists and newcomers alike. There are characters 
 that have been in almost every street fighter such as Ryu and Ken. While the new additions like 
 Crimson Rose and Rufus add some fresh blood to the mix. With somewhere around 8 different difficulties, 
 you're bound to find one that allows you to enjoy and even break into SF 4. There are a few problems 
 here and there that could hamper your experience, especially if you've been playing since the SF2 
 first hit the arcades. Here's what to expect from SF 4.
  
  Pro:
  - Gorgeous graphics and animation
  - Some genuinely interesting new characters, plus the return 
 of all your old favorites
  - Lots of settings for beginners and experts alike
  - Tons of unlockables for people who love to finish everything
  - You either love or hate the 
 anime cutscenes
  - You'll have trouble putting it down especially if you're a fighting genre fan, its that fun
 
  
  Cons:
  - SETH
  - Achievements are throwaway for the most part, with lots of "do this 100 times"
  - Characters 
 no longer have individual stages
  -You either love or hate the anime cutscenes
  - 360 controller can be extremely frustrating, especially when trying to pull off a Ultimate
 
  
  Minor gripes aside, Street Fighter 4 is an amazing fighting game that deserves a look whether youre 
 a hardcore fan or just someone looking for a good fighting game. I guarantee you won't be disappointed, 
 that is unless you're a hardcore T-Hawk fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  Although many may think there is nothing revolutionary about taking an ancient and might i add, 
 highly successful, fighting game and slapping new graphics on top of it, they are sadly mistaken.
 
  
  Not only does SF4 bring back the classic fighting formula with breathtaking visuals, cut scenes, 
 and art direction, it offers fans and people who have not played Street Fighter a great fighting 
 experience like no other. The game play very fluid and it's simplified enough to where hardcore 
 fans will love it and newcomers will not be turned away. :)
  
  Overall, it's a great addition to anyone's fighting game arsenal, and if you have ANY interest 
 in Street Fighter or have always wanted to play it, here is your opportunity!
  
  Great characters, excellent and responsive controls and feel, solid graphics, soundtrack and online 
 experience make this game a blast to play! Only complaint is Seth is a cheap mofo. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalxHealthx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:48 am PT
Review:  alright im gonna try to be unbiased on this (im a big SF fan, 2d fighter fan in general) . now most 
 people may not have been following the hype on this game (check out shoryuken. com) , but it was released 
 months ago in japan (and a few places in US) on ARCADE, so you could almost say the arcade version 
 served as a beta for the console version. why is that important? because the game was played by 
 many people for many hours which pointed out any bugs or balance issues the game had, now capcom 
 has all this data on what they could fix and that has brought this game to a whole new level of 
 balance. 
  the characters in this game not only look and control amazingly (though it may take a few rounds 
 to get used to) they all feel like they're equal in the ring, any character has the chance win 
 if your good and quick enough.
  so now you know that this is possibly the most balanced fighting game of all time, and you know 
 the graphics look awsome (even the backrounds, keeps your eye on them) so ill talk about the modes 
 etc. you have the basic 1v1 with a friend or computer, you have arcade mode which is pretty basic 
 but it starts you off with an anime cutscene about the character you've selected and ends with 
 one, there are also rivals in the arcade mode and another thing worth pointing out is you can search 
 for an online match while your playing arcade so you dont have to wait in a lobby, the other player 
 will interupt you playing the cpu (similar to what would happen in an arcade) . there is also training 
 mode which has every feature you come to expect from a fighting game, even down to recording yourself 
 and making the CPU play out what youve recorded. also there is the challenge mode which consists 
 3 different skill testing challenges, Time Attack where you must defeat a certain number of enemies 
 in the time limit, Survival where you try to defeat a certain number of enemies without being fully 
 healed for the next round, and Trial. now Trial mode is where the screen tells you what move to 
 do and you do it, at first its simple but it quickly moves into long combos and it will teach you 
 timing, execution, and EVERY combo possible by each character it is a very valuable addition to 
 any fighting game (especially if your new it basicly trains you) . 
  there is also online matchmaking, and a patch support promised soon to add even more online options. 
 speaking of online there are tons of titles and icons for your profile to unlock, as well as videos, 
 trailers, and concept art to unlock and view in the gallery mode.
  now all that's left to cover is the options in the game, the options are nice you couldent really 
 hope for more. you can control round time, speed, damage, all the things you'd expect but you can 
 also alter things like the HUD (life and super gauges on the screen) and toggle the languages for 
 any character to English or Japanese.
  i cant think of much else to add... i tried to include everything but there are tons of little 
 things i couldent fit in here that youll notice when you play. ill end this by telling you that 
 this is the best fighting game i've ever played, seriously its just that good. it blends the depth 
 and strategy of Street Fighter 2 and adds to it with things added to Street Fighter 3, there is 
 no parry but the new focus attack is a more balanced version of what the parry could have been 
 plus it serves as a universal overhead, not to mention it looks badass and is just fun to use. 
 this really is THE fighting game, expect to hear about this game in competitive circuts like MLG, 
 EVO, etc. if your looking to get into the competitive fighting game scene or are just looking are 
 a beautiful, fun and deep fighting game Street Fighter 4 is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtSpoon2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the world warriors for some time now and I must say now - THIS GAME IS ALL 
 THAT AND THEN SOME.. I LOVE good fighting games and these days it seems that we are being over 
 loaded with endless move lists and 30 button press combos. (exaggeration a little) SF4 brings back 
 a simple idea that takes a moment to learn and a lifetime to master. The graphics are gorgeous 
 and the engine runs smooth as silk. The animations are well implemented and you can really see 
 the time put into the models. Gameplay is all there and then some. If you are an old SF fan thats 
 been out of the game a while you will pick this right up. After a few hours of playing you will 
 be totally hook again. The character list is nice with most of your favorites available from the 
 get go and a few you will have to unlock. I took a half point off simply due to some missing elements. 
 I would love to see a player match system like in REMIX so all your buddies can watch and get in 
 on some butt kicking. I believe there is a championship mode download coming soon that might remedy 
 this. I could go on all day but I wont. Get a copy and be dazzled at the revamp of a classic title.
 
  
  Way to go CAPCOM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:46 am PT
Review:  Well, I got this game yesterday. I must say the game is amazing. It keeps the nice Street Fighter 
 feel, but adds a bit of 3d to make it a good and well done next gen game. If you are a fan of Street 
 Fighter, I would just stop reading this now and go pick the game up. This game has been getting 
 a lot of good reviews, and now I know why. First of all, you start with all your regular characters. 
 I believe their are around 6 or 7 characters that you can unlock. I have not tried online yet because 
 I am still trying to get the feel of the game.
  
  I must say though this game has a high learning curve. I find it to be hard at an easy level especially 
 when you reach the last boss. But, I would assume that is because I am just not use to playing 
 fighting games at all. Anyway, I would say go pick this up you won't regret it! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bez2083
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:23 am PT
Review:  I remember playing SFII Championship Edition for the 1st time on Sega Genesis on a snow day over 
 a friends' house when I was in 5th grade. I got owned repeatedly and yet I could not stop playing. 
 Same rules apply today with SFIV. Capcom's latest installment of the vaunted series mixes favorite 
 characters with new additions to make a perfect mix of fighters to choose in battle with friends 
 or online.
  
  The art style is breathtaking and what stands out for me the most. Almost like a cell-shaded, hand 
 drawn-type thing of some sort going on there but it is beautiful. The backgrounds are very detailed 
 with everything from drunks to barrels of liquor being affected by your moves.
  
  I have only played a handful of matches online, but no lag in any of them whatsoever. One slight 
 surprise was the overall ease of the game. On previous SF games, I could probably get to the 3rd 
 fighter on medium setting before promptly getting my ass handed to me. This one is drastically 
 easier, as Capcom seems to have made it less about defense and more about being on the offensive.
 
  
  OK, this article is getting way too long and anybody reading should already have the game. If you 
 don't, then get it. If you don't want it, then it's probably because you have a visceral hatred 
 for anything fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:04 am PT
Review:  Haven't really thought about playing a Street Fighter game in years. I have seen all of the videos 
 of the pros playing in tournaments. I admire their skill. Fighting games just haven't been my bag 
 the past 10-15 years. This game has really changed all of that for me. 
  
  First off, this game is gorgeous. Everything from how the characters are drawn to their animations. 
 The fighters move so fluidly you don't even think about it. The combos are a blast to try and get 
 a hang of again. The new characters are all pretty cool. There aren't any additions that I think 
 are lame or that are not really fun to use. The controls are fun. I absolutely can not wait to 
 get a stick to go with this game though. I can see how that would make this game even more fun 
 than it already is.
  
  I do however have a few criticisms. The cut scenes are pretty cheesy. If you are going to give 
 us haphazard exposition for all of these characters, why give it to us at all? I don't need a story 
 to enjoy a fighting game, so why do I have to put up with this nonsense while I unlock characters? 
 The translation in the game is pretty hilarious too. Thankfully, after you successfully complete 
 a full game in Arcade Mode on any setting, you can switch to Japanese. 
  
  There are some funny moments too. For instance, there is a scene for Rose where she is looking 
 at a door and the sign says, "CLOSE" not "CLOSED". I found that to be classic late 80's/early 90's 
 type of translation and it made me laugh pretty hard. I hope that scene was left in on purpose 
 to give it a nostalgia feel for the gamers that grew up in that era of gaming. 
  
  I took a look at some of the stuff you can unlock with achievement points and was very impressed 
 with a lot of it. They did a very good job of rewarding players for on-line modes. I am still getting 
 my feet wet playing against the computer before I get absolutely picked apart by veteran gamers 
 who devote their time to fighting games. Hopefully I can win a few matches with my Honda or Sakura 
 :P 
  
  If you have been waiting for a great fighting game to come out for years now, do what I did and 
 go pick this thing up with a quickness. I promise that you won't be disappointed!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkeley0
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 6:56 am PT
Review:  Street Fighter IV or Resident Evil 5?
  
  My answer to you is maybe Street Fighter IV which has undoubtedly made me a fan. I never liked 
 the series, but this game is one of the best fighting games to come out this generation. I haven't 
 quite honestly felt about a game like this, since Soul Caliber for Dream Cast and Tekken 3 for 
 the Playstation.
  
  The game play is perhaps the most impressive aspects of the game in which it flows so smoothly 
 and refreshes the fighter genre which has recently felt very tired. Finally a fighter for the next 
 generation and a must buy for anyone who has ever wanted to get back into the genre or is experiencing 
 it for the first time. Battles seem at a better and slower pace, there is no more cheap attacks 
 that spoiled the fun in previous installments. Every character is spread out so evenly that any 
 character played with the right skill level will give anyone a hard time. Its not about button 
 smashing, but about timing your attacks at the right moment and unleashing them. The revenge meter 
 similar to Tekken 6 works well and your special attacks set this fighter aside from other memorable 
 fighters. Ryu works as a great beginner choice for anyone new to the series.
  
  The visuals are true to arcade style and look beautiful on the console versions. Its really amazing 
 to see that it doesn't try to be something its not. All the colors look great and the character 
 models are good to look at as well. Overall though the graphics won't disappoint as they make this 
 game stand out from many games that seem to be the same now a days.
  
  The multiplayer at its heart is best when played the original and best way to play Street Fighter 
 IV with a buddy split screen. While the online is decent the offline takes you back across memory 
 lane as battle can get quite exciting and fun. The game doesn't offer new modes, but when developers 
 have put so much time into something, its easy to just forgive these faults. It does everything 
 it has to do so well and no fighter this gen has attempted this, and that's what makes Street Fighter 
 IV seem very new and fresh.
  
  The music can also be annoying as well as the announcer and sometimes I would have to shut up the 
 announcer. But overall it provides a nice feel to the game with its relentless theme to it. It 
 all mixes pretty well and adds to the feel of this great fighter.
  
  Whether you're a fan or not Street Fighter is a game for everyone. It stays true to the genre by 
 remaining like an arcade game, but fresh off the stove. Its very addicting and you'll have fun 
 with this fighter as it's the best fighter so far this gen, and that's a good thing.
  
  Production Values 8/10
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  Graphics 7/10
  
  Replay Value 9/10
  
 
  Overall Score 8/10: Above average B
  Verdict: The Best Fighter This Gen! Go out and buy it!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  7 is 
 an average = C
  
  
  Review System
  
  10/A+: Impossible how is this even possible 
  9.5/A: Wow almost perfect
  9.0/A-: Outstanding 8.5-10 is must buy!
  8.5/B+: Superb 
  
  
 8.0/B: Great Rent or Buy
  
  7.5/C+: Above Average Party Game
  
  7.0/C: Average 
  6.5/D: Good
  6.0/D-: Ok
  
  5/F: Skip it
  
  1: Worst Game Ever Made! Don't even!
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemesis110
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:32 am PT
Review:  OK yeah, obviously you're going to read every body's review, and almost everyone loves the crap 
 out of this game, but your thinking "that person loves it because he or she is a street fighter 
 fan". I could tell you right now from a person that doesn't like fighting games like TEKKEN and 
 DEAD OR ALIVE this game was worth the wait.
  The graphics and character model are obviously beautiful, the control is as easy to learn how to 
 ride a bike, and soundtrack is amazing, it's also fun to watch each every characters unique moves 
 and trust me it feels good when you bust a special move on one of your opponents. So yeah I could 
 tell you right now that this game is one and the only greatest fighting game I have ever played, 
 but hey this is only my opinion, if you're still deciding RENT it and checks it out and I guarantee 
 you'll have fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: c02z
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 10:53 pm PT
Review:  to sum it all up street fighter 4 has that old school 2D gameplay with 3D graphic and some added 
 extra gameplay feature including Focus attack, Dashing, super energy meter to use as super moves 
 or adding more hit to your regular special attack and many more.
  
  the graphic looks clean and well polish but the WOW factor are not there. the sound are pretty 
 average. I don't expect much out of SF game so it is pretty much acceptable. 
  
  even though SF4 has that old school 2D gameplay, the game has some unique feel to it the minute 
 you start playing and jumping added a little bit of physic ( weight) into it. for now I will not 
 going to much detail . the reason why I give it a 8.5 because it wasn't a game that I feel it revolutionary 
 or a masterpiece but still fun nonetheless. recommend for SF veteran and newcomer to the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I remember back in the day when I played Street Fighter II and Super Street fighter II on my SNES.
 
  
  Now I can play a classic kick-ass fighting game on the 360 with nice graphics and a great fighting 
 system.
  This is my first fighting game on the 360. I dont know why but after the SNES I somewhat stopped 
 playing/buying fighting games, but Street Fighter IV is no exception. It is definitely one of the 
 best fighting games out there and is a lot of fun.
  For some like me that is no expert, there is a lot of replay value in this game and there is always 
 room for improvement for anybody in any skill level. Graphics are very nicely done and give the 
 game a unique style. 360 d-pad is not really ideal for this game but it still works and lets you 
 have fun. Obviously if your a more serious fighter ul probably pick up an arcade stick.
  
  Overall this game is the shiet and if you have not bought this yet and/or you are undecided you 
 need to pick this up, weather you are new to the series or not it is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firebourne
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Well I have been waiting a long time for this game to come out and I must say the wait was worth 
 it. However I must admit that there are several problems I have with this game and I will go over 
 those first. 
  
  The new characters except for CV and Ken & Ryus master are all horrible additions in my opinon. 
 To me many of them feel out of place and I just think they could have come up with cooler characters 
 then what im seeing here. I especially hate Seth and the character that weighs 400 pounds I cant 
 believe I am seeing this guy as a character in my street fighter game... $%!@*!!
  
  The difficulty also is interesting in single player mode. My first attempt at playing single player 
 mode i decided to put the difficulty on hard. I am a long time player I am 28 years old and i have 
 been playing the game since it first came out enough said. Well maybe I am getting old or something 
 but my first attempt w/ ken didnt go so well. At times it just seemd like once the computer decided 
 it wanted to win there was just nothing i could do. My friend was here playing with me as well 
 he is 29 and same thing hes been playing all his life and we struggled so bad to get through hard 
 mode. Honestly we fought seth for like an hour maybe more and i finally beat him just as we were 
 about to give up. Maybe we shouldnt have set it too three rounds but still the computer AI is just 
 frustrating. 
  
  Anyway I could go on and on about this game like how totally lame it is that Seth sucks you into 
 his Yin / Yang stomach and then spits you out into the camera (remided me of that old old teenage 
 muntant ninja turtles game) or how Ryu's Dramatic charge fireball gets old after the first 10 times 
 you see it. But i am giving this game a 10 because i love street fighter and this game is more 
 then enough to keep me entertained if i look past some of the stupid things they decided to do. 
 Go out and buy it if you love fighting games or just street fignter in general. But def get the 
 mad catz controller because the X-box 360 controllers d-pad is garbage and just wont cut it if 
 you want to do dragon uppercuts without a problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it, there are hardly ANY fighting games on the 360 to get! This new generation is basically 
 clouded with first-person shooters!!!
  
  I was torn between Soul Calibur and Mortal Combat for a little while, but I soon realized that 
 I haven't really owned a lot of Street Fighters... so I decided I could hold off on playing as 
 Super Man or Darth Vader for the time being LOL.
  
  And boy am I glad that I did!!! This game is great for me!!!
  
  And what I mean by that, is 
 that there's not a ton of moves to learn!!! Between school and being the lead guitarist to a band, 
 it's hard enough trying to get some videogame time in anyway!!! I try to stick to games that just 
 require you to pick up a controler... nothing more :)
  
  (My favorite fighting game ever is Dead or Alive 4, but that has HUGE move lists = a LOT of time 
 and effort)
  
  - More later, I haven't the time :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shabulia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time coming. In fact many believed this day would never come. Even the brains 
 behind the series at Capcom thought that the legendary Street Fighter games had run their course. 
 It turns out all that was needed was a very long break (ten years long to be exact) . After waiting 
 and hoping, after fighting game fans have been reduced to the few and far between members of the 
 gaming crowd, Street Fighter IV has finally come to beckon the calls of the fighters of old and 
 new to come see why Street Fighter has always been king. While not without some minor flaws, Street 
 Fighter IV is about as close to perfect as a game can get.
  
  After you pick your jaw up off the floor you'll realize why it fell in the first place. Street 
 Fighter IV's incredible new graphic style is a truly magnificent sight to behold. To appreciate 
 the new look of the game I recommend letting others play it so you can take your time and notice 
 all of the details that are peppered throughout the game. As many know by now Street Fighter IV 
 is entirely in 3-D. While this has been a concern to the fighting fans of old this does not affect 
 game play. Street Fighter IV retains the look and feel of the 2-D Street Fighter style (more on 
 that later) . Each fighter is displayed with stunning detail that resembles a 3-D comic book. At 
 times it almost looks like a watercolor painting in motion. Everyone's muscles are fully flexed 
 at all times as they all sport a steroid heavy look. It might take a fight or two to get used to 
 but once you have given it some time, the look of the game will set in and seem to be a natural 
 fit. With every hit and kick a character receives, reactions and facial movements will have onlookers 
 rolling on the floor. Each time you see Ryu's eyes bulge or Blanka's face contort as he takes a 
 vicious blow to the jaw you'll realize just how much care was put into the game. This level of 
 detail is lacking in many games today and it is very welcome in a game that many take so seriously. 
 Even the minute details in the backgrounds and the reactions of non-playable characters or inanimate 
 objects as the fight goes will blow you away. If your concerns about the move to 3-D have kept 
 you weary of getting into Street Fighter IV, you can put those concerns to rest. Trust me; it was 
 a good move for Capcom to make. With its cartoony over-the-top look mixed with the classic Street 
 Fighter designs, Street Fighter IV is a work of art.
  
  2-D or not 2-D? That is the question on everybody's minds. Is this just a recap of Street Fighter 
 EX with prettier graphics? Is it closer to Tekken or Street Fighter II in terms of play? All of 
 these concerns have flooded the internet since the radical change in the look of Street Fighter 
 IV was announced. Well this is not Street Fighter EX. The game is closer to Street Fighter II than 
 Tekken. Think 2-D style with 3-D presentation. This is nothing new as games have been taking advantage 
 of this gaming style for a while now. Recent games in the Megaman and Mario series have done so 
 and even Little Big Planet plays like a 2-D game while being fully 3-D rendered. The choice to 
 go 3-D has not affected the amazing game play of Street Fighter IV in the least. Moving back to 
 the roots of play that Street Fighter II gave us, everything is done in fine style and welcomes 
 new and old players. While not quite as technical as Street Fighter III: 3rd Strike, this game 
 is no slouch. It merely simplifies things a little. Gone are the parry moves from Street Fighter 
 III and in place are Focus Attacks. These work a lot like parries but are executed differently. 
 Instead of stepping into an attack when it is about to make contact, simply push medium punch and 
 kick at the same time. This allows you to absorb an attack without taking damage and take the advantage 
 from your opponent. Focus Attacks take practice but when you have the timing down, they work well 
 and adds a level of strategy to the game sure to please the hardcore fans. But it's not necessary 
 to master, which will please the more casual fan base. There is no air blocking like the Alpha 
 series but there are dash moves to rush your opponent by pushing forward twice rapidly. The six-button 
 attacks are as you remember and special moves work with the same commands you are probably familiar 
 with. Characters have been rebalanced to give each one relative strengths and weaknesses, so the 
 game is as competitive as ever. Everything here is simply mind blowing and is sure to please anyone 
 with a love of Street Fighter. 
  
  There are a number of modes to enjoy in Street Fighter IV. Each one offers something different 
 and rewarding so it would be worth your while to explore each of them. Arcade Mode is pretty much 
 what you would expect out of a fighter. You choose your character and fight your way through to 
 the end boss, Seth. Each character has their own anime intro prologue and epilogue to add to their 
 story. Sadly, these anime sequences are largely forgettable and totally laughable if heard with 
 the English voiceovers. Do yourself a favor and switch the voices to Japanese in the sound options 
 mode. Luckily these story pieces aren't essential to the game and can be skipped by hitting the 
 Start button. What's really exciting is if you have online play capabilities, this really will 
 feel like the Arcade experience. Others can interrupt your single player game and challenge you 
 like a kid popping a quarter in an arcade machine. It's an awesome inclusion that really makes 
 this feel like an authentic Street Fighter experience. As soon as the challenged fight is over 
 you can opt to play them again or go back you to your single player game. If you are trying to 
 beat the arcade mode and you don't want to be interrupted, simply turn this option off at the beginning 
 of your quest and you can still remain online without being bothered. The inclusion of this level 
 of control makes the game an even more rewarding and fun experience.
  
  You're in luck if you are out to jump into online play without the hassle of the Arcade Mode too. 
 Xbox Live Battle Mode allows you to jump into cyberspace and challenge people the world over. Before 
 any online match transpires, you are shown who you will be fighting and what the connection strength 
 is before the match begins. Ping rate will tell you if there is likely to be any lag and most online 
 matches run very smoothly. You select either Ranked Match or Player Match. These are similar in 
 play but the Ranked Match will record how well you do and save it to Leaderboards and compare you 
 with the rest of the Street Fighters out there. Player Match will allow you to lose without consequence 
 but your wins won't be recorded. Ranked Matches are intended for the more hardcore audience while 
 Player Matches are for the more casual players or for someone still learning. You can always back 
 out of a match before it begins if things don't meet with your liking. It is strongly recommended 
 that if you do agree to the match that you finish it even if you are losing, especially in Ranked 
 Matches. While there are no current penalties for checking out early in the middle of a fight, 
 rumor has it that Capcom has plans address this in an upcoming patch via download later this year. 
 It should be noted that while it is well done, online mode does not completely match the level 
 of precision that someone sitting next to you playing on the same console can reach. For the tournament 
 level fighter, playing with live people is the way to play. Still, online is quite impressive and 
 makes multiplayer the real draw of Street Fighter IV, which is the way it should be.
  
  The Challenge Mode is outstanding. Everything about learning the game and putting your skills to 
 the test is right here. One option in Challenge Mode is called Trial. It is designed to teach the 
 moves of all the characters. For those of you holding out on Street Fighter IV because of the sharp 
 learning curve, this is your savior. It is also an excellent way for players to familiarize themselves 
 with the new characters, the new moves, and the new combos so you can hone your skills. There are 
 multiple levels of moves that the mode guides you through. Things start simple with punches and 
 kicks and then progress to special moves like Guile's Sonic Boom or Ryu's Hadouken. Then things 
 get more difficult in showing how to execute Super Moves and various combos of moves strung together 
 to deliver some truly deadly blows to your opponent. The computer guides you through all of this 
 and only makes you a better fighter. It is ingenious in the way everything is put together and 
 is sure to make anyone a master if the player is willing to dedicate the time to it. After all 
 that there are also other options in Challenge Mode like Survival and Time Attack. Each sub-mode 
 gets harder and harder as you progress. If you have learned what you need to from Trial then you 
 will dominate here and elsewhere in the game.
  
  Training Mode is pretty standard stuff. You can set your opponent up to crouch, stand, or be controlled 
 by the CPU. You can also have a friend join in and play to where you just practice moves on each 
 other with no defeat in sight. There are the typical display options open to you so you can see 
 your commands as you input them. This is nice to see if you are doing something wrong or if you 
 pulled a move out of nowhere and want to see what you did to execute it. Training Mode is nothing 
 out of the ordinary but it's still good to have.
  
  Versus Mode even has some interesting options. While you can choose to play against another player 
 sitting next to you, you can also choose to fight against the computer. What makes this special 
 is you can keep playing the computer for as long as you want. There is no survival requisite and, 
 since there is no ending like in Arcade Mode, you just play over and over until your heart's content. 
 You can also choose your character and your opponent along with the difficulty level. It's a nice 
 alternative for those without online capabilities and who might be flying solo. There is also the 
 option to have CPU vs. CPU which will allow you to view your characters in full fighting force. 
 This is also nice as it allows you to view the entire splendor that is Street Fighter IV without 
 having to worry about winning a fight.
  
  The character roster includes all twelve original World Warriors from Street Fighter II and four 
 new characters. The new characters are Crimson Viper, Abel, Rufus, and El Fuerte. Each one brings 
 something new to the game and they are all welcome additions to the Street Fighter lineup. For 
 the console editions, there are an additional eight fighters added to the roster from other Street 
 Fighter games of old. These characters are hidden and you must accomplish certain things to access 
 them. Along with Seth, the game's main boss, this brings the total playable roster to twenty five. 
 Each character has their own genuine unique style and none are mere palette swaps. For example, 
 Ken and Ryu are similar but play very differently. Just because you are good with one doesn't mean 
 you will be good with the other. All in all, the roster is very impressive and I believe Capcom 
 was smart in not adding too many more characters to the mix as has been done in some of their past 
 games like Marvel vs. Capcom 2. To add more might have made the game a bit cumbersome and would 
 have surely intimidated new players. Everything is balanced and each character has their own strengths 
 and weaknesses along with their own sets of strategies to master.
  
  The sounds of the game are what you would expect out of a Street Fighter game. While not the thumping 
 hip-hop tunes of Street Fighter III: 3rd Strike, they are exciting and create the mood for the 
 game. Everything is fast paced and brutal in competition and the music reflects that well. Punches 
 and kicks sound like you'd expect and each character has a great set of "oomph" and "aahhh" sounds 
 when blows are landed. The opening music of the game is a little disturbing with the Japanese boy 
 band song, but it's something you can skip. As I said before, go to the option menu and change 
 the spoken dialogue to Japanese. The English voiceovers range from ok to just plain bad. The character's 
 lips actually match what they are saying before a match begins if you have the Japanese dialogue 
 turned on. Subtitles can still be viewed in English so this is worth doing to lower the level of 
 camp and keep the mood of the game where it belongs.
  
  It was inevitable that a game this good would have some minor things to keep it from being absolutely 
 perfect. Though they are very few and far between, there are some slight shortcomings in Street 
 Fighter IV. One complaint about the game is the ultra cheap boss at the end of Arcade Mode, Seth. 
 Defeating him seems to be more luck than actual skill. His set moves make him an almost impossible 
 foe. He has Zangief's pile driver, Ryu's Shoryuken, Chun-Li's ability to jump off walls and her 
 speed, Guile's Sonic Boom, Dhalsim's long arm punch, a teleport like M. Bison's from Street Fighter 
 Alpha 3, and the ability to suck you in close to him while pummeling you before you have a chance 
 to react. Playing against him isn't so bad when using a character like Ken because of his speed 
 and power. But beating Seth with a slow character like Dhalsim is quite a challenge. That said, 
 Seth is as tough as nails and beating him will either leave you with a sense of accomplishment 
 or relief.
  
  Another complaint is the controls. The game, itself, controls just fine, provided you have a decent 
 fighting game controller. If you are buying this game, forget playing with the default 360 pad. 
 The D-pad for the 360 is atrocious and has no place existing in a world where fighting games like 
 this are played. While this is not a flaw of the game itself, it is something you must consider 
 if you plan on buying Street Fighter IV and if you plan on having any hope in competing online. 
 Fortunately, there is hope. Here I will tell you about your special controller options that were 
 released specifically for Street Fighter IV:
  
  Street Fighter IV Fighting Pad - This little guy is designed like the Sega Saturn pads (considered 
 by many to be the best fighting game pad ever created) . It has a large and pronounced D-pad for 
 executing moves and a six-button layout on the face of the controller. It also has rubber reinforced 
 sides so that when you start to sweat during a heated match, your hands won't slip. The Fighting 
 Pad also has Turbo options and each one comes with character art on the face. It is perfect for 
 anyone that grew up playing Street Fighter at home rather than at the arcades.
  
  Street Fighter IV Fightstick - This stick was designed to replicate the look and feel of the arcade. 
 There are eight buttons on the face of the stick and the joystick feels close to the original arcade 
 joysticks you might remember. While there have been reports of some sticks being defective, most 
 of the sticks have met standards and are a great choice to play the game at home while maintaining 
 the arcade style feel. The eight face buttons are laid out so that you can choose the first six 
 to be your main buttons or the last six to be your buttons of choice. The reason for this design 
 choice is that the inner six buttons are laid out with a slight curve in the traditional Japanese 
 style of arcade games while the outer six are more akin to the American style arcade layout. There 
 is a turbo option for selected buttons along with the ability to disable the home button and there 
 is the option to select if the joystick operates in place of the D-pad, the left analog or right 
 analog stick. This is particularly useful if you choose to use the stick for the computer as it 
 is compatible with most MAME programs and fighting games for PC users. You can choose which buttons 
 do what in the main game so that the stick plays exactly to your liking. In my experience, it is 
 responsive and plays very well.
  
  Street Fighter IV Tournament Edition Stick - It just doesn't get any better than this. This stick 
 retails at $149.99 and is worth every penny. What you get here is a stick that was designed to 
 fully recreate the arcade experience. The arcade cabinet design is replicated here in full detail. 
 The joystick and buttons are all official Japanese Sanwa Denshi arcade parts, the layout is much 
 like that of the Fight Stick in being an eight-button design so you can choose where to put your 
 fingers, the cord is long, and the construction is absolutely outstanding. All of the options for 
 the Fightstick are present here however the inclusion of Sanwa arcade parts and the collectivity 
 of this stick make it the number one choice, provided you can even find one.
  
  It is also worth noting that both the Tournament Stick and the Fightstick can be opened up and 
 customized to your liking. The Tournament Stick has more options because of its large casing. If 
 you prefer the American style concave buttons and the Happ "bat style" joystick over the Sanwa 
 "ball style" joystick, you can simply open it up and switch it out. This is a double edged sword 
 with the Tournament Stick as it is already made with supreme arcade parts and is a true collector's 
 item. Upgrading the internals of the Fightstick is just as easy but because it is smaller, you 
 may have to stick with Sanwa or Seimitsu parts. Both are fine options but the casing just isn't 
 deep enough to include Happ parts. Be warned though; modifying either stick will void the warranty 
 immediately and should not be done unless you are sure you want to do so and are sure you possess 
 the technical skills to do so successfully.
  
  Controllers aside, the real star of everything here is Street Fighter IV. It is an outstanding 
 achievement and fits like a glove within the Street Fighter series. There are so many extras and 
 options in the game that anyone is sure to find something to like. The level of balance is spot 
 on and the attention to detail clearly shows as this game shines in every conceivable way. Capcom 
 clearly took this project very seriously as they should have. Fighting fans can rejoice as the 
 king has surely returned. This level of polish and refinement should set the standard for all future 
 fighters. Street Fighter, welcome home. It's good to have you back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djezhel619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 12:51 pm PT
Review:  .... but gamespot is right, no tournament mode online and no tag-team mode either, that would have 
 been nice to tag team with another bud online against 2 other people around the world. Hopefully 
 later on with some updates, they will come up with some kind of tournament. Anyways, aside from 
 that, its still really good online and alot to play for in single player mode, well worth the buy 
 for fighter fans. I wasnt expecting to buy this game but it was last minute decision and im glad 
 I did :)
  
  I havent played all that much, but from what i did play it was pretty awesome, still gotta get 
 some moves down and what not. Anyone who has the game and xbox live we can definitely challenge 
 each other: hit me up for my gamertag. 
  
  Graphics: A+
  Sound: A-
  Gameplay: A
  Difficulty: B
  Online: B-
  and the Ryu red headband that came with my game purchase? priceless 
 :D lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruff_edgz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 9:00 am PT
Review:  The Street Fighter series can be arguably one of the better series to come out for the fighting 
 genre. Though they drove the series into the ground when it comes to the same game but with different 
 'things' added to it (new characters, added super abilities, etc...) . The series seemed lost with 
 no hope of returning after Street Fighter III came out.
  
  When word of Street Fighter IV was circling around, I don't think anyone was expecting the game 
 to be what it is now. The trailers and gameplay videos looked wonderful and the pictures just instilled 
 good thoughts in player's minds. Now the day has come for gamers to actual see the gameplay for 
 themselves.
  
  The first thing that just needs to be said is the graphics are really, really nice. The mix of 
 3D graphics and playing in a 2D type environment works out well with this game. Certain moves will 
 mix the two environments but not in a confusing way. You will always know were your character is 
 at all time (if you are performing the move or not) . The backgrounds look stellar and just add 
 to the eye friendly feeling of this game.
  
  The gameplay feels like an other Street Fighter game in the series. To perform moves are similar 
 to previous versions of the game and the movement is also similar. Using a normal gamepad can be 
 done but I have found it to be sometimes difficult at times as well (this opinion is only for the 
 360 version of the game) . If you really want to perform the moves better, a arcade stick would 
 be preferred (or a fighting game pad) .
  
  The type of gameplay to pick from is similar to other fighting games. They have a story mode, verses 
 mode, Live mode (online) , challenge mode and training mode. Each mode has its unique feel and should 
 be able to keep gamers interested. The story mode goes through the story for street fighter as 
 you get to battle your way through with the characters in the game to complete it. Verses mode 
 is to battle friends/family on the local machine. Live mode lets you battle people online and keeps 
 track of other players to see who is the better fighter for this installment. Challenge mode gives 
 gamers a way to beat challenges that Capcom has set up like a time trail or survival match. Training 
 just helps gamers who wish to practice moves/combos with a character without winning or losing 
 involved.
  
  The sounds were surprisingly good for the game and I really enjoyed the main theme of the game 
 (Exile - The Next Door) . Fighting sounds were basic but still accurate with each hit placed. The 
 English voice acting was also not bad for a Japanese based game but you can unlock the Japanese 
 voices for the game as you keep playing. The level music as well is enjoyable to listen to (if 
 you take the time to actually listen) and keeps the game flow exciting.
  
  The game itself is a wonderful standard for 2009 Fighting Game of the Year and anyone in this genre 
 will have to find a way to beat out a legendary series like Street Fighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molitorious
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:08 am PT
Review:  It is always hard to review game sequels, especially ones with such a rich history. Street Fighter 
 helped create and push the genre of fighting games. I am reviewing this game as someone who has 
 played street fighter since its early days. As such it is impossible for me to tell how someone 
 new to the street fighter series will feel about this game. 
  
  SFIV is a good brand refresh. They striped the game back to its core in gameplay. At the same time 
 this feels like the most balanced street fighter ever. The new systems (focus, revamped super meter, 
 and EX) work well to create a good balance of offensive and defensive play styles. There are nice 
 little tweaks to the special moves by using up super meter bars. By using the super meters it helps 
 to keep people from spamming the same high powered moves as well. There are alot of new features 
 in place to keep people from spamming. Some moves let you pass throw fireballs to reach that guy 
 standing on the other side launching fireball after fireball. The counter system works well too. 
 
  
  My only gripe would be with the EX finisher.. sometimes it just feels too powerful. The EX meter 
 builds up as you take damage. There are two levels to the meter. Once the second level is reached 
 if you manage to pull of the EX move and hit your opponent it can easily take half of their life 
 bar. I am really torn about this. I see it is nice to feel like you always have a chance and that 
 the fight is never over till its over, but it can feel really cheap if you are on the receiving 
 end after dominating a whole round just to lose to one move. It is safe to say I have a love/hate 
 response to the EX "revenge" meter.
  
  The roster overall appears very well balanced. Time will tell for sure. It would have been nice 
 to have a bigger roster. But as the roster expands it gets harder and harder to balance out the 
 game, so I can understand why it is limited. 
  
  A couple more game modes would have been nice, but is there works well.
  
  --------------------------------------
 
  
  Presentation: 8.5
  Nice VS art stills, meh anime, ok menu system, top notch character moves screens while paused
 
  
  Graphics: 9
  nicely stylized 3d to look like the old 2 sprites capture the feel of the old games while giving 
 the series a fresh coat of paint. The backgrounds in the game are amazing to explore.
  
  Sound: 7.5
  HORRIBLE menu music, just OK in game music. Sound effects and voices are well done.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  solid street fighter mechanics at play, Noobs welcome but be sure to practice. Game gets deeper 
 the longer you play and practice.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 9
  It can take a lifetime to master even one character. So yeah, it'll last yeah a while. Plus DLC 
 coming. And characters and costume colors to unlock. 
  
  --------------------------------------
  
  Overall: 9
  A great addition to the street fighter 
 line up. 
  It won't be everyone's cup of tea. You won't be breaking it out like your Wii when grandma comes 
 to play.
  A great addition to any fighter's game library.
  
  *note at time of review, no online play had been tried. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razo01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:08 am PT
Review:  If you like SF Vs games then you will not be dissapointed with this game. The games mechanics are 
 just like the original sfs but upgraded with better graphics and new features like revenge, ex 
 moves, and supported with strong finishers like your super and ultra combos. This game is totally 
 worth your time If you love fighting games. This is coming from someone who's been in love with 
 the series for a long time. Pick this up and put your skillz to the test online. Don't be afraid, 
 and don't go by these rpg nerds giving it a 4.0, they have no clue what there talking about. AIIIGGHHTT!
 
  
  xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RubedoXT
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2009 11:11 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played this game that much yet but I have many bones to pick with it already. First off, 
 anybody can notice how well rendered the graphics are. There's no doubt that it is a very beautifully 
 cel-shaded game. 
  
  The gameplay seems very familiar and easy to pick up, which is where it fails and succeeds, because 
 on the other hand it barely does anything new to create a fresh experience. It feels like Street 
 Fighter II, but the bulky movement seems like it only works for an actual 2d fighting plain.
  
  I mean just having a basic special guage? Whatever happend to V-ism, parrying, universal anti-ground 
 guard attack and all those other extras that progressed the game's evolution through the Alpha 
 series and 3rd Strike? I mean it's so annoying how people can get away with blocking low all the 
 time and your only option is to jump in the air to attack, only to have them uppercut you so simply.
 
  
  I don't have much to say to glorify or debunk the game yet since I've only had it for one day. 
 All I can say for now is that: don't expect too much or you'll feel very disappointed. Otherwise, 
 it's an ok game, and much like I've predicted, this will be a cheap thrill that of course will 
 never capture the charm its classic 2D predecessors have. If they made it wild with aerial fighting 
 like there was Capcom vs Marvel/X-men/Snk then maybe this game would take the cake for it would 
 have more dynamic combo options.
  
  Soul Calibur FTW, I still won't put that game down, not even for this bombshell.
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sickkpuppy
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Hate to be the hater but.... SF4 sucks.... the graphics are great, the storyline is better than usual 
 (SF is not know for good storylines) but what kills is the gameplay. Good to see that original 
 moves were kept, but computer just does cheap tricks all the time... like fighting that guy who 
 just uses 10 leg sweeps in a row...... all the time... makes the game no fun. Also, who came up with 
 the new characters? except for Abel, they suck! Rufus?!??? I mean seriously... I ben a fan since 
 Street fighter came out in the arcades, and I was very excited for this, but it was very disapointing.....
 
  
  When smashing buttons works better than actual planned fighting, you know the gameplay need an 
 overhaul. At least the game is pretty, and probably loads of 2 player fun... but please skip the 
 single player, it will just frustrate you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitaka
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun when your playing against people that you match up against and the new 
 characters are great, my favorite personally is C. Viper. Although the online is currently unstable 
 ( I'm not surprised for a first day ) once its settled i'm sure it'll have a great ranking system. 
 This really feels like the old school Street Fighter Turbo, except slow and the new Focus attack 
 system, which opens a whole new door of combos and ways to trick your opponent. The graphics are 
 great and it plays as well as the arcade! ( Assuming you have the stick ) . Playing on the 360 controller 
 is going to be a b***ch if you don't have the fight pad or anything i'll give you that much for 
 sure. Game gets addictive until you meet someone that kicks your ass again and again. Highly recommend 
 this game for any fighter fan OR old school street fighter fans, although the new FA system is 
 gonna take a while to get used too for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramswo18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:14 pm PT
Review:  well as usual i bought into all the hype leading up to the game. Was it a good game yes, is it 
 a great game no. let's jus go straight to the gameplay. I'm a pretty experienced street fighter 
 player and a long time fan, but the level of difficulty and trouble i had on this game was truly 
 shocking and jus made me get mad to the point i wanted to crack the disc and then burn it. I'm 
 not that great of a player i kno, but i can compete with jus about anybody on any level and at 
 least survive long enough to get their hp less than 50% but the same exact issue came up, the character's 
 weaknesses are too weak. i kno it sounds weird but, it's true. I used Ryu my personal favorite 
 character i immediately went to training set controls that comforted me and learned focus and ultra 
 attack combos and all that. As soon as i went to arcade i set the difficulty on medium i owned 
 the first 3 characters very easily then all of a sudden Abel. My first fight i was dead in a matter 
 of seconds, LITERALLY. Ryu seems to b weak against grapplers so i restarted from that point and 
 played from a distance, but Abel jus ran up to me did the same exact throw at least 5 times perfected 
 me. Then i decided ok i'm gonna try a jump tactic, but guess wat, he caught my foot in the air, 
 threw me then game over. Out of frustration i quit the arcade and started over. This time Abel 
 was the first character this time, i expected it to b a lot easier but the SAME EXACT THING happened. 
 Then i jus called it impossible and started with a new Character C. Viper. Learned all her moves 
 got pretty good with her then i went to arcade, set the difficulty on EASIEST, as soon as i got 
 to Zangief, ABSOLUTELY no attacks worked at all. If i tried to sting him with lightning or what 
 ever he would jus grab and grab and grab until i was dead. So i quit again and learned bison's 
 moves. Difficulty still the same i got up to E. Honda and guess wat NO ATTACKS WORKED, if i would 
 punch him the E. Honda would jus do his version of Bison's spin thing, if i do my missile thing 
 then he'll jus slap me 50 times, if i kick then he will jus counter then Ultra Combo me and from 
 that point on i decided that this game is basically impossible to beat without months and months 
 of experience. So y the grade of an 8.5, well because the game is fun until u fight a character 
 who's ur character's weakness. I love the style of graphics in this game and the voice acting and 
 English could use a little work in my opinion. My final thoughts if ur planning on renting this 
 game for a week or 2, then you will jus b wasting ur money because u will never make it to the 
 boss, lol i don't even kno his name because the game is so hard. So i would say buy it jus because 
 u won't get the experience needed in order to actually win a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inacio22
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Just by watching the long and well done intro one can realize that Capcom really put a lot of effort 
 into this game.
  
  The first thing to be said is about the fighting engine. The new thing here is the ultra combo, 
 which you can unleash after charging up your ultra meter, which fills itself up as you get beaten. 
 Regarding the attacks, Capcom basically kept a great deal of the moves that can be found in the 
 earlier games, with the addition of some new moves per character. There is also a new kind of movement 
 called focus attack, in which the fighter charges and strikes a powerful attack which when successfully 
 delivered knocks down the opponent. This time the move list can be viewed by the player at any 
 time during the game, its one the start menu, sort of like in the soul calibur series.
  
  There are 5 new characters, Abel, C. Viper, El Fuerte, Rufus and Seth. All of them fit really well 
 with the other characters, with the exception of Seth perhaps, because whenever you encounter him 
 on the single player mode he seems to be a lot harder to beat then the usual characters.
  
  Concerning the playing modes, there is the traditional arcade and challenges (time, survival and 
 trial) , the Xbox Live battle, versus and a training mode.
  
  The graphics of the fighters arent that great, and the stages dont have a lot of detail, but at 
 least most of the in-game animations, such as the ultra combo ones are great to watch.
  
  My only big concern about the game is the uninteresting and a little confusing, even though simplistic 
 story, backed up by short anime inspired openings and endings, which you hardly will want to watch 
 more than once.
  
  So to sum it all up, finally Capcom was able to make a sequel worthy of the title street fighter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm an old school Street Fighter fanatic who spent most of his days at the nearest 7-11 popping 
 quarters in the Street Fighter machine challenging friends and strangers in a 2D combat.
  
  Street Fighter IV is the same classic we all once played with amazing graphics for it's genre and 
 a better animation compared to it's 2D original system. I'll make this short and sweet.
  
  I love the challenger mode when your playing in arcade. I went into arcade and automatically someone 
 in the world challenged me to only be dealt the wrath of Ryu. Boy was it fun! 
  
  The graphics are nothing close to Morital Kombat vs. DC but Street Fighter IV holds it's weight. 
 Sometimes simple graphics are better then you ask for.
  
  I haven't played much into the arcade. I'm also really excited to start playing each character 
 and opening up the gallery for all players. The beauty part of Street Fighter IV is that you can 
 challenge players online which gives you a great replay value. What do you expect, it's Street 
 Fighter without the quarters on steroids.
  
  If your into anime, you'll love the character introductions as it's well put in anime.
  
  Thumbs 
 up guys, this game is not a rental. Make sure to tell your friends to pick this up because it's 
 a blast for parties and online.
  
  I DID NOT find any flaws with the game except that I expected more from the 3D animation they showed 
 in the screen shots the game already impressed me with the upgrade from the classic. I even enjoy 
 playing the Remix on my 360 which I downloaded for almost nothing.
  
  Enjoy! 
  
  Perfect 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nonsoville2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:22 am PT
Review:  
  The beauty of Street Fighter IV stems from how approachable the game is and how it can be enjoyed 
 on so many different levels. For those gamers interested in grabbing trusty ol' Ryu and diving 
 into the mix, things will feel natural and there's no need to obsess over learning all the subtle 
 details and nuances that make up the fighting game experience. However, there's so much flowing 
 beneath the surface of Street Fighter IV's mechanics that long-time fans will have plenty to learn 
 and re-master, if they want to truly understand the gameplay.
  
  For example, one of the newest systems in Street Fighter IV is the Focus system, which allows a 
 character to charge up an attack that will knock an opponent down if it connects properly. For 
 a beginner, the Focus Attack isn't necessarily needed to win. He or she could simply rely on the 
 traditional assortment of fireballs and dragon punches to get by and have a good time doing it. 
 But if the Focus Attack seems appealing, performing it is a piece of cake -- just hold down both 
 Medium Punch and Medium Kick together and charge it up (or alternatively, just assign the attack 
 to a button of your choice in the options menu) . With a simple input, the player now has access 
 to an attack that adds another layer to the combat.
  
  But that's not all there is to the Focus system. Players who want to dig even deeper into the technical 
 elements of it all will learn that the Focus Attack can also absorb a single oncoming strike without 
 being interrupted. Although you take damage for the absorption, that damage will heal given time. 
 In this way, the Focus Attack becomes a defensive technique as well as an offensive one and offers 
 even more strategy for players to consider. 
  
  This game goes deep, and I encourage everyone to give Street Fighter IV a try, even if you're relatively 
 new to the fighting game scene. There's so much depth to the gameplay that you'll be rewarded long 
 after your purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:36 am PT
Review:  My first Street Fighter game was on the SNES. Since then I didn't find a better game in it's genre. 
 Ok, Mortal Kombat was nice because of the gore and Liu Kang, but what is better than Ryu's moves? 
 Anyway ...
  
  The 3D aspect you have to get used to + the moves are slower if you used to play the usual SF 2D 
 style. Unfortunately the graphics aren't that great, but for an upgrade it's more than enough. 
 
  
  The nice thing is that they kept the classic moves for each character so you can play this game 
 instantly. If you are new to this game you will like the simplicity of the moves. It's all about 
 combining and timing. No hundred impossible moves to choose from, just plain fun.
  The music is nice and has a real SF mood. It blends good with the main atmosphere of the game. 
 
  
  The new characters are rather difficult to fight against but a bit practicing helps. If you start 
 with the game you have to unlock some characters of the original game and the new game.
  The online option is great for playing a whole evening or just some short fast matches.
  
  
 This game is a must have for each SF, MK and SC fan!
  
  www. junkchaser. dyns. be 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
