-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stuntman Ignition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/stuntman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Well-realized faux-Hollywood vibe.
 Stunt strings help make the driving more dynamic.
 Super quick load times between restarts.
 More accessible than its predecessor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Heavy focus on trial-and-error.
 Stunt coordinator will get on your nerves.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.5, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 849 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Paradigm Ent.
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date: Aug 28, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If the heavy focus on trial and error doesn't rattle you, Stuntman: Ignition can be some explosive 
 fun. 

  The original Stuntman was a polarizing game when it crash-landed on the PlayStation 2 more than 
 five years ago. The notion of playing the part of a Hollywood stunt driver seemed universally appealing, 
 but the game's exceedingly low threshold for missteps meant you had to play through lengthy stunt 
 sequences repeatedly before you got them right and could advance to the next sequence. The game's 
 winking take on Hollywood blockbusters and the satisfaction of really nailing a stunt sequence 
 made it all worthwhile for some folks, but others found it supremely frustrating. Paradigm has 
 taken over development duties on the new sequel, and Stuntman: Ignition is definitely a more dynamic, 
 more approachable game than its predecessor. It's still Stuntman, though, and you'll still need 
 a certain tolerance for trial and error.  

           If you can get past the ridiculous notion that anyone would shoot a two-and-a-half-minute 
 action sequence in real time, the action can be really thrilling.      

  The career mode in Ignition puts you in the role of a no-name commercial stuntman trying to work 
 his way up. Your first movie job is on the egregiously titled volcano disaster movie  Aftershock 
 , and if your performance is up to snuff, you'll go on to work on the hillbilly action sequel  
 Whoopin' and a Hollerin' II ;  Strike Force Omega , the directorial debut of action star Karl Steele; 
 the pulpy '70's cop movie  Overdrive ;  Never Kill Me Again , the latest in a glossy, long-running 
 spy series; and the dark, comic-book-inspired  Night Avenger . Ignition's film parodies work because 
 they're specific in what films they're targeting while also satisfying many broad Hollywood conventions. 
 Certain touches add to the fun, such as the stereotypical personalities of the different directors 
 and the trailers for the movies you're working on.  

  You'll have to take on six individual stunt sequences for each film you work on, and each sequence 
 goes on for several minutes. The sequences take place on big, serpentine sets dense with explosions, 
 other stunt drivers, crumbling buildings, and crazy set pieces, and you'll have to navigate these 
 big-budget obstacle courses while hitting specific stunts and keeping up the pace. Your stunts 
 are flagged onscreen with large yellow icons, and your stunt coordinator will also be calling them 
 out as you approach them. You'll take jumps, drive on two wheels, perform barrel rolls, pull wheelies, 
 drift around corners, bump into other cars, crash through props, chase other stunt drivers, and 
 more. In addition to your vehicle's innate abilities, there's the action button, which you'll use 
 at specific points to trigger events like explosions, weapon fire, a quick burst of nitro, or sliding 
 your motorcycle under an obstacle.  

  More often then not, the screen is filled with activity, which can make the action feel really 
 kinetic, but can also make it difficult to see where you're supposed to go next. This can be frustrating, 
 especially since the acceptable margin of error in Stuntman: Ignition is so thin. Miss a stunt 
 and you'll get a strike; get five strikes, and you'll have to reshoot the whole sequence from scratch. 
 There are other autofail conditions, like plunging your vehicle into water or hot lava, driving 
 off the set, or falling too far behind during a chase sequence. Fast reaction times are critical 
 in hitting a series of stunts one right after the other, but ultimately, each and every sequence 
 you'll take on will feature twists and turns that you simply cannot anticipate and will require 
 a certain level of memorization -- though this could also be said for just about any other racing 
 game. On the upside, the load time when restarting a sequence is almost instantaneous. Regardless, 
 the inherently repetitive structure of the game will leave some folks cold.  

  You're scored for your performance on each stunt sequence, and then assigned a star rating based 
 on that score. Your progress from one movie to another is throttled by your accumulated star rating, 
 though the star rating requirements on the first few movies are pretty easy; you'll be able to 
 scrape by with plenty of two-star performances. Eventually, though, you'll have to revisit stunts 
 to improve your star rating. While making good time and hitting your stunts are necessary to progress -- as 
 well as good ways to score points -- the real key to higher scores is stunt stringing, which isn't 
 entirely dissimilar from the boost system in the Burnout games, for example.  

  Performing stunts in quick succession will start a stunt string, and the score for the stunts within 
 that string will be multiplied by the number of stunts within that string, for as long as you can 
 keep the string going. This requires lots of relentlessly risky behavior like having close calls 
 with obstacles and other vehicles and drifting into turns as you make your way from one predefined 
 stunt to another to keep the string going. The stunt string system is interesting, and it's significant 
 to the lasting value of Stuntman: Ignition, because it adds a level of dynamism to what is otherwise 
 pretty static gameplay. If it were just a matter of hitting your marks, it would get old much sooner. 

  If you're still having a hard time raising your accumulated star rating by replaying previous stunts, 
 you can also take on odd jobs, such as participating in a stunt-driving exhibition at an amusement 
 park, or working on a TV commercial. While generally shorter than the average stunt sequence, the 
 odd jobs are even more unforgiving, as a single strike against your performance will end it. You 
 can play through every last stunt sequence in the career mode in a few hours, though it will take 
 you significantly longer than that if you want to wring a five-star rating out of every stunt sequence. 
 Every five-star rating requires you to maintain a single stunt string over the entire stunt sequence, 
 so good luck with that.  

  Outside the career mode there's a multiplayer mode, which includes two different race types. Backlot 
 battle focuses on performing as many stunts as possible within a set number of laps, while the 
 backlot race mode is a more straightforward race where you can earn bursts of nitro by doing stunts. 
 With eight-player online support on the PS3 and Xbox 360, these modes can get real chaotic, though 
 a short number of tracks curbs the lasting appeal. There's also a simple course constructor that 
 lets you lay down your own obstacle course, as well as some stand-alone stunt sequences. It's not 
 a hugely expansive game, but it's the kind of game you can easily lose a weekend to.  

           Now you've got a friend in the movie business!      

  Stuntman: Ignition is currently 
 appearing on the PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360, and the differences among them are 
 about what we've come to expect. The PS3 and Xbox 360 versions are pretty comparable, though the 
 PS3 version features motion-based controls that are thankfully optional, as well as a little more 
 aliasing. The graphics are still pretty sharp across the board. There's loads of detail in the 
 vehicles, and the environments and the explosions look nice, though looking at the bigger picture, 
 what's really good about the visuals is how fully realized the visual style for each movie is. 
 The frame rate isn't always stable, and if you look beyond your immediate surroundings you might 
 notice some nasty textures, but these aren't critical issues. On the PS2 there's an appropriate 
 drop in visual fidelity, which means less texture detail, fewer cars on the road, and things of 
 that nature, though it's still a decent-looking game. The online functionality of the multiplayer 
 has been stripped out of the PS2 version, though. Surprisingly, the PS2 version actually loads 
 faster than the PS3 or Xbox 360 versions.  

  It's difficult to judge the quality of the sound effects in Stuntman: Ignition, because they are 
 almost always drowned out by the constant shouting of your stunt coordinator. The voice work isn't 
 bad per se, it's just that he shouts the exact same things at the exact same intervals on any given 
 stunt sequence, and having to hear it over and over again can be a little crazy-making. For what 
 it's worth, though, there's some nice, thematically appropriate music that accompanies each movie. 

  Stuntman: Ignition is a significant step up from its predecessor, and it's a pretty distinct experience 
 as far as driving games go. The fundamental structure of playing through the same stunt sequence 
 repeatedly will no doubt sour some, but if you can get past that, it can be a blast.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (45 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: halfpike95
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I would say that stuntman ignition is my favorite stunt/racing game. It does have a very addicting 
 quality. When i'm doing a stunt, I can't just settle for 3 stars. I have to get at least 4. It 
 can be very time consuming. The reason i said that this game is a masterpiece is because of the 
 high quality graphics and realistic scenarios that you have to go through whether it be a rescue 
 mission or an escape scene, this game is always packed full of action. There's also a very wide 
 variety of vehicle's that can be driven which takes time to get used to making it that much more 
 fun. I personally love this game and think that it's a huge step forward for all stunt games. This 
 is the type of game that might raise the standards for other future stunt/demolition games. If 
 you like action and explosions as much as i do then this is the game for you. As i said before, 
 the graphics are outstanding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmax_thegamer
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 17, 2009 3:14 pm PT
Review:  The first time you rip through a burning building or jump over some cars and then dodge another 
 obstacle this game seems like it will be one of the most fun and exciting driving games that you 
 will play. Then things start to get kind of repetitive, the stunt coordinator gets on your nerves, 
 and trying to string a series of stunts togather to achieve a 5 star rating can get downright swear 
 word inducingly difficult. Some fun can be had with this game if you don't take it to seriously. 
 Graphically it is nice, but you will be to busy dodging obstacles to enjoy the view. Once you finish 
 a movie viewing the trailer is an added little fun bonus and watching the replays of your completed 
 stunt sequences is also fun. All and all its not a totall washout, and you can have fun with it 
 but it can also flip on you suddenly and become so frustating its almost not worth the effort. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Kikode_
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Stuntman: Ignition
  
  So after leaving Blockbuster with a brand new 360 game that I had purchased for $19 my expectations 
 of this game were very low. After playing the other game I had purchased I popped in Stuntman to 
 give it a whirl. Within the first 30 minutes game play I fell in love. It has the same game play 
 mechanics of Burnout and Tony Hawk.
  
  This means you can blaze through the game in under 6-8 hours and experience all the content from 
 the core levels 
  to the odd jobs and sprinkling in some multi player fun. The real fun of this game lies in the 
 trail and error so if you 
  hate trial and error and don't like practicing to improve your game play this game is certainly 
 not for you. And believe me you
  will replay levels over and over until you are just about ready to quit. This is where skill comes 
 in because believe me when you 
  finally nail that stunt perfectly and are kicking back watching the replay you will feel warm inside.
 
  
  I was also surprised by how many stunts the game contains. There are 6 main movie sets each containing 
 6 stunts. There is also
  an od jobs section containing 6 stunts. A quick fix section containing 12 stunts total (Free Style 
 and Directed) . And finally 
  the constructor challenges where you are judged on your performance in self made levels using a 
 preset amount of objects. 
  Needless to say you will invest alot of time if you are a purist who loves getting 100% in a game.
 
  
  I can't honestly say how good multi player is because unfortunately there have been no games active 
 every time I try to play.
  BTW P. M. me for my gamertag if you ever want to play because it's going to drive me crazy having 
 all the achievements but not being 
  able to get the multi player ones. They have also included online rankings and Monthly as well 
 as all time leader boards which is a huge bonus considering you can upload your scores.
  
  To sum up my review I rated this game a 9.0 because it has been the first game I have played in 
 a long time that 
  has held my attention and kept me entertained. The feeling of accomplishment gained from seeing 
 5 stars in a level is highly rewarding. The stunts are insane at some points and when you go back 
 and watch the replay its hard to imagine how you managed pulling off such insane stunts 
  in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_wiz_94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  this game is a blast althogh it is pretty hard its extremely fun but when you finish a movie it 
 gives a trailer for it which is very realistic andhas actors and stuff......... BUY NOWthis game 
 is a blast althogh it is pretty hard its extremely fun but when you finish a movie it gives a trailer 
 for it which is very realistic andhas actors and stuff......... BUY NOW
  this game is a blast althogh it is pretty hard its extremely fun but when you finish a movie it 
 gives a trailer for it which isthis game is a blast althogh it is pretty hard its exthis game is 
 a blast althogh it is pretty hard its extremely fun but when you finish a movie it gives a trailer 
 for it which is very realistic andhas actors and stuff......... BUY NOW
  tremely fun but when you finish a movie it gives a trailer for it which is verthis game is a blast 
 althogh it is pretty hard its extremely fun but when you finish a movie it gives a trailer for 
 it which is very realistic andhas actors and stuff......... BUY NOW
  y realistic andhas actors and stuff......... BUY NOW
  very realistic andhas actors and stuff......... BUY 
 NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game not expecting it be fun but very frustrating. The game is about a stuntman who 
 does stunts for various movies and commercials. The handling of the cars is easy and the cars are 
 cool looking. It's also fun to watch the preview for the movie after you have completed the different 
 shoots. The game can be very frustrating at times and is probably not worth buying at full price. 
 You'll most likely finish the game under 10 hours unless you're gonna try to get 5 stars for each 
 and every shoot, which, to me, is near impossible. Games like these don't do too well these days 
 because people like sandbox type games mainly because those kind of games last longer. But I guess 
 if you like cars, stunts, or the original stuntman then give this game a shot. 
  
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 4:22 am PT
Review:  Now I'm not one for games that require constant restarts and precision driving (and I mean precision) . 
 But what I found in Stuntman Ignition was a cleverly realised homage to Hollywood movies.
  
  It's a glossy game with great graphics that will have you throwing the controller on the ground 
 in frustration and then five minutes later have you patting yourself on the back when you get it 
 right.
  
  But there's one thing that Stuntman Ignition definitley is and thats Immersive.
  Each track will 
 have you in complete concentration the whole time, stringing together anything from 10-20 stunts 
 per scene.
  
  As you gain your stars for each performance the game allows you to advance to the next film, each 
 with their own take on a real movie franchise (Bond, Dukes of Hazzard, Batman etc) and each with 
 their own perfectly accompanying soundtrack, director, sets and film trailer. 
  The true joy of Stuntman is that when they get it right, you feel like you are actually involved 
 in the film (the Batman style car chase was a favourite for me) .
  
  Yes the game is too short, but while it lasts it will keep you on the edge of your seat, forcing 
 you to do better till you are suprising even yourself with how much control you have over the cars.
 
  
  180 degree turns, wheelies, driving on 2 wheels, drift turns, driving off ramps. All this and so 
 much more for only 7 ($14) .
  
  How could you say no?
  
  7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  I gained a lot of enjoyment from this. Sure its not the most polished & certainly not the longest 
 game out there but its fun & as addictive as crack. 
  
  Basicaly you're a stuntman (Duh) working from bottom to the top. Doing commercials & low budget 
 films until you reach the mega blockbusters. Its all driving so no need to worry about poxy on 
 foot sections being tacked on & all vehicles handle in their own unique way. You go to each film 
 set & get given a series of stunts to perform in each film. You drive along a set trying to perform 
 all the stunts that pop up on screen & that shouted at you by the director. Theres good variety 
 to the films & a decent set of stunts & set-pieces. & a great selection of vehicles from your average 
 dirtbike to a hovercraft.
  
  Thankfully the difficulty has been toned down from the original. The time limit is a lot more forgiving 
 & lets you have more fun. But if you do like your games punishing then fear not. Getting all the 
 5 star ratings is tear your hair out frustrating. Instead of a time limit being the problem for 
 making the game challenging you have to 'string it' through the stunt. This is a multiplier that 
 increases every time you perform a stunt. Everything counts from driving close to scenery to getting 
 air time. & if you take too long to perfrom another one of these actions the multiplier disappears. 
 To get 5 stars you cant let that happen. Simple in theory difficult in practice. Basicaly the difficulty 
 caters to all levels & the game is a lot better for it. & for score attack addicts (like me) you 
 can rack up some great scores from this new multiplier that makes it one of the most addictive 
 games ive played in a while.
  
  The only problems for me really comes from length. Theres not many films or challengers & the core 
 game can be completed in an afternoon. But getting the 5 star ratings will take some time so it 
 depends if you're the type of gamer that will get 100% or just complete it & never touch it again 
 to how long this game will last you. The graphics are just functional. Theres the odd parts that 
 look great but all in all they do their job & nothing else.
  
  A good game then that could have been great with just a bit more polish & a few more films. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Ripping off stunts while charging through the game's six movies (each comprised of six scenes) 
 is not only just a collection of memorable high-flying moments, but it's got that addiction angle 
 the first one lacked. The ability to string the stunts your director is yelling out with improvised 
 moves on your own (such as near missing cars or drifting around corners) gives the game a Tony 
 Hawk feel as you search for that perfect run and high score. While this game is more forgiving 
 and less trial-and-error than the last Stuntman, make no mistake about it  it is not easy. Granted, 
 there are some times when I swear I completed a stunt that I didn't get credit for, but overall, 
 I never tired of Ignition's challenge no matter how hairy things got.
  
  As if escaping a lava-infested town at breakneck speeds while meteors blow up cars next to you 
 wasn't cool enough, the game is smart to throw a variety of rewards your way, whether its unlockable 
 items for the create-your-own stunt arenas, stuntman trophies, badges (similar to Achievements) , 
 rehearsal sessions, or odd job stunts like commercial shoots. Multiplayer also has its own little 
 twist that will keep you playing into the night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf-1992
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  It's a little-known scientific fact that most kids in the 1980s were, through posthypnotic messages 
 on Saturday morning telly and psychotropic chemicals in fizzy pop, brainwashed into believing they 
 wanted to be stuntmen when they grew up.
  
  At least, that's the only way we can explain that irrational desire, as being a stuntman is the 
 worst job in Hollywood. You spend a large portion of your life injured, no one is ever allowed 
 to see your face and most people treat you like a heavily-insured psychopath, which is probably 
 what you are.
  
  Ignition's game illustrates that lifestyle exactly. You take the part of a poor Joe who has to 
 get in a vehicle and hurl it through explosions whilst being filmed. You're expendable, as are 
 any camera crew that get in your way, though you can retry scenes as often as you like. As you 
 improve, your reputation goes up and you get access to more of the handful movies that you can 
 act in.
  
  Typically, the game is paced so that you'll unlock the next movie once you've completed the previous 
 one on three stars.
  
  The genres vary from disaster movies to action movies to redneck chase movies - unsurprisingly 
 there isn't a period romance amongst them. Meanwhile, the range of movie-specific vehicles is great 
 and they all handle pretty differently, if a bit loosely. You can drive a range of off-roaders, 
 familiar favourite on-road vehicles, dirt-bikes and even a truck dragging a Scud missile!
  
  The nearest title to it on Xbox 360 is Burnout: Revenge. Like that game, Stuntman
  is all 
 about the cool explosions and ridiculous driving. Unlike that game, there's more complicated aspects 
 too, specifically the stunts themselves.
  
  There are two types: director stunts and homebrew ones. As you drive around you can knock into 
 barrels, slide past/under/over obstacles, trigger explosions and weapons fire and do jumps.
  
  The director stunts are of very specific types and if you miss more than a set number on a 
 set, you fail and have to restart (thankfully, restarting is practically instantaneous) . You also 
 have to restart if you run out of time, if you fall out of shot or into a hazard, and, sometimes, 
 you restart just because the developers feel like it.
  
  Irritants include the lack of reliability of the game. Often you fail a set and it's no fault of 
 yours - indeed, the first time you play it, there is no way you can perfect it. Stunt icons appear 
 too late for you to react or appear in places that would only be accessible if you'd taken a different 
 route a split-second before.
  
  Stuntman is addictive, quirky and occasionally funny. However, the game is somewhat limited graphically 
 by being
  co-developed (PS2) for an older platform, and it's also much shorter than its competitor, Burnout, 
 although the stunt-creator and multiplayer do help to extend its life.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  There arent many genuinely innovative games out there and Stuntman is one of them. It doesnt hurt 
 that the graphics are some of the best I have seen on the 360 and the framerate is fast and solid. 
 The environments are crisply detailed and the cars look great.
  
  Everything about the game is well-designed and well thought out. You try to complete a stunt run 
 in a car or bike thru a "track" movie-set. You have to perform 180's on cue and then jump over 
 obstacles, etc. What's great about it is that it takes genuine skill to complete the scenes correctly. 
 You can re-try the track at any time with minimal load time to retry. 
  
  Having said all of that, this isnt at all an easy game, even in "easy" mode. You will have to try 
 the later stunt tracks at least a dozen times to get them right.
  
  If you are looking for a challenge this one is at least worth a rental. I decided to buy it when 
 the price came down to 20 bucks and its easily worth that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  The original Stuntman is probably one of my favorite games to come out in the early days of the 
 Playstation 2. My friends and I literally spent hours playing the game since it was so damn difficult. 
 Many people could infact say that that is what was the downfall of the original, the fact that 
 it was way too hard. Well THQ listented to complaints and now Stuntman is back and more fun than 
 ever.
  
  Stuntman Ignition has you starting out as a entry level stunt man trying to make his way to the 
 top. There are six movies that you star in throughout the game and in each scene you earn a certain 
 amount of stars depending on how good you do. YOu must earn a certain number of stars before you 
 can earn the next movie. Now this makes the game fly at the beginning but then when you get to 
 the end, it really slows things down, but never fear THQ and Paradigm thought about that. Instead 
 of having to play the same mission over and over again, the single player also offers things like 
 commercials and areana challenges for you to star in, which are a nice change of pace from playing 
 the same movie scene over and over again.
  
  THe movies in this game are quite memerable, and each one has a certain stunt that you will most 
 likely remember either for its sheer awesomeness or because it took so damn long for you to do. 
 Now the game is not as difficult as the original, but it still has its moments where you will want 
 to chuck your controller at the wall. There are times when you will yell out "What? I was close 
 to that explosion. Grr now i have to start all over!!"
  
  Hands down the coolest addition would be the ability to string together stunts, as this is the 
 only way that you can get a five star rating, you have to string the whole scene. It makes things 
 a lot more challenging and if you are playing a very easy scene it makes things a lot more fun 
 actually. I will say though that I found stringing scenes to be a lot easier with a bike than I 
 did with a car, mainly because you can wheelie everywhere.
  
  Stuntman Ignition offers what seems to be an extensive multiplayer mode, but when I logged on, 
 it seemed as if no one was online playing this game, which is really a shame because I can see 
 how this game would have an awesome multiplayer. If you can find people though my guess is that 
 it would be really fun, my apologizes to those looking for a rundown of the multiplayer.
  
  Stuntman Ignition features great graphics and a decent soundtrack. The graphics are very very good 
 when playing the game on an HDTV. The cars shine and the explosions look absolutely amazing. The 
 soundtrack on the other hand could use some work. The music is quite good as they did a great job 
 making tracks that fit the movie that you are currently working on. The thing that brings the sound 
 down is the voice overs. The directors will drive you nuts as well as the guys giving you advice 
 before the scenes.
  
  If you are a fan of the original or someone who just wants to know what Stuntman is all about than 
 by all means pick up this game. If you simply cannot handle the trial and error gameplay than stay 
 far far away from this game. Other than that though I found Stuntman Ignition to be a very good 
 time on my Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalibusTheCrab
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  Stuntman Ignition started off as a great idea, The problem was that the developers didnt really 
 think about the whole game itself. Stuntman Ignition starts of as you being a stuntman and rising 
 to d better movies and stunts, That seemed a pretty good idea. As you go through the movies and 
 rise above the ranks, It comes to you that there isnt much challenges as you thought. The gameplay 
 was a little disasterous as the whole String It rule seemed a little too clean in the movie; how 
 many times have you seen ALL the stunts done with out any problems or the slightest mistake? Xbox 
 live on Stuntman is amazing and you can have guests with you I hear. The Stunt Park creator was 
 an amazing idea from start but they have made it too much like Tony Hawks and the courses are too 
 open and you are allowed barely any scenary. Overall Stuntman Ignition sounds more like a game 
 that you better rent before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Nice special effects / Feels more like a movie scene / Crazy voice acting / Fun mini game 
 / lots of cool intresting vhiacals
  
  BAD- Not alot of movie stunts / too short / Stuntman Ignition Is definitly better than the previous 
 game for the PS2, Ignition plays more like a movie stuntman as you play as a spy, super hero and 
 even hill billies as you crash bash and burn your way through to be the ultimate stuntman, this 
 is a game for a thrill ride, a must get for anyone, your goal is too all targets in one scene miss 
 a target and you'll losse points, miss too many and you have to restart the sence 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doisemeio
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I have good news and bad news. The good news is that this game is fun. The bad news is that this 
 game is short and so is the fun you have with it as the learning curve is not high but to achieve 
 some of the goals is almost impossible. You can have some fun with this game and I would say the 
 most fun I had was when I played this game with a couple of friends we basicly took turns trying 
 the missions and in a few short hours we were running out of movies to do. That aside I should 
 warn you that with this game you also get a bag of frustration if you trying to get a five star 
 rating on all the missions as it felt almost impossible at times. Sure there is a few inhuman people 
 out there that were born to play this game or have allot of self control and patience. but unfortunately 
 for some like myself, that was born with none of those attributes. Do yourself a favor and just 
 forget about getting 1000/1000 in this one as I did. the lack of sleep and the isolation is not 
 really worth the reward instead save your time and RENT this game I am sure that you wont regret 
 it. quick facts about the game
  
  1- graphics are basic not too much but is bearable
  2- sound fine I guess with all the noise from the director and sfx is hard to hear the music if 
 there was any I don't remember now.
  3- controls work well except for the action button that is not as responsive as the other commands 
 4-they don't use your game play scenes in the final movie which is kind of a drag but its fine 
 Bottom line is you don't have to be a fan of the series to like this game, but it also won't make 
 you like the other ones. just keep in mind that this is a short fun game that you can always do 
 better on but I wouldn't stress over it too much as nobody cares if you are ranked number one in 
 this game just RENT IT and have some few hours of fun with your buddies or alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is similar to skateboarding in the fact that once you try a line of stunts, if you don't 
 make it or don't make it as good as you want, you can keep trying again until you nail it. There'a 
 alot of trial and error. The good thing which I love is that when you have to restart your run, 
 the load time is near instantaneous and that's a BIG bonus. You are the stunt man in the movies. 
 There's a few different movies going on and the better you do, you can get hired on new films. 
 I really like this game because it has a bit of everything. Racing, skill, timing. Motorcycles 
 and cars. The stunts are amazing. The graphics are great. Personally I've had alot of fun with 
 this game.
  
  This game will test your skill. You will be put to the test. And you will have to go through all 
 kinds of crazy stunts to get through this game. I was a little cautious about getting this game 
 because I had never played anything like this and it just seemed iffy. But I was GREATLY surprised. 
 It's very fun and entertaining and definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tclvis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I like most racing/driving games. Yes, they can be fairly repetitive, but it can also be fun and 
 challenging and you can do dangerous stuff you cant do in real life, like drive 200 mph. Stuntman, 
 however, gives driving a new twist: story. Instead of just racing around in mind-numbing circles, 
 you hit targets, perform tricks and stunts, as many as you can in a row for bonuses, and you have 
 a director to please. Then you get the stories of the eight films-within-the-game, all thinly veiled 
 takeoffs on popular action movies. The volcano disaster, the redneck comedy, uberspy,  
 get the picture. The first is Aftershock, for which you do racing stunts up and down a Pacific 
 volcano that was a mountain that morning. (Sadly, this game does not have a Linda Hamilton stand-in.) 
 When you finish all the stunts for a particular movie, you even unlock and then get to watch the 
 trailer for the movie before progressing to the next with new sets, stunts, and vehicles. The second 
 movie? Whoopin and a Hollerin II. Priceless. You get to drive a jacked-up truck with a homemade 
 wooden bed in this backwoods, back roads crackerfest. So the game has a sense of humor, too, 
 another quality usually missing from racers. Each film, for which youll perform six increasingly 
 difficult scripted stunts, has a different director, who gives you pithy comments at each conclusion, 
 which brings a personality to the game that you dont generally experience in a racer, as does 
 the stunt coordinator, who gives you audible direction throughout the scene. He can be a little 
 slow on the uptake; hes telling you to perform a particular stunt -- after youre on top of the 
 cue and its too late to perform it in time and get credit. He also runs you through each stunt 
 in a cutscene prior to each scene, so you never really hit a scene cold.
  
  On feature films, you get up to 5 miscues; that is, you can miss four stunts in the whole scene 
 before the director calls a reshoot. You therefore dont have to turn in a perfect performance 
 to get credit. You are awarded up to five stars for stringing stunt points. Stringing is how 
 many consecutive stunts you can perform within a certain period of time, so keeping your string 
 going while hitting your next target and keeping the vehicle stable is the challenge. Star levels 
 unlock awards, achievements, color customization. Ive ruined scenes and had to do reshoots, yet 
 still unlocked something.
  
  The achievements are entertaining as well. I got one called Turtle for flipping my car (not on 
 purpose, but it was cool) and another called Wings for jump stunts and hang time. My favorite 
 is Death Wish. Youll have to figure that one out for yourself. Suffice to say, even if you suck 
 at the game, you get rewarded hilariously.
  
  Additional features included commercials and other freelance gigs on which you can earn extra experience 
 toward unlocking achievements, extra levels, and vehicles in the Constructor set. You can build 
 your own stunt set in a dirt ring, upload it, and share with your friends, or just test your abilities. 
 There are a series of Quick Fixes, which are a lineup of standalone scenes on which you can practice 
 your skills and unlock the Director fixes, guided standalones with the stunt coordinator and his 
 trusty megaphone. Between each feature, you also unlock Rehearsals, where you learn and practice 
 particular stunts needed for the upcoming film, also under the able tutelage of the coordinator. 
 Whats nice about the Constructor Arena, Quick Fixes, Commercials, and other sidelines, is that 
 if/when you get stuck or frustrated with the Career Mode feature film scenes, you can go play around 
 elsewhere for awhile until you get your mojo back. You drive a variety of vehicles, which seemed 
 to handle fairly realistically; after playing Forza Motorsport and PGR3 for weeks, I thought Stuntman 
 felt familiar rather than unwieldy. The dirt bikes are a little light on the stick as youd expect, 
 being a lighter vehicle, but with a little practice theyre manageable, but Id suggest practicing 
 your 180s before you really need them; the pickups are positively clunky. The cars generally handle 
 like youd expect, though some, like the cop cars, take more getting used to than, say, the sports 
 cars. The missile truck was one of my favorites, and a nitro rocket boost in some scenes was really 
 fun to play.
  
  You also drive on various terrains with all the vehicular challenges entail -- volcanic lava floes 
 down a mountain, rocky, dusty desert, and ice roads. The environment becomes as much an actor in 
 a scene as the other stunt drivers and obstacles; dust flies up, smoke and debris from explosions 
 obscure your vision and crack your windshield. The rest of the damage modeling is cool, too; I 
 jumped my cop car up an asphalt ramp, landed, dropped down, and spun out into a 180 -- and the passenger 
 door flew open, eventually blew off, the trunk dented in and upwards, and the back window blew 
 out in the center, just like real automotive safety glass.
  
  I rented Stuntman because I wasnt sure that Id care, frankly, but I enjoyed it so much, and I 
 have a few pesky levels (the Boat Jump standalone in particular chaps me) that I now have personal 
 quests to master, so Im actually going to buy a (used) copy. It does seem like it could be kind 
 of short, but I think the replay value comes from trying to top your own scores, string more stunts 
 as you gain skill, and get all five stars in each scene. Its a good one to have on the shelf to 
 come back to periodically when youre bored with shooting at aliens and just want a few good old-fashioned 
 explosions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  The original Stuntman game was an interesting concept that was destroyed in its execution. It was 
 so frustrating and difficult that you had to play it in very short bursts to prevent permanent 
 damage to your psyche. For those that never played it, you had to complete driving stunts, with 
 zero room for error coupled with incredibly long load times between each attempt.... imagine now 
 having 20 attempts! Stuntman: Ignition fixes the majority of the flaws in its predecessor but it 
 can still occasionally be a rough ride.
  
  Once again, you are a stuntman hired to shoot action driving sequences for a series blockbuster 
 movies, TV commercials and stunt shows. Each movie consists of scenes, with each scene comprising 
 of a sequence of 10-20 stunt events that you must hit. These include, jumping, 2-wheeling, smashing, 
 sliding and performing action events. The movies themselves range from James Bond style spy flicks 
 to buddy comedies.
  
  Each scene can be completed by hitting all the stunt marks within a set time limit and is controlled 
 by a mechanism of five strikes - so you can make a few mistakes but if you miss five marks you 
 must start from the beginning again. The adverts and stunt shows are much harder, only permitting 
 1 strike on the normal difficulty. Each scene is awarded a score and star grade out of five, using 
 a similar system to Project Gotham Racings Kudos system, where the more stunts you perform and 
 string together, the bigger the multiplier and the score earned. However, the more risk you take 
 the more likely you are to ****-up. Thankfully, restarting is almost instantaneous (no load time) 
 so trying over and over again is less of a chore on the Movie scenes.
  
  Further movies and events are unlocked by earning stars, as are other bonus content such as video 
 interviews, achievements, and items for the construction mode - create your own stunt set. You 
 can play online in Burnout style races around a studio back-lot, as well as try out custom tracks 
 built in the construction mode.
  
  There are numerous vehicles in the game that each feature their own unique and satisfying handling 
 characteristics: big things feel big; fast things feel twitchy. The vehicle models and the movie 
 sets are competently designed and displayed with a decent frame-rate that holds up even when everything 
 is going bang about you. The music and voice work all add some much needed humour and brevity 
 to the game, whilst the movie trailers - earner for completing each film - look cool and are satisfying 
 way to conclude each film.
  
  Stuntman: Ignition is not perfect: the difficulty is still probably too high, with the final movie 
 being difficult to unlock unless you have scored well on all the previous films, and possibly the 
 hardest movies is the first one you play - which seems a strange design decision. There is still 
 an element of frustration thanks to the exclusion of strikes on the advertisement and stunt shows, 
 and the luck required to keep a score multiplier going when so much is happening on screen outside 
 your control.
  
  Stuntman: Ignition offers something different from the usual driving fare that can be a lot of 
 fun provided you have the patience to persevere. For any fans of Burnout crash mode, Stuntman: 
 Ignition offers a similar experience and should fill the gap until Burnout: Paradise is released 
 next year.
  
  For: Cool movies; good selection of vehicles; challenging but rewarding
  Against: Odd Jobs are unforgiving; stringing requires a heavy dose of luck; not many players online
 
  
  Gameplay: 8 - much better than its predecessor
  Presentation: 8 - good looking vehicles and movie sets
  Design: 7 - some strange decisions; occasional 
 peaks in difficulty; luck required
  Story: 8 - stuntman career; challenging 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sion_111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 10:36 am PT
Review:  Back in 2002, Atari and Reflections released Stuntman for the PS2, which was a hit mainly for it's 
 unique gameplay and great physics. But, it's high difficulty level, trial-and-error and repetition 
 meant it was like marmite. I personally loved it so i was joyed when i heard they were making a 
 sequel. With the sequel comes some new things. There's a new publisher and developer, as well as 
 it making an appearance on new systems. Plus, the game also adds multiplayer and online play (not 
 for the PS2 though) . Yet, it's still the same game at heart, with lots of challenge and trial-and-error. 
 Yet, because i loved the original dearly i can forgive it's trial-and-error and difficulty level. 
 Whether you can is up to you.
  
  The main career mode is split up into 6 movies. The first is AfterShock, a clean rip off of Dante's 
 Peak. Hell, they even had a scene when a teenager is trying to reach his grandmother! After is 
 Whoopin' and a Hollerin' II, which is a sequel to one of the original's films that copied the Dukes 
 of Hazzard formula. After is the Strike Omega Force movie, which i honestly don't know what it 
 rips off. But it's still funny when a German says 'You American pig!' and the main guy shoots him 
 and says 'Oink Oink!'. After is Overdrive, which is similar to a 70s cop film like Starsky and 
 Hutch. Following is Never Kill Me Again, which cheaply knocks off James Bond with style, and finally 
 Night Avenger. Batman, anyone?
  
  Each film has about six scenes, each of which has stunts in them which you must complete. With 
 the original, if you missed a couple of stunts you would fail immediately and have to restart. 
 In it's sequel though, you have about 5 chances to screw up. Screw up all five chances and you 
 fail and have to restart. A problem with the original game was that load times were really long 
 between restarts, so it kinda go annoying. But here, they are super quick; meaning if you fail 
 you can still restart from there. The game is still hard though as even a slight miss of a stunt 
 and you get penalized. Also, sometimes the game doesn't register the stunt properly, so that's 
 annoying. Still, the core gameplay mechanics are great, and the game is fun through all of it's 
 trial-and-error and difficulties.
  
  There's some new stuff here, like the new stunt string. Basically, when you do something dangerous, 
 like go near a wall, a number will appear on the screen. This means that you have started a stunt 
 string. If you can keep it going by doing dangerous things and nailing director stunts, you can 
 earn big points. If you can get through the whole level without breaking your string (basically 
 reach the level with your score at 0) then you get the full five star on a level. You can get up 
 to five stars. Throughout each scene these award nominations will pop up. These are Tarus award 
 nominations. Basically, in you can hit three director stunts in a row you get a nomination. If 
 you can make it through the scene with a nomination, you get the award. If you get all the awards 
 in each level you'll get an achievement. Some awards are harder to get than others.
  
  Stuntman does make its next-gen debut, and with that come sharper visuals. It certainly looks better 
 than its original, with great textures, solid lighting, nice car designs and a excellent explosions. 
 The frame rate can tank at times, thanks to the amount of onscreen explosions. The explosions can 
 also make it very hard to see at times, and that means you may screw up from time to time. Still, 
 it makes a solid graphical showcase, and let's hope other THQ games look great, or even better, 
 than Stuntman Ignition.
  
  The game has a nice soundtrack that keeps in touch with the game's hysterical movie poaching vibe. 
 It often sounds similar, or even identical, to films the game copies. The effects are nice too, 
 with excellent explosion sounds and car engine noices. Sadly, the game is kind of drowned out by 
 the Stunt Director, who is constantly shouting the same phrases at you. 'Under the bridge', 'Hit 
 the sign' and 'jump the car' all get old really fast. Though he is kind of helpful for spotting 
 stunts you may not quite see.
  
  The game has solid multiplayer too, with two match types. One has you simply racing against each 
 other, and the other has you trying to pull off the most stunts. The main story will take about 
 10 hours to complete, and you could spend more time with the Stunt Constructor mode and the multiplayer 
 modes. Plus, there's fifty achievements to do, which could last you a weekend as you try to ignite 
 your car, turn it over, go into a death pit thirty times or get all the Tarus awards. Shame the 
 constructor mode is lame. The core constructing is fine, as you can make some cool stunts, but 
 the missions that come with them suck! These missions make it so you have to place stunt objects 
 to suit the game's stunts in the level. Shame there's no clear way to win, so you keep placing 
 for about 10 minutes just to get it right.
  
  Stuntman 2 is a great game for fans of the original like me. It's got the same great gameplay as 
 the original, and the new things like multiplayer and next-gen graphics will appeal to them too. 
 However, if you hate trial-and-error, or think if a game is really hard it's unnecessary, then 
 this isn't the game for you. So it is a love-it-or-hate-it game, but personally Im in the love 
 it camp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  &pound;25!! was all i payed for this game brand new a week ago too be honest i think i got a bargain!! 
 right the game
  I thought the demo was o. k not great i liked the concept of it as i have never played the stuntmans 
 before
  
  The graphics are alright not great bot not bad i enjoy the game play the stunts are good fun
 
  
  the game can get a bit tedious at times when you are almost sure you have done a stunt right yet 
 it fails you.
  the acheivments are quite hard i only have 310 on it at the moment
  
  2 player on one console is good fun
  all in all a good game i can not doubt it very much i do 
 enjoy but try and get it for a cheap price like me! so i can agree with gamespots score 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I can still remember trying to play the original Stuntman for the PS2 back in 2002, it was such 
 a frustrating game because of how long it took to load everything. The fact that the game was really 
 hard made the load times that much worse, turning what should have been a really cool game into 
 a frustrating title that had a lot of promise. Fast forward five years and a new publisher, and 
 we have a new Stuntman, Ignition. And after all the time away, Stuntman has improved dramatically, 
 but is it as good as it could have been?
  
  The basis for both Ignition and the original Stuntman is that you are a stuntman, hired to do major 
 stunts for a handful of movies. Your goal is to complete the stunts as best as you can, missing 
 the fewest number of stunts as possible. In both SM games, the movies you work on are parodies 
 of real life movies. In SM Ignition, there are 6 movies, and in each movie you have 6 sequences 
 to complete. Each sequence features a few dozen different stunts that you have to try and string 
 together to form the stunt sequence for the movie. In each sequence you control a vehicle, such 
 as a car, motorcycle or even a dune buggy, and drive around each set performing simple stunts as 
 passing close to other objects or explosions, drifting around corners, hitting other vehicles, 
 pressing the action button (Y) to perform a vehicle action like firing a weapon or using nitrous, 
 to performing wheelies on a motorcycle or two wheels with a car, and so many more. During each 
 stunt, there are specific director stunts that will be called out and marked on screen that you 
 need to do, mess up 5 and the director will call for a reshoot. This is one area where Ignition 
 improves somewhat over the original, as your on screen display shows you what type of stunt you 
 are supposed to do, rather than the blind trial and error that was employed in the original Stuntman. 
 Now that's not to say that trial and error does not exist in Ignition, since it does in the way 
 you move from one stunt to another. And when you have a gap between director stunts, you can throw 
 in mini-stunts of your own, like passing close to pretty much everything on set, which is good 
 because you are scored for each stunt and sequence, and are then graded from 1 star to 4 stars 
 depending on how you performed. Getting 5 stars is possible, but it involves performing a perfect, 
 or near perfect, sequence where you string stunts for the entire sequence. The reason I say near 
 perfect is I have received a 5 star despite the fact that I messed up two director stunts during 
 my run. And when you finish each sequence for a movie, you are rewarded with that movie's trailer 
 featuring some of the stunts you performed.
  
  The various stunt sequences you perform run the gamut from chasing another stunt driver to making 
 it from point A to point B, as well as the more explosive version of point A to point B, where 
 you cause lots of damage along the way. There is a good variety to all the sequences you perform 
 as you get the chance to perform stunts from both sides of a chase a few times. When you get right 
 down to it, the game is pretty heavily trial and error, as you need to figure out the best line 
 for each stunt to optimize your string while attempting to earn that elusive fifth star. And I 
 realize trial and error gameplay can get frustrating, but what really helps Ignition is the fact 
 that loading times are very minimal. When you first select a scene, there is a brief bit of loading 
 where your stunt coordinator goes over a specific stunt you'll have to perform during the loading, 
 then when the scene loads, you will not encounter another loading screen until you decide to move 
 onto another scene. If you mess up enough where you want to restart the scene, all you have to 
 do is pause the game and hit retry and the scene will immediately restart.
  
  With any racing or driving game, a big question is vehicle handling, at least it is for me. In 
 Ignition, each vehicle handles well. The few times you drive a large truck or bus, you won't have 
 the maneuverability that you have when you are driving a motorcycle, but they are still responsive 
 where you don't have to worry about the feeling that you're driving on ice, which is the worst 
 feeling in any racing/driving game.
  
  Ignition is not quite as hard as the original Stuntman, as the game is toned down in difficulty 
 compared to the original, but the game can still be tough. There are a handful of specific stunts 
 within a few sequences that still give me fits even after I've finished the game earned a handful 
 of 5 star scenes. Not to mention that there are also 6 odd jobs that you unlock as you work your 
 way through the 6 movies. These odd jobs only give you 1 mistake before they call for a reshoot, 
 which does increase the difficulty of the odd jobs, but these stunts are shorter than the movie 
 ones, so the difficulty is still fairly balanced.
  
  The graphics in Ignition look very good, especially when you get into some explosive scenes where 
 stuff is blowing up all over the place. The explosions look very good, the details on each vehicle 
 you drive look good, especially after you've beaten them up a little during a scene. The sets you 
 work on all look good, and fit the movie it is representing, whether its a small town or in a desert 
 or in big city at night, the graphics look very good. Sound-wise, you'll mostly notice this during 
 your stunts, as you'll hear your stunt coordinator yelling out a stunt to you, which can get annoying 
 after awhile since he does yell out the same thing each time, but you'll also hear all the explosions 
 going off and they do sound good. The little voice acting that is in the game is fine, and its 
 mostly the director of whichever movie you are working on. The sound effects make up the majority 
 of the sound, and its good.
  
  Not every game is perfect, and SM Ignition does have some flaws. As already mentioned, the gameplay 
 is largely trial and error, and not everyone likes that style of gameplay. It can be fun as you 
 learn your way around each set learning how to string each stunt, but I can see how that would 
 get very frustrating if you have to keep retrying a scene, which I've had to do numerous times. 
 And also like I mentioned, Ignition is easier than the original.
  
  All in all, I had a lot of fun playing Stuntman Ignition. I love the idea of the game, particularly 
 unlocking the trailers for each movie which are just awesome, but I also really like the trail 
 and error nature of the game, since it can lead to some humorous moments if stumble, or some incredible 
 moments if you pull off something amazing. I really recommend playing Stuntman Ignition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theUNstopable13
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  As I even tried to play the game, I noticed that the stunts you have to do in the game are so annoying 
 and stupid that they're too hard to even accomplish! and every stunt you have to do has to be perfect. 
 Getting a five star rating in a stunt is nearly impossible unless you play the game 24 hours and 
 7 days a week just to get that stunt in a perfect condition. I personally hated this game because 
 of how stupid some of the characteristics of the game play were.
  
  The story is about a new stuntman entering his new carrier doing some crazy stunts for a director. 
 As you drive around, they show you what to do and when to do it. But, you must be careful for if 
 you fail a stunt, the whole scene is destroyed. As you keep playing the game, it gets more and 
 more frustrating as you go along. If your looking for a racing game, don't try this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombed420
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I gotta admit the first couple hours of Stuntman: Ignition tended to drag on for me. I felt like 
 the game was just repetitive and boring, but then after I got pretty good at it I realized how 
 enjoying it really is. Who would think getting so pissed off at trial an error could be so rewarding. 
 I spent hours on some of the scenes, almost to the point where I was ready to off myself, but if 
 you stick through it and actually beat the mission, you get an over sense of joy, which to me is 
 a job well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PvT__HuShBuRN
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This review is coming from a 13 year old.
  
  This game, looked very appealing to me. When I first saw the trailer, I was thinking, cars, explosions, 
 stunts! what a perfect combination. Here is what I thought.
  
  Graphics:
  They were good. I thought the explosions were very well done, lighting on cars were above par. 
 Though, everything looks glossy. The destruction effects on all the objects was well done, the 
 physics were very realistic aswell.
  
  Sound: Not so good. The car and dirtbike sounds in my opinion were bad. I ride a 2 Stroke 80CC 
 Honda dirtbike, and it sounded nothing like a dirtbike. The cars sounded like rubbish. The explosion 
 sounds were decent, not amazing, but not polished.
  
  Gameplay: If you are a perfectionist, this game will keep you lasting for a long time. To get a 
 full combo string on a 5 minute run is very hard, takes alot of practice. This game is VERY hard. 
 Do not play this game, if you just came back from your nephews house playing Cars . The main objective 
 of the game is complete a stunt run. While you are driving, some stunt icons appear, such as 180 
 turn which at that icon, you would do the corresponding stunt. The stunts are actually quite easy 
 to do, as they are not right after another which gives to time and prepare for it. You can also 
 add in your own mini stunts (drifting, hitting stuff) to keep your combo meter running. At the 
 end of each run, you get rated on a 5 star rating system. To get 5 stars, you need to full combo 
 the whole entire run, or in the game they call stringing it it is very difficult at times to do 
 this. In my opinion, I think it's a very unique idea for a game, and they pulled it off quite alright, 
 it was very entertaining to play, but also fustrating to string some of those runs. If you are 
 an achievement addict like myself, this game will keep you occupied for a long time.
  
  Final Verdict:
  
  If you have alot of patience and love destruction and cars, get this game, 
 you wont be dissapointed. If you like fast, simple racing games such as Cars or the classic Cruz' 
 N' USA , this might be a little tough for you.
  
  Game Ratings:
  
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 6.5
  Gameplay: 7.5
  Difficulty Curve: 3 (Very hard)
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 7.0
  
 
  gamertag: pvt hushburn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The Stuntman series had the idea that you would be driving for an actual purpose and luckilly, 
 it doesn't bother will a lame story but goes straight to the driving.
  
  The gameplay revolves around going through a movie scene doing certain actions such as driving 
 on two wheels and jumping over pits of certain doom. Does this get repetitive? Yes, but they do 
 change the order and type of placement, when that comes you will fail alot. Speaking of failing 
 a scene, get used to it since it happens 90% of the time. You will be angry, but its all worth 
 it because you get to see your movie trailer. It is lame and it gets old fast but it is fun while 
 it lasts. When you do beat the game, that will be it, unless you enjoy making arenas it wont be 
 worth buying. The controls are great, though sometimes it gets sensitive to steer, its tight. The 
 camera also suffers from occasional jerkyness but it does show what needs to be seen.
  
  The graphics are not top notch but there's no complaining, the framerate does drop when alot of 
 action is going on and this happens half the time. The car models are somewhat detailed but saddly 
 we are all to busy trying to find the jump to finish the scene.
  
  Overall, Stuntman: Ignition is a rental, if you want to buy it; it wont be very long. Rental at 
 least and you will enjoy it but don't come in with high expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediLord-1515
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome for so many reasons. One is that if you ever wanted to be a stuntman this 
 would be a great game for them. also I loved the first and I even finished it perfectly but as 
 much as I think of how good it was I still can't compare it to Ignition because of how good it 
 was . The features of this game are some of the best I've seen like the odd jobs and the career 
 mode but it still has a one thing that I think could have been improved. One of those is when you 
 missed a stunt the director said to do. I think that if you missed one there should have been a 
 improvised stunt or something like that. How ever the Game is still awsome and I suggest no 360 
 or PS2 collection is complete or even on it's way to completion without Stuntman Ignition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PostwarEMINEM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  IGNITION IS AWESOME. HAVING TO GET THE STUNTS JUST RIGHT AS TO ADVANCE TO THE NEXT MOVIE SCENE 
 IS COOL. I LIKE THE FACT THAT YOU DONT JUST DRIVE A CAR, BUT ALL SORTS OF VEHICLES. THE ONLINE 
 GAME PLAY IS GREAT. TAKING OTHERS ONLINE GAMERS POINTS BY RAMMING THEM ONLY IN THE REAR, AND NOT 
 JUST ANYWHERE. MAYBE SOME DIFFERENT MAPS OR MAYBE A WEAPON OR TWO, (MAYBE) . THEY SHOULD ALSO GIVE 
 YOU MORE THAN JUST A COUPLE OF PROPS TO BUILD YOUR OWN STUNT COLLISEUM, AND NOT JUST THE LIMITED 
 ONES YOU GET. OVERALL THE GAME IS WORTH GETTING AND PLAYING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrR0BAT0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Honestly I prefer realistic driving, but this isnt just a driving sim. Its much a stuntman sim. 
 The films you shoot have great cutscenes which lighten up the mood and the driving is plain fun, 
 because of the amazing stunts you pull off. Also the fact that your director speaks into your headset 
 immerses you. Really this game would not stand a chance as an all out racing game. The story is 
 shortish and it can get hard. The multiplayer is weak and overall this package is only worth it 
 for the people who buy a couple of games a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paraminoz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun and can made you stick to the front of your TV more than 2 hours. The error-retry 
 can made you mad but in the same way, it can made you fun. Look at the blast and the special effect 
 in each of movie scenes in this game can't made you bore easy because of mixture of good game play. 
 Retake in STUNTMAN : IGNITION is the challenge that can rewards you 2 things, Next scenes or highscore 
 (Also the AP) .
  
  The Multiplayer mode is fantastic. You can feel the oldschool racing experience by driving the 
 varies of automobile. Scenes stealing is so funny with the chatting from other players.
  
  At last, not only the 6 movies/36 scenes to play. Their has the stunt challenge and advertisement 
 mode in the game too so you can player more than 50 different scenes in the game! I swear, it's 
 a good for pay your bucks with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Well I rented this game 2 days ago and I only have 1 more set of scenes to complete.
  I was considering buying this game, but because I'm almost finished this game already, I don't 
 think I will.
  
  If you go for 5 stars in every scene, you'll get all the awards, if you don't try for 5 you'll 
 probably be missing some in the end. I only have like 2 scenes with 5 stars.
  
  This game looks pretty nice, especially the destruction. But if you pay close attention, you'll 
 realize that stuff does tend to demolish the same way almost every time.
  
  The graphics are also pretty... but often debris does get in the way of the camera which makes it 
 very hard to figure out where you're suppose to go once you get through it, especially if theres 
 a turn.
  
  I'm not sure how the online is because right now my 360 isn't connected to the internet, but if 
 you have XBL working, that might be another reason for why you might want to buy this game even 
 if you manage to finish it very quickly.
  
  And the director will get on your nerves eventually, especially if you screw the scenes up too 
 many times.
  
  So to conclude this review, if you plan on getting 5 stars in every scene, and you really love 
 mass destruction, then this is probably must buy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisBoi17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Stuntman: Ignition will blow you away with it's unique settings, awesome graphics and amazing gameplay. 
 Although it takes about an hour or two to really get the hang of the game it is worth sticking 
 by it because the stunts you'll have to do are explosive!. The graphics are simply amazing especially 
 the film settings it actually gives you the feeling that your in a real movie set. Some of the 
 stunts you'll have to pull off involve jumping over airborne helicopters, jumping through burning 
 buildings and over oncoming traffic. There is different movies that you star in such as Aftershock 
 a volcanic nightmare, you'll have lava boulders shooting down from the sky, vehicals and other 
 unstable objects flying into you path. You'll have racing type scenarios where you'll have to pull 
 of stunts whilst keeping up with the lead car and cop chases which makes it more fun to play. So 
 all in all Stuntman Ignition is a massive success with excellent gameplay and stunning effects 
 it's a simply must play!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  This is the first ive played in the stuntman series and in my opinion it wasn't the best of starts. 
 The first movie 'Aftershock' got me excited when i first held my 360 controller and dodged the 
 first cars and jumped over the first tank. As the game progressed it became too repetItive and 
 stressful as i found myself doing the exact same stunts over and over in the same situations. 'Overdrive' 
 and 'Never kill me again' were the two best and hard films in my opinion but the rest was just 
 a waist of time. Anyway its nice too see your final product in motion and see the trailer which 
 in my opinion did a good job. Thats why ive rated this game 4.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timothybprice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Anybody who played the first Stuntman will tell you that as much as you wanted to love it, hard 
 wans't the word to describe the gameplay. It was one of those games you hated having to find cheat 
 codes for but had no other option..... This latest edition is still a difficult game to master 
 but I found myself much less apt to throw my controller at my television (thank god the new TV 
 and Controllers are much to expensive nowadays) . I also think the game dynamics, explosions and 
 graphics make for a really eye appealing experience. Using the mic on your 360 controller also 
 has the director talking into your headset, v. coming out of your speakers, which would be more 
 along the lines of the real thing as well as less annoying to your fiance, roomates, parents, etc. 
 when you reset and start over so you can nail every stunt. The commercial modes are pretty cool. 
 The one strike/reshoot was tough but when you do actually complete the mode you will find that 
 you are driving more smoothly and really timing the drift, jumps and what have you... This game 
 is definitely not for everybody, but if you are one of those people who like to start a game on 
 Expert Mode, and earn the money you invested into your game I think you will find Stuntman to be 
 a very cool game.
  
  The rewards are pretty cool too, you get to see your replay when you compelte the strings of stunts 
 in a mini trailer. Nice touch....
  
  Buy it if you are a driving fan. Rent it if you want a memorable three days, but don't pass it 
 up.... Worth the while.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ie_specter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  I was never a fan of the old stuntman game, so when I heard about this one I wasn't in the least 
 bit interested. But the other day when I went to blockbuster to pick up Blue Dragon, I decided 
 what the hell, I'll try it as well. Such a good choice.
  
  I would just like to add, I listed the game as Hard because I'm the type of gamer who doesn't settle 
 unless I get the top score, in this game, 5 stars.
  So if your hardcore about games like I am, it will be difficult and there will be many restarts. 
 If your casual and don't care about high scores and stars as long as you make it through all your 
 stunts, you should consider it an Easy .
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  The graphics in the game are really nice, explosions are crisp and detailed with lots of debris. 
 The vehicles look great, reflecting sunlight and losing pieces as you crash into things. Overall, 
 they are nice, and keep up to the Xbox 360 standard, they just aren't over the top.
  
  Controls - 9/10
  The controls work very well with this game, you hold the right trigger in for 
 the throttle, left trigger brakes, B is your handbrake which is very useful for the tricky drifts 
 you get into, and Y is the Action button. This is used to do special events during a scene, depending 
 on the vehicle your using. A bike may be able to lay down flat to skid under an exploding tanker, 
 and a car can light itself on fire for dramatic effect.
  
  Game-Play - 9/10
  This is where this game really stands out. I've never played a game like it, and it really is a 
 genre of it's own. The goal of the game is to race through the set (level) doing as many crazy 
 stunts as you can. There are director stunts in every set, which are stunts you will need to do, 
 or you will get a strike. Five strikes and you'll need to do a retake (you can turn on Easy Mode 
 to give yourself more strikes) . There are also many stunts you can do that are not pre-set, such 
 as driving very close to vehicles and objects, drifting, jumping, 180's etc. And if your going 
 for 5 stars, you need to keep all your stunts together in a 'string'. This is, to say the difficult 
 part. After each stunt, you add a number to the multiplier, and after 2 seconds, if you haven't 
 done more stunts, the points you earned up in the multiplier will be added together and set as 
 your current score. To keep a string, you need to go the whole level without losing your multiplier, 
 stringing stunts together within 2 seconds of each other the whole time. It requires fast thinking 
 on your part, for deciding what you can use around you for a stunt, and also requires a lot of 
 restarts to get it all down perfect.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  Everything about the sound was great in this game, the cars, the explosions, the voice overs, the 
 music. It all fit.
  If your filming a spy kind of action flick, you'll hear music that matches, and if your filming 
 Dukes of Hazard type film you'll hear music fit for that too.
  The voice overs of all the characters are quite good, and none are too over-done.
  
  Rent or 
 Buy
  Depends on what kind of a gamer you are.
  If your a hardcore gamer who wants all the best scores, and is not easily flustered by difficulty, 
 this is a buy for sure.
  If you just wanna have some fun doing crazy stunts without caring how your points add up, you probably 
 will be fine just renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WormyTheWorm
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  I never played the first stuntman game, but i played the Stuntman Ignition demo and loved it so 
 much i got the game on the day of release :)
  
  The graphics are good, lots of things exploding, lots of things getting smashed, lots of crashing 
 jumping and lets not forget... restarting hehe
  
  If you are the type of casual player who is happy to play through a game just passing the minimum 
 requirements for each stage, then I think you would get bored pretty soon. Its easy to pass a stage 
 with a couple of stars. Thats not what this game is all about though....
  
  Stuntman is ALL about the combo score and replay.
  
  If you are the type of player who isnt 
 satisfied unless they get max points on each stage, who is looking to be high up the leaderboards, 
 who has the determination to restart after restart after restart to get the coolest most explosive 
 replay then you are in the right game.
  
  My favourite part about ProjectGotham3's single player was the cone challenges, I loved getting 
 a combo through the entire cone challenge and then enjoying the cool looking replay.... thats what 
 this game is like except instead of a lovely looking car drifting through a lovely looking city 
 its various vehicles blasting through explosions and debris on various cool movie sets, and the 
 whole replay usually ending in some spectacular fireball. (The replays are superb) Its like a whole 
 game based around that type of gameplay, trying to keep the combo going for the whole stage. (a 
 bit like Nights on the saturn actually)
  
  Keeping the combo going is so much fun, especially in the movie set environments of Stuntman Ignition. 
 After you do a 'move' (drift, drive close to stuff, jump etc) you have 2 seconds to do another 
 'move' to keep the combo chain going, risk versus reward.
  
  Several different movie sets with a bunch of challenges for each and lots of bonus single challenges, 
 various multiplayer modes that i havent tried yet, theres quite a lot to do in stuntman: ignition, 
 if you like ProjectGotham3's cone challenges, going for high scores in games, or games that challenge 
 you to keep a combo going then i think you will like this game... LOTS I love it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skills_0210
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  its pretty much the same as the first one. theres lots of chaos and explosions. if you get a scene 
 right the first time around considered yourself a god. most scene's take at least 10 tries, 25 
 if you want five stars. as you unlock harder movies, it will just be flat out frustrating. i only 
 suggest buying it, if you love the demo. the constrcutor mode (build your own stuff and mess around 
 on it) is only good when you beat the game. because you start out with very few cool stuff, and 
 you max out the alotted item space very quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlywhispers
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the 1st Stuntman game, I remember cheating to play each movie due to the hard difficulty, 
 but finally, a Stuntman with challenge, yet not to much of a challenge. Its a very fun game. Short, 
 but fun non the less. The graphics are very smooth, and the explosion effects work like magic, 
 AND THERES A LOT OF EXPLOSIONS! The gameplay feels a bit arcady, or like Burnout actually, but 
 it works, even though you got to replay each level a total of 60 times. Not much to say here, I 
 am not a good reviewer, but I can tell you this game is fun, worth a buy, definatly worth a rent, 
 try it out. Enjoy it. Its really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  I have the original stuntman i got it wjen it was released. It was a great and challenging game, 
 and was very fun. I still to this day sometimes play that game and still have as much fun with 
 it.
  
  When I heard the sequel was coming out I thought this is going to be great; but then I found out 
 it was going to be made by a different developer and this made me a bit skeptical, but I still 
 looked into it becasue the original stuntman was great and I couldnt just give up on the series.
 
  
  THQ have now stepped in and I think they have done well to maintain what made the original so great, 
 they sticked to the originals formula but this time it has more epic and more explosive sets and 
 stunts because in modern film making more is possible.
  
  I think this installment is more breathtaking and more pulse pounding and now of course with it 
 being on next - gen the graphics have been given a polish. The films are also a bit more epic especially 
 that first film you work on called aftershock. The film A whooping and a holerin from the original 
 game also returns in this installment with a whoolpin and a hollerin 2. I know people say this 
 game is frustratng with having to restart all the time because you make mistakes, well thats what 
 your going to have to be ready for if you want to learn the scene and keep it in your head and 
 complete it with a full rating, so if you havent got patience maybe you should avoid this. I don't 
 think the restarting thing ruins the game it just makes it a challenge and if your not up for a 
 challenge don't bother with it, I actually think this games difficulty is just right I must say 
 the film a whoopin and a hollerin 2 has been easy so far but aftershock was quite challenging so 
 its a mix.
  
  In the first game you could also do stunt arena shows, these return for the sequel but in this 
 installment you can also do commercials.
  
  This game has also added a few things to the way filming works. During flming in this game you 
 have 5 'strikes' a 'strike' being a mistake so if you make 5 'strikes' you will fail the scene 
 and have to reshoot unlike in the first a game were in general you just fail after making to many 
 mistakes, so in this game you are aware of how close you are to failing. Also in this game your 
 scenes are rated with a star system depending on how many ponts you gain in the scene the top amount 
 of stars you can gain in a scene if you get maximum points in 4 stars because in order to get 5 
 you have to 'string' the intire scene which is were you do so many stunts consecutively (even stunts 
 you arent told to do eg near misses and air time and drifting) without the points adding to your 
 total so instead you get a string of points which add up like a combo meter and when you stop the 
 string they add to your total after a certain amount of time, so to get a 5 star rating you have 
 to string all the way through so basically at the end of the scene your points should say 0 if 
 you have strung it all the way (because you havent let them all go into your total this doesnt 
 mean you ahvent got any points though because they will add on the points screen after) and of 
 course like the previous game after you have completed the film you can kick back and watch the 
 trailer.
  
  Also while you are getting these stars you are gaining unlockables for the extra game modes like 
 stunt arena constructor etc that have returned from the original game. The game also features local 
 and online multiplayer.
  
  Overall this is a great game and should be bought by an owner of the original or even just a fan 
 of stunts and epic drivng games. I think the sequel has done great and is definately on par witht 
 he original or it could maybe be better its up to you to decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:48 am PT
Review:  Good Points - Great Visuals, Good Loading, Good Movies, Simple Controls, Slightly-easier points, 
 Explosive Fun.
  
  Bad Points - Quite Short, Still Hard, Slightly Tedious, Slightly Repetive.
  
  I got this game 
 from Woolies, for &pound;34.99, and by god it is good. I always though that it would be bad judging 
 some of the previews and reviews of the game. I got the demo when it came out just to see if it 
 was worth the wait. Gone has the need to restart as soon as the stunt 1 goes wrong, Gone has the 
 stiff controls, but also, the biggie, Gone has indepence of every scene. It is deadly repeative, 
 same stunts after each other, in slightly different tracks. And you never get to see the finished 
 movie, even if it is only 5 minutes. The scenes get harder for doing the same old jump. And now 
 for some points to part with some cash. IT is much more explosive and friendlier than Burnout, 
 which you crash, your dead. In this, the crashes a rare, but superb. There are constant explosions, 
 and each movie has various twists. The damage model is great, the loading times a long but restarting 
 is febrief. You should get it, it is not bad, nothing to complain about, unless all you care about 
 is the slightly last-gen appearence on the very rare instance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse83Lives
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 1, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  I dont have the PS2 or 360 version of this. How I got what version. Dont ask. Either way its in 
 basic the same thing. Its beyond me, how a game can have such a great concept, and look and feel. 
 And find a way to screw it up. And the game just gets worse the further you go to. The first few 
 levels are doable. The sites mock some cool time real Hollywood stuff. And you do start to feel 
 like the unkown stunt man, that makes Eastwood look so fine. And its actually kinda easy to control 
 and not so bad. And guess what, your having fun. Than you hit the 3rd one. Not only do you have 
 to drive a rig from a horrid camera angle. Granted you can change the camera angle. But its a frustrating, 
 vary non fun level. Its from their on that this game starts to get just to hard, for one. And the 
 sets are not as good as the first two movies. And the bike handles ok. But isint this THQ and Rainbow? 
 I mean did they not make MX vs ATV unleashed. It dont make sense how their bike handles. The bike 
 should be handling perfect! But its not. The bikes not bad compared to some games. But its not 
 Unlashed like. But the cars and bike do have a good feel. This game could be really cool. THQ figured 
 out how to do replays some? Their not as cool as you would like. But the game has the right idea. 
 It has the right story for a game like this. Its just kinda repetitive and a tad bit hard. What 
 they should of done was make it a tad easier. But harder to master. Which could of been easier 
 with the star thing. I mean they have side mission with only one star. Meaning one mistake allowed. 
 Put some side mission races around the areas. Which they did sorta. But they should of concentrated 
 on making those real cool. And did like a unleashed thing where they had tuns of stuff to do. And 
 they kinda seemed to be trying that. Maybe time killed that. to little time kills alot of good 
 games these days. I think get more upset when a game has a great idea and messes it up. More so 
 than when a game just stinks. And it dont stink. Its just seemed to get less attention, the further 
 the project went on? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitrous_boy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  last time stuntman came out, which was 5 years ago, was one hell of a fun game. Now with a new 
 developer, things may have changed, but here is what I think.
  
  it is a very intense mission based driving game where you do the objectives the director gives 
 you. unfortunately, these tasks can get a bit hard to do, but you get 5 chances to not screw up. 
 If you do, you'll have to start the stunt right from the beginning, but the stunts are only 2 or 
 so minutes, so don't worry.
  
  The graphics may not be up to scratch with today's racing games, but the gameplay makes up for 
 it. the physics engines for each vehicle, are different but you'll get used to them.
  
  this game does have a few flaws though. the 'odd stunts' mode seem a bit hard, because if you do 
 1 mistake, your finished. But you can choose the 'easy mode' which gives you a extra chance, but 
 if halves your score. other drawbacks are that there aren't any stunts in the rest of the word 
 like the prequel, all seem American though. The textures sometimes get jaggy and you can't hear 
 the sweet sounds coming from all the action since you have a yelling director.
  
  but other than that, this is a great game, it has nice features like funny story intros, really 
 cool trailers and a soundtrack that suits the environment you are in. The big question is: is the 
 game really worth getting? If you are looking for a challenging stunt driving game, it is a definite, 
 yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: branbot100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Right from the start i am going to say two things. first, if your a fan of the original you probably 
 can cope with the difficulty and frustration. second, if your a newcomer prepare to be mad very 
 mad. I started this game and immediately i was into the graphics with their lush fast paced stream 
 and their explosions as your car goes through them. The controls aren't difficult at all its the 
 outcome thats frustrating. If your striving for perfection then you will get your ass kicked over 
 and over by the sudden go through the gap or overtake this car . It can become really bad. But 
 if your up to a challenge than your definitely in the right place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Awesome visuals, great sense of being in a big budget film, lots of stunts to do, online 
 multiplayer is fun and chaotic, powerful construction tool
  
  The Bad: Trial and error can turn a lot off, still leaves the taste of the first game in your mouth
 
  
  For five years now I've been wondering when a Stuntman sequel would unearth and here we are in 
 2007 with Ignition. THQ didn't leave fans of the first game behind since there are hints and things 
 in Ignition that only vets would recognize. One of these things are the sequel to A Woopin' and 
 a Hollerin' and another James Bond esque movie. When it comes to visuals Ignition delivers all 
 the way. Everything looks crisp and clear and you really feel like you're doing stunts for huge 
 big budget movies. What's better from the first are obviously the load times. The first game dragged 
 with horrendous load times and even when you restarted. The load times here are quick and no loading 
 after restart. The gave relies a lot on trial and error just like the first but it's MUCH more 
 forgiving. After maybe 15-20 retries you can nail it perfectly. What's new here is the new String 
 It feature where you keep your multiplier up through the whole scene by doing the stunts right 
 and driving close to things etc. This can be pretty difficult sometimes if you can't master the 
 scene. Also new is a better and more robust construction tool, online mulitplayer, and now you 
 can do stunts for commercials which is really cool. Stuntman is basically what the first one should 
 have been and with the power of next-gen technology Paradigm did it. I'm really glad all of these 
 changes were made and I hope the third game is even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stu4u3
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  I played the first stuntman game on PS2 and I loved it. I was a bit hesitant to purchase this game 
 for $60 but I'm glad I did. The controls work well and I like the fact that different vehicles 
 handle dramatically different. You can usually finish a scene by going slow but you earn more points/money 
 by driving by the seat of your pants. The graphics are good (not great) and the sound effects are 
 good. This is a challenging game that can really frustrate you after a while if you continue to 
 try to better your score for a particular screen/shoot. I have not played it on Live yet but I'll 
 tackle that once I complete the game. A fun game that is certainly original compared to most driving 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omrikk87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  The first Stuntman for the PS2 was awesome , it was simple racing action game ,you get some challenges 
 , you do some movies and thats it , well , Stunman: Ignition is a bit more than that , this is the 
 full adrenalline pump you can get untill Burnout Paradise will come out , if you love Cars , Bikes 
 , Icecream trucks or whatever , this is your game, especially if you know how to DRIVE good , i 
 chosed mixed reactions because one thing , Controls\Driving system mechanics , let me explain:
 
  
  for the example ill give you two racing games :
  
  Midnight Club
  and
  Forza Motorsport
  
  for the racing game fans ,they will know the difference , while MC is an 
 arcade game , meaning , super nitros , 230 mph cars , crazy backflips in air and stuff like that 
 , FM is an simulation to the game , meaning , every bend , every touch of the throttle is importent 
 , and every inch of movement is crutial for you.
  
  this is the problem in this game , you have a bit of everything and thats a huge issue , when u 
 first drive , nice , solid+ graphics , but when you need to make a drift , not so good , there 
 is a mix between a simulated drift and an arcade drift , and i just didnt liked they way they maked 
 the scheme for it , its not intuative at all , not by a long shot , the stunts are veried and awesome 
 , a very good sound effects and dialogs , good challenges , and alot of mini challenges.
  
  Graphics:
  overall its good , but , you do expect a bit more from the ground engine to provide 
 more sharpness for the models , when you play FM2 ,you see sort of blush of the cars , its realistic 
 and cool , but i really loved the design for the cut-scenes and the whole level\movie presentation.. 
 its awesome in anyway , also the level design is insane , just insane , you will get in some levels 
 amazing effects ,especially when you are driving fast and everything is exploding.
  
  8.5
  
  Sound:
  good overall sound , effects sound good , all the cut-scenes , directors talking 
 , stuntman explaining stuff 2 you , everything sound the way it should be , good.
  
  9.5
  
  Gameplay:
  like i said in the review text , i didnt liked the way the whole driving scheme 
 is , but other than that , you have one ACTION button (activating anything might appear in the 
 game) , gas , breaks , in this aspect its very intuative and straight forward but nice.
  
  6
  
  new stuff\overall change from the first game:
  
  i love it , the stunts are good , 
 explosive , and innovative as hell , anything sound and looks awesome , good level and car design 
 giving this game a good thought that you can make a good game from ground up , even though the 
 game needed a bit more polishing on the car models , not 2 serious though.
  
  9
  
  replay value:
  overall ill have to say this is a huge game , 6 movies (6-8 scenes every movie 
 thats a lot to get in 2 perfect rank) plus alot of cool challenges , some of them offer sort of 
 jobs , doing extra movies , stunts , constructor mode (you get an arena , with few objectives on 
 it , and you get some ramps and other stuff , and you need to make the ramps fit the type of challenges 
 , meaning if you have a get through a gap objective , you will take two small metal tubes and put 
 them , for an easy score , etc.
  
  i think the multiplayer wont be that good , even though it has some modes , overall i think it 
 will be a nice local game with friends.
  
  8.5
  
  overall its a good game , i wouldnt but it again , but i would rent it for sure , especially for 
 a weekend with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent graphics, sound and voiceovers, very tight controls, easier than the original, 
 movies you make are awesome, replays can be very funny, online multiplayer.
  
  The Bad: Stunts are often trial and error that require you to retake several times, some stunts 
 are kinda annoying.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The original Stuntman was famous and infamous at the same time. It was famous for it's unique mission 
 based driving consept where you play as a stunt driver in a major motion picture, and must preform 
 selected stunts to please the director. It was infamous for being excessively difficult and involving 
 lots of trial and error. Now, five years after the original, the Stuntman series returns with a 
 new publisher and new stunts to preform in Stuntman Ignition for the Xbox 360. Once again, you 
 play as a wanna be stunt driver getting your first gigs in Hollywood. This time, however, you're 
 playing for points and rewards instead of just to please the director. It's also a lot easier, 
 so even if you make a few mistakes, you can keep going and finish the scene with little problem. 
 It still involves a lot of trial and error, but it's not quite as tedious because of the easier 
 difficulty and the more impressive stunts you get to preform. Speaking of stunts, you can preform 
 everything from getting on two wheels, to a reverse 180, which is one of the hardest moves I have 
 found so far. You also get to drive motorcycles and other vehicles, not just basic cars. One thing 
 that I was not expecting was how good and well detailed the graphics for Stuntman would be. The 
 game truely looks next gen and sounds excellent to boot. The voice acting and music are also very 
 well done. It does make sence that a movie about working in Hollywood would have Hollywood style 
 production values... One nifty feature that Stuntman appears to be the first game to use is your 
 Xbox Live headset. Instead of having the director hollering at you through the TV, you can put 
 on your headset and have him give you directions through that instead, which is much more authentic. 
 The best part about the new Stuntman, it's just plain fun. It may involve a lot of trial and error, 
 but it really doesn't get old watching your body fly after hitting a fence with your motorcycle 
 or somehow flipping your car during a jump. It is lots of fun to play and watch at the same time. 
 It also has an online multiplayer mode, which I haven't gotten to try because I had a pre-release 
 copy, but it looks like even more awesomeness added to an already excellent game.
  
  Overall, Stuntman Ignition is definately worth playing, or even buying. Even if you didn't like 
 the original, you may like this easier and more enjoyable version. It's a blast!
  
  Gameplay: It does involve a lot of trial and error, but Stuntman Ignition is easier than the original 
 and is also a lot more fun.
  
  Graphics: Suprisingly excellent.
  
  Sound: Very well done voiceovers and music.
  
  Value: This game is worth buying in my book 
 for $60, especially because of the online multiplayer and replayability of the game itself.
  
  Final Thoughts: Lights, Camera, Action! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
