-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Superman Returns: The Videogame
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/supermanreturnsthevideogame/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Large city to explore.
 Nice soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There's not much to do in the large city.
 No variety to mission objectives.
 Story is a confusing mess.
 Boss battles can be insanely frustrating.
 Unless you're a few miles above the city, it looks pretty rough.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 22, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.3, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 1,876 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Nov 20, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
After the thrill of flying around Metropolis wears off, Superman Returns is nothing more than a 
 below-average, repetitive movie tie-in. 

  Superman's great at saving the world, but he sure hasn't had much success when it comes to video 
 games. The disastrous Superman 64 was no doubt the low point in the Man of Steel's video game history, 
 but even his highs haven't been all that high. Superman Returns: The Videogame was originally slated 
 to release alongside the movie in June (which had its own tumultuous production saga) , but it wasn't 
 ready in time and the release date was pushed back to coincide with the DVD of the movie going 
 on sale. Despite the delay, the game still doesn't seem to be ready, but that hasn't stopped it 
 from being released. It's certainly not as bad as Superman 64, but it's still plenty bad. Superman 
 Returns does do a few things well, and it does manage to be entertaining for the first hour or 
 so, but it's all downhill from there.  

           Poor Superman -- nobody understands him.     

  For a game that's supposed to be a movie 
 tie-in, Superman Returns sure doesn't have a whole lot in common with the film. After fighting 
 off a rogue meteor shower and learning how to use his super abilities, Superman zooms off to outer 
 space to find that his home planet has indeed been destroyed. On the way home he runs across Mongrul, 
 does a bit of fighting, and then it's back to Earth. Here he'll battle Metallo, Bizarro, and, eventually, 
 someone who was actually in the film, Lex Luthor. People who saw the movie and those who didn't 
 will be equally frustrated with the storytelling. If you saw the movie, you'll be puzzled as to 
 what the heck any of this has to do with the film, and if you didn't see  Superman Returns , there's 
 little chance that any of the short cutscenes will explain exactly what the heck Lex is doing with 
 the crystals, much less why Mister Mxyzptlk wants Superman to race around the city.  

  Superman Returns takes place in Superman's adopted home city, Metropolis. The city consists of 
 several large islands that lie in the middle of a lake surrounded by mountains. The city is largest 
 on the Xbox 360, as the PlayStation 2 and Xbox are missing one of the smaller islands. You're free 
 to go almost anywhere, from street level to thousands of feet above even the tallest building. 
 The view from high up in the sky is breathtaking at first, and it's fun to zoom down through the 
 clouds and wind through city streets and in between the skyscrapers at breakneck speeds. However, 
 the fun quickly wears off when you realize that short of endlessly touring the city, there's little 
 else to do. You can fly around and rescue kittens that are hidden around Metropolis, and that's 
 about it. You can't fly underwater, and you can't walk in buildings.  

  So, other than rescuing kittens, what is there to do? Not a whole heck of a lot. The game is divided 
 into chapters comprised of a series of objectives that only appear by flying around aimlessly until 
 you get close enough to one to trigger it. As is evident by the way the game drags on and on, there 
 are certainly plenty of objectives -- there's just not much variety to them. Early in the game most 
 of your time will be spent fighting robots -- robots that walk, robots that roll around, and robots 
 that fly. Later you'll be fighting evil monsters and even dragons. (If you're wondering why on 
 Earth there are dragons in the game, you're not alone.) This monotony is occasionally broken up 
 when you are charged with putting out building fires. And if you play long enough, you'll get to 
 fight bad guys  and  put out fires. The segments where you race Mister Mxyzptlk or play as Bizarro 
 help break up the monotony a tiny bit, but they don't count as progress toward completing the game, 
 so there's little point in wasting time on them.  

  Being that Superman is mostly invincible, he doesn't have a health bar; however, the city of Metropolis 
 does. The bad guys will torch trees, throw cars, and pummel civilians. Any damage to the city diminishes 
 the health bar, and when it's empty, it's game over. This is a novel approach to indirectly making 
 Superman vulnerable, but it also restricts the game's "sandbox" feel. Anytime you decide to smash 
 something or set a car ablaze, you're just hurting yourself. Imagine a first-person shooter where 
 you could shoot yourself in the head or a racing game where you could pour sugar in your own gas 
 tank -- that's kind of what it's like here. It sure might sound like fun to take the giant globe 
 off of the Daily Planet and toss it into a group of cars, but the pesky thought of "What would 
 Superman do?" and the negative effect your action will have on the city is always in the back of 
 your mind. You can play as Bizarro and wreak some havoc, but causing trouble's just not that much 
 fun when you're being forced to do it.  

  The combo-based fighting system lets you string together a fairly impressive number of moves, and 
 after you complete a series of objectives, you'll earn new combos. Unfortunately, you don't really 
 need many of these new moves, and you'll quickly find yourself either using the same combos over 
 and over or just resorting to mashing buttons and hoping for the best. Superman also has his trusty 
 heat vision, super breath, and of course his freeze breath, all of which can be powered up by finishing 
 objectives. Some enemies are weak against a particular power, though a few are impervious to them, 
 and there's even a creature that grows stronger should you try to use one of your powers on it. 
 Freezing and burning enemies is actually pretty fun, but unless you like blowing enemies a half 
 mile away and then chasing them down to pummel them, Superman's super breath is almost totally 
 worthless -- you only need use it a couple of times.  

           Awesome! You beat the objective! Now do the same thing another 50 times!     

  The 
 combat sounds entertaining, and at first it is, but a number of problems quickly render it frustrating 
 and uninteresting. Because you're fighting the same handful of enemies hundreds of times, the real 
 challenge comes not from the enemies themselves, but from trying to stay interested in what's going 
 on. The controls aren't overly complex, but it's still tough to get them to respond. Using the 
 D pad to toggle between powers on the fly is frustrating, and it's tough to aim your attacks, too. 
 You can lock on to enemies, but short of removing the target lock adjusting your position and hoping 
 to lock on to another enemy, there's no way to change your focus during a battle. This is particularly 
 problematic when you're in the air and getting attacked by a dragon that's just offscreen, or when 
 you're fighting in a crowd, trying to punch a robot but wailing on an innocent civilian instead. 
 Collision detection is dreadful, so sometimes you'll be hitting a bad guy (or getting hit by one) 
 even though no punches are actually landing. For some unknown reason Superman can't jump. It's 
 a pain to land, and Superman's inability to jump makes it tough to easily get to any enemy that's 
 on top of a car or standing on the other side of a bush. When Superman can't get around a bit of 
 shrubbery, you know things aren't going too well. An awful camera doesn't help matters much, either. 

  Despite the game's declaration that the camera is smart (it says so in the game options) , it does 
 a terrible job of following the action. You're frequently obscured by enemies, cars, and buildings. 
 If you can see yourself, then chances are pretty good that you won't be able to find whatever you're 
 fighting. Enemy icons will appear on one side of a building when the actual enemy is on the other 
 side, and sometimes the camera gets so low to the ground that you can't see your target through 
 all the traffic and pedestrians on the screen. A handy radar system helps alleviate this problem 
 somewhat, but it's still a problem. Racing against Mister Mxyzptlk wasn't all that fun to start 
 with, but it's also hindered by the camera, which works just fine for cruising the skies looking 
 for trouble, but is considerably less friendly when moving at high speeds.     

  And then there are the boss battles, which are so bad they deserve special mention. If you were 
 excited by the game's trailer, in which Superman took on a giant version of Metallo, you're in 
 for a disappointment. Sure, you still get to fight him, but it's considerably less interesting 
 than in the trailer. But that's not the real problem. The lengthy fight ends with Superman having 
 to divert a missile -- but the game never tells you how. After chasing it and getting close, you 
 can shoot your heat vision at it, but that doesn't work, so it explodes, and then you get to do 
 the entire fight again. Let's say on the next attempt you try to fly past the missile and hope 
 that it locks on. Nope, you're dead. Try again. It turns out that all you have to do is get right 
 next to it, which triggers a cutscene. Who knew that all you had to do to stop a missile was trigger 
 a cutscene? Another boss fight sees you trying to save three blimps, that apparently are filled 
 with hydrogen and highly explosive, from a group of flying dragons. After trying and failing to 
 save each blimp, it turns out that you just need to save one, and the sequence suddenly ends for 
 no discernable reason. Last but not least, you get to take on tornados. Yes, you'll be fighting 
 tornados. You've got to blow them out over the water, freeze them, and put out fires caused by 
 lighting. That's not so bad, but the game also implores you to save three injured citizens during 
 all this madness. After wasting your time rescuing the injured, your reward is... nothing. You'll 
 find that you can skip that part entirely. If you're not insane yet, the next sequence should do 
 it for you. You're suddenly inside the tornado and you've got to "stabilize the atmosphere" by 
 alternately shooting your heat and freeze breath while being sure to dodge all the garbage flying 
 around inside. Once again, if you fail you have to do the  entire  tornado sequence over again. 
 Only something like this could have you longing for the realistic scenarios from the movie  Twister 
 .  

           Meteors, giant robots, killer tornados, and... dragons? It's all here.     

  There's little reason to see the game through to its conclusion, much less ever play it again 
 if you manage to finish it once. At least you can get some points out of the whole dreadful experience 
 if you're playing the 360 version. Points are awarded for beating noteworthy bosses, and you can 
 earn a couple of hundred points during the normal course of play. A few achievements, such as flying 
 10,000 miles or playing for 12 hours, will only be earned by those with a high tolerance for pain. 
 To add insult to injury, the game tells you that you're 25 percent complete in less than an hour, 
 but it ends up going on for a solid 10 mind-numbing hours.  

  Superman Returns isn't a particularly good-looking game, especially on the PlayStation 2 and Xbox. 
 Sure, it's impressive to see such a large city on the older systems, but so much detail had to 
 be sacrificed to make it happen that you've got to wonder if it was worth it. The city's slightly 
 smaller, there's very little variety to the buildings, and each structure looks hideous up close. 
 The Xbox 360 version looks quite a bit nicer, but along with the larger city and the more varied 
 and detailed buildings come technical problems. Everything looks cool from high above the city, 
 but as you zoom downward the texture pop-in and the drawn-in are very noticeable and distracting. 
 The frame rate also regularly stutters and stammers. Even the FMV cutscenes are choppy.  

  All versions of the game have plain, ugly citizens, boring-looking cars, and a lack of destructible 
 objects. You can randomly break up the bricks and glass on a few buildings (with damage effects 
 that look too similar) , and you can smash up cars and grab light poles, but not much else. The 
 fire effects look pretty good, but when things like cars explode, you'll actually see them disappear 
 for a second while the damaged model loads. One thing that won't disappear, at least some of the 
 time, is the onscreen text that shows you what you're supposed to be doing. You'll be racing against 
 the clock, and the whole time, "GO!" is emblazoned across the screen.  

           Uh-oh, it looks like your nemesis got ahold of an ugly stick and beat the game senseless. 
     

  The best thing the game has going for it is the excellent orchestrated soundtrack that plays in 
 the background. It doesn't sound like the movie's score, but it's still quite good, and given the 
 quality of the rest of the game's audio, it should have been more prominently featured. Kevin Spacey, 
 Brandon Routh, and Kate Bosworth all reprise their roles from the film, but their participation 
 in the game is so minimal that you hardly even notice. Routh's performance is hampered by a horrendous 
 script that has him admonishing his enemies with cheesy one-liners as he fights them -- his dialogue 
 during the Bizarro encounters is downright embarrassing. The rest of the sound effects sound OK, 
 but they're repeated ad nauseam.  

  It's hard to shake the feeling that EA viewed the movie's DVD release as the last chance to capitalize 
 on the movie license and was going to ship this game finished or unfinished, good or bad. It looks 
 as though they finally settled on unfinished and bad. Superman Returns doesn't have much to do 
 with the movie of the same name; the plot is a bunch of nonsense; and the game just doesn't capture 
 the essence of what has made Superman such an enduring icon. If you're an Xbox 360 owner who has 
 played the Superman Returns demo, you've already played the best part of this game. It's fun to 
 fly above the city and then zoom down at the speed of sound to zigzag among the buildings, and 
 it's even fun to pound on robots for a short time. But the fun quickly ends courtesy of the bland 
 graphics, lousy controls, boring combat, and repetitive objectives.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (158 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Superman1938
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2009 6:48 pm PT
Review:  AS YOU CAN TELL FROM MY SCREEN NAME I AM A HUGE SUPERMAN FAN SO WHEN I HEARD THERE WAS AN OPEN 
 WORLD SUPERMAN GAME WHERE YOU CAN FLY AT THE SPEED OF SOUND I NEARLY HAD A HEART ATTACK. BUT BASED 
 ON PREVIOUS SUPERMAN GAMES I WAS UNDERSTANDIBLY CAUTIOUS. ( I ACTUALLY BOUGHT SUPERMAN 64 AT FULL 
 PRICE) 
  WHEN YOU FIRST LOAD UP THE GAME AND YOU REALIZE YOU HAVE A MASSIVE CITY WITH BEAUTIFUL VISUALS 
 YOU MIGHT GET THE IMPRESSION THAT THIS IS THE GREATEST GAME EVER! THEN YOU REALIZE INTERACTIONS 
 WITH THE WORLD ARE VERY LIMITED, ACTION IS INCREDIBLY REPEDATIVE, AND THE STORY IS SOMEWHAT LACKING. 
 
  THE CONTROLS AND THE FIGHTING SYSTEM IS SET UP QUITE WELL, BUT IT IS WASTED ON THE SAME 5 ENEMIES 
 YOU ARE PRESENTED WITH THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE GAME. 
  WHAT CAN BE SAID ABOUT THE GAME IS HOW INCREDIBLY FUN IT IS TO FLY AROUND A MAJOR METROPOLITAN 
 CITY AT THE SPEED OF SOUND. THIS WAS EVEN MORE ETERTAINING THAN SWINGING AROUND IN SPIDERMAN 3. 
 
  OVERALL THE GAME WOULD BE AN EXCELENT GAME TO RENT, BUT SINCE IT IS BEING SOLD USED AT THE SAME 
 PRICE YOU MIGHT AS WELL PURCHASE IT. FUN GAME WHEN YOU HAVE SOME TIME TO KILL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshy485
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:41 am PT
Review:  When I first played superman returns I was expecting it to be a decent game. Nope its one of the 
 worst games ive played on the next gen consoles. Bad graphics, horrible storytelling, and technical 
 glitches that will leave you with a broken controller and an empty bottle of Tylenol. At first 
 it seems fun but that feeling doesn't last too long and on the second mission you won't even want 
 to play it anymore. The sense of speed when you fly around metropolis is the only positive thing 
 I can say about the game, and really its not worth your time and money. This game isn't even a 
 rent, and only if your a hardcore superman fan. It has no multiplayer and it gets ridiculously 
 difficlt at times, with no multiplayer or any special features.
  
  All I have to say is that its not a good game not even a decent game... Its horrible!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phileosophos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what game the critics were playing, but it wasn't Superman Returns. I tried the demo 
 and was almost scared off by all the reviewers who said it had no depth, was repetitive and boring, 
 and provided bad controls and camera. I think maybe the camera control could have been a bit better, 
 but the controls really grew on me as time went on. And the combo system was fantastic, once I 
 started figuring out how to pull off some of the really neat moves -- the "1000 Fist" combo in particular 
 is awesome!
  
  Graphically, the game is a mixed bag. On the one hand I see jaggies and the textures and models 
 aren't nearly on par with other Xbox 360 titles (e. g., The Force Unleashed puts Superman Returns 
 to shame in the graphics department) . Yet the developers did have to model something like eighty 
 square miles of stuff, and do it well enough that it doesn't look awful either from far away or 
 up close. That's a pretty unique challenge as games go. In short, I've seen better looking games, 
 but it looks more than good enough.
  
  Where it's really a blast, though, is in the game play. After you master Superman's powers, and 
 have some time to work on the combos, squaring off against the bad guys is an absolute thrill. 
 I particularly enjoyed it when multiple types of enemies would attack together. It's just so much 
 fun to power-land, scattering foes everywhere, use an uppercut to send them flying, leaving Superman 
 hovering and ready to blast off and smack down the aerial foes at super speed. Yes, combat can 
 degrade into a repetitive button-mashing fest if you don't bother using Superman's powers, or mixing 
 up ground/air abilities, but why would you do that?
  
  In summary, it's not the best game I've played, but it's a lot of fun, and it's certainly far better 
 than the critics would lead you to believe. The key is that you have to be willing to practice 
 a bit and learn the controls/combos. Once you get it down, you'll have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  While I haven't had too much success enjoying Movie Tie in games, here is another one. A few websites 
 list this game as a sandbox game, it definitely not like Grand Theft Auto or even Crackdown. It 
 feels more like an RPG game where you have a main story line and side quests to progress. There 
 might be a little spoiler but I will try my best.
  
  Content:
  While this has the same name as the movie, the game and the movie share very little in the storyline. 
 The game itself is short to complete the main storyline. You get to face a half dozen or so villains 
 in the Superman Universe. The side quests and achievements extend the life of the game but not 
 by much and is very annoying.
  
  Game play:
  The first few mission you learn how to use Superman's super powers. The usual flying, running and 
 punching, also you get to perform combo moves to deal extra damage. You can interact with most 
 of the items and people in Metropolis, this can actually be more harmful because it part of the 
 city's health that you have to maintain. 
  
  Graphics:
  The game is third person. The graphics are ok at best and with the big city like Metropolis the 
 interactive scenery just gets repetitive. 
  
  Sound and Music:
  Little sound bits of Superman can be heard from time to time but most of the speech comes from 
 cut scenes. The music doesn't have the feel like the movies where you have a large orchestral score.
 
  
  Difficulty:
  This is a very easy game. If "Superman" is defeated you just continue where you left off. Once 
 you lean each villain's weakness you will defeat them with ease. You can most likely finish the 
 game in one day.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  This game is a rental game. While you can find this in most bargain bins. You rarely find a good 
 movie tie in game and this game proves that. While it did have a good starting point, I feel the 
 programmers didn't execute it properly and was rushed out the door. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin-2-5-9
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Well, What can I say? I will start of by saying it isn't the worst Superman game, If you have played 
 the "Superman" on the N64 then you know this can't be as bad. This game is called "Superman Returns 
 : The videogame". Yet it is also called "Superman Returns" because in the title art there is no 
 "The videogame", And I though "Videogame" was two separate words? Ugh, Call the exorcist someone.
 
  
  So, You hear about the game. 3d Effects, Flying around, Killing people and saving places. What 
 could go wrong? Well... Everything. Those Icons that point in the first mission really reminds me 
 of the ones that were in Simcity 4 and the map radar reminded me of GTA for some reason. But I 
 am not here to discuss 2 great games taht will live forever. I'm here to talk about a bad one that 
 is about to get a major slag off. So, the first mission you are going around stopping meteors from 
 hitting the city, And putting out a fire. Not bad sounding - Wait a second for the controls.
  
  You start of with 3 possible thing to do as 'attacks' but here you are using them to save buildings 
 and stop flying rocks. You press the R trigger to fire you're weapon, and press on the D-pad to 
 change. Now, Whats wrong with just starting of with one attack only to get us used to the game? 
 No, We get the whole bunch of controls to learn, We don't know what does what. Another annoying 
 thing is the first mission this screen keeps popping up and interrupting the gameplay telling you 
 the buttons.... What? Why doesn't it have a tutorial? I mean, I understand that the first level 
 is training, but how would you like it if you are playing a game and a screen pops up every 10 
 seconds and interrupts the game? No a lot.
  
  
  Once you complete the first mission its a breathe of fresh air to start killing people. But his 
 punches are awful! Powerful in the game, So unrealistic. I passed it after a while. Yeah, from 
 here on.... Just wait until you find out whats up ahead.
  
  
  You get to explore the whole game. Cool or what? No, Its about as cool as learning. ALL YOU DO 
 is destroy robots over and over.. Thats all you do. You also have to find kittens which is a pain 
 in the ass because. Theres 100 of them and map is huge. So, Whats the point of having a huge map 
 and not being able to explore it? Its like making a non sandbox version of Grand theft auto. I 
 mean, I know its supposedly to simulate what its like if you are superman and having to do all 
 this stuff, But ti seems endless.
  
  If you see - Don't buy. Unless you want a 'Awful games' collection or a 'Superman' one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Dark-Gamer
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  If only this game was as good as the movie. Of course it wouldn't take much to make crap into mediocre. 
 So they made a mistake that would only be 1 point better than the game it had as competition. Superman 
 64. The people who gave this game a good review were either really nice or faking to get people 
 to expirience the same crap they had to expirence. The game does show diffrent enemies but it doesn, t 
 make sense since this game was supposed to be a sequel to superman 2. So all the extra villans 
 are just fake apperances that never happened. This game is inaccurate and a waste of time. Try 
 to avoid playing. If you do come across this game and have an urge to play because it's a superhero 
 game try Hulk or Spiderman games because they smash this game. To be frank this game is the ultimate 
 kryptonite to Superman and will make you think about becoming a Marvel fan. Destroy this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genius2469
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  There is only one thing good about this entire crappy game, the city size. The city is huge but 
 there's NOTHING to do there. What's the point of making such a big city if there isn't anything 
 to do? What a load of crap. The story is twisted and confusing and has little to do with the comic 
 books or the movie. ( The movie wasn't the best Superman but it was O. K.) The way you switch powers 
 is almost as awkward as Superman 64. I played this game for about half an hour and got so sick 
 and tired of how frustratingly lame this piece of crap is. This is a better punishment than the 
 electric chair. The first level is so hard that I thought I used a cheat code and skipped it. There 
 are waaaaaay to many meteors out to destroy the city that I lost 3 times because I can't switch 
 the [expletive] powers fast enough. Playing in a litter box is 5 times more fun than this awkward 
 piece of dog turd. I just rented the game so I can't set it on fire. That would really be the ONLY 
 use for this game. Don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getthemost
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  The one word I can use to discribe this game is underappreciated. I see so many reviews on how 
 this game sucks, but it looked fun to me, so I bought it. I wasn't wrong. This game is very fun 
 that more people should buy. You cannot die, but Metropolis does have a health meter. If it empties, 
 you must either restart the chapter, or start from where you saved last. That doesn't mean you 
 can't have fun ripping the globe of the top of the Daily Planet, and throwing it at cars, or starting 
 fires. The meter takes a long time to drain, so you don't have to worry about it that much. Also, 
 this game is very interactive. You can punch civilians, make cars explode, pick up almost anything, 
 and a lot more. Everyone is focusing on the bad things in this game, when they could be looking 
 at the many good things. This game is tons of fun, and is a game I would recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_1991
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 3, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I am a hugh a fan of Superman. Well not that huge, but i was really excited about playing this 
 game , up untill i finally played it. This game will you make you wonder what the heck were the 
 game developers thinking when they were "Developing" this catastrophe.
  The graphics would've been mindblowing if it were for the ps1, i mean it's just not next gen quality. 
 Superman looks more like a cartoon character instead of Brandon Routh, and so does everyone else, 
 i mean superman does look good but he dosen't look anything like his movie counterpart. The cars 
 in the game also look like crap, i almost cried when i saw how unrealistic they looked. If the 
 game were based on the cartoon show instead of the "live action" movie i wouldn't be complaining 
 about this. Bad guys also look weird, i mean the robots look real nice and so does metallo but 
 the rest look so badly put together. 
  As for the city, it looks real nice from afar but i would've loved to see more variety in the buildings. 
 There's really nothing that stands out other than the daily planet building, power plants, statues, 
 elaveted highways that for some odd reason don't connect with regular streets and a few sci-fi 
 looking buildings. Now don't get me wrong, all of those things are nice but if they gonna were 
 make the city so big it would've been a good idea to put more bridges that connect to the outside 
 world ( cuz looking at a huge city ontop of a hugh mountain in the middle of the ocean with no sign 
 of a way for civilians to leave the city just threw me off) , schools perhaps ( maybe give it a 
 realistic feel) airports, hospitals, Police dept. a zoo i don't know i just grew tired of flying 
 past the same buildings over and over again.
  Combat sucked. You have all these powers yet you cant pummel down on a badguy when he falls on 
 the ground, or pick him up and throw him, instead you have to wait for said badguy to get up. The 
 combos aren't that great either and you'll often have trouble perfoming any combo attack because 
 the controls are badly configured.
  when you do get in a fight you'll have trouble making sure your heat vision dosent blow 5 or 6 
 cars when you use it on an enemy cuz even though you cant die the city can take damage, i thought 
 this was a nice touch but if you stop and think about, letting a couple robots blowup cars and 
 burn trees in one city block wouldn't kill the whole entire city thats like a gazillion miles long. If 
 the buildings were able take damage that you can see and observe (other than the whole you make 
 when you crash into it) and collapse like in incredilbe hulk or something spectacular like that, 
 it would've been amazing. Car damage is so stupid, you punch a car and it blows up, nuff said, 
 no dents ,no hoods being ripped off just an explosion.
  What i didnt like is that superman can't run really fast on water like in the cartoons, and if 
 he ran up to a car he wouldnt damage it like in hulk ultimate destruction. Superman can't superjump 
 ( not even jump) and you have no control over his flight speed ( you either fly really fast or really 
 really fast) if you were able to control his speed with the right or left trigger or just be able 
 to control his speed ( like slow down when you want to instead of stoping and then go) i wouldn't 
 be complaining about.
  to sum this up the game wasnt super and if the developer's read this, sorry and perhaps this review 
 will tell you what to do or not do in this next superman game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamaster32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is pretty good compare to spiderman 1 the combo is amazing the action and the 
 voice is really good and flying around the city of metropolois. Luxor looks really good and the 
 characters are just amazing approved i love the enemies and the powers but most of all thats bad 
 is the controls the speed is fine the flying is fine but the ground walking is just plan stupid 
 some games of the movie are just plan horrible like ironman for example but superman returns is 
 better than ironman i think but the bad thing is the eneimies pop up and it scares the crap out 
 of you and i hate when they do that i wish when i complete the missions no more enemies and they 
 still appear when i complete the game i mean if you complete it all the enemies will die right 
 and the city health is really horrible i dont know why they put that thing n there so again the 
 combo is great the flying and the story but the missions are not good and the storyline and the 
 controls and the camera angles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachy_ruless
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  Superman Returns (XBOX 360) is a great game that should be acknowledged.
  Play as Superman as you return to Metropolis after a 5 year absence of searching for his home planet, 
 and try to set it back in place. The games graphics are superb and the different ways that you 
 can fight are tremendous!
  Super speed, heat vision, freeze vision and freeze breath are some of Superman's powers that you 
 can obtain and use throughout the game. 
  The storyline isn't that exhilarating but it follows the movies very well with the occasional offspring 
 missions. Pick up objects with Superman's mighty strength, run or fly at the speed of light, fight 
 for truth and justice!
  
  This game conveys a new meaning of atmosphere when you can not only go around the town, but fly 
 above and beyond it as well!
  This game deserves an 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themanofsteel18
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Firstly I am a huge superman fan, and thats why im saddend to give this game a bad review. Superman 
 Returns is based on the film with the same name but surprisingly doesn't follow the story in game. 
 To be honest Superman Returns doesent follow a story line at all, you start of protecting Metropolis 
 from a meteor shower which serves as a quick tutorial about controls and powers you have at your 
 disposal. You then fight at warworld where you are trapped by Mongul, this part is extreamly fun 
 because you can throw people into towers around the arena and watch them fall which is very satisfying.
 
  
  The combat system is fairly weak, you just lock on to your enemy of your choice and then button 
 mash in hope to pull of a combo, some of the combo's differ which each ability you have selected 
 at the current time. Abaliities such as Heat vision, Freeze breath, Superbreath are all stored 
 on the D-pad meaning you can only use one of those at a time. Flight and Superspeed are well done, 
 you will have fun flying around the city along with flying as high as you can then crashing down 
 at superspeed. The environment is fairly poor, all the buildings look the same and civilians don't 
 really care that your Superman which is odd. You can pick up cars and lamposts and throw them around, 
 which is fun for five seconds. Its fun to use Super Super breath to blow a ton of cars in the air 
 and watch them crash and burn, but ultimatley Superman Returns will bore you, you could consider 
 a rental maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 20, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Superman One of comic books oldest heroes. He's had loads of everything comics, films, toys games, 
 etc and its fair to say while he maybe an intresting and original character he just hasn't had 
 much luck these days what with the compo getting stronger (spiderman, Hellboy) . So with the latest 
 film superman returns came the game adaption. Having said the film was ok the game hasn't done 
 so well. To be fair its a complete and utter mess glitches left right and centre awful combat little 
 to no story what so ever and the gamplay is about as ugly as the graphics. Having said all that 
 though the flying for the first couple of hours is a great buzz and the soundtrack isnt that bad 
 either. But even that doesnt justify 40 does it?
  
  Graphics: For what the 360 can do these graphics are bland and messy but the lighting isn't too 
 bad and when you go really fast when your flying it looks nice too.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is appauling like the hit 50's batman show's quips. Oddly thought the actually 
 soundtrack is pretty good.
  
  Gameplay: Messy and there doesnt seem to be anything going anywhere either. Just random fight after 
 random fight till u get to a boss fight then repeat till u finish the game. The flying is great 
 fun while it lasts though.
  
  **** Everything. Poor story poor graphics poor voice acting poor gameplay messy combat system no 
 real goals to achive most glitches i've seen since enter the matrix.
  
  Overall: After spiderman 2 game came out it changed everyones opinion that film to game can work. 
 Sadly though it cant be said for this one. The films story wasn't really one to make a game out 
 of to start with but i dont even think the devlopers tried with this game nothing seems to be finished 
 with it. It got delayed till the dvd release to get touched up but i cant see they bothered. At 
 40 this is daylight robbery but if you payed what i payed (7) then you might not feel as hurt 
 by how bad the game i because the flying is actually quite fun. Oh well supes you might get a good 
 game one day you never know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MondiBlue
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  The developers of Superman Returns had a really good idea. Let's put Superman in an open-world 
 environment and see how it plays out. For the most part it plays our well. Although the storyline 
 is completely linear, you aren't forced through the events. You're given the option to explore 
 a little, do mini-games like beating the crap out of the city as Superman's clone or racing Mxyzptlk 
 around courses to prove you fly faster than him plus there's always collecting those little adorable 
 kittens.
  
  The storyline isn't that bad, making the movie's plot more of a side note, which is a good thing. 
 The graphics are good and the controls are extremely responsive. Only a couple of negative things 
 are really in the game: repetitive enemies and when searching for those little adorable kittens 
 fights keep popping up which is annoying. The voice acting is good and the cut scenes are well 
 animated. The good outweighs the bad and the game is surprisingly decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misfits1138
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the demo off XBL, but had read some pretty bad reviews of the game. I have kept it in 
 the back of my mind ever since. Upon seeing it for $10 at Amazon, I ordered a copy. At just under 
 4 hours, the game registers 75% complete, so not very long. The is no difficulty adjustment, at 
 least not easy to find. The game is easy, I have only had to redo 2 missions, and I am sure many 
 people will not have to redo any. Unlike previous Superman titles, you actually start with all 
 your basic powers, advance versions come as the game progresses. The entire city is available to 
 you almost immediately. Gameplay is repetitive, Heat vision this guy, freeze breath that one. Blow 
 out this fire, hit this other guy. Rinse, repeat. Also, it's an EA game, so 18 easy to get achievements, 
 free 1000 points, basically. So, if you like Superman, and want to mindlessly beat bad guys as 
 the Man of Steel, go to Amazon. com, and pick up the game for $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Superman is an absolutely horrid game. Clearly the intention of this game is to cash in on the 
 unsuspecting consumers that are aware a movie was released. It seems that a few of the people involved 
 with making this game managed to come up with a handful of interesting, and dare I say, inspired 
 ideas. Too bad these few ideas are among many, MANY poor ideas and just low production values.
 
  
  For starters, the game looks like crap. The only time the game every looks good as when you are 
 flying way above all the buildings. Every other moment in the game looks positively last-gen. Superman 
 him self has a fancy wavy cape that he wears, but other then that he looks almost cel-shaded, minus 
 the shading. So basically, two colors and an S on the chest. The textures for many of the buildings, 
 but mysteriously not all of them, look extremely muddy when you get close to the building. The 
 cutscenes even look terrible, although Lez Luthor looks a lot like Kevin Spacey. Graphical effects 
 are pretty standard and nothing too make a fuss about.
  
  The sound in the game is also unmemorable. At least the voice acting for the cutscenes is good, 
 but only because they wripped audio clips from the movie. I recognized many of the lines from the 
 movie itself, and it is clear that no voice acting was done in the studio specifically for the 
 game. For characters not in the movie there is voice acting in the game, but again, nothing remarkable. 
 The music is typical Superman, but is recycled endlessly throughout the game. You can at least 
 block it out after awhile.
  
  The gameplay has a few moments of great gameplay, but for the most part it wears thin very fast. 
 The only really good thing about the gameplay is a few of the cool mechanics that you get for controlling 
 Superman. For example, going from walking to flying is done by hitting the Y button. If you decide 
 you want to take off and get a lot of altitude REALLY fast, you just hold the Y button down instead 
 of tapping it. Superman crouches down and takes off really fast. This is really fun to do, but 
 there is really no reason to ever use it in the game.
  
  Also, when flying or walking if you hold down the right bumper button you go "super" speed. When 
 flying this is pretty cool because you get to see a cool graphical effect for breaking the sound 
 barrier, and the sense of speed is really fun. Flying fast between buildings is quite fun, unless 
 you run into a building. If that happens you either slide off it awkwardly or instantly go into 
 a slow motion animation of smashing into it with a little shockwave going out in a circle. Seeing 
 this animation becomes extremely aggrivating as the game goes on because it seems to slow you down, 
 but not your enemies. If you are trying to fly after one of the super fast enemies you end up just 
 bouncing of buildings and basically getting stuck. Not very "Super" really.
  
  The missions are painfully repetative. From the beginning to the end it seems like the game is 
 just progressing randomly from one group of enemies to another. Every few waves or so you get to 
 fight a more significant enemy. A few of them are obviously bosses, but some of them just seem 
 to be overpowered "trash" enemies.
  
  For how huge the city is, with no loading times thankfully, and all of the space that Metropolis 
 takes up, there is almost nothing to do. This game is about as linear as it gets, but it is trying 
 to disguise itself as a sandbox game. It is very odd that so much effort went into placing trees, 
 buildings, and street lamps, yet they are all just background dressing on a very dull looking, 
 shallow game. It's easy to imagine that the team was split into several groups for handling particular 
 parts of the game. One of these teams was in charge of adding cool stuff to the game, and another 
 team was in charge of making sure the first team didn't try to add anything that would prevent 
 the game from being released on time. You can almost see the lines in the game where good ideas 
 suddenly got cut off and slimmed down to "budget" ideas.
  
  I feel sad for anyone that paid more then $10 for this game, myself included. I played the demo 
 before buying, and was fooled by the few cool little things that the demo had. Sadly, all of the 
 good aspects of the retail game are in the demo. Everything else is garbage.
  
  All in all Superman is a waste of time. I strongly suggest everyone play this game for at least 
 5 minutes to see all of the 3 good ideas that were implemented. I also strongly suggest that no 
 one play for more then 5 minutes. Quite literally set an alarm, and when it goes off, TURN OFF 
 THE GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  
  Superman Returns features a big open-ended city of Metropolis to explore, but theres not much 
 to do in it.
  
  Story loosely follows the plot of the movie, but with some side quests and bonus extras. Unfortunately 
 theres not much of a story here to speak of. All you need to know is that Lex Luthor is planning 
 to do some bad things and in the process get financial gain from it.
  
  Graphics are bad: Xbox360 can do much better than this. EA seemed to think that its enough to 
 have a large space to fly around with and thats all you need. Well its not enough. Sound on the 
 other hand is OK and especially the sounds when flying are excellent.
  
  Gameplay is boring and irritating. Pretty much all you do is fly around and fight against bad guys. 
 Thats it. Whats makes things worse is the fact that you cant choose when to begin a mission 
 like in Grand Theft Auto or Saints Row. This unpredictability takes the fun away from exploring 
 the city, because you always know that in a moment you need to fly with high speed to some place 
 and beat up some bad guys. Granted the flying is done well and its the best part of the game, 
 but its not enough to cover the boring nature of the overall gameplay.
  
  This is simply an unfinished game: EA should have needed much more time to develop the city of 
 Metropolis. Theres not much going on, you cant go into buildings and missions are just boring.
 
  
  Ive been a Superman fan for over 20 years now, but this is not the game I want to play. Do not 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wproiet1
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Ever play a game that seemed like it would be good and got only suck? This is what you get here. Boring, reptitive 
 combat that makes you want to fall asleep. No creativity on boss battles, achievements that cost 
 a generous amount for a simple adjective a hundred points for killing one boss? Wait, theres four 
 bosses? Still costing a hundred each? Wow. I mean no offense to gamespot but they were generous on 
 their review of this game. If theyre were any people asking for this game for a holiday, they are 
 out of luck.60 dollars cost this Krud. It only deserves to have Kryptonite piercing Supermans heart 
 in this game. Makes you remember if you were unfortunate, superman 64. You might even throw up when 
 you see how this game is. So nuff said about Supermans new adventure. BEWARE for this will hurt children 
 who play it not only emotionally but physically causing pain in their brains. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Oh Superman, caped crusader of justice and the hero of one of the WORST games i have ever played. 
 Seriously, what was EA thinking? This game is  and every other negetive 
 word you can think of. You fly around the city and......... rescue kittens? You fight......... dragons? 
 Superman is invincible, but the city has a life bar? See the problem here?
  
  Ok, the game has no real story, no real mission structure and to top it off, the end boss is a tornado! 
 This game was nothing but an attempt to sucker people out of their hard earned money. I received 
 this game for free as a part of a promotion..... and i still wish i had never played it. Avoid this 
 game at all costs. It truly is one of the worst games ever made!
  
  Don't play us for fools EA, we are on to you for giving use bad game after bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prettygoodatit
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game is totally under rated! 
  
  You must bear in mind at all times that this is a beat 'em up game. Don't expect anything more 
 than that. There is not much of a storyline, and the levels do not seem to mesh into each other 
 with any kind of sense. 
  
  It is, however, quite a bit of fun to be an indestructible man flying all over Metropolis faster 
 than the speed of sound.
  
  In this game you play as Superman. Obviously Superman is invincible. Which is fun. He can fly. 
 He can shoot frickin' laser beams out his eyes. He can blow stuff away with his Super Breath. And 
 he can pick up cars, ambulances, and whatever else he wants to, and throw them at his enemies. 
 
  
  If you don't go into this game expecting a stellar story and a revolutionary gaming experience, 
 you shouldn't be disappointed. 
  
  I don't even play it for the game anymore. It's just so much fun to fly around the city. This city 
 is huge. I'm talking gigantic. Bigger than any other in game map that I can think of.
  
  Check it out. At least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  superman has been a movie and tv sensation for many years and now its has reached the next-gen 
 video game consoles, the problem... expectations, the game does very well on its own but does not 
 live up to the superman fans expectations of what the video game should be like. i myself love 
 this game in all its entirety but many fans felt it was to simple and unfocused, which is understandable 
 but the truth is if he was invinsible, why would we even play the game. it now fun if you are in 
 god mode through the entire game. having health is what makes video games and their game play work 
 so well. In this version the health of superman is directly tied to the health of Metropolis. So 
 if metropolis dies, hense so does superman. so the truth is as a game its great, as a superman 
 product i think it did well. based on the warner bros. blockbuster which also crashed in public 
 review and has carried over that sense of unauthenticity to the game. but in my opinion the developers 
 did a good job of making a game out of a god. Plus Metropolis is HUGE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  This game was gonna be big. I mean it looked so good before it came out it was going to break the 
 evil Superman curse of there never being a good game. It came out and then..... and then...... for 
 some reason they shipped us the wrong version. This isn't the same game I had read about. The ground 
 breaking, totally fun game!
  
  I'll do a short review then the meaty pros and cons..... well its really just cons since there is 
 no PROS.
  
  The story is, I have no idea. Honestly it was suppose to based around the movie which of course 
 the movie was based on what I don't know. But the game was based on something else entirely! Robots, 
 dragons, putting out fires? WHAT???
  
  The graphics I thought were pretty for a city of Metropolis's size. But when you get down to it 
 they did a crappy job in the end. You can tell everything is badly done textures such as when superman 
 slams into the ground with a mighty thunderous roar!!!!..... you get a silly looking texture that 
 ruins the moment. The city is alive but looks dreary at the same time. Everything is kinda dull 
 and boring. I like the buildings to bad the rest of it is crap.
  
  The controls are relatively simple. To bad you will have to use them SO much you will have nightmares 
 about them.
  
  The music and audio was even sub-par. I did like superman's sound every time he got faster and 
 faster. 
  
  Now.... time for the good and the bad. Lets start with what made this game good. Well for me it 
 was flying around and beating the crap out of anything. Theres nothing like being the man of steel, 
 flying around, slamming into things, freezing them, blowing them blocks away... etc. Its a thrill 
 that never gets old...... and thats about the only good thing. Sad.
  
  Time for the bad.
  
  Superman is invincible! Not really. The city has a stupid health bar so as enemies attach it 
 loses health and YOU lose when it does. And trust it ruins the fun of being superman.
  
  The next pain is bosses who despite you being superman aren't fun or even the slight bit easy to 
 kill. Heck the first boss I fought was a pain. I wondered if I was really superman or not!
  
  Next! While fighting the infinite batch of enemies the system is horrid at letting you hit 
 enemies. One minute your turning a robot into scraps then the next your turning a human into a 
 meat sandwich. Or if you want to lets say shoot a dragon (don't even ask) thats fire at you the 
 stupid system might fire at.... oh..... that enemy 40 blocks away thats just sitting there doing 
 nothing. Horray for aiming!
  
  Bored of beating up millions of baddies or impossible bosses? Their is always weird things that 
 have no point like going after Bizzaro which regardless is cool or racing (the guy with weird letters 
 for a name) .
  
  Perhaps the biggest killer of all is the gameplay. Yeah there objectives and bosses and all that. 
 But inbetween its grueling. I'd rather put my hand in a blender then play through this horrible 
 repetitive stuff over and over and over. When your not fighting a boss or something of actual fun 
 (cough) you are fighting robots every 10 seconds as they respawn. You do this non stop. It may 
 sound fun but you can't even start flying and another pack of annoying robots spawns. Later in 
 the game diffrent annoying things spawn in place of the annoying robots for you to endlessly fight 
 over and over and over like dragons. And don't forget you also have to put out fires during all 
 this.
  
  Did I mention the failure of releasing things? A ton of stuff is not in the game like they said 
 it would be before release. Most importantly being alot of destructible things. Like as the game 
 progresses you would see the city in shambles and it would stay that way and you could pick parts 
 of a broken building and throw them at enemies.. etc.
  
  Overall this, like every other Superman game is a total letdown 100%. BUT.... I do give it 1.5 
 because at least the flying is fun and for the first few minutes its fun beating the crap out of 
 things. DO NOT BUY THIS, DON'T EVEN RENT IT. Better yet only take this game if YOUR being paid 
 to!
  
  Oh and I couldn't even finish it. I got so annoyed I gave up near the end. This is the only game 
 I have ever stopped playing thats NOT something like DDR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillavskong
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I'll start with the graphics. You do get a sense of scale and freedom in the game. The character 
 models look as if they were ported from the Dreamcast (not a good Dreamcast title either) .The vehicles 
 look like cardboard cut-outs and the draw distance is horrible. I also noticed the frame rate sputters 
 along when you are flying and hit super-sonic speed. The gameplay suffers also. Trying to lock 
 on to a enemy while other enemies are present is extremely painful, not to mention accidentally 
 picking up the wrong people when trying to rescue hurt citizens. The camera angle isn't the worst 
 I've seen but could have used some more tweekin. I would recommend renting this game and not buying 
 it, unless you are a achievement hound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkkend
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Well I was pretty excited when I read about the making of the game back in a 06 gaminformer magazine. 
 The graphics were great, and overall it just looked like it would bring the man of steel back into 
 gaming industry and make a statement. Then they let out the demo that was playable on the XBL. 
 They gave you the best part of the game, the first mission. Which was great , I mean flying at super 
 speeds and hearing the crack of superman flying to speeds you can only dream of, plus you were 
 saving the city from the falling meteors to a epic track. The demo showed that the game would be 
 great. Then the game actually came out and everyone who played the demo bought a copy thinking 
 it would be great, this game truly... well, sucks. I mean the graphics are pretty good but there 
 so many glitches your not thinking about the graphics your thinking about trying to avoid the highway 
 that's coming up knowing the game might glitch. The only thing I can say about this game is the 
 flying is pretty good, basically the best part of the game but it gets boring fast. The missions 
 that you do around the city are just to repetitive with almost no new ones to come. Spiderman 2 
 did have the same missions on the streets but at least they mixed it up, this game you could end 
 up doing the same mission three times in a row. Another thing, isn't the everyone's favorite superhero 
 with red tights suppose to have super strength. Well you would never be able to tell on the game 
 unless you go over and pick up a car, it's like when your fighting with him and you hit villains (even 
 the pedestrians) it's like a normal punch that I could throw. Really don't buy this game, unless 
 you absolutely love superman and want to collect every little thing, this game is really not worth 
 the sixty dollars you pay for it....... avoid at all costs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing video games for over 20 years. Now that I have said that. Let me say this. 
 This has got to be the most frustrating and confusing games I have EVER played. Simply put this 
 game is broken. The controls are quite awkward and the game play becomes very repetitive. It should 
 not be so hard to have Superman throw a stone pillar at an enemy. But it is. Superman seems less 
 like Superman and more like Stephen Hawking at times.
  
  The save system is GOD AWFUL. On one of the first few levels you have to fight some kind of Intergalactic 
 gladiators (Don't ask!) . You beat him once and 1 becomes 2, 2 becomes 4 and on and on and on. Each 
 guy is defeated pretty much the same way. The same combo of moves over and over and over again. 
 Then after what seems like FOREVER you find yourself pitted against the level boss. Don't die because 
 when you do, you have to start the ENTIRE LEVEL over again. No check points. No Saves allowed. 
 Superman has powers. Like heat vision, and cold breathe. The problem is most of your enemies can 
 block these powers. So they are pretty much useless. Talk about a tease.
  
  The game IS open ended. But good luck finding something fun or of interest do in Metropolis. Boooooring...
 
  
  Do yourself a favor and punch yourself in the baby maker. It is much more enjoyable and not as 
 painful as playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Ambitious game poorly made.
  It went the right direction, but it does almost everything wrong.
  Graphics are a mix between 
 cartoon and realism, and it came up very near the awfull level.
  Playability is almost broken: target system is a joke, camera isn't smart it is rather retarded, 
 it sometimes simples forget what it is supposed to be looking at (it's Superman, follow Superman, 
 you idiot camera!) ; missions are so repetitive, just lame excuses to reach some bosses, which, 
 some are okish to fight; the story starts so-so but soon colapses into nothing but meaningless 
 epuisodes until the apoteotic (read as shallow as possible) finale.
  A very positive word to the soudtrack (not in-game, though) which would fit a much better game, 
 it is very good.
  It has some historical value I guess, but it is a very shallow game.
  note: the title is meant to express my surprise how some fellow gamers praise this software and 
 ask why Cars had a better score - Cars is in fact a much better game. But I guess why kids say 
 this Cars is meant to be for little kids and they are just kids . Well you'll grow up soon and 
 realise that games are games, some are better and some are worse, it's not an age thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Superman Returns is about Superman Returning, based on the incredible blockbuster that was unfortuantely 
 released last year. Yay......
  
  The game follows the dull story of the movie, and for the sack of it throws in some more dire moments. 
 This game does absolutely nothing right. It may have a big city, but you can't destroy it like 
 you're meant too. I want to be the incredible Hulk. I want to smash. Funny though, why did I think 
 of that when I was suppose to be playing as Superman. Superman is just a dull hero in my books. 
 He has no style or, well, any interesting qualities what so ever. He can fly, wow. He can shoot 
 lasers, wow. He can err, see through lead. Well done, and he also writes for the local newspaper. 
 Fortunately, you don't do the journalism bit, but you might as well do it because it's a lot more 
 fun than this.
  
  The whole game is just generic, and then some. It's so bland and nothing feels right or spot on. 
 Actually, the game is that bad it captures the boring essence of Superman superbly. So well done 
 EA.
  
  EA, just stop making such bland rip offs. It's not clever anymore and finally you've cottoned on 
 that you bore people with your mediocre games. Shame it's over a decade late hey? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_ObSeSsIoN
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Superman Returns is fun while it lasts but after the fun of flying goes away this game becomes 
 so boring you want to throw up. It is boring and definitely not worth your money, I would not play 
 this game if someone paid me to play it .It is boring and repetitve and should have never even 
 been on shelves. When I first played this game I asked my friend why he bought it, I decided to buy 
 this game just to toast it at my friends house as a symbol that THIS GAME SUCKS, do not buy it. It 
 is a complete waste of $50.00 in stead of buying this game buy a Zelda game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WickedVamp214
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 27, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game would be so much better, I mean YOU'RE SUPERMAN!! THE MAN OF STEEL! There should 
 have been more effort put into this game. I mean, i expected to be able to fly into building and 
 go through one wall, and out the other side, his powers are limitless, so i building shouldn't 
 have stopped him. But i did like when you were flying how after a couple seconds he would pick 
 up speed, i thought that was pretty cool. But it barely fallowed the movie at all. It took be but 
 a couple hours to beat. Was very disappointed. I cant believe i wasted my money on this game, should 
 have just gone and rented it, or waited for reviews to come out on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmccrea
Rating: 6
Date: May 10, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  I got this game right after the movie so I expected alot. Well, it was ok. Flying, picking up cars, 
 rescuing people, and the other different powers were and are a blast. The few gripes I have are 
 the repetition in the game and the fact that it seems like everybody has Kryptonite! Sheesh, come 
 on.... if it was that available then Old Supes would be Dead Supes haha! Still, a fun game to just 
 sit down and play, but it could have been so much more! I was really hoping for more interaction 
 with the city and less on the same villains who constantly pop up. Theres so much more you could 
 have done, terrorists seize hostages, a plane is crashing down... a ship is sinking.... but then 
 again... I only play the games... I cant make one to save my life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 6, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Superman has had a rough ride through the video game world. None of his games have stood out and 
 a few of them were even downright miserable to play. Superman Returns is definitely the best Superman 
 game to date and it did the one thing right that all other Superman games have failed to do: make 
 the player feel like Superman. There is one reason only that this game succeeds in making you feel 
 like Superman and that is because of the flying. It is amazing and something you must see, but 
 more on that later.
  
  Being Superman has it's troubles and hardships and even he needs some time away. After a 5 year 
 hiatus away from Metropolis, Superman returns to a city that has all but forgotten him and claims 
 to not need him anymore. That is until Lex Luthor plans to unleash a genocidal plan on a global 
 scale. The game very loosely follows the plot of the movie. It takes a few twists and turns here 
 and there to bring in some enemies from the comics, but when it all comes down to it, the story 
 is just too jumbled to make any kind of impact.
  
  Like I said before, this game greatly succeeds on one thing -- the flying. If you have always wanted 
 to know what it feels like to fly high above the city rushing through the clouds and breaking the 
 sound barrier, then you absolutely have to play this game. There is nothing like floating high 
 above the city and looking down at how small it is and then rushing back to the streets while it 
 becomes increasingly larger and larger. The sense of speed is just excellent and it really makes 
 you feel awesome. Later in the game, the sky becomes dark and it begins to thunder and lightning. 
 The first time you fly through the lightning clouds and you see the lightning shoot down from it 
 is just awe inspiring. There are some shortcomings however. Despite how awesome it is to fly around 
 and be Superman, the game world is just too small. For a different open world game like Grand Theft 
 Auto, this environment would be huge, but for Superman it's nothing. You can fly all the way across 
 the whole game world in a matter of a minute or so before an invisible wall blocks your path. It's 
 the same way when flying towards the sky. In the movie, there was a scene where Superman was sitting 
 just outside of our atmosphere in space and looking down at everything. I would have loved to experience 
 that and I was hugely letdown when I found out that you couldn't.
  
  It's pretty obvious that EA focused mainly on the flying aspect of the game while the rest of it 
 took a back seat. During the course of the game, there will be numerous random events that Superman 
 must do to progress the story (read: make the game longer ) . There are only a handful of missions 
 that actually progress the story and a few of these missions are nothing more than a cutscene. 
 The random events happen like this: you'll be flying above the city, you'll use Superman's super 
 hearing to find somebody in distress, and you'll fly down to take care of it. Every single one 
 of these random events, and believe me when I say every single one, consist of one of two things 
 -- fighting something or putting out a fire. This is where the game gets way too repetitive for 
 it's own good. For starters, there are just way too many times where you'll be flying down to fight 
 a handful of robots, dragons, or a mixture of both. Second, the combat is completely broken. There 
 are different combos you can use against your foes, but almost all of them are incredibly difficult 
 to pull off. It's not that it's that hard to time them. It's just that the camera has a tendency 
 to not show you or who you're fighting. You'll probably just bash on X the whole time until the 
 enemy is defeated.
  
  There are some powers that Superman can utilize to bring down his enemies. He has his heat vision, 
 blow breath, and freeze breath, but none of them stand out in a significant way. The heat vision 
 and freeze breath are very unsatisfying in the way they are portrayed and the super blow breath 
 is only cool when you're doing something you're not supposed to be doing. Since Superman is invincible 
 unless kryptonite is present, he has no health bar. Instead, the city has a life bar and if it 
 goes all the way down, the city is wrecked and you lose. So the only time the blow breath is cool 
 is when you're down on the street and you take a deep breath and make everything in front of you 
 lift off including cars, people, and other objects. Obviously, doing this hurts the city so unless 
 you're a masochist, you'll miss out on the only time one of his powers other than flying is cool.
 
  
  The enemies are taken from the whole universe of Superman ranging from Bizarro to Metallo to Mongul. 
 But all of them have a cheap way of being beaten. More than once, all I had to do was blow the 
 enemy in the air and then fly up and ram him, blow him again while he's still in the air, ram him 
 again, rinse and repeat. The most exciting villain in this game that everybody was drooling to 
 fight since the first screenshots of this game is the giant Metallo. Well I hate to be the bearer 
 of bad news, but Superman Returns fails miserably to make any of the enemies, especially Metallo, 
 interesting or fun to fight. You want to know what the basic strategy to beating the giant Metallo 
 is? Throwing cars at him. Not using your powers strategically or flying through him. You throw 
 cars at him. Wow -- how fun. MAJOR SPOILERS Here's the worst part though. The final boss in this 
 game is nothing more than a giant tornado. You don't even see Lex Luthor in this game outside of 
 cutscenes. Instead, you use a mixture of your powers to take down a tornado. Extreme awesomeness 
 dude! END SPOILERS
  
  There are some things that you can take part in when you're fed up with the story missions. There 
 are 100 cats scattered throughout the world and if you find them all, you get an achievement. Finding 
 them all is incredibly difficult because the world is just too huge when you're not flying high 
 up in the air. It would have been smart for the developers to let you use Superman's super hearing 
 to find where the cats are and it would have made it infinitely more fun. It seems like common 
 sense and it's surprising that the developers couldn't come up with that. If you really care about 
 achievements, there is an achievement where you fly a certain distance and one where you pick up 
 a certain amount of weight. The game can be beaten in a measly five hours, but if you choose to 
 do these achievements and find all of the cats, it can take well up to 15 hours or so. Why on Earth 
 anybody would want to do that is beyond me, but if you're an achievement junky it's nice that they 
 tried have some options.
  
  The graphics are a mixed bag. Since the city is so huge when you're on the ground, the surrounding 
 environment took a big hit to it's looks and none of the cars or people look convincing. When you're 
 in the air however, seeing the whole game area underneath your feet is pretty astounding. Superman 
 is detailed the most obviously and looks great. When you're flying in the air and you're passing 
 through clouds, it also looks great. But when flying back down to the city, there is a lot of pop 
 up and you can tell that the buildings are streaming their details as you approach them.
  
  Superman Returns is one of those games where the sound is something that you just don't pay too 
 much attention to. Only when something truly sounds amazing and stands will you hear it. For instance, 
 when you're breaking the sound barrier everything will go quiet for a second and then you'll hear 
 a loud bang and it sounds outstanding. Most of the other sounds you won't pay any attention to, 
 but the ones that you do sound unremarkable. This game does bring back most of the actors from 
 the movie to reprise their roles. You would think that the voice acting would be astounding, but 
 you'd be wrong. Brandon Routh did a good job as Superman in the movie, but he did nothing but rush 
 his lines in this game and it sounded way too dry to work. The only person that sounded decent 
 was Kevin Spacey. Even his voice didn't sound amazing, but he's a great actor and even a less than 
 stellar voice performance from him sounded fine.
  
  I'll admit, I'm a huge Superman fan. He was always my favorite growing up simply because flying 
 was just more appealing to me than swinging around on webs or being a rich single guy with a butler 
 and a questionable sidekick. I've always dreamed of being able to fly high above my town and look 
 at everyone below and this game portrays that feeling wonderfully. As much as I love the flying 
 aspect, the rest of the game suffers tremendously. The fighting is completely broken, the camera 
 isn't very player friendly, the voice acting is disappointing, and simple ideas that should have 
 been implemented weren't. Superman has such a wide range of abilities that anything is possible, 
 but there isn't a mission in this game that truly makes you feel super. It's difficult to recommend 
 this game since almost every aspect of it is weak, but as a flight simulator, this game really 
 makes you feel like Superman. If you want to know what that feels like and don't care about a coherent 
 plot, interesting missions, cool bonus features, or combat that actually works, then Superman Returns 
 should be a dream come true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben1812
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 6, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Superman is one of them games thats got replay value. if you have had a hard day at the office 
 and you get home , you can stick this on and just relax by flying around the city and if you want 
 kick some butt every now and again.
  ok.. the graphics are poo.. but there is so much more to a game than how good it looks. if your 
 thinking about getting this game , i would say do it.. you could do alot worse i. e cars.. (i cant 
 believe gamespot guys gave this game a 7 and superman a 4.5 that is just wrong) i rented it fist 
 then i went out and bought it cos i loved it that much.. do it iys not that bad! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oozitt
Rating: 2.7
Date: May 3, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  I was expecting more from this game, but found out that my hopes would be smashed to smitherines. 
 The graphics are not that bad too be fair, but I found the game controls very sloppy, and the camera 
 angle sometimes gets very confusing as it flicks from side to side, up and down.
  The only part in the game that I actually enjoyed was the arena fight, but after that the game 
 just fell flat. Its attempt at mini-games/ side missions are very poor and the game would have 
 been better off if they where left out.
  This game is also very repetative, This game is also very repetative, This game is also very repetative. 
 Lol sorry - but you get the picture. If I knew what I knew now then I would not have purchased 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woods0419
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  For Superman fans, out of the box this game feels as if the developers may have hit it just right, 
 but after an hour, two at the most, the game gets extremely repetitive. Robot after robot, flying 
 dragon after flying dragon, the boredom sets in and you begin to feel yourself just wanting to 
 run through the city GTA style tossing vehicles, phone booths, stop signs etc. into outer space 
 and flying pedestrians into the air as high as possible, just so you can release them to plummet 
 back to the streets of Metropolis while you fly as fast as you can to save them. Of course, it's 
 then that you realize even that is impossible as you can't attempt to harm innocent people. You 
 are Superman after all. Superman, as well as the supporting cast, visually look OK but could have 
 used some work. The enormous boss battles are entertaining and the use of Superman's abilities 
 is fun even if only to use the Eye Blast on the incoming traffic on the freeway. Bottom line: Fun 
 for an hour, boring afterward as the gameplay begins to force you to move from the main story to 
 flying around thinking, Hmm, I wonder if I can do this?... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj729
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I didn't actually see the movie this video game is based upon, but if it is anywhere near as bad 
 as this game i will never see it. It seemed like it could possibly be interesting before i took 
 it out of the case. I was wrong. It had the free-roam capability that made the Spiderman games 
 interesting, however it lacked any substance. The most entertaining feature is flying around Metropolis, 
 however, just like the rest of the game it gets really old, really fast. The combat is so repetitive 
 that the fact that i didn't throw my 360 out the window still bothers me today. The fact that i 
 played it all the way through puzzles me to this day. There are barely any unlockables or interesting 
 things within the game. Seeing as how it provides no-entertainment the only reason i can see anyone 
 playing it is for the points to your gamerscore. If i never play this game ever again it will be 
 to soon. I pray tthat the movie Is 10 times better than the game because that would make it bearable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kantana_man85
Rating: 1.1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Come on EA this could have been the best Superman game ever (ha, yeah right) . As usual Ea has destroyed 
 another game that could have been great. Hey, EA how long did it take you to make this crap. You 
 guys had all the time in the world and you still screwed it up, good job. Lets get to it, Superman 
 is crap, plain and simple. Graphics look last gen, story if you can call that a story is useless, 
 it does nothing to tie into the movie. Bizzaro mini-game is better then playing through the whole 
 story mode. The enemies are stupid and the Beat-em-up style gets really boring. Play Double Dragon, 
 that has better story and is more fun to play. The controls are so bad it down grades the whole 
 game. Music's not great either.
  So don't buy this game rent it, like i did. Superman is dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llD3MANll
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  It was ok. The thing I thought was dumb was the kittens. Good luck finding all 100. It was good 
 to rent but not buy. The bosses were a little easy. And they don't do a very good job explaining 
 the mini games and fast flyer matches. The flying around the city was the best part. The idea of 
 adding the sonic booms was a nice touch. I prefer games that take a little time to beat. This took 
 about a day. Not very challenging at all, but a nice attempt. If anyone knows how to get all 100 
 kittens and understands the mini games send me a message or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 5.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Pretty decent graphics and fairly exciting and fun game play pretty much sums up Superman Returns 
 on the Xbox 360. Flying around &amp; throwing cars and such is really cool and the boss battles 
 are a lot of fun as well. But, the game gets really really repetitious. Fight some robots now, 
 then after a bit fight some more, and then more and more etc. They should have mixed it up a whole 
 lot more because these repetitious fights really drag the game down. They have added in some mini 
 games, but most of them really don't succeed as much as they could. Not long into the game you 
 will just want to get as many achievements as possible and quit. I tried to use a cheat to get 
 all power ups hoping I would then get that achievements, but instead got some homo achievement 
 for 0 points saying that I tried to cheat so be sure not to try that out if you pick this game 
 up. Superman Returns unless you are some crazy Superman fan isn't worth a purchase and isn't worth 
 more than a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Xbox360_Lover_
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 10, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  I really had fun flying and the super speed is nice but i just hated the game because of the bad 
 guys! dragons and robots! and there is no story and it had been nice if you could fly till space! 
 the graphics and sounds are very good !you can blow cars and people and thats nice! but this game 
 is fun for flying and its faster than a speeding bullet thingy! but still it's the best superman 
 game ever. By The way i'm a superman fan and i waited for this game to death! and i got very very 
 very disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFever
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Superman returns is the worst superhero game i have ever played i wish it was good i mean the graphics 
 were fine pretty good actually. The gameplay was fun at first it was like cool something different 
 but after the first hour or so it got so boring and rediculous. Its deffinitly not worth the buy 
 it puts shame to superman the only good thing i got out of it is the graphics but thats about it. 
 Super man and sonic were just the same for me it wasent fun at all the graphics werent bad tho. 
 and in this game superman has the same talking through the hole game if your fighting some 1 he 
 will say the same things over and over again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Superman gives you the ability to fly around metropolis and save the city from the bad guys, but 
 first you got to fight your way back to the planet earth. Over all the story line is very tacky 
 so it doesnt help the game. Then you get back home and fight metalo and his minions, while doing 
 mini games on the side. Gameplay  abilities like fire, ice, and wind make the game fun. Add super 
 strength and you get superman of course. You also get to be bizzaro which is more fun then anything 
 else. By that I mean destroying the city (or saving it according to him) beat em up games can only 
 do so much but the option to fly any ware is great which makes the game less boring but only for 
 so much.
  
  Achievement points  if you are willing to go through this horrible story line you should have 
 no problem getting all 1000 points. Be ready to do a lot of mini games and the best way to do them 
 is get all your abilities first.
  
  Overall  I rented it to see if it was a fun game and it was.. but thats it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immeressen
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  This rating gap makes NO sense to me. Not taking into consideration 'what the game sets out to 
 do', not 'serious flaws', not 'weak concept' - this disparity is an absolute farce and it confirms 
 the doubts I've had about GameSpot's rating scores - that they're extremely inconsistent, and in 
 this case, ridiculous. 'Superman Returns' is a simple, fun video game with graphics that are no 
 worse than any of the old Ghost Recon games and comparable to the 'Halo's, the music's not bad, 
 and most importantly to me it DOES move - it's not slow or cumbersome like some of the other games 
 which have gotten higher ratings on GameSpot. It's a simple game that's relatively easy to master 
 - it's greatest flaw is that it IS over-priced for what it is, but I think the designers and producers 
 of this product deserve a little more credit for what they've created. It's not a game for the 
 trash heap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleMan3
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 14, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  This millennium has had its share of great super hero video games. But just like BatMan Begins 
 EA screws up another chance to make a good game and just fills it with follow the yellow brick 
 road straight path game. The game promised a huge metropolis to explore. The problem is that you 
 never really get a chance to explore the city because of constant enemy hords attacking every few 
 seconds. The game progresses as you gain XP, but you don't gain XP like a normal game, You gain 
 more as you kill a hord of attacking bad guys, but you gain the same amount no matter how many 
 how many badguys there are, like one time there was a hord of 16 robots then i killed them and 
 gaind 10000 XP, after that i fought a hord of 3 robots and i also gaind 10000 XP, it just feels 
 like EA just tryed to think of somthing to make it seem like you were doing more than you are. 
 Even the achevments feel like there were just thrown in as an after thought, like theres one called 
 frequent flyer that has you fly for a total of 1,000,000 miles, it sounds like it would be easy, 
 but when i finshed the game i had a total of 3 hours play, and 4,000 miles of flight, thats right 
 3 hours and that games done. And ok heres a big spoiler sorry but i have to put it in, the final 
 battle for the fate of the world, SuperMan is put up against, not a hord of robots or dragons, 
 not Doomsday, Darkside, or even Lex, But a bunch of tornadoes...... and if thats not stupid enough 
 get this it changes colors between blue and red, if its blue you use heat vison on it, and if its 
 red you use ice breath... When i first download the demo off the XboxMP i really thought EA had 
 a winner here i really did, then it came out, and then i rememberd Marvel Nemesis, and BatMan Begins 
 and i just wanted to get it out of my house as soon as i could. Even if this is SuperMan's best 
 game it really dosn't say much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonMan121
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I was quite excited when I first heard about this game; I loved the Spiderman games and thought 
 that this would be even better! But when the previews started coming out I let my hopes drop, but 
 I desired to check it out and I am SO glad that I did! Although a little short and sometimes a 
 bit repetitive it is overall a good game. The main story line is sort but to the point and the 
 game flows well, although sometimes you can't make the link with the cut scene and the enemy you 
 just defeated. The addition of the trophies and cat collection is nice and the mini games really 
 give it that extra something, also the extra costumes are always fun because, lets face it, everyone 
 loves a bit of dress-up. The achievements are a bit out there though, there are the normal ones 
 like defeat some one and pick up 100 cars, but then there are the stupid impossible 1's like Travel 
 for 10,000 miles and Lift 10,000 tons . If you have the game you will understand why those are 
 so hard, if you wanted 1000 gamer score from this game you would have to be VERY committed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Time to beat this game was under 9 hours. It is a pretty darn easy game too. Although there were 
 a few places I died and had to do again. Kids will find the most fun to be had with Superman.
 
  
  MY VIDEO REVIEW http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=66L-ZcsZEzg
  
  Value - It is worth a rental, but you have to mindlessly get through the first half of the game. 
 Do not buy this game before you rent it, trust me on that. Graphics - They are not to bad some 
 of the buildings look pretty cool as you fly by them, reflecting and all. Superman looks next gen, 
 and some of the bad guys look pretty good. Cars and people look bland. Sound - Nothing special 
 here. The dragons sound kind of like screaming babies which is annoying.
  
  Story - Not much of a story. The story follows the movie in a very condensed way. But then there 
 are these other comic book plots, well they are not plots. You just fight comic book stuff which 
 has nothing to do with the story. Physics - Not much to say here. You blow cars and physics is 
 there, but they are not very good. Gameplay - I wish there was more natural disasters, those parts 
 were fun. I also wish there were more boss fights. Over all the gameplay is not to boring. Once 
 you get half way into the game you have a decent amount of moves and combos you can pull off. You 
 should learn the moves it makes the game more interesting. Learn how to take out the annoying big 
 monsters quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epormada
Rating: 6.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed web slinging as spidey in spiderman 2, you will definitely find enjoyment in this 
 game. Flying around Metropolis at blistering speeds is a very satisfying experience. Fighting moves 
 are also satisfying, there just could have been more of them. Just the scope and scale of this 
 game are worth checking out on the xbox 360. Would have been an exceptional game with maybe another 
 year in development and made only for next-gen consoles, as it takes away from time spent on the 
 good version (Xbox) to be made on the PS2. No way is this game a 4.5 though, it is simply just 
 better than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  The xbox360 version of Superman Returns is much better than the ps2 version that I own as well. I 
 gave the ps2 version on gamespot a 6 out of 10, but the xbox360 is definitely a greater overall 
 game and deserves at least a 6.5 out of 10 in my oppinion!
  In the xbox360 version there is an extra island and traffic bridges going around the city and from 
 one part of Metropolis to the next. Thus making an even bigger city to control the man of steel 
 in and gives a better gaming experience. There are also more items to pick up and use as weapons 
 in the xbox360 version, such as statues and huge water containers that you can use to smother fires 
 with or throw at an enemy. The graphics are a lot better and so is the sound. This also makes for 
 a much more enjoyable gaming experience. The cape physics are much better too, as Superman's cape 
 does'nt just stay in one postion as in the ps2 version. Instead it reacts properly, as Superman flys 
 through the air and to what ever he is up to on the ground. In this version Superman just looks 
 so much better and his face looks just like Brandon Routh, unlike in the ps2 version in which Superman's 
 face is not good. The buildings and the environment look a
  whole lot better too, as there are more of a variety of different types of buildings and the windows 
 actually look like windows. The vehicles also look far greater than in the ps2 version. The enemys, especially 
 the supervillains look awesome in this version of the game. The high definition
  sound effects are really cool and add to the overall quality of the game. Superman's superpowers 
 look far greater aswell and the explosions look awesome. Even the citizens look better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Batmanfan2233
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Ok many people might disagree when i say this game is GREAT but i think it is. i mean the flying 
 is fun and MXY 's challenges are not easy and i think this is probably the best Superman Game ever 
 made and it has good villians so do buy this game because it is NOT bad so i think you should buy 
 this game but if you still disagree then forget it! I guess i like it because i am a Superman FAN. 
 The graphics are good and you get to free roam around the city there is only one very Hard part 
 where these clones keep on coming after you otherwise it is very good you get bonus features and 
 lots of achievements (on Xbox 360) so 4.5 is a bad rating i think you should atleast give it 7.5 
 or 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micubano
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 22, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this title at first, but then it started dragging. The enemies started repeating 
 and once you know how to beat them, it becomes really monotonous. Im 80% done and the past two 
 times I tried to wrap it up I fell asleep. This may be one of those games I put aside and never 
 finish. I might start it up again to try and complete the Bizzaro mini-game, but even the racing 
 mini games were incredibly simple. You don't have to stay on the path, just make it to the gates. 
 Flying around and exploring is relaxing, but it does put you to sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moklop
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Well I just got this game and it has been 2 days and Im almost done with it so I must say its very 
 short but, It is a ton of fun. I like to beat upall these bad guys. My favorite part is using the 
 super speed. I broke the sound barrior last time. That was mad fun I recomend it too anyone!! BEST 
 GAME EVER! you also get to kill random citizens. The game gets easier when you use cheats I recommend 
 you don't use cheats till the end if you have to I mean it really is easy and watch the cut scenes 
 cause they really are interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FredrikEhn
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  I really love superman in movies or cartoons.
  But in games, it really sucks! First when i played Superman i thought like this.
  Eyh this game 
 is bad it's not so bad. but then my brother came in and i sad This game sucks but its not so bad. 
 Err my little brother you are playing on a xbox 360 not a xbox .
  That tottaly changed my mind.
  Flying and walking true the streets of metropolis is one of the 
 worst game experience i ever have.
  The fights is very simple, a right, a left, a right and an uppercut.
  And every time you fight 
 Superman says something. When you fighting the boss in the demo superman says It can only be one 
 man of steel .
  If you want a great super hero game then you shall buy Spider man 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legacyoftain
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Ok before you dismiss this as a fanboy review let me just take a minute to say yes I am a comic 
 book fan but no I am not an avid fan of Superman comics.... However being a big comic fan I know 
 there are certain elements in comic video games that are sorely lacking. So here is my review:
 
  I am going to do a standard breakdown of the components of the game and then give a brief overview.
 
  
  Sound: Lets start off on a high note. Although some complained that there wasn't originally John 
 Williams scoring done for this game it is still very well orchestrated. As a musician of almost 
 17 years I can say that the score ties in very nicely with the game play. As you ascend into the 
 upper atmosphere the music goes into a more ethereal sound to represent the tranquility of open 
 flight and while you are running around Metropolis the full fanfare blares up as you fly and run 
 between the spires. The sound effects themselves are standard fare nothing TOO exciting to right 
 home about but they still get the job done very well and the voice acting is done with actors from 
 the movie so love it or hate it. *Note the one liners Supes dishes in the game out may be corny 
 as all end but they embody his comic persona far better than that of Spiderman 2* 9/10
  
  Story: Ok now lets get with what really hurts... The story (if you even can call it one) makes absolutely 
 no sense at all. It would have been so easy for EA to stick with the general plot of the movie 
 for the main missions with all the other bosses (metallo, bizzaro, aliens etc etc) as sub quests. 
 Instead what they do makes no sense no matter how you slice it. They take the actual story from 
 the movie and use it as cutscene filler for the next chapter which more often than not has NOTHING 
 to do with the previous chapter. You go from fighting Metallo to fighting dragons for no rhyme 
 or reason... with a bit of other baddies thrown in for good measure. My only rational explination 
 for this that this game takes place during that time in the movie where Supes was running all over 
 the world solving every problem he could in the span of about a week.. so i guess robots, aliens, 
 and escaped convicts were just all part of the mix. ***Spoiler Ahead!*** To further illustrate 
 my point on terrible story... the final boss of the game is a TORNADO! Seriously... a game with Superman 
 not thwarting a Lex Luthor plot of SOME is just down right blasphemous. Not once do you fight Lex 
 in this game; which for people who have lived in caves and never heard of superman may be ok but 
 for the rest of the world this is unacceptable. 3/10
  
  Gameplay: Ok now for the good/bad.. mostly good.. The gameplay is the games biggest strength and 
 weakness all rolled into one. Flying obviously is the biggest feature in this game. Lets face it.. thats 
 the main draw of Superman... to be able to control him in a vast world and actually feel like the 
 Man of Steel. This game does that better than any other Superman game for sure and it vary well 
 may be the best recent superhero adaptation in a video game. Yea Hulk: UD and Spiderman 2 were 
 both great but neither character has the majesty of Superman.. The way you can use your powers in 
 so many numerous ways and fly about the city you truly feel that you ARE playing as the protector 
 of Metropolis. You cant just fly about and burn everything in sight with heat vision or blow 30 
 cars hundreds of feet in the air (well you CAN but there are dire consequences) just to be malicious 
 because the game is designed around you portraying the image of Superman who is arguably the most 
 purely good superhero to dawn tights. From minute one you are Superman in his full glory. None 
 of this getting heat vision in level 5 crap or random flying levels ... you can do whatever you 
 want when you want as the man of steel. Take a walk with fellow citizens... do laps around the city 
 at supersonic speeds... play catch with the Daily Planet globe... whatever you wanna do (in the constructs 
 of sanity) you can do. That being said many gamers (and reviewers) have decried the game for not 
 being that destructible.. well truth of the matter is.. seeing as how your life bar is that of the 
 health of the actual city.. I am rather glad I cant fly through buildings or burn everything to 
 the ground... if you could this game would be impossibly hard. Environments are still destructible 
 but not to the degree of Hulk: UD but that is a good thing. As for the bad.... this game is BEYOND 
 repetitive. I have never played a game outside a beat-em up where you do such repetitive missions 
 over and over. It was a bit forgivable as Spiderman because he can only do so much.. but come on... this 
 is the Man of Steel... give me more than robot after robot or dragon after dragon. Saving kittys 
 is a humerous little thing to do on the side for the points and the Mr. M races also add somthing 
 else too do but the core of this game is very redundant. Given the character EA was working with 
 MUCH more could have been done here which takes an other wise great game and nearly cripples it 
 6/10
  
  Controls: This is another of the games pimples.... while flying and general maneuvering is very 
 good. There clearly are elements of an unfinished control scheme here. The fight mechanics work 
 well about 60% of the time until you take flight then it's a shot in the dark. Fighting on the 
 ground is very similar to Hulk and Spidy 2 but again since it's Supes expect alot of air fighting 
 and here in lies the problem. While there is a lock on system that works pretty well for the most 
 part collision detection (ESPECIALLY in the air) is very iffy at times.. unless you ram the target 
 at supersonic speed often times you will do nothing but wiff or land one lousy punch in airborne 
 battles. 98% of the time I find myself using heat vision or freeze breath when i am air born because 
 melee just doesn't work. On the ground though Supes has a nice selection of combos but again due 
 to the repetitiveness of the game they get old.. and some of them I am convinced don't exist (if 
 any of you have done 1000 Fists combo kudos because I cant do it to save my life) . Again using 
 his powers is super easy and fun so for the most part the controls are solid and defiantly playable. 
 7/10
  
  Graphics: A very debated issue in this game. No this game isn't Gears of War or DOA 4.. there I 
 said it. However given the fact you have 80 square miles of rendered city to process... these graphics 
 ain't bad. Infact they are quite breathtaking for a sandbox game. There are no load times and the 
 world streams together seamlessly. There is some VERY rare slowdown with a lot going on as well 
 as some clipping and camera issues when holding bigger objects but the game looks very good. I 
 think had Gears of War not come out when it did this game would have faired better in that dept. 
 But again Superman does push the envelope forward in what a sandbox game can look like. Technically 
 Saints Row does look better BUT in comparison to size and game mechanics Superman is superior. 
 Is it TRUE next gen graphics? No.... is it better than any previous gen system... for sure. 8/10
 
  
  Overall: This is a game either you will love or you will hate.. bottem line. If you cant overlook 
 the problems the game does have for the fact that your having fun playing as one of the greatest 
 Superheroes the world has ever known then perhaps you should steer clear of this game. However, 
 if you want to really play a game that for the 1st time captures the essence of the boy in blue 
 then by all means go buy this game. I should also mention that the game is very short even for 
 standards of today. The main story can be completed in about 7+ hours and all the other content 
 (minus the 10k flying miles achievement) can be done in 10-15 hours total with no real reason to 
 play the game again afterward. For this reason alone this is going to be one of those games you 
 will want to rent over own. But I enjoyed all 15 hours of play time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Superman Returns is based off the movie of the same name, with a little bit of added goodies. The 
 story is basically Superman must take down Lex Luger while fighting off other villians of the Superman 
 universe... interesting right.
  
  Anyway, you control Superman (obviously) . You can jump high into the sky and fly as high and fast 
 as you like, but you can not just do a normal jump (lame) . Moving on you can use heat vision, super 
 breath, and freeze breath. You can throw enemies, fly, beat up more enemies, throw cars, fly..... 
 yeah. Thats the whole premise for the game. There are these mini games with that. Mr. Xplyztk or 
 whatever his name is... basically all it is is racing around metropolis, collecting 100 kittens 
 (uh huh..) , and playing as Bizaro for a limited amount of time to destroy Metropolis... it makes 
 no sense, nor is it really fun.
  
  While your fighting enemies, the city of Metropolis can take damage and lose health.. yeah, the 
 city you are in can actually be destroyed and guess what? Once it loses all its health, your game 
 is over and you have to start over. Thats real fun when a tree catches fire, cars are being blown 
 up, citizens are being hurt and need to be brought to a nearby ambulance, and you have to fight 
 about 500 enemies who seem to all have kryptonite all at once. In otherwords this games difficulty 
 is ridiculously hard.
  
  As you progress through S. R., you can gain experience which lets you gain levels. When you go up 
 a level you get stronger heat vision and all that stuff.. Also you unlock different outfits which 
 are all lackluster anyway and you probably could care less for them.
  
  And the enemies you fight.. oh boy. First your fighting robots, then robots and dragons, then robots 
 &amp; dragons &amp; some monsters. What the f.... whatever. It makes no sense... I mean, DRAGONS!? 
 Come on.
  
  The graphics are blarf besides the Superman character model &amp; the city of Metropolis. Besides 
 those two, everything else is just bad, blurry, and smudgey. Terrible for a 360 release.
  
  Music.. is terrible and so is the voice acting. The only cool thing is when you're flying for a 
 bit and you break the sound barrier... thats it. Otherwise, once again, terrible for a 360 release.. 
 even a game.
  
  To be honest, I had higher hopes for this game but sadly it fell flat on it's face. How can EA 
 make such a smash hit like The Godfather, then make &amp; release this vomit? Not even worth a 
 rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Although the movie is absolutely spectacular, the game is a utter and complete letdown. There isn't 
 much to do in the boring and dull city and the game is only fun for a few hours. Also, this game 
 is so repetitive and it is useless. There is absolutely no variety in the missions and they get 
 pretty odl pretty quick. Also, the story is an absolute mess and is petty compared to the movie. 
 The battles are frustrating with nothing to do, and i am confused that the superman makers would 
 even pass this game as playable. The graphics are absolutely dreadful and i absolutely despise 
 this game! If your considering this game only rent it and base your decision on the reviews and 
 your thoughts. This game is a complete  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Superman hasn't ever translated well on consoles. His worst flight onto the video game circuit 
 was Superman 64, which was highly flawed in so many ways it's almost unbearable to play through 
 a single minute! The good news is, Superman Returns gets some things right, well, only some minor 
 things.
  
  While you might think its about the movie, its so loosely based on the movie, its not even considered 
 to be part of it. In fact, the story is a mix and match of many different projects. You'll come 
 across many Superman enemies who otherwise will not appear at all in the film. Because only the 
 cut-scenes and end-game are based on the film, you wouldn't call this an exact tie in.
  
  The principle of the game is a good one. Imagine a GTA styled game, with Superman flying around, 
 beating things in the air and on the ground. There are a number of different moves he can perform 
 as you progress through the game. But an idea's an idea, and putting it into practice isn't easy. 
 The game has a certain, incomplete feel to it. It seems there are a bunch of corners that haven't 
 been smoothed over. This isn't just graphically, in fact the only complete thing is the soundtrack, 
 which is good, even though the voiceovers do wear on occasionally. The lack of variety of the missions 
 hinders enjoyment too...
  
  Basically, there are three types of missions, with mixes thrown in for good measure. One is putting 
 out fires, two is land attack and three is air attack. You'll be beating the same enemies over 
 and over, helping citizens get to ambulances, and occasionally, you'll come across something interesting, 
 like a boss battle. The lack of variety in the main game is only apparent after about an hour or 
 so, but once it hits, it hits. Also, even though there's a lack in variety, it all ends quickly, 
 lasting a good few hours, but only that.
  
  Sometimes, the mentioned boss battles can be a little tricky, especially if you have to deal with 
 multiple things all at once. Its tough being Superman, but it shouldn't be this hard sometimes! 
 You also have a bunch of mini-games, which involve you flying round the city, and for the 360 Version, 
 Achievements, which are relatively straightforward, with one amusing one, which amused me, briefly.
 
  
  The lack of a full experience does take its toll, and though flying around is a decent thing, its 
 about the only thing worth playing for, and you can get that in the demo, but in a limited area. 
 So while it's far better than anything previously seen in terms of Superman on a console, its far 
 from good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiroaku
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  So much potential for an instant game classic, was just squandered too easily. This was hands down 
 the best Superman game put constructed ever, but it was still done poorly. The cityscape was grand 
 and beautiful, the graphics were wonderful and the flying was tremendous. The game did not have 
 enough substance to it to keep you interested. It was a spit in the face, to control greatness 
 like Superman, and just hang around waiting for something to happen. Spiderman 2 and The Incredible 
 Hulk: Ultimate Destruction were great free roaming superhero games within their own right, so you'd 
 figure and icon like Superman would've been phenomenal.
  The developers/companies screwed this magnificent opportunity up big time.
  Not enough, or good 
 enough tie in to the movie, it was horribly and cheaply done. Not enough missions or side missions. 
 There should've been day and night time sequences. It was way too short and unappealing for a superhero 
 game.
  I found that the ultra heat vision, ultra cold breath and ultra wind attacks from Superman, destroy 
 everything except for the enemies unless you concentrate on one at a time, and it doesn't work all 
 the time.
  EA completely destroyed this game and opportunity to produce something sensational. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sin-city_savior
Rating: 6.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Well i played a bit of the game and i have to say its extremely entertaining, flying never gets 
 old and they did a fantastic job of capturing just how super, superman is. There is also a lot 
 of room to move around in, and you can move around in it at all times which can be very entertaining. 
 Also you can interact with the people, vehicles, etc. and there are also quite a few different 
 combos that you can perform that involve all of your superpowers. The game play itself is not all 
 that bad. But there is a bad side, the missons get a bit repetitive after a while and the graphics 
 lack some of the depth of some of the newer games like Gears of War. Also its almost to easy and 
 super mans moves are kind of bulky. Also there is a lack of a jump button which kind of annoyed 
 me overall the game is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spikrath
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  The good: You're freaking Superman with the entire city of Metropolis to roam and destroy! You 
 have almost all of superman's powers, so you have your heat vision, ice breath, super speed, flight, 
 super strength, and super breath to play with to your hearts content; no xray vision though, guess 
 the developers didn't want perverts to have too much fun. The big thing I've been playing with 
 has been the super breath, blowing people about a mile in the air and then flying up at super speed 
 and smaking them to the ground is just one of the most satisfying things you can do on this game 
 (next to flying high into the air and hitting the ground so hard it cracks, killing all the baddies 
 around you) . I was sceptical because of these other reviews, but I have to admit, it's just fun 
 to be superman.
  
  The bad: it wears off. Everything gets old and unfortunately, so does the thrill of flying at 1000 
 kph over Metropolis into a massive baddy who is stepping on people. The controls are a little awkward, 
 and the cars go straight through each other, and when you pick up a car with someone in it, they 
 fall through the floor. As well, when you try to pick up an injured civillian, you might accidently 
 pick up the nearby stop sign, or random onlooker.
  
  Plot: Doesn't even relate to the movie at all, even though it's supposed to, and even the existing 
 story seems a little 'tacked-on'. The worst part: it is too short. I beat it in four days, and 
 I only play video games for about 2 hours a day nowadays. That is sad.
  Gameplay: Fun for a while, but wears off.
  Graphics: Next-Generation standard graphics at least, 
 but I mean come on, cars (and people for that matter) do not just fall through things. You'd think 
 that they would have this problem fixed for the supposed Next Generation of Gaming 
  Sound: Oh so corny, but cool when you hit the speed of sound.
  Overall: Rent it, beat it, forget 
 about it, trust me, it will be worth more if you don't waste your $60. But to be honest, no matter 
 how much everybody hates this game, it is the best Superman game you will find.
  
  Alternatives: For the flight: I would say try one of those flight simulator games, I can't really 
 think of the names at the moment, but there are a few out there that get you going REALLY fast. 
 It is a great rush.
  If you want super powers: I'm not really into these super hero games, but all the good superhero 
 games I've played have been from Marvel... hmm... coincidence? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boonyaw
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off its actually a good game, but however it is not finished.
  
  Good: Fly around Metropolis for as long as you like, good combos, Bizarro mode lets you destroy 
 the city, Super Breath is super fun, you can screw around in the game alot, other things good but 
 i'd rather tell you the bad parts so you don't waster your money.
  
  Bad: No jumping or swimming, fight the same enemys over and over..... and over, not enough to do 
 withing the city, once again mor to this but those are the major good and bad things
  
  1 jmore statement people who give these 1's are retarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Carnage
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that the first time I picked up the controller and flew as Superman I was amazed and 
 when I pressed the button that made me soar faster and faster till I broke the sound barrier, it 
 took my breath away. As I looked upon the expansive view of the city I knew it couldn't get any 
 better than this. I was right.
  
  The game is like it's movie counterpart only the opposite. The movie had too much story and not 
 enough action, while the game lacks a story and is filled with repetitive gameplay and enemies. 
 You'd find your self fighting the same battles over and over again with same exact opponents as 
 before. The enemies, ranging from mutants to robots to dragons, had their ups and downs but it 
 would've been nice to see human enemies once in a while. Even though he's Superman that doesn't 
 mean he won't try to stop a purse snatcher or save a kitten from a tree. The story was roughly 
 based on the film but no missions truly effected the movie storyline till the end and of course 
 there was a few villains thrown in from the comics. The boss battles I think were the best thing, 
 they truly had that comicbooky feel too them but the targeting glitches sometimes made you lose 
 touch with the game and it'd get down right annoying. Overall the game was good in some ways, lacking 
 in others but it's nothing truly spectacular. I will admit that I'm some what looking forward to 
 a sequel where, hopefully, they'll fix the abundance of problems this game had and add in a little 
 more variety, I think it would make a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanxixamx99
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 29, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The new superman game based off the recent movie comes out just in time to leach off its film counterpart's 
 DVD release.
  Honestly this game could have had potential - the concept of flying around as superman at hundreds 
 of miles per hour, in an open sandbox city, while using all of superman's unique powers to overcome 
 enemies sounds quite appealing. But unfortunately this game was only designed to mooch off the 
 popularity of the movie. This game makes practically no effort to be appealing: Gameplay is repetetive 
 to the point of complete boredom, graphics look terrible for a 360 game along with absolutely no 
 creativity in the city's design, sound is mediocre and contains despicable voice acting that delivers 
 cheesy character dialogue every 3 seconds, virtually no replay value, all bundled up into a game 
 that fails to deliver an enjoyable superman experience. One could say that the only enjoyable part 
 of the game is the flight system, rushing through the city at, or at least what the designers say 
 , 800 mph can be a little exciting, although that may seem fast, the city is so large that it will 
 take superman over a minute to fly from end to end. All that said the 360 version has 18 achievements, 
 all varying in obtainability. They range from ridiculously easy (simply enter a cheat code) to torturous 
 and unjust (fly 10k miles) . This game does not have any appeal to anyone, even die-hard superman 
 fans should look away, I do not recommend this game for anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_black
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  - This review is based on the Xbox 360 version
  
  Creating a videogame based on one of fans favourite (and longest running) Superheroes seems to 
 be a constant uphill struggle. Superman has been plagued with awful game, one after another. Now 
 Superman Returns is has arrived and its here to end that trend, does it succeed? - In a word, no.
 
  
  Sadly Superman has failed to take off once again. With EA at the helm many would have expected 
 a better effort to be made than say, Tidus games? I actually feel like the game had a chance but 
 in an effort to cash in with the DVD release the game was just put out in an unfinished state.
 
  
  When you load up the first thing you may notice in the music, its fantastic. Nothing else would 
 have been better suited for the game. You'll be treated to a wonderful (and original) orchestra 
 score. Sadly the over sound is hampered by the below average voice over work. Although, I don't 
 blame the actors but rather the script. Superman will too often sport cheesy one liners as you 
 do battle and rather than drive you on, it'll probably put you off (or make you cringe as you feel 
 sorry for the actors whom you may grow to like if you actually see the movie) .
  
  The graphics are very underwhelming. When you're flying about, the game looks just fine. You'll 
 even notice some nice motion blur effects but alas when you fly down into the city, you'll be met 
 with ugly repetitive textures, pop in and as you can't enter buildings the game loses its sandbox 
 feel.
  There are a decent variety of enemies in the game but as the entire game consists of basic, repetitive 
 fights you'll see these enemies so many times you may start to lose your patience with the game. 
 Enemies look ok; they have cell shaded look and the animate ok for the most part.
  
  Since so much of the game consists of simple beat em up scenarios you'd like to think its good, 
 right? Well, its only ok. If the game were 50% beat em up and 50% something else then great but 
 as its 95% beat em up and 5% something else you'll probably grow tired of the combat long before 
 you complete the game. Even boss battles end up feeling bland. Rarely are you able to just beat 
 down on a boss nor are you able to burn them so you may be thinking that a tactical plan is required, 
 sadly no. The boss battles generally just come down to throwing cars (there is even an achievement 
 tied to how many cars you pick up) .
  
  The plot is the biggest failing in the game, basically it makes no sense. Almost nothing from the 
 movie actually makes it into the gameplay and yet the cut scenes practically reinact scenes from 
 the movie. For example, the game shows you a scene of Lex experimenting with the crystals and then 
 afterwards you go back to fighting Metallo (who wasnt even in the movie!) . Why didnt we get to 
 play the scene from the movie where Superman catches the plane? Surely that would have been perfect 
 material for an action scene.
  
  Once again, Superman fails to impress. If nothing else this is a step forward from previous attempts 
 but it still has many steps to take in order justify its full price tag. If youre a fan of Superman 
 from a comic perspective then perhaps this game will amuse you for a little while but I recommend 
 you either borrow, rent or pick it up at a budget price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBoxCarBobi
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  Before i started playing the game, I had high expectations for the game, but ones I started playing, 
 Mixed reactions came up. To start of, the graphics. Being a next-gen it didnt really feel like 
 one. The graphics were ok, but by no standards a next-gen. Even though the city is huge, there 
 is little to do in it. There is a lot of repetition to the game. Even when you just feel like flying 
 around, some random enemy will come out and just ruin your peacefully day. There were some glitches 
 in the game, that get really annoying and force you to reload the game. I have flown in-side the 
 building some how and was never able to get out. Because of that, the enemies were able to destroy 
 the city. One of the things that I thought was wrong with the game is: Superman Returns is supposed 
 to be based on the movie, but you are never able to fight Lex and only able to see him in the cut 
 scenes. Overall the game was really easy to beat and needs little skill. If you are trying to pick 
 up this game just to get the Achievements you will have to work for some of them. It will take 
 several more hours to play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nakasa5
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Superman isnt as bad of a game as people make it out to be. There are a few things that make this 
 an extremely fun game. Of course there are definitely some things that make this game not live 
 up to its full potential, but Ill list those as well.
  
  The Good: Free Roaming- Metropolis is absolutely gorgeous. I love games that give you a huge world 
 to see and explore, and this was one of the main draws I have to this game as well as games like 
 Spiderman 2, and even GTA.
  Sound- There are some bad things to point out too, but there are some good things about the sound 
 too. When flying through the air, the sonic burst sounds amazing- you really feel like you are 
 flying at supersonic speeds. Fighting- I know some have expressed that they dont like the combos 
 and fighting, but I think its very fun. There are loads of combos you unlock along the way, and 
 busting up robots and other evildoers is a lot of fun. Its a lot like Star Wars Episode III, except 
 instead of the force push you use the super breath.
  
  The Bad:
  Sound- I said there were bad things about the sound too. The voice acting is horrible. For a movie 
 that has an official liscense, why couldnt they use voice clips from the movie? The voice acting 
 was so bad at times that I felt stupid for just listening to it.
  Length of the Game- The game is a little on the short side. Although you can fly around the game 
 forever, once this gets old there is little to do. The single player isnt very long, and there 
 is little to do outside of that.
  
  Overall, the game is good but it might not be for everyone. EA missed the mark on a few things, 
 but this is still a decent league worth trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Large City To Explore, Good Use of Superman's Powers, Good Audio.
  
  The Bad: Can't Jump, Cannot Enter Buildings, Enemies and Objectives are often repettive, Hardly 
 Nothing To Do With The Movie, Frustratingly Difficult Boss Battles, No Lex Luthor (Except In Cutscenes) .
 
  
  Superman Returns: The Video Game is an ambitious attempts to end the curse of really bad video 
 games based on the popular hero. It tries, makes some interesting moves, but ultimately isn't the 
 greatest game you'll play.
  
  Gameplay: You have all of Superman's powers as you fly and fight repetive enemies throughout an 
 80 Square Mile Metropolis. It interesting, but can be kinda dull.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are pretty good, especially if you high in the air. But there is some problems 
 with the lower aspects of Metropolis. Textures in particular and Civilian design.
  
  Sound: The sound is a good aspect of the game. It sounds like Superman music and fits the game 
 quite well. Plus it features most of the cast from the movie. Superman Returns: The Video Game 
 follows the premise of the movie with Superman leaving earth for five years, everyone moving on, 
 and his return, but not much else. You won't be fighting the Man of Steel's arch enemy Lex Luthor 
 in a boss battle, instead you see him in a couple of brief cutscenes that try to fit the movie's 
 storyline into the game. It fails miserbly story wise. I mean it's nice to fight villains like 
 Metallo, Mongul, and Bizarro, but they weren't in the film or fit in the storyline. I mean it did 
 work for Spiderman with extra villains, but they didn't try to involve them into the game's main 
 story line. It's an utter mess.
  
  If you're a Superman fan, you'll want to check this one out. It's not that bad a game (But not 
 exactly worth the $60 Price tag) . The only other thing that this game can provide for you other 
 than a couple of hours of fair gameplay, is the Xbox 360 Achivements for your gamer score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattzori
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  unlike some stupid reviewers out there i actually played the game and yeah sure it was way too 
 short but other than that its an alright game.....
  those people that wright their reviews and giving this game a 1 to a max of 5
  are just comic 
 book haters.
  
  
  The good: awesome flight mechanic, even more awesome sound, alright fighting system amd some really 
 cool super powers
  
  The bad: too short, animations seem a little stiff sometimes
  
  
  
  But in the end this really is a nice gaming experience and for the free roam lovers out 
 there You are going to love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DattebayosEpPo
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  Superman should have stayed at Krypton : ( one of the worst games this year. Would you buy a game 
 with horrible voice acting, sticky controls, catastrophic battles and Superman in it? This is a 
 game that should be the biggest disoppointment of the year, no thrill in flying, bad story. I never 
 thought EA would fall to such a crap. I also think that the graphics were just below average than 
 what x360 can do. I would more likely go out and stand naked on a frozen lake with -40 celsius 
 than waste valuable time with a open ended superhero game that does'nt even include jumping (or 
 swimming) !
  So please, think before you choose between Superman Returns and a bottle filled with crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzzxx
Rating: 2.9
Date: Dec 25, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Superman; Flying around is fun; Metropolis is a pretty big place
  
  Cons: Just about everything else
  
  Superman Returns is (supposedly) the video game adaptation 
 of the movie. I have to wonder if EA and I watched the same movie. The movie was good, this game 
 isn't. And it has almost nothing to do with the movie, save for the fact that Superman is in it. 
 And even Superman can't save this glitchy, buggy, broken mess of a game.
  
  Superman Returns is a bad game all-around. From the glitchy, boring, and frustrating gameplay to 
 the below-average graphics to the horrible voice acting, its hard to find anything good and fun 
 in Superman. No matter where you look, the developers seemed to screw almost everything up. The 
 targeting system, the combat, the mission structure, everything is just broken. Its really hard 
 to explain all of the problems in Superman Returns, but I will try my best. One of the first things 
 you will notice is the targeting system. Its like a third-person shooter, just without the shooting. 
 While this might make flying easier, it makes taking out even the easiest and weakest enemies a 
 complete hassle. Taking on multiple enemies at a time is nearly impossible, and that is usually 
 what you will be doing. Even though there is a lock-on, it doesnt help any. When you lock-on to 
 an enemy, you should be able to strafe around them while keeping your focus on them. But nobody 
 told the broken camera that. Even when you are locked-on to a target, the camera still tries to 
 follow you wherever you go. So when you are trying to strafe, the camera will turn in that direction, 
 making it impossible to see what you are doing.
  
  Even if the lock-on did work, the broken combat would still make the game nearly unplayable. The 
 buttons are very unresponsive, and the timing is way off on combos. And most of the longer combos 
 are useless simply because they dont do any more damage than the 3 hit combo you start out with. 
 Even if it is a seven hit combo, it doesnt do any more damage than that same 3 hit combo. Many 
 times I tried to do some of the longer combos, but the timing is so off and the buttons so unresponsive 
 it just was a wreck. The best parts of the combat are Supermans superpowers. These actually come 
 in handy. Almost every single enemy in the game is weak to at least one of your powers. So the 
 game boils down to you using your superpowers to kill all of your enemies. Another thing that makes 
 hand to hand combat useless is the hit detection. Half the time the hits you actually manage to 
 pull off wont connect, no matter how close to the enemy you are. Its just boring and frustrating 
 to fight. And thats pretty much all you do. Very boring. And the mission structure and design 
 definitely wont help make the boredom go away. Almost every mission, from the first one to the 
 last one, is almost exactly the same. You fly to a certain location, and kill some bad guys. Over 
 and over again. Every few missions, you even get to put out fires! Isnt it just exciting? Didnt 
 think so. Every once and a while you will have some kind of boss fight with Metallo and many other 
 villains. The boss fights suffer from the same problems, but they are only worse. The hit detection 
 is a lot worse in boss fights. You will swing at the enemy 10 times and hit them twice. This makes 
 most boss fights last a very long time. And most of the bosses seem to have a hard time fighting 
 back, so you sit there for a good 20 minutes looking for a combo that might actually work and doing 
 it 30 times in a row. Not fun at all.
  
  The graphics in Superman are again a little on the bad side. They dont look terrible, but it doesnt 
 look good for an X-Box 360 game. It looks more like a nice X-Box or PS2 game. Superman himself 
 looks pretty good, and his cape actually moves a lot, though not always in a realistic way. The 
 enemies look okay, but a lot of them look alike. The main problem with the graphics is the animations. 
 Everything looks almost extremely robotic. When Superman starts a combo, it just looks funny. Some 
 of the explosions look pretty good though.
  
  The sound, yet again, is not well done. The voice acting is sad, as Brandon Routh (Superman) seems 
 amazingly bored reading his lines. Theres never an ounce of enthusiasm in his voice, ever. Kevin 
 Spacey (Lex Luther) doesnt do much better. This is disappointing, considering how great of an 
 actor he is. The music is okay, but dont expect anything would be found in something like Final 
 Fantasy. Overall, Superman is two train wrecks of a game, and no one should suffer playing through. 
 I was really looking forward to this game, but EA has totally let us down. This makes me think 
 that maybe developers should just give up, and that Superman is just a hard super hero to make 
 a game for. I dont think anybody was expecting this game to be good, but I think a lot of people 
 wanted it to be, like me. Well, its not, and everyone should avoid it at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 24, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I love Superman and have since I was a child, but for me this game comes as a disappointment. The 
 graphics look rushed and from a game that has been put off for almost 4 months it should have been 
 a lot better. I am shocked at how gameplay has a tendency of getting LOST in blank spots and the 
 fight mechanic is terrible and frustratingly hard. On a lighter note, the flying mechanic and speed 
 depiction is absolutely exhilarating. It apparantly is the only thing that a bunch of thought went 
 into. The graphics are not up to speed with what could have been, BUT the music is pretty darn 
 good and at times makes the bludgeoning burden of gameplay a bit easier. These are the lowest grades 
 I have given to any game and sorrily so because this game should have been SUPER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryjameboy
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 24, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  this game wasn't so bad.... I mean yeah you have mostly every one of superman's powers..... but the 
 only complaint was if they added more to the side missions..... I mean I love the GTA freedom I 
 hope more superhero games like the hulk and Spiderman will be released....... the only set back 
 to this game is.. it gets boring after a while..... if it was more side missions and more action 
 this game would be real good... but I think its better then a 4.5 I think you guys are just being 
 tough on it because it is superman... I mean Spiderman was kind of the same as this game and you 
 gave that a higher score.... that game isn't that much of a difference from this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 22, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  In the time it takes you to read this review, you could've finished the game.
  Ok, maybe not but the game IS pretty short - or seems to be.
  I've yet to finish it but I've 
 got around 80% done.
  In 4 hours. Yeah. Thats pathetic. I'm sure it took 1, maybe 2 years to make. And for what. I'll 
 give it maybe 5, 5 and a half hours before it's done? God awful.
  
  Even if this is only accounting for the story and not the mini-games and whatever, it's still awful 
 - and most of the mini activities are not worth playing.
  
  Aside from it's seemingly short length, I honestly do not have a problem with it.
  The camera 
 can be a tad fidgety and the controls somewhat clunky, but you'll grow into it.
  
  Flying around, using super powers and punching crap is mighty fun - but thats pretty much all you 
 do. There isn't enough variety in the missions.
  
  Starts off good, having to fend off meteors and do battle in War World - but you come back and 
 it's just brawling. With Dragons. Yeah theres Dragons.
  Umm... I don't have a comic book store or anything like that near by, so maybe I'm not the best 
 judge of this, but did Superman do battle with Dragons anytime? I dunno. It's not really a bad 
 thing.
  Infact I thought fighting dragons in a modern setting to be kind of neat.
  Just seems out of palce.
  
  But the game looks fine.
  Sounds fine.
  Plays good most of 
 the time too. It's just too damn short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kartel101
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Well let me first start off by admitting that I'm a big superman fan, with that out of the way 
 let me just say that I just got the game the other day and I cant keep my hands from the controller. 
 The flying is the coolest thing ever, I just grin from ear to ear each time supes breaks the sound 
 barrier. I admit that EA could have done better on other aspects of the game. I read all the reviews 
 before getting it, but decided to get none the less and have not regretted it. What makes the game 
 even more fun is the fact that you can enter various cheat codes, one to receive unlimited stamina, the 
 other to make Metropolis indestructable, all powerups and so on. The one I put in is
  unlimited stamina alone, cause if i put everything in the game would be too easy. A friend of mine 
 (who's not a superman fan BTW) played it and gave it a thumbs up too. Yes it does have a dumb ending 
 and a stupid storyline and whatever else but its still fun, even the combo system as you can string 
 various cool moves together. I guess one of the reasons that I ended up liking it was because I 
 went in with pretty low expectations because of all the bad reviews its been getting so now I end 
 up with a game I plan to keep. Happy gaming y'all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan729
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  
  Although there are several graphical glitches and problems, Superman Returns is overall a pretty 
 decent looking game. Metropolis looks great from afar, but up-close it could use a little more 
 detail. Superman's character model looks good when he's standing still, but in action he tends 
 to have sluggish and repeated animations. The flying looks great, especially considering the great 
 sense of speed that Superman Returns has. The enemies look nice, and their animations are ok. I 
 only wish that there were more enemy types in the game. The particle effects seem dated, especially 
 the fires and Superman's powers. There is some impressive lighting throughout the game, and the 
 cut-scenes look very nice. The game's camera is definitely a problem, as it constantly obscures 
 your view with a building, enemy, or other things. It also can become very jerky when you are fighting 
 multiple enemies.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The flying is fun and done well. That's about all that is impressive when it comes to Superman 
 Returns' gameplay. The first problem is the horrid combat system. Superman fights like a wuss. 
 You really can't do any cool fighting moves, and it just isn't fun at all to fight. When an enemy 
 is knocked to the ground, they apparently become prevented from harm. Because in Superman Returns 
 when you hit an enemy to the ground you have to wait for them to get up before you can attack them. 
 Enemies block far too much, and there really isn't an easy way to attack them while they block. 
 Collision detection is awful, and sometimes you won't even be hitting an enemy when they take damage. 
 Another thing that I found annoying was the Superman can't just jump. He has to fly and then land. 
 While this does not seem too hard or complex it isn't as simple as it seems, and you will wish 
 there was a jump button. Superman's powers are utilized well in combat, and they can be pretty 
 fun to use on enemies. The second major problem I had was how linear and repetitive the game's 
 objectives are. Basically you are forced to do about 15-20 small objectives before the next big 
 boss fight. These small objectives consist of repetitive tasks such as putting out fires and disposing 
 of different enemies. As you might have guessed, this can be incredibly boring and repetitive. 
 The boss fights are pretty fun, but not anything special. Even after you complete the short (5-6 
 hours) main game, the objectives still remain. There are still those annoying random objectives... 
 Because Superman is invisible the developers decided that your failure would depend on the health 
 of the city. So if you let a fire burn or a group of bad guys destroy the city then you will inevitably 
 fail. The city gains back some health after you complete an objective or after a boss fight. If 
 you want to destroy the city, then there are minigames scattered throughout Metropolis that let 
 you play as Bizarro. Also, there is a minigame where you race some guy. Both are fun.
  
  Sound
  
  The orchestral score is wonderful. However, the voice work is pretty bad. The sound 
 effects are decent, but repeated too often.
  
  Value
  
  Definitely not worth $60 or even $20. Maybe a rent if you want some quick thrills and no substance. 
 The main story lasts 5-6 hours tops, but there are some minigames and kittens to be found. The 
 minigames are pretty easy, and can be completed in less than 1 hour. However, finding 100 kittens 
 throughout Metropolis can take 5-6 hours even with a guide. This isn't really a necessary thing 
 to do, but if you want 300 Achievement Points (200-100% Game Complete, 50-Find All Kittens, 50-Complete 
 All Minigames) then you will do it. Verdict
  
  Superman Returns is a good effort by EA Tiburon to create a decent Superman game. However, it falls 
 short due to several flaws. Hopefully EA will keep the flying right, and just work to improve the 
 combat and how you progress through the game. One day Superman may have a good game, but it isn't 
 today or in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRoderick
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 19, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Yeah..... not even ganna waste time with more the 100 words on how much of a waste of 70 bucks this 
 game was........ it was just DISGUSTING! Get the demo on xbox live, fly around for a good half hour, 
 run for 2 minutes, kill some of the bots, pick up and throw 20 cars, throw a couple of metal burgers 
 and get some sleep.... the game does not follow the movie, its just the same god damn thing over 
 and over. On that note... this is my first review, i usually just read them and agree but this game 
 was so bad i just had to throw one on.... amen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darko_wolf
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 19, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  The first thing that strikes you about this game is its distinct lack of graphical flair compared 
 to the likes of GoW, Supermans Returns looks like it belongs on a 2nd Gen console, not the 360.
 
  
  The games ultimate premise relies on Superman hovering around above the city waiting for something 
 bad to happen, which becomes tedious. After about 5 random events, in which you use your Super 
 powers to stop would villains you are then faced with a core event, which consists of the same 
 mechanics as the random encounters. Button bashing.
  As you are Super, your cant be hurt, but Metropolis can, as the more damage the city suffers, the 
 worse your situation gets, when Metros life hits zero, you lose. Plus Superman has an annoying 
 Stamina bar which is reduced when you use any powers, when it hits zero, you fall to the ground 
 and have to bash the Y button, so being Super isnt so fun.
  
  If you however use a game cheat and max out your skills, make both your Stamina and Metros life 
 endless, things actually become fun, as it actualy feels like you are unstoppable, which as I remember 
 is what Superman is - unless there is Kryptonite involved, which some Bosses will use on you, and 
 you wil have to figure out how to work around it.
  
  So I score the game higher when the cheats are active, but hey, its about fun! And being really, 
 REALLY Super makes this game worthwhile, if not completely repetitive.
  
  But there are a lot of Xbox live Gamer points up for grabs if you just do the core story, at least 
 500. So it is worth it.
  
  The games sound is so lacks and dry, youll find your only comfort is the peaceful score that plays 
 as you soar high above.
  
  I dont really have much else to say about this game, it does not do the film any justice, as the 
 film was out standing, but if your a child hood fan, or just a fan of Superman, Smallville and 
 DC, whack this game in your 360, activate the cheats and go save Metropolis, thats your only tincture.
 
  
  Go on - be not so Super by cheating, you will like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oliem
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Everyone says that this game is bad. It isnt. It is a fantastic game and i can recommend it to 
 anyone not just Superman fans. Gameplay - The gameplay in Superman Returns is really the highlight 
 of the game, whether you are flying around the huge city at 800 miles an hour, beating up an evil 
 guy or just doing things like throwing cars around, it is always fun.
  
  Graphics - I don't know why everyone has been saying the graphics of this game are terrible, they 
 are not, they are extremely good for a game this size. Some of the texture are average like the 
 ones on the beach but that is only a couple, I love the explosions in this game, i think they are 
 the best Graphical feature.
  
  Sound - The sound is fantastic in Superman Returns, the pleasure of listening to the boom when 
 yoiu hit super speed is really cool. The gamnes soundtracks is also one of the better things about 
 it.
  
  Value - Superman Returns so far has kept me going fofr about 20 hours and so far i am only up to 
 the fifth chapter. There are a lot of minigames and it has good replayibility.
  
  So overall i think that Superman Returns is one of the best games of the year!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x3lnaga86
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  ****Attention: There is a huge difference between the 360 version and the other two consoles. The 
 360 version has a wealth of a difference, between the amount of cars and poeple/enemies displayed 
 onscreen, the ability to store and maintain all the destruction that you have done to the city 
 and everything except the sound and FMV.
  
  **Note that you can download the demo and try to see if you like this game after you have read 
 this review. If you do then give it a rent or buy after that.
  
  Gameplay:
  Well, if you have enjoyed facing the same 4 or 5 enemy types as in the good old games I've mentioned 
 then you will enjoy this game. Except that you are Superman and you fly or run to your next (stage) 
 area and complete the mission by beating the crap out of the bad guys. There are several different 
 ways to win the battles and all of Supermans combos have an epic feel to them. You have all of 
 your special powers and flight combos and even a few special grab manuvers. *I have been able to 
 pull of everycome with ease. The most confusing is the 1000 fists combo that I've read on the forums. 
 This is easy, just keep pressing x until Superman does thunderclap, then hit y once, then keep 
 pressing x (this works everytime) .
  
  Graphics:
  BTW, I enjoyed the cartoonish graphics of Midtown Madness 3 and this game is more of the same but, 
 just even more next gen, sweet man its sweet.
  The textures are somewhat barren on the rocky side of Metropolis, however the buildings (all of 
 them) show a very realistic comic book like texture which makes the world seem much more realistic. 
 On 1080p this game looks friggin sweet period (.)
  
  Sound:
  With 5.1 surround sound at full volume, when you control Superman and try to achieve the sound 
 barrier (4th sonic boom, you will notice this when you first cannot hear the cries of the city and 
 then you can't even hear your boom) , it is like hearing a plane taking off and then turning into 
 a fighter pilot and finally just the chirping of the birds. The music in this game is somewhat 
 good or bad, depending on how you like the Supeman Returns (R) movie music.
  Also, the ingame grunts and sounds coming from your fights sound damn good.
  
  Value:
  Although 
 you will beat this game in about 7 hours or less, depending on how good you are and if your exploring 
 the city and doing the various side missions. The missions are pretty good for a beat em up game 
 and yes again if you like beat em ups, you'll want this game and if you don't then you'll somewhat 
 enjoy this game.
  Flying however never gets old and the look of the city is friggin sweet.
  
  In all, this is by far the best super hero game that has been launched since Spiderman 2 for 
 the ps2. But for me, this game is on the entertainment level of Supermario64 just because the way 
 the game portrays the city, the enemies and your avatar in a very unique and cool look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optlplex
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game but it has a little bumps and dead ends. its fun to play and its always fun 
 to fly and run at 800mph. alot of people hate it but thay need to look more at the outher stuff 
 not just how it has like nothing in the movie or sound. If they just fly around and injoy the seens 
 and fight a few bad guys, run into buildings, pick up whatever you want, andfly at 3,000 feet or 
 higher. Thats what people need to look for and injoy. Some people dont like it because of the 64 
 one but face it it sucks big time but the 360 one is alot better and is better that alot of outher 
 games on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juraii
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  this superman I really thought had the potential to be a good superman I was wrong and I am not 
 afraid to say it. It started with the demo download on 360 which I got my first feel of the game 
 it was fun real fun you had the super speed, super flight, ice breath, super breath, and heat vision 
 so I was hooked on the game like a sucker. then I decided to read some other reviews on the game, 
 someone said that tis game was like the N64 superman, I guess that guy never played superman on 
 N64 because I sure as hell know i didn't see any circles that I had to fly through but ok back 
 to the game. So I bought the game the day after it came out so I got the full version and the map 
 is HUGE when they said 80 miles long map they meant it that was a great Idea but to soon to make 
 it a game. so I started the game I was excited when the start of the game was having to stop a 
 meteor shower, will be the only thing different through out the game and will will never see it 
 again. after that you head to outerspace to be in mongul trust me very dumb Gladiator games, then 
 your back on earth then trust me by this time your already 35% into the game how can it be to missions 
 into the game and your already at that percentage. another thing about the game play there is after 
 then two missions get ready for the same thing to happen about over a hundred times, and the dumbest 
 mini game everis to find 100 cats through out the whole game while your playing it. so another 
 thing this game is extremely short. and when you though you were getting something very nice for 
 unlockables dont even think about it theres trophies you can get but not really look at them, only 
 three super man customs, and a pretty crappy concept gallery. all in all I defended this game at 
 one point but EA games has let me down again in the movie game area. I say **** rushing take your 
 time thats the only why to get the real gamers to buy your game not just the moviegoers or superman 
 lovers or you just gonna get them to hate you also because your just tryin to make a quick buck. 
 let me talk about the Difficulty of the game it jumped around there was never any steady gameplay 
 in this game. One minute you takin out speeders which is easy then you got those tankers which 
 are pretty hard but since this game repeats itself alot there will not be anything straight forward 
 or in a nice broad spectrum thats why that game jumps around. the time I spent on this game is 
 3 and a half hour and I was at 85% done mark thats when I realized I wasted my money on a game 
 that didnt take that long and lost its fun factor in the second hour. All I can say about the game 
 is that I loved the SFX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe2tiger
Rating: 2.7
Date: Dec 12, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  I wanted to like this game. I played the Demo and was mildly entertained. People were saying this 
 was a direct E3 port... Okay, I said to myself, why would a company ship an outdated demo? It all 
 became clear when the game was released. The crap is sooo bad that any testers out there will be 
 thinking of Pre-Alpha or Alpha phased games. The graphics are good in some areas (Superman, Villains, 
 and any part of Metropolis from far away) . In every other aspect of the game, even cut scenes suck 
 (cars, common enemies, citizens, some buildings, anything up close looks crap) . The music is the 
 only strong point of the game but may get tedious hearing the same sounds over and over again. 
 I guess Superman is cursed to never put out a great game. Stick with Spiderman games. Dont buy 
 this, if you must play, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  The character, Kal-El, or Superman as he is more famously known, is one of my all-time favorite 
 comic book heroes. Christopher Reeve is the one who really sucked me into the whole universe however. 
 Once again, sadly, game developers manage to turn one of my favorite heroes into nothing more than 
 a pile of crap.
  
  Superman Returns: The Videogame is based on the really crappy 2006 movie of the same name... except 
 for The Videogame part. The movie puts Brandon Routh, without a doupt the sissiest Superman since 
 Dean Cain into the famous blue tights. The game loosely follows the plot of the movie and instead 
 follows the comics instead, which is a godsend. The only thing that actually does resemble the 
 movie in any way is the level of dookie.
  
  You play as Superman, of course, that goes to his home planet of Krypton only to find that it has 
 been destroyed. He is the last Kryptonian. Somehow though, his father, Jor-El, manages to guide 
 him from the dead at the legendary Fortress of Solitude . You fly around Metropolis and fight robots. 
 THAT IS IT! Of course you do run the crappy speed courses from Superman 64.
  
  Actually, the only good thing about this game is Metropolis. You can fly around to you hearts content 
 until, of course, some robots show up. The city has a lot of life and color to it. It is very large, 
 and is broken into 5 parts like the Hyper Section, the upper class, and the Waste Section, basically 
 the ghetto.
  
  The combat is without a doubt the worst thing in this game. You have about 4 basic button-mashing 
 combos and 5 or 6 combo which involve using your powers. The enemies are very basic and the AI 
 is attrocious. Your powers are actually kind of fun when you get the short but very powerful bursts 
 of heat, wind, or ice. It's really too bad that they couldn't have added more powers, or enemies 
 for that matter. There are Metallo's bots and that is about it.
  
  The sound is also quite terrible despite having all the cast members including Brandon Routh and 
 Kevin Spacey. The music is a looping, annoying song. The sounds of combat are even worse as everything 
 sounds the same. The powers do have some variety. The heat sounds like an oven being turned on, 
 the wind sounds like a bad storm, and the ice sounds like someone opening a freezer.
  
  Despite having been a major comic book hero for going on 70+ years, game developers cannot get 
 it right. Every single Superman game that has came out has been an atrocious, hideous, laughable, 
 gag gift at best. This game actually made me hate Superman. Steer far, far, FAR away from this 
 piece of crap and go watch Smallville . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: max_kildare
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  bought superman and finished it in the same day over about 5 hours, waste of time, effort and money. 
 you would have thought they could have put a few fun things in like lookin into buildings with 
 x-ray vision at women gettin changed or bein able to throw people around and set them on fire, 
 but oh no all you can do is fight the same crappy robots or clones or whatever over an over again. 
 This was the biggest waste of money ever trust me, you want my advise get GEARS OF WAR. this is 
 my first review and i need to make it longer to post so i could go on about how crap superman is 
 and how much of a let down to DC comics it is but i really cant be bothered cos it really annoys 
 me how good it could have been and obviously how little time and effort the designers actually 
 put into a game thats on a next gen console! idiots is all i can say and still be able to post 
 this...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wesley_quik40
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  well tha game game superman returns sucks alot of ass b/c tha graphics r **** it doesn't compare 
 to tha other hero franchise's. almost all off EA's games r good xcept this **** game. tha gameplay 
 is horrible and unreal, it says u can go anywhere u want but u can't. when u first get the chance 
 to fly at super speed ur most likely gonna fly straight up to see how high u can get. well you 
 will be pretty disspointed to know that u can't go in space. tha only thang is barely good about 
 tha game is that tha flying looks ok. im not gonna say to much but it just sucks dick thats all 
 im gonna say and its a waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midivox
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Hi All. I was hoping Superman Returns the Videogame would be as much fun as the Spiderman XBox 
 games. No such luck. Superman Returns is Last Gen, way Last Gen. Its obvious from the game design, 
 cut scenes, how it loads, how it plays, Superman Returns was designed for the PS2 and just shovelware 
 ported to every other platform. The game has a complete lack of freedom as to where you can go 
 and what you can do. You never once believe you are Superman and interacting with a sandbox world 
 of fun. Controls are sluggish, death for a fighting game. Even the flying controls are delayed 
 and like lead. A complete lack of design imagaintion went into this game from Day 1. There is not 
 even a simple Free Flight Mode where Superman can fly around and do things. Very few enviromental 
 objects can be interacted with at all. I will be kind to the game designers and blame the hardware 
 limitations of the PS2. But even given that, it is not even a very good PS2 game. Rent this one 
 and try to last until you unlock the part of the game where you can enter the Cheat Codes and then 
 view the cut scenes and return the game and buy Marvel Ultimate Alliance, which is a AAA List superhero 
 fighting game. Superman Returns is barely a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  Oh man, I never thought you could screw up this bad on a Superman game in this day and age, but 
 I have been proven wrong, horribly. This game has so many things wrong with it, its mind-blowing:
 
  
  Gameplay: 4/10
  
  Probably the worst thing about this game is its camera, and thats saying alot considering how much 
 is wrong with the game. First off, the camera is so uncontrollable, you find yourself begging that 
 it stays on superman in combat. Thats right, while your fighting 15 enemies that are HUGE, the 
 camera decides that its a good time to windowshop in the city. But thats just the beginning, since 
 the combat is so broken, its crazy. The first thing you see is that superman likes to punch air.... alot.... and 
 he usually likes to do it in front of the said 15 enemies. Even when those punches hit their mark 
 on rare occasions, they are met with a block from the enemy. The enemies then proceed to punch 
 the crap out of you for about 30 seconds while 8 of them destory the city. Seeing how the city 
 is your health, this blows. Now comes the worst part, killing enemies become even more frusterating 
 when they take forever to die. Sure, there are like 3 enemies in the game that die easy, but the 
 rest take forever. this becomes a problem when you are searching for those 100 kittens. O yea, 
 another great aspect of this game is that you are searching for 100 kittens, and when a battle 
 triggers, you can NOT pick up kittens. You know how much this sucks when you find one kitten (A 
 task all on its own in this HUGE city of nothing) , then being forced to fight multiple enemies 
 about one mile away, only to find out that after the battle you forgot where the freakin cat was? 
 infreakin' believable. I guess there is a good side to the game, however. The first would be flying. 
 This works remarkably well. And the mini games Fast flyer and Bizarro are pretty good as well, 
 but nothing worth your time. Graphics: 6/10
  
  I guess they put some effort into this game here. The game does not look ugly, but its no Gears 
 of War. The graphics borderline Xbox quality and Xbox 360 quality. It depends on what your looking 
 at when comparing its graphics.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  
  meh. You will find yourself liking the songs, but after a while, you figure its the same god damn 
 track throughout the entire game. The Voice acting is decent, but Superman's one-liners are so 
 repeditive, you won't even notice. super speed noises are pretty sweet, since they have this awesome 
 mach sound, and gets better as sound is broken and soon gone when your going faster than the speed 
 of sound (an incredible feeling the first time you do it.)
  
  Value: 1/10
  
  There is no value for this game. This game will live with its retarded brother known as Superman 
 64 forever. Superman fans will once again be broken hearted to see this game sucks, but happy to 
 know that it doesn't suck as much as Superman 64. Achivement whores will find the achivements to 
 be pure suckitude. two of them, lift 10,000 tons and fly 10,000 miles, are so time consuming, they 
 don't even seem worth it. The tons one sucks because items in the game only go up to 66k in POUNDS, 
 meaning you have to lift 2 MILLION pounds and those 66k pound items appear only once in the game. 
 things in metropolis only go up to 22k, so there is the time consumer. the flying 10,000 miles 
 is even more suckitude. when you complete the story mode, which is only 5 hours long, you have 
 about 800-1000 miles flown. Congratulations, you have another 9,000 to go. Thats like a freakin 
 homework assignment. the fastest way to get the flying achivement is to have superman go his full 
 800 MPH speed, and that will take about 12 hours. so fly 12 hours nonstop. good luck (I recommend 
 looking up the rubberband trick) .
  
  Tilt: 6/10
  I like the game for being so sucky, but I also like flying around as Superman in a game that actually 
 has a cool concept of flying to it. Its just that there is absolutely squat to do in the game after 
 8 hours with it. The kitten searching is better done with just a guide, since finding them on your 
 own will take over 20 hours, which just doesn't seem worth it. The story mode is even more crappy. 
 The movie license is used by having the cutscenes be CGI remakes of events in the movie. Lex Luther 
 and Louise Lane never show there face in the game except for these cutscenes. The game feels like 
 your just being superman on a random day, and the cutscenes are just there to give the game some 
 funding.
  
  Overall: 4.6/10.0
  
  Another crappy superman title that will remembered as the next generation Superman 64 . O well, 
 superman, looks like you suck once again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  when i opened the game i was like hell yes! no health bar! now we're talkin'!!
  
  so after i played this game for about 15 minutes (and already THIRTY PERCENT THROUGH THE GAME) 
 i was like this game is sweet! flying at super high speeds is amazing! using all superman's powers 
 to freeze cars and burn cars and stuff is friggin' sweet! 
  
  after 20 minutes i was like this is pretty cool... but i'm waiting for something new to do... oh 
 cool there are speed races... wait a second i stop at the atmosphere ? damn... oh man... i can't go 
 underwater somehow? what the crap... i'm superman and i'm flying at supersonic speed and i get stopped 
 cold when i hit the side of a PILLAR holding up the railway?
  
  after 25 minutes i removed the game from my 360, placed it back in the case and marked it trade-in 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HumanoMexicano
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Aha a hha hahh aah ahah hah ahah ahaha ha aha haha ha ah ah ah ah aahhh a! I wanna die now! This 
 game is garbage and a waste of money it seems EA has done a great job of messing up games lately. 
 If you are a dc fan and you still like this theres is something wrong with you. You fly so retarded 
 here and there and the bosses make SOOO much sence. A Tornado? Ohhh you hurt the city you hurt? 
 The f#ck? And the stupid you is playable? Bizzaro! God he is annoying. My brain hurts after playing 
 this for 32 minutes. My money went to hell and burned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightSlayer45
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  overall this was a good game but it was too short and all you do through the entire game is fly 
 around at super speed, blow out fires, beat up some robots and fight dragons. it still could of 
 been  i was really hoping this game could of prove me 
 wrong but it  hulk incredible ultimate destruction 
 in my opinion was better at least game play wise, when playing as superman trying to do different 
 combos frustrating,  
 i mean seriously the easiest and maybe the only move that actually did some damage in the game. 
 the graphics are good at least on superman but everything else seems alright since this this is 
 a free roaming game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznNvazn75
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  I thought it was pretty good i guess except for a few minor things. They had some good elements 
 i mean its better than the other superman games just some of the stuff they have you do really 
 sucks. It has really great gameplay just the camera and some other stuff like the flying controls 
 sometimes throws you off. I was fighting a mini boss and when i was in mid-air i got confused because 
 the camera and the flying controls threw me off on where to go. Otherwise it had really good elements 
 to how well it played considering on how repetative the gameplay gets at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceman101
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Millions of city goers all in need of a saver. I just didn't know i be fight robots the the whole 
 time. I don't by the whole superman games are evil suff, but this game is pretty bad. Before i 
 go into that, first lets go into what is fun, soaring around the city for a few hours (360 has islands) 
 is sort of fun, but when you find out that you can not kill people or go inside buildings or anything, 
 but you can fight robots, may sound fun, but try doing it over and over and over and over and over 
 and over and over and over and over again yeah its like that. But hey Lois is pretty hot. So my 
 adivce is to rent it first and enjoy flying over the city, fight a few robots, save some kittens, 
 or drop them off a tall building you leap up in a single bound. Then return it. I will give it 
 some tilt because i am a superman fan, but rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorilla_killa
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Agh I can't belive im evening writhing a review for this this is just eye candy but the rest can 
 just be worth less I hate everthing and im not a hater but this should of been released nowhere 
 it better than superman 64. Just can't belive the wait and all that wait and I get a crappy game 
 it has no meaning dosen't follow the movie story line the game looks good but that over realy soon 
 the game would of got a better score if it was just savein people and things flying around and 
 ect. it shouldn't have a story line just save people that what superman dose. I got just cause 
 i felt like it then in 15 minute of playin it even my dad and moms said that not a good game is 
 it ? so I just went to eb games and sold it like that didn't even care if i got a penny for it 
 then I just bought with the 20 bucks I got for it and bought my self a xbox 360 sticker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reya10276
Rating: 3.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Oh what can I say, when I first saw the images of Superman Returns on GameFan Magazine I was happy 
 as hell. I got happier when I read the article and how it described the game and the game world 
 BUT WTF happen to the finish version. Let me just say it is horrible and when I say horrible I 
 mean everything. For some reason game developers just can't seem to get a Superman game right.
 
  
  Graphics
  ------------------------
  The graphics are ok but they could have looked better, I felt like I was playing a regular Xbox 
 game. Some characters however showed the details and look really good like Next-Gen, yet everything 
 else did not.
  
  Sound
  -----------------------
  The sound was decent yet repetitive I though they would have different tracks but it seems that 
 they did not put any effort into it.
  
  Controls
  -----------------------
  Oh boy this is where this game let's you down big time. You can't control the man of steel even 
 when you try. The controls are eratic and the camera does not help at all the damn thing is all 
 over the place. That 4.5 GameSpot gave it is shocking considering how bad it is. Also they should 
 have implemented an auto save feature because the game is frustrating enough to have to start all 
 over again, sepcially when your fighting against Metallo.
  
  Bottom Line
  -----------------------
  This Game SUCKS!! with all Caps. I will not even rent it unless your 
 an extreme comic book fan or just have some time to waste. Man I rented this and I'm hating myself 
 for doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhatFarm99
Rating: 3.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  k.... come on.... look at it a character named bizzaro... thats the complete opposite to superman.... the 
 game is crap all the pedestrians in the game are the same person...... and the buildings look like 
 aluminum foil they shine so unrealistically..... I hat it so much the only good thing i can say 
 is that the boss's look cool....
  
  its like they half assed it...
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Thanks for reading my sweet review haha
  
  lol I think that this game is a huge piece of crap.
  
  well ados (I'm just adding all this 
 extra garbage at the bottom because I wrote a short review
  
  ok then thanks again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osubuckeye2490
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge Superman fan and looked forward to this game ever since I heard it was coming out. I 
 got it the first day it came out, and was so excited to play it. A mere 4 &frac12; hours later 
 I had already beaten the game.... was I happy? Anything but happy. I was more frustrated and disappointed. 
 All of the hype and excitement to play as Superman was gone before I knew it. Completely disgusted 
 to be more precise. First, we have to deal with a delay from June to November, and I feel like 
 EA did not even fix up the game, more that they just wanted the fans to wait a little more. Maybe 
 its just that I had such high expectations for the game, but when you break it down, heres what 
 it consists of:
  
  -19 chapters of so much repetitiveness that it would drive a unborn infant crazy
  
  -Superman 
 and his powers (minus super hearing and x-ray vision) , which along with the 80 square mile map 
 are about the only positives in this game
  
  -The Villains consist of Mongul, Metallo, Riot, Bizarro, and 3 tornadoes (Lex Luthor and Mr. Mxyztplk 
 arent really considered enemies)
  
  -2 unlockable suits 
  
  -Playable Bizzaro mode
  
  -100 kittens to find
  
  For a game that had to be pushed back 5 months, there should have 
 been so much more to do.
  
  Lets start with the overall plot of the game -- o wait, it feels like there is none. Yes, EA said 
 its loosely based off of the movie, but for those who have played this game it didnt feel like 
 the movie at all. You take out the video clips and there is no tie-in to the movie. You basically 
 move on from one boss to another, and not one point does anything tie in. About the only thing 
 that you can relate all of the chapters too is that it's the same thing over and over again; mindless 
 and very repetitive fighting with different creatures, dragons, or robots. There's no Clark Kent. 
 No saving Lois falling from a building. Theres no saving Jimmy Olsen from a villain or a burning 
 building (although there is a lot of saving burning buildings, again, repetition.) . EA should have 
 made it dynamic; why not throw in the Plane scene from the movie? why not have superman race to 
 the bottom of the ocean to save a sinking ship? WHY NOT HAVE SUPERMAN (MANUALLY, NOT FROM A VIDEO 
 CLIP) THROW NEW KRYPTON INTO OUTER SPACE? Instead, the last 3-5 minutes of the game is a nice video 
 for you to watch because the workers at EA didnt want you to save Lois from the sinking ship, 
 or like I said, have to maneuver New Krypton into space. That would have added some more time on 
 to the embarrassing amount of gameplay. I cant even read 19 chapters of a lengthy book in the 
 time it took me to beat this game. EA should have took more of this into consideration when making 
 this game, the fact that buyers wouldnt want to play a very repetitive game. 
  Next, lets move on to the man of steel himself and the city in which he protects: Metropolis.
 
  
  Ahhh, weve seem to hit a little bit of a bright spot in the darkness that is Superman Returns: 
 The Videogame. Overall, Superman moves great, although at times the flying and super speed controls 
 can feel a little too sensitive. The superpowers look fantastic and are a nice touch. And although 
 at times you feel like thats actually you flying at 800 mph, and as every review adds, nothing 
 beats flying super speed weaving in and out of skyscrapers. Having said that, there stills feel 
 like something is missing. Maybe the fact that you actually dont get all of his powers? Maybe 
 at the time it made sense to leave out x-ray vision at the time, but the consumers want to feel 
 like THEY ARE Superman, including looking through buildings and not being able to see through lead. 
 The people playing this game want the realness of Superman
  
  Adding to Superman, the game is missing half of who he is; Clark Kent. Not once do you get to be 
 the alter-ego of Superman. Many forums talked about how they would like to see mini Clark Kent 
 missions.
  
  Metropolis is as big as everyone expected it to be It was definitely 80 sq. miles. And after flying 
 back and forth and all the way to the stratosphere a couple of times, Metropolis became somewhat 
 of a bore. It was pretty, but thats it. No buildings were accessible to get into, just islands 
 and water. After throwing in the repetitiveness of the gameplay in with the fact theres not even 
 a single building (not even the Daily Planet) to walk into, the game itself becomes even more of 
 a letdown and disappointment. Spiderman 2 let you walk into a few buildings, so everyone expected 
 the same or more in SR, right? And after The Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction that many wanted 
 to break and fly through buildings, am I not correct? Another little add-on that EA forgot. Another 
 key place that was accessible through the select button but not able to fly to was the Fortress 
 of Solitude. Even if the game was the same, what a thrill it would be for a hardcore Superman to 
 actually fly into the Fortress and back. That itself would make the game more enticing than just 
 being able to look at your upgrades behind a picture of the Fortress.
  
  Now to the villains.
  
  It is known to all that Lex Luthor is Supermans greatest foe; NOT 
 a tornado. If that being true, then why must the mastermind be only seen in video clips? To call 
 this a game that captures the 60 year history of Superman is absurd if you dont even include somewhat 
 of gameplay with Lex.
  
  Metallo, Mongul, and Bizarro are very good selections of super-villains to go toe-to-toe with the 
 last son of Krypton. Then EA had to put in the very annoying Riot. Bad move EA. When I think of 
 Supermans greatest foes, even before I get down the list to Bizarro, Mongul, and Metallo, 5 Juggernauts 
 come to mind:
  
  -Lex Luthor- Need I say more?
  
  -Brainiac- Powers rivaling Supes, 12th level intellect, you could go on and on about this him.
 
  
  -Darkseid- Ruler of Apokolips, Im slightly positive he gave Kal-El a little more trouble than 
 Metallo or Mongul.
  
  -Doomsday- Three words: HE KILLED SUPERMAN. Why is he not in this game again?
  
  -General Zod- 
 Swore revenge against Jor-El, I guess you could say Supermans equal, only possible villain that 
 I could see why not in the game (Good ol Christopher Reeve stripped him of his powers in Superman 
 2) .
  
  None, not one of these legendary foes, were involved in a so called game that is rich of 60 years 
 of Superman content. If one of these characters were selected to be the main antagonist in Brian 
 Singers Sequel, then I could see why. But that still leaves 3-4 of Supermans most memorable opponents. 
 Its a shame that they did not get their shot at the man in tights.
  
  The whole time writing this review I kept thinking in my mind 60 years of content, 60 years of 
 content... and all I get are 2 unlockable costumes?? Wheres the pre-crisis, post-crisis, Supes 
 from earth 2, the black recovery suit, supes with long hair, the Kandor suit (which I might add 
 was even an unlockable in Justice League Heroes.) , the red and blue suit, etc. etc. etc. Every 
 fan boy of Superman was looking foward to using all of those costumes he wore over the LAST 60 
 YEARS. 
  
  Then you had the slight bonus of gameplay; Bizarro missions and the races with Mr. Mxyztplk along 
 with the astonishingly  boredom of finding 100 poor helpless kittens.
 
  
  They hyped up this game so much, stating it will have things that only superman could accomplish. 
 Now when that statement was made, thoughts of saving a train came to mind, or flying so fast that 
 he goes back in time. My five year old cousin could save a kitten if he wanted to. And here they 
 have the most powerful hero who can shoot fire from his eyes, actually saving kittens. Id still 
 rather play Spiderman 2 and save the balloons for the children then make myself rescue kittens 
 with Superman.
  
  All in all, I believe that the people at EA have slacked off in the quality of games they produce. 
 They had a unique chance to revive a true hero from his dark and embarrassing gaming past. And 
 although this is the best Superman game to date, that is still not saying much. Electronic Arts 
 missed out on a great opportunity with so much potential, but what good is potential if you dont 
 put it to good use? Maybe one day we will all get to see a truly remarkable Superman game, but 
 the wait still goes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madrigals
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 2, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Just when you thought they couldn't ruin another Superman game, EA does just that. Well, I guess 
 we should have expected that. Movie themed video games rarely ever live up to a standard of excellence 
 and are often just a way for studios to cash in on the film's name. Well hopefully, they didn't 
 even make any money on this trash.
  
  Imagine a GTA sized map with PS2 graphics capabilities, repetitive gameplay, and a story line that 
 falls flat on it's face, throw in a rush job by the hard working EA and you got the recipe for 
 Superman Returns for Xbox 360. At first the game is kind of fun. Flying at high speeds with motion 
 blur to help the illusion, Super powers that you know and love, and free roam gameplay. Then you 
 start the notice that the textures are more akin to Superman 64, the environment is dull and uninspired, 
 and the gameplay seems to be the same exact thing over and over again. You would think with games 
 like Saints Row there would be a graphics standard for sand- box free roam games. I guess they 
 didn't get the memo. I mean with titles like Gears of War pushing the 360 fairly hard and achieving 
 a new level of next generation graphics, Superman Returns might as well be a Playstation game. 
 And that's PS1 not PS2. I wish there was more good things I could say about Superman Returns, but 
 it makes it awful hard for me to do so. If you are a die hard fan of Superman games or Superman 
 in general then you may like this game. If not, this game doesn't really have much to offer anyone 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Better than Superman 64 (although everything is)
  ==========
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: City is bland // City looks pretty rough // City is green!? // ============ 
 Superman has no health!!?!? // Story is a complete mess // ============ Combat is simplistic and 
 dull and the list goes on ...
  
  Superman hasn't had a particularly good life, with every actor to portray him either dead or suffering 
 some kind of horrific disorder, his films (while popular) undergoing numerous slander for sexual 
 discrimination (don; t get me started) and of course Superman 64, which received the second lowest 
 GS rating of all time ... 1.3. But recently, EA has brought the secrewed up life of Superman, to 
 next-gen, and haven't cut him much slack.
  
  I could go into a long detailed list on all the bad things in the game, and I will. Combat is boring, 
 city is empty (and has a weird tint of green) , story is a complete catastrophe, which hardly ties 
 in with the movie, and Superman has no health gauge, instead, their is a gauge which measures the 
 city's health, and when it reaches zero, Superman is sad : (
  
  EA manages to wreck a superb movie-license, which Superman will never reover from. This game is 
 completely broken, it's not worth your time or money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoMato
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 1, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Superman is a very famous SuperHero Comic guy, thats why we love him. But in this game he is just 
 a crappy, boring, flying guy. To start off: Graphics: Their ok but the building detail isn't much well 
 done.
  
  Sound/Music: The Bgm is well done because it makes you fill like a real superhero.
  
  Gameplay: So 
 repetitive you would rather beat your head on the wall till you get knocked out. Yeah, it's very 
 fun the first 30 minutes of it, but when you fight the same robots, carish robots, flying robots, dragons, mutants 
 and bosses.. it gets so repetitive. Yeah, it is cool to fly around and look at the city, but since 
 you have a stupid city hp bar it sucks the fun out of it. If the city takes to much damage, you have 
 to start the mission over. Yeah, sounds stupid doesn't it? Thats cause it is.
  
  Overall: The game is crappy, detail of  head on wall or falling 
 asleep repetitive, Sound/music-Ok.. Since you've red my review, don't buy the game, go find something 
 else to do like play outside or play another game of yours, it's just crappy, crappy, crappy, thats 
 all I can say about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 1, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  &middot; There's a nice enviornment to fly around in and you can actually fly pretty high. You 
 can have sort of a sandbox gameplay, although limited, so it gives you a bit more than just fighting 
 a random robot or two.
  &middot; Freezing people that run away from you is always good. It's fun to freeze the cars and 
 stuff only to hurl them at other vehicles.
  &middot; You can pick up semi trucks. That alone is awesome!
  &middot; Farely decent story for 
 a Superman game.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  &middot; You can hurl hummers across the land but you can't hurl a human? This game is rated Teen 
 so I'm sure they would have let it slide if Superman were allowed to hurl a few humans at the ground 
 or something.
  &middot; Besides Superman, the character models looked like they were designed for 486 Processors 
 (old skool) . They're downright ugly.
  &middot; You can't fly high enough. It's good, but Superman should be able to fly a lot further.
 
  &middot; I didn't like the sounds at all. They seemed like they were recorded for a B-film.
  
  :Overall:
  &middot; If you like Superman and want to play a good game, just act like video 
 games don't exist. You'll still need to wait for a decent Superman game to come around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadshotDavido7
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Words can't describe the load of... GREATNESS this game is. The graphics, Superman looks stunning 
 in that blue spandex and red underwear, and who doesn't like wearing capes? The city is just plain 
 beautiful, and even those ugly aliens look good. The gameplay, the frame rate is in perfect sync, 
 the way Superman beats the living crap out of random villains never fails to put a smile on my 
 face, the objectives are varied and increasingly fun, I could literally just bust my ass playing 
 this masterpiece for days on end. Show your support for the geniuses that made this game, buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIxrubenxIx
Rating: 3.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  0k i'm reviewn this piece of trash beacuase i'm bored ok superman is back and it sucks the graphics 
 are just terrible the gameplay its also very bad and the history guess what it also sucks so this 
 game is i could said is just like the game of N64 and by that i mean that is terrible supermanfans 
 avoid this one really you are not going to find any interesting on this one only glitches and terrible 
 animations if you dont believe me just try the free demo on the marketplace and you will se why 
 i'm giving this piece of Sh....
  a 3.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 3.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Well I am sure most of you have played the demo and if you have you know that you had more fun 
 flying as high as you could and come barreling down to the ground at lightning speeds. That is 
 pretty much the most excitement in this game. You cant even drop civilians from the sky! That would 
 have been awesome! The graphics look like an Xbox game and the controls are even worse. HELP!!!!!!! 
 Save me from the 3 robots? Wash, rinse, REPEAT!!!!!!! Kids dont try this at home.
  
  Graphics - 5
  The actual model of Superman looks just like his movie counterpart but everything 
 else looks crappy
  
  Sound - 6
  Well there is some nice wind sound effects when your flying...... I guess.....
  
  Value - 3
 
  After 30mins of flying around and throwing objects in the air and trying to fly and catch them 
 again you get bored fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximum_maximus
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 30, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Disappointing, unfortunately, this is the case. Superman is needless to say, the number one hero 
 for many fans of the superhero universe. Even though there have been a number of attempts to bring 
 the man of steel to the world of gamming, to this date none of these attempts have even come close 
 to being successful. It seems as tough every development team that tries to create an enjoyable 
 man of steel game, tends to make horribly wrong dictions, one that comes to mind, is the unexplainable 
 desire to change things, or stray away from the comics or the animated series which we are all 
 fans of. The second a dev decides to change something about superman, simply because he wants to 
 add his spin on the worlds biggest Boy Scout and bad guy stomping machine, inevitability enters 
 the equation, the inevitable failure of yet another attempt. So where did the devs go wrong in 
 our latest victim of misplaced innovation? Where should I begin? Well perhaps I should mention 
 the good points of the game. First of all, the environment looks good, some of the buildings are 
 very tall; however, they are all so not very impressive at all, they are simply just there, nothing 
 more nothing less. Right now you are probably asking, what exactly do you want the building to 
 do? Well have you every watched a superman animated series, well if you have I know that you remember 
 what happens when Superman is thrown or when he throws a super villain at a building. One of three 
 things happens, they either goes right through the building causing a massive amount of damage, 
 or they may smash into the building and then it would fall on them and they would have to bust 
 their way out, or on colliding whit a building large chunks of concrete and steel would come smashing 
 to the ground narrowly missing the pedestrians as they scurry about looking for shelter. Which 
 of these scenarios do you think happens in the game? The answer is none of the above, when superman 
 or a villain is thrown into a building a small amount of damage is inflicted upon the building 
 which then automatically regenerated almost instantly. Well, that did not turn out to be a good 
 point. Oh, I know, the streets were filled with cars and emergency vehicles and pedestrians constantly 
 on the move. Wait, well, now that I think about it, the streets were nothing special, in fact, 
 they are all the same in appearance, in size, even the trees that line the streets are all the 
 same. Now do I think about it the vehicles are all the same on every street and even on all the 
 different islands, they dont even look that good and are only good for hitting villains with. 
 Yet another potentially good point turn bad. But I will not give up; I will find that elusive good 
 point. So, let me see, ok I have it, the enemies they where pretty good, well, they where interesting 
 and even entertaining the first six or seven times a group showed up. However they were always 
 the same enemies and when the story moves on and the enemies changed they were somewhat the same. 
 Ok, I know I said that I would not give up, but I must. Ok, this is it, I think that I have found 
 something, superman himself ok, but how can you go wrong the character design has already been 
 done for you, one can simply not go wrong. I will say that the flying was impressive and there 
 was a feeling of moving through the air at a great speed, they have hit the flying on the head, 
 it is very entertaining. However and unfortunately that is simply not enough to make this attempt 
 at the man of steel a success, to bad, I so wanted this to be the one, well, maybe next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 30, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  What an incredible license to use as the basis for a game! Superman has everything a game designer 
 can dream of, to make a thrilling experience. Imagine flying at super speed, seeing through buildings, 
 use your heat vision, and enough power to even move the earth itself should it be necessary (yes, 
 he actually did this at one point int he series) .
  
  I was a Superman fan as a kid, and this kid is still inside wanting the game to be great. First 
 impression was quite awesome, flying around miles over Metropolis at amazing speed chasing meteors 
 was a rush...
  
  ... for about one minute...
  
  Then you notice the awkward controls. They just feel off, and I continuously ended up doing something 
 I did not want to do. What a sad experience, having all the powers and freedom in the world, then 
 take off to fly off into space - except you don't because you accidentally fly in the wrong direction 
 and into a building instead, hitting a window obviously made of 10 meter thick steel that makes 
 mighty superman bounce off like some bug instead of shattering.
  
  The controls gives you no sense of control, hence give you no sense of freedom or superpower. If 
 you get over this, you have to suffer the totally random story that tosses you back and forth without 
 purpose. I felt no sense of real achievement, and Supermans powers just did not feel very super 
 when he had to whack a badbuy in the early stages about 100 times before he finally fainted.
  
  The animations are poor, the city looks dull and lifeless and it is basically nearly unplayable 
 and very unsatisfying.
  
  So sad to see yet another great IP turn out to be nothing, just a big brand full of nothing... 
 Yet, I bet it will sell tons of copies, encouraging the sellers to do this over and over and over 
 again. Do everyone a favor, don't buy this game! Maybe next time they will be forced to make a 
 decent game instead of this crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsiper
Rating: 1.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  AAAAAHHHHH I had such hi hopes for this game. The 360 the power the un equaled power that is there 
 to tap for a superhero game. But what happend? We all unfortunately remember Suckerman 64 my goodness 
 how or why can't we forget it, thats easy because terrible games such as this constantly rear their 
 ugly heads at us!!! We all hoped that this game would take the formula that Spiderman 2 the game 
 had used and suped it up but it just didn't take. The only thing super about this game is the amount 
 of Suckage that it pulls off. Image 80 square miles of explorable space, free roaming, and an awsome 
 liscence to go with it. Now put that all in EA s weak unimaginative hands and you come up with 
 a half baked money maker thats only target is to fool unsuspecting comic fans into buy this overpriced 
 Superman 64!!!!
  
  Remember EA said that Gears of war was unimaginitave and not very good. Wow I think they were really 
 talking about this game as mentiond in the review the graphics are very superficial and without 
 any artistic detail. Metropilis doesn't ever convience you that it is a living breathing city with 
 any real conciquences. The worst part is that it really could have been something. Gears of war 
 that game that EA hates, It definetely makes you feel the sadness of a world that was and no longer 
 is, you can tell that it is living in its last days barely breathing on life support as it is. 
 So do not buy this game unless you feel like wiping a dirty diaper with 70 dollars. Maybe rent 
 it for some easy achivements, but you will still waist your time and for that EA should sincerely 
 apoligize. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game should have been released on the original XBOX because the graphics scream old school! 
 They are cartoony and far from next-gen. I will admit I had some fun with the game but the bad 
 outweighs the good. I could have suffered through the whole game. The achievements were pretty 
 easy and an easy few hundred. But I had to return the game and exchange it. I just couldn't take 
 it. How many robots that look exactly alike can you battle in one game? I completed almost half 
 the game becaue I wanted to give it a decent try. I read the bad reviews and thought well I want 
 to decide for myself. And I did. It's fun flying around and picking up cars and hurling them at 
 the enemy and you have heat vision, and some massive breath power! Freeze stuff with your breath 
 or blow enemies to the moon! Also you can mash a bunch of button combos for some melee fighting. 
 It's not terrible but it's far from great. Definitely rent it or play the demo first. Do not buy 
 it from somewhere you can't exchange it..... I warn you. Unless you are a die-hard Superman collector 
 you probably won't want to keep it for long. Oh my goodness..... will anyone ever do Superman the 
 justice he deserves and develop a really worthwhile and amazing next-generation Superman video 
 game? I place the challenge now to developers heverywhere!!! Please!!! Make us a good Superman 
 game!!! The sad thing is this is an EA game...... I thought for sure it would be a good game and 
 I was looking forward to it for so long. Crap....... very disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rome240
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I decided to add my own little spice to the mix. I've read that some were disappointed by the music 
 in the game, not having any original superman themes. Well that's the wonderful thing about the 
 360, I have a few tracks from the soundtrack of the original movie. I ripped the tracks to the 
 360 turned down the in game music completely and played my Superman tracks through out my game 
 play. I will say it was a little more satisfying to hear the heroic music and flying through Metropolis. 
 If there's anyone still playing this game, give it try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drum9876
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game fails in all aspects. I myself were looking for an excellent game to honor chrisotpher 
 reed. Well that sure didnt happen terrible gameplay the only thing this thing has going for it 
 is PS1 graphics. Dont spend your money, but if you really want it get the movie not the game. This 
 game trys to capture what games like spiderman almost had the free run around the city. This game 
 shouldent even be able to carry the superman name unfortunaly it is a major waste of sixty bucks 
 and yur much better off buying a game like gears, fear, rainbow6 and your probly better off even 
 getting viva pinata 2 thumbs way way way down :- ( ;- ( tisss tiss i expected more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidtabor5
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Unless you are just hell bent on hating this game you will have fun no matter what. This game my 
 not be worth $60 but it is definetly worth $45-$50 the gameplay is great even if you beat the game 
 the graphics may not be great but the gameplay and sound make up for it. I have a friend who hates 
 superman because he says he is to powerful to be cool but when he played this he wanted to watch 
 the movie and if you have other games you probably wont play this game all the time anyway. This 
 game is worth atleast An 8.1 not a 4.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I dont like excuses so dont let this sound too much like one. I have seen better uses of a license 
 before (Spiderman 2) . I have seen better uses of a Super hero tie in game (Marvel Alliance &amp; 
 X-man legends) . But I have not seen a better Next Gen version of a sandbox free roaming environment 
 game. That in itself is a feat. I know the graphics could use a touch up but I mean everyone is 
 comparing it to games that dont offer the super powers &amp; super flight aspects of Superman, 
 the physics engine itself is grand and exciting. Im a picky gamer and some games I buy, I hate, 
 and they get great ratings. I think this is a case of over expectation on the parts of review writers 
 and magazine journalists. Im an avid gamer and have played a lot of games in my past. Ive played 
 a lot worse than Superman. Ive played much much worse than Superman. I bought the first 360s 
 when they came out (last Nov) and this game is much better than any of the first round of next 
 gen games. It might not be up to par with Gears or Rainbow but dam everything cannot be a freakin 
 shooter. I want my Super Next Generation box to do more than just shoot things. Im tired of shooting 
 things. Superman is a great break from the monotony and very welcome one at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: argnoowarp
Rating: 2.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  Got bored with the receptiveness of the game play before finishing the training mission! Went back 
 to it a week later thinking; it cant have been that bad the War World mission is worse, dispatching 
 increasing annoying minions one after the other, after the other, after the other... Yawn.
  
  Downloaded the demo from XBOX Live and played it once telling myself that it wasnt an accurate 
 representation of the final game it would be good better than the Batman Returns game.
  
  The game seems to consist of randomly hitting buttons in the vain hope that something happens.
 
  
  Do yourself a favor and save 40 quid, dont buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGreen15LA
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  As A Superman fan (a fan who apprieciates the character. I can't tell you all the mythos associated 
 with the character) I wanted to give this as good a review as possible without being biased...
 
  
  Superman Returns had all the potential of going above and beyond, setting a new benchmark in free 
 roaming games. However, it takes a big step back instead of leaping forward.
  
  Before getting into the bad, I'll talk about the good. First, Metropolis, the obvious star of the 
 game, is vast and huge, filled with prominent towers and highways weaving through the city. Secondly, 
 Superman's dynamics (his powers, especially flight and super speed) are spot on and truly give 
 you the feel of shattering the sound barrier as Superman races along. Thirdly, the soundtrack is 
 almost as good as a movie score and even though there's no sign of the Superman Theme, the soundtrack 
 in the game is good enough to add to the heroic feel.
  
  Now for the bad:
  
  First: While Metropolis is a huge environment, there's very little interaction with the plaewr 
 and the environment. I would think that the people of the city would actually say something when 
 the see Superman flying overhead, or even standing right next to them. Speaking of the people, 
 they look downright awful, especially for the power the 360 has to offer. Second: The hand to hand 
 combat controls can't really keep up with Superman's speed. The combo fighting moves are actually 
 a good idea, allowing for some variety between hand-to-hand and super powers. Third: (And most 
 important) For a game with this much hype, it was WAY to short. There have been reports of people 
 beating this game in less than 8 hours and, quite frankly, that isn't worth my $60, especially 
 if this is supposed to be an open ended, sandbox game where you can do anything and everything.
 
  
  Now, don't get me wrong, Superman Returns does have it's moments of fun, but, sadly, those quickly 
 fade away. I do see a ray of light, however. Hopefully, this is a template for future sandbox style 
 super hero games where you can explore a huge city and fight with anyone, be it simple robbers 
 to complex super villains.
  
  Calling this game a complete failure, in my eyes, is a bit off and I think GameSpot giving it a 
 4.5 was harsh. Superman Returns does have brief flashes of greatness, but it's sandwiched between 
 lackluster graphics that don't take the 360 to the limit and a shotty story (or lack thereof) with 
 ridiculously repetitive gameplay. I would recommend this for SERIOUSLY hardcore fans, and even 
 some of them may be turned off by this game. Since I'm not a fan of renting ANYTHING, I would wait 
 for the price to come down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STiRacer01
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that will be appreciated by the people who are avid superman fans. It's 
 gameplay is mediocre, but decent. And the flying is a definite plus. Cruising above metropolis 
 as 800 mph is always fun! The super powers are simple, and his ability to fight is .... well.... 
 expected. The environment damage is actually a litte inferior to most open environment games, and 
 explosions could have been a little more dramatic. I would say the best part of the game is the 
 soundtrack. The transition to different music as you get higher in the air is almost flawless, 
 as well as the decent back to the ground. I would say that if you love superman, and are ok with 
 a game that is infact very repetative, wait a month or two, this will definitely go down in price. 
 If you are just curious about the game, it would be very safe to rent, take it home, and try it 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paynehos
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun but very repetitive and its annoying at time since fighting the same kind of 
 minions over and over. Some of the side games are pretty good like racing the funny looking guy 
 around the city but other then that its not worth it. The Graphics are pretty good not the best 
 but at least it gives you a since of a big city and when up high you can see everything except 
 the people and the music is great with good sound from down low with the city moving around to 
 up in the sky where all you hear is wind. This much makes the game better but still doesnt solve 
 the repetitive missions in game. I would recommend picking up another game since you wont have 
 much fun with this except flying through the city. So far Ive put out fires but havent had to 
 rescue anyone jumping of buildings or falling off which would have been fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hero6969
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I was so looking forward to playing this game, but I was not impressed by what I saw. At first 
 this game had some promise, the soundtrack is fairly decent, although when compared to other games 
 it is nothing special. The graphics are not bad but by the 360 standards of Oblivion and Gears 
 of War they are pretty poor it must be said. They have tried to make a decent game here but it 
 has just not worked, the huge city at first seems like a good idea but this gets very tiresome 
 very quickly as there is just nothing to do. This game is extremely repetitive as all you seem 
 to do is fight those annoying robots, and you just think 'what is the point' and this becomes tiresome 
 more quickly than the vast but boring city. Also what is with the truly dreadful camera, rarely 
 you can see yourself due to the cars and trees etc that are in your way, this extremely frustrating 
 and is perhaps the most annoying thing in the game. And for my last point I will mention the ridiculous 
 boss battles, first of all why would you wanting to fight tornados, yes thats right tornados and 
 also what sense does it make for you to stand right in front of a missile, yep for one boss battle 
 you have to just stand and let a missile hit you, to trigger a cutscene, this pointless exercise 
 took me hours to figure out and believe me the cutscene was not worth waiting for. Overall this 
 is a truly dreadful that might be worth renting, but certainly dont spend your hard earned money 
 on this pathetic excuse for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golph
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  To say I had high hopes for this game is an understatement. From the release of the first xbox 
 360 engine driven trailer released months ago, I stalked every gaming and superman site for every 
 clip of the developing product until its release. It appeared the game was going to be amazing.
 
  
  I must say that what the game does, it does well. The feeling of flight exuding from my 50 HDTV 
 and surround sound is enough bring me off the couch into that floating squat mode not achieved 
 since the original Mario Kart for Super Nintendo. The fighting is what one would expect with the 
 occasional super-feat of throwing a robot several street blocks or toppliong a tower on a yellow 
 menace (Mongul in Warworld) .
  
  Unfortunately, the game pretty much stops there. You zoom around the city, smack up some thugs, 
 throw things at the boss, watch a cut scene, zoom around the city, smack up... you get the picture.
 
  
  The most promising aspect advertised early on was the fact that you had to save the city. After 
 destroying the bad guys, I expected to have to fix the damage done by them and heal the city. Instead, 
 the game explodes all the debris and you just have to deal with the diminished city health bar 
 until entering a new chapter. It gets frustrating after a while, because the cities life meter 
 just turns into a crude count down clock that you can only defeat by beating the baddies fast enough. 
 But generally speaking, the faster you beat up the badguys, the more liberal you are with your 
 powers, the faster you yourself destroy the city, and thus the clock ends up ticking faster and 
 Superman turns into more the enemy than the badguys.
  
  I really believe that this game was headed in the right direction but was never fully realized. 
 The save the city aspect seems only partially implemented (the stop-clock quagmire listed above 
 or the fact that putting injured civilians near, on, or under amublances doesn't seem to do anything) 
 and the lack of meaningful sidequests kills the replay value of the game.
  
  Though the majority of the review is negative, I still reccomend that die-hard Superman fans pick 
 this game up at the store. The game does a great job of bring the Man of Steel ['s] powers to your 
 fingertips in an immensely satisfying way. For everyone else, it is worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonylew
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 27, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  I loved GTA. I loved Spiderman 2. I had high hopes for this game. For what it's worth, I probably 
 spent a good amount of time just flying around this enormous city zipping across and just getting 
 the feel of being Superman in this game. But all that keeps getting interrupted by the Metallo 
 story arcs as his little minions start to trash the city, I zip back down to ground level to fight 
 them off.
  
  The game starts off kind of in the right direction, weaving the movie and then putting in side 
 stories in (where did Superman go when he left Earth to visit Krypton?) and when he returns what's 
 going on with all these things attacking the city? Things slowly start to fall apart when random 
 monsters start attacking the city and I'm just doing the same exact thing for three hours -- chasing 
 robots around. There aren't any missions I can take by will, things just get thrown into my direction 
 and it's not even enjoyable anymore at that point because it's repeating the same monsters. The 
 story is messed around too much because it's split up into so many segments with random story arcs 
 from the Superman comic universe thrown in you kind of just question yourself why it's happening 
 after this and that.
  
  The combat system is ok. Lots of combos to learn and use and some of them are pretty cool. Like 
 that Supernova move where he does like an arcane explosion (WoW reference) and any enemy no top 
 of Superman gets blown off him and the scene goes a little slow motion which is nice! When I'm 
 diving down onto an enemy, instead of charging into them and landing on ground, I can end up sliding 
 800 miles behind them. Thanks to the bad camera it may take me about a few more seconds to turn 
 around and zip back to them. I wished landing and going into mid-air was easier and more fluid.
 
  
  Overall, this game is worth a rental and not purchase in my experience. Nothing you'd want to play 
 over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokurocks2442
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Superman returns is one of those games that will get you saying Wow i wished i rented it first 
 Ecspecially if you were stoked for the game then played it and hated it. Superman returns makes 
 you save the city and if you don't and ignore it then you obviously have to start over which keep 
 in mind sucks!
  
  The textures suck in this game and flying at full speed and hitting a building is not fun but annoying. 
 What is good though is you get to use most of supermans power. Heat vision, Ice breath, Wind breath. 
 You can run fast but not as fast as clark can in smallville. You run at around 200mph and fly at 
 around 800mph.
  
  You can go very high above the city and drop and let gravity do its work. The story line is well.... Not 
 intresting and a little corny. In fact most of the things superman say is corny. This game is good 
 and you should definantly check it out but rent it first. Its not one of those games that you will 
 be playing for months i can guarentee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunchbox1991
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Superman Returns isnt THAT bad of a game. It is fun to play the Man of Steel, zooming across Metropolis 
 is fun, Fighting Enemies from your Favorite show is awesome, And some of the Boss battles are pretty 
 cool. But the game gets Repetitve, you fight the same minions ALOT, it gets annoying. But this 
 IS the Best Superman game, the other Ones just Blow, so at least thats something. I am a Fan of 
 Superman so i loved this, but for others it might suck, I recommend Renting it and maby when it 
 lowers to like $20 buy it. All in All, its OK, i give it a 6, 4.5 is a little low but i understand 
 where they are coming from 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rye96
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Superman Returns is definitely not a 4.5! Just look at the grand scale and dynamics of the game. 
 It is fun to fly at superconic speeds as Superman. It has mechanics flaws and other problems but 
 enough nitpicking. It is the best Superman game yet and deserves some love. XBox Live Arcade games 
 get higher scores than that, with horrible graphics and gameplay. A least rent to buy or play the 
 demo. I do have to complain though about not having a jump button. Saving the pedestrians can be 
 tedious too. I do like the combo moves and the super fast flying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  EA has been working on this game for a good long while... we have wanted this game since it was 
 supposed to come out with the theatrical release of the film... but it was delayed due to quality 
 reasons. We thought that would mean that they would take the time to polish up the game and make 
 it the best it can be... We should have known that EA would mess this up. Graphics... This game 
 looks pretty good... it has some pretty nice lighting and Supes looks pretty good considering. I 
 do like the comic feel of the graphics but they could have made supes look a bit less like a plastic 
 toy. Sound.... I like the music in this game... I also like the sound effects. BUT GOD THAT VOICE 
 ACTING!.... it sounds like everyone was just phoning it in really bad and it really kills the immersion. 
 Gameplay.... Boring... repetitive... you kill the same enemies over and over and over till you beat 
 a chapter.. then you kill them some more... it never seems to progress at all and makes for a severe 
 loss of interest. Overall.... This is not a good game... I am very very upset that we got this after 
 all that time and support from fans. rent it when you buy the movie... but take it back... it is 
 not worth keeping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poncho88x
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  Alright from wat i' played so far this game had it in the begining but slows repeats itself. Eventually 
 i feel like im doing a mission based game instead a free-rom go and save ppl around the city game. 
 On the XB360 it looks great but even so, when ur down fighting enemies it just doesnt feel like 
 an 360 game. It kinda feels like i was palyd a 64 movie game. The fightin is kinda choppy and your 
 really just dont feel like superman. All in all for those youngsters and the fans you go out and 
 get this game because your are prolly the only ones that will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boojack
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  What would I do? jump in a pool of mud or play this game? Well neither!! When I played this game 
 at my friends house, my friend told me OH! man this game is sweet, it's like GTA but Your superman 
 and yeah okay I'll play it but once I held that controller and started playing superman I turned 
 to my friend and said Dude.......... you are eh retard for buying this game!!! lol. The flying is 
 okay in the game.. well thats the only good thing because you could fly so hgh and than drop down 
 and slam a building but it doesn't get destroyed which totally sucks because this is superman and 
 he should be able to wipe out a building. All I could say is don't buy this game and don't even 
 think about renting it. EA should have done more on this game to make it good..... just horrible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharpshin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'm pretty confident in saying that Superman Returns: The Videogame is the best Superman 
 game to date. Now gamers will quickly tell you that's a big feat in it's own, but that doesn't 
 make it a good game by regular standards. From the get go Superman Returns has two things working 
 against it, the fact that it's a Superman game and the fact that it's a movie tie-in game. Usually 
 either one of those is enough to ruin a game right off the bat. As a Superman game I would have 
 to say that for the most part this game has succeeded. You do in fact feel like the Man of Steel 
 overall while playing. As most know by now one of the most entertaining aspects of the game is 
 flying, which I believe is done quite well. They seem to have really nailed most of the signature 
 Superman flying poses that mirror what you've seen in the Superman movies. Powers in the game are 
 handled quite well in my opinion also, you can quickly access three of the classic powers and they 
 all have their varying degrees of usefulness. As far as the strength is concerned I think there 
 really is the sense that you are, at least on some level, pretty close to Superman's power. You 
 can pick up anything from cars to tankers or even fishing boats that can be used several ways in 
 combat; anything from simply throwing them at your enemies to batting at them or hurled like a 
 javelin.
  
  As a game however, and an open ended game at that, I'd have to say I really wasn't all that impressed 
 with Superman Returns. The missions you'll find yourself in follow a very simple formula. Once 
 in range of a mission you generally have the same objective (save for fire missions, boss fights, 
 or a handful of unique scripted missions) you'll have to dispatch a number of bad guys who are 
 attempting to destroy the city. You'll pretty much have about five or six different types of enemies 
 that you'll fight throughout Superman Returns, ranging from robots to cloned flying dragon esque 
 creatures. The numbers will vary generally depending on your progress through the game, although 
 the highest number you'll fight at any given time is usually around 15, save for your fight with 
 Riot ( a villain that is able to duplicate himself) . You'll quickly get tired of missions as they 
 all pretty much start to seem the same, the game will simply mix up the types of enemies you'll 
 fight, i. e. sometimes just robots, sometimes robots and clones, sometimes flying robots and clones, 
 etc. So although the travel may be open ended I feel that by no means are the missions. Aside from 
 a few mini-games (playable Bizzaro, high speed races, and finding 100 kittens) the game is pretty 
 linear and doesn't give you much else to do.
  
  The story of Superman Returns: The Videogame has little to do with the movie. Which from my experience 
 with movie tie-in games they usually turn out to flop for generally the same reasons. The main 
 reason being that it's difficult to make a 6-10hr game where you take control out of a in this 
 case 2hr + movie. More often than not you'll find the tie-in game trying to drag out parts of the 
 movie, that may have not been entertaining in the first place, so to counter this they take liberties 
 with the story to basically fill in the game. So where an actor in a movie may have opened a door, 
 in the game you may have to kill 20 guards, steal a nuclear sub, and hijack a helicopter to open 
 the door... it will definitely fill that level. This isn't always a bad thing if done right, but 
 more often than not it just feels like the whole game is being thinly drawn along to the next cutscene. 
 Superman Returns seems more like a game set in the Superman universe in general, that happens to 
 have a couple of cutscenes from the movie. Which you honestly can't bash them too much for adding 
 in all of this extra content because Superman Returns the movie didn't have that much action. Much 
 like many first movies in a series (X-Men, Lord of the Rings, etc.) it's meant to establish or 
 in this case reestablish the characters.
  
  From a technical stand point I may not be the best to listen to for a review of this angle of the 
 game. I recently purchased a 360 (just for this game, that's how big of a Superman fan I am) so 
 I haven't had much experience with what the system is capable of. Although from the other games 
 I've played what I've seen from the system so far Superman Returns does seem to be graphically 
 sub par. Now I'm no game designer so there may be tie to the amount of what the system has to render 
 at any given time, keep in mind the Metropolis in the game is around 80 square miles and has over 
 9,000 buildings in it. So although I was pleased over all with the graphics, it doesn't seem to 
 be up to the full or maybe even near full potential of what the 360 is capable of. The game's audio 
 seems to be pretty solid, nothing really stands out from a standard beat 'em up type game. The 
 flying audio bits are great, the subtly of the cape flapping while flying around and the sound 
 of the wind rushing past and eventually a sonic boom while speeding about are very satisfying. 
 I have mixed feelings on the score however. My biggest issue is that the game doesn't draw from 
 the Superman soundtrack, neither that of the new work done by John Ottoman... or the original work 
 done by John Williams. This was really disappointing, Superman has such a march to it that seems 
 to be ingrained with the character that's it's hard to think of Superman and not hum the Williams 
 fanfare. I guess for non-Superman fans this could be related to playing a Star Wars game and not 
 having the Williams theme included. Now in the defense the original score done for the game isn't 
 bad, although at times it can seem somewhat generic. One of the nice touches that really helps 
 the feel of the game is the change of pace of the music while flying. While flying lower near the 
 streets and weaving through skyscrapers the games plays a pretty peppy fanfare esque tune, as you 
 move higher past the rustle of the city into the skies above the music calms and shifts to a much 
 slower melody.
  
  Now although I'm trying to be objective as possible I can't say that I didn't like the game. I 
 myself am a Superman fan, and a big one at that... there are still pictures from Christmas day of 
 me in my Superman outfit standing proudly as a kid. So for me any opportunity to take the wheel 
 of the Man of Steel (excuse the rhyme) is something I enjoy, and so far this is the most entertaining 
 opportunity that gaming has presented. To be honest if all you could do in this game was fly around 
 the city I would have still bought and not felt cheated. Obviously there are many that aren't able 
 to take this much joy from certain aspects of the game so if you're looking for an XBox game that 
 allows free open ended game play, challenging and engaging enemy fights, and a great story... save 
 your money. For fans of Superman who have been waiting for a chance to experience a taste of what 
 it might be like to step into the big red boots, this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firebourne
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game was looking to be a possible game of the year title when it was first mentioned, now 
 it looks as if superman may never be anything more than just another video game.
  
  As anyone will tell you, flying around in superman is awesome and is the only reason i continue 
 to play this game. Other then that the game has been an annoyance ever since i picked up the controller. 
 Superman has a great deal of potential at hand, but no matter how hard you try you simply wont 
 be able to master his abilities the way you want too. Not only that but from the very start it 
 feels like the game is being introduced to you in the wrong way. The day i bought the game i couldnt 
 understand why no1 else on my x-box live friends list was playing the it except me, and now i see 
 why.
  
  The soundtrack deserves some mention as i love the way they did the music in this game. Depending 
 on the situation you are in or the location of the city, the games musical score will change and 
 is done in such a way that you really feel like you are superman. Of course as usual they didnt 
 put quite enough variety in teh music so after awhile you will start to get tired of it.
  
  All in all i will play this game simply because i love superman. However if you arent a die hard 
 fanatic about the man of steel then just forget EA ever made it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 4.9
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like Superman Returns: The Videogame. Partly it was because I enjoyed the movie, 
 but also because the idea of a Superman game on a next-gen console just seemed right.
  
  But the game was a severe disappointment.
  
  First, the graphics. Not that great. The buildings 
 are bland. As others have said, from a distance high above the city, it looks great. But close 
 up (where you are most of the time) the city lacks any real appeal. It doesn't feel like a city 
 at all. The model for Superman is only adequate. As for the citizens -- bleh. Nothing very interesting. 
 The large bosses look ok, again only from a distance, but get up close to them (as you will quite 
 often) and they look horrid.
  
  The sound is also acceptable. Nothing to write home about, but also nothing that really stood out. 
 Sound effects were neither horrible nor interesting. They were just ok.
  
  Gameplay is great for about five minutes. But you soon realize that nearly all of the battling 
 is the same. At first it seemed like the variety of combos available would keep the game interesting, 
 but in reality they aren't that diverse. And, for the most part, you'll find yourself not bothering 
 to try out the more complicated combos simply because they aren't that fun to watch, or add much 
 to the game. The lock-on button -- necessary if you want to use your powers with any accuracy at 
 all -- is ridiculous. It's impossible to quickly change its focus, and often you'll find yourself 
 locked on to the wrong enemy. It's just plain irritating, and it need not have been so.
  
  On top of the irritating targeting is the insanely boring missions. It's the same thing over and 
 over and over again. The challenge increases later in the game, but not dramatically. It's the 
 same pattern. And while the game is supposedly free form, in the sense that you aren't constrained 
 to fly linearly through the game, you'll often find yourself flying aimlessly around doing nothing -- just 
 waiting for the next mission to pop up. There is virtually nothing else to do around town other 
 than the assigned missions. If the buildings looked interesting, that might be enough. But the 
 scenery is so dreary that it really makes no sense.
  
  The boss fights can be frustrating, only because you're given so little information to go on. Often 
 the problems come from thinking the game is more difficult than it is. The frustration gets worse, 
 however, when screwing up means you need to redo the entire scenario. It was enough to make me 
 leave the game behind for awhile.
  
  The controls are simply horrid. It takes forever to land. The camera is almost always in the wrong 
 place, and often makes the game impossible to play. More than once, it simply didn't feel like 
 the game was responding to the controller at all, or responded sluggishly. I've never had that 
 problem in a console game before.
  
  What's even more odd about the game is how little it reflects the movie. When it does, it just 
 feels wrong -- like you've been dumped into an random chapter of a book that doesn't belong. Some 
 games based on movies follow the plot to slavishly -- so much that you're never surprised and always 
 know what to do. But Superman Returns doesn't follow at all. The story that is there is rather 
 dumb. It would have been better if it had no story at all, and just let us run and fly around Metropolis 
 without any coherent story at all. What little is there only draws attention to the fact that the 
 game seems thrown together and unfinished.
  
  There are worse games out there. Still, it would be almost impossible to offer any recommendation 
 at all of this game. Especially on a next-gen console like the 360. Perhaps someday there will 
 be a Superman game that does justice to the franchise, but this sure as hell isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenWolf16
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  I just got the Superman Returns game and played it for a few hours. It's is a great video game. 
 You get a nice soundtrack, nice graphics, and a whole city to play around with as superman. It's 
 pretty fun grabbing a civilian, taking them to the top of a bridge or really high building, then 
 using your super breath to blow them off the ledge and watch their helpless body fall. Sure it 
 it hurts the metropolis meter by doing this but not a lot, and it's an enjoyable part of the game. 
 Flying around like superman is an amazing feel, especially how the graphics look when flying at 
 high speeds. This game is certainly the best of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiscGuru101
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  First the good news: The flying in Superman is about 90% as fun as flying could be in a game. -Save 
 for the wonky controls &amp; ugly graphics, which were no doubt left sooo strikingly poor to accommodate 
 the need for superspeed-FPS. It comes off very Last-Gen feeling. The blurry streaks of city and 
 Superman costume seemed to get all the visual polish, the secondary speed boost special effect 
 is fantastic, and virtually nothing else is super about the entire sorted affair. Also, since the 
 character animations are nothing elegant or comic book like it all falls completely flat. I rank 
 it far below Freedom Force, or CoH/CoV.
  
  Bottom Line: I REALLY wanted to own a good Superman game for the 360. But the demo left me instantly 
 put off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unknown2114
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Wondering where this game was when the movie released last June, well it was pushed back into development. 
 After playing I can see it did not help.
  The game follows the storyline from the movie. However, the plane scene is gone, as is Lois's kid 
 and various other plot points. The game shows Lex's plan through cutscenes's. The game has a formula 
 but it doesn't work. You'll fly around and help people out until your experience bar fills. Unfortunately, 
 there are few things to help people with. You'll put out fires, beat up robots, and fight dragons 
 and the random boss fight. Thats about it for what Superman can do. Trust me it gets boring fast. 
 Combat is both good and bad. The good is ground combat is pretty solid, but air combat is a bit 
 disconnected at times. However, new combs you gain are not really easy to pull off. Heat vision, 
 freeze breath, and super breath all work out good no problems. The city is a good sight, really 
 on the 360, although PS2 and Xbox stand up pretty good. The story is way too short and can be taken 
 out in a day. The mini games are not really fun and there are not many. A few missed things are 
 the scale of objects to pick up. Youll fly up to something only to find you cant pick it up. 
 Flying is amazing and is probably the best thing in the game. There are unlockables such as costumes 
 and artwork. But the costumes are unlocked once you beat the game. The only thing worth collection 
 is the kittens which are hard to find.
  Bottom Line if you really want a game where flying as Superman is your only high point then buy 
 this game, if not rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platow2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo expecting another garbage superman game. But i actually enjoyed myself and i 
 just rented it 2 hours ago and im enjoying it. The graphics may seem a little bad but flying around 
 the city and doing really cool moves agiasnt villians is cool. The story is based on the movie 
 and they actually tell other parts of the story beside what they show in the movie. Overall I think 
 it may get boring after i beat it but im enjoying it and I dont care what gamespot says. The superpowers 
 are neat and you can level up making them more powerfull. Nothing looks cooler then Super speed 
 flying through the city though it kinda sucks that it takes away health when you destroy cars and 
 public property but I guess superman is all about justice and not screwing around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splavish
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Looks like GAMESPOT is on the Lets bash another comicbook game This game is nothing close to the 
 score that has been critiqued. True enough it is not in the same glorifing forum as Halo, Resident 
 Evil or Splinter Cell, but neither is the Socom Franchise and it is a game with the worst graphics 
 of any game in 2005 or 2006. Superman has descent graphic, the sound is good, however the acting 
 dialogue is atroscious, it has game play that is not redundant enough to deserve such dirt bath. 
 For $60.00 it is surely not a rental, not even at $40.00, but it is truly A MUST RENT to finish. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer1489
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  8 Hours. That's all it takes to beat this game. It's easy, but usually with ease comes a great 
 story. Not so with Superman Returns. The story is a bit confusing and unless you saw the Superman 
 cartoon or the Justice League series, you don't know who ANY of these enemies are. The frame rate 
 can lag at times; MANY times, but the fact that you can throw in your powers every now and again 
 in your combos add a nice touch. Unless you can time your button presses with his moves, you can't 
 get any combos to chain and the 1000 Fists move is the best to use, but also the least responsive 
 combo. Once all the powers are maxed out, they're a sight to behold. Heat vision is the most amazing 
 looking power, but ice breath is what you'll use the most on enemies. Think Sub-Zero from Mortal 
 Kombat.
  
  The plot of the movie is vaguely seen and the only boss that's well placed is Mongul in the beginning 
 of the game because it gives you reason why Superman was gone for 5 years instead of less. The 
 rest of the story is just full of holes and the only villain I like is Mxyzptlk because he's the 
 only well rounded character. Sure, evil intentions, but he wants to have some fun with Superman 
 and that's one of the only things that kept me at the controls.
  
  Pros: Good character model, decent choice of bosses, flight is the best thing EVER, and FINALLY 
 some gaming respect for Superman.
  Cons: Poor frame rate, didn't take full power of the X360, repetitive button smashing, needs MAJOR 
 tweaking.
  
  Suggestion: rent ONLY and play it on the 360, not any other system.
  Future?: Superman should turn into a franchise on the PS3, X360, and possibly the Wii. But more 
 time will be needed for development in the future and EA should be the guys to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrtweed2
Rating: 2.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  I have felt for some time that Superman is ready for the storage shelf placed next to such old 
 school greats like The Shadow , Green Arrow , Allan Quartermain, and the such. Just the very idea 
 of an invincible man in tights just seems a bit tired. Superman Returns The Videogame is proof 
 of just how tired the man of steel is, the gameplay was pretty recycled and reminded me of playing 
 Spider-man 2 , no sense of tension, no thrills, just plain blah! The 360 version is graphically 
 so-so , don't even bother getting the XBOX 1 version! What a peace -o-crap THAT turned out to be! 
 I gave it a 5.3 because the first 15 minutes of play was interesting as I flew around Metropolis 
 and outlying areas.
  
  Once again we bare witness to the disasterous results of movie to game franchising! I believe we 
 will NEVER get a good game based on a movie, even if the movie IS based on a comic book! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -omz-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I find that this game is great. I bought it and rightfully so. The beginning few fights with metallo 
 could be really frustrating because it gets boring and repetitive but as you get more foes and 
 try to find different ways to defeat them it gets really fun. Its great to be bizzaro, do that 
 race with that guy from the 5th dimension and just mind ur business in the air . But as the game 
 goes on, as you gain more moves and as you gain cooler foes this game is extremely fun. I had so 
 much fun from flying around and doing my own thing to bashing skulls into the pavement. In my opinion 
 this game is 100x better than spiderman 2 and you have a good time playing it. he variety of moves 
 are very cool and it is a fun story as it progresses. The flying sequence is truly amazing and 
 i was stunned to see it ranked 4.5.
  
  AND ARE YOU KIDDING ME, YOU GET TO BE SUPERMAN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: breenie
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after playing the demo and thought it would be great because fo the free roaming 
 ability and the grahics. Unfortunately it is one of the most repetitious games I have ever played. 
 You fly around and fight the same enemies over and over and over... well you get the idea. If you 
 played the demo 5 times in a row, it would be equivalent to playing this game.
  
  Only decent part is side missions where you become bizarro superman and go around destroying everything 
 and there are some races in there as well. Other than that it is a game that has so much potenital 
 but ends up getting old after one hour. Avoid this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defkross
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I can't say that this is game is ground breaking in any way but its still fun. This game is a big 
 step for superman. The game compares alot to spiderman 2 but its downfalls is just what it didn't 
 rip off from spiderman. The enemies become very repeditive and the lack of moves tend make it feel 
 like a button masher. The game had alot of potental and it some instances it used alot of it, but 
 for the majority you tend to think to yourself all of this for such little actual play. I wouldn't 
 call this game a wreck but hopefuly a stepping stone for a bigger, better, more and less involed 
 superman game. Everyone atleast needs to rent this game, i'd say only buy it if you dig flying 
 around all day and doing nothing which at times is good enough for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  First off... this is the best superman game ever made. But is that saying much? Not at all. This 
 is still an average game. The powers are done up pretty well... especially the flying, which is 
 at near burnout speeds (if only it felt like burnout) The controls are decent and it does a pretty 
 good job of bringing the man of steel to next-gen. The graphics aren't special but considering 
 the scope of the game and the speed (AND no framerate problems) it's forgivable. The problem is... 
 as cool as having awesome powers is... saving Metropolis from the clutches of evil gets REALLY 
 dull REALLY fast. Once you get over the sound barrier breaking of flying through the city... you'll 
 realize that theres absolutely nothing worthwhile to do. The game is pretty easy, and it's overall 
 very unsatisfying. You have to give them credit because they nailed superman and his powers, but 
 you can't help but scorn them making the game so bland and empty. Fly there, beat up robots, fly 
 around more, beat up more robots, catch meteors. All of those things had the potential to be entertaining, 
 but Superman Returns just doesn't get it right. The demo is worth downloading, so download it, 
 play it, then delete it, because this game just isn't worth buying or renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixbadboy001
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  This is Superman Returns: The Videogame, not Superman Returns: the Movie. With that said it's only 
 fair to review this game from a videogame's perspective and not compare it to the movie. Yes, it 
 has some elements from the film, but those elements were obviously too few to make a great game. 
 And so, the developers wisely added additional elements that are derived from Superman lore, to 
 include 70+ years of Superman history!
  
  I liked the fact that even though Superman is invincible, Metropolis is not. The city takes damage 
 as chaos reigns. This feature has to be one of the greatest decisions ever made for a videogame. 
 After all, protecting Metropolis and its citizens from all danger is Superman's prime objective. 
 And why ask why there are dragons in the city? Can you say Mister Mxyzptlk? Anything, and everything 
 thing happens with that guy around.
  
  This game also gives you the ability to save your progress at anytime. So there is no excuse and 
 reason to start over from the very beginning of a chapter.
  
  Overall the final product is astonishing; this is the BEST superman game ever made. Ever wanted 
 to be the man of steel? This is your chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericcvt
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  1) I've been collecting comics since I was 12 now I'm 30+ and I have a mathematics degree so I 
 feel my words should carry some weight. LOL.
  Here is something for all the babies who said certain parts didn't relate to the movie. (a) Movies 
 are unable to show what a character is doing when he/she is not seen. The cameras were not always 
 focused on Clark/Superman , therefore one has no idea what Clark/Superman was doing when the scene 
 focused on other actors. Also, writers whined about the space fight chapter on War World not being 
 in the movie. When drive home from work, don't we sometimes make detours, rent a movie, buy food, 
 etc. Do we then tell our family members where we stopped when we get home? It just seems that reviewers 
 don't have any imagination.
  
  (b) Since we have our own beliefs about what well known characters should be able to do, many times 
 our own beliefs can interfere with the gaming experience. We keep wanting a 120% from such game. 
 The reviewers where so lame that he/she started complaining about the cars, not being able to enter 
 or destroy buildings. How petty.
  
  (c) Many people whine about the controls. Everytime we play a game don't we have to learn how to 
 play it. Plus, as a longtime comic reader, when Supes was redone in the 80s he had to learn how 
 to use his powers. It wasn't easy. His powers gradually developed. I didn't read anyone crying 
 about Gears OW game play. One thing I hate about it is that it still has the irritating past-gen 
 concept of not letting one back to previous locations. It is still linear. You can't stand or climb 
 on many of its objects. And when sprinting while pressing the A button you get stuck to objects 
 against your while. Its like getting pulled by a black-whole.
  
  2) This is the best Superman game ever, maybe even the best superhero game. While the game does 
 have repetitive material at least it is not lame like Spider 2. I got tired of saving the same 
 fool who was hanging from the buildling. Come on!!! HOw many times in a city is someone hanging 
 from a building ledge. For a individual of Superman's power level, the battles were appropriate. 
 All his powers were put to the test. Even though he can't die, how many of us had to hit the Y 
 button to keep him in a fight. POSITIVES:
  (1) Have to learn to use his powers effectively.
  (2) Realistic flying
  (3) Opponents of varying 
 difficulty.
  (4) Nice supply of current and historical foes.
  (5) Best flying superhero game ever. Many are only able to fly a few feet off the ground.
  (6) 
 EA did extensive work to create Metropolis.
  
  NEGATIVES:
  (1) Supes was unable to jump; Always had to tap the Y button to get him go over a ledge.
  (2) 
 If he picked up a car or any non-human object he could never gently set it down.
  (3) Power power-ups didn't seem any different from the initial set of abilities. They only seemed 
 more graphical but lacked any real punch
  
  All-in-All, from my point of view the game ranks between 7-8. Here are some of the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bane_v2
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  After playing the game to 95% complete here are my observations:
  
  Short version:
  
  It's unfortunate EA tied great character control and functionality and a great environment to such 
 horribly designed and implemented gameplay. If there was a way to disable the story mode and just 
 have free roam and the mini games I would do that instantly.
  
  Long version:
  
  Superman himself is great. The flying, fighting and super powers are all well done and really make 
 you feel like you're Superman. Top shelf job on this aspect of the game. The flying feels natural 
 and I like the animations when you change directions. The variable power level of our vision and 
 breath powers is a nice touch. I would add a jump button and change the target lock so that it 
 stays locked until the target is destroyed or you release the trigger.
  
  Metropolis is great too. It's a good size, not too big or small. I like the layout, it's a little 
 weird with the multiple tiers, but I still like it as it gives the city some depth in the Z direction. 
 It looks great as well with the different architectural styles between areas. I would have liked 
 to have been able to interact with the water with the vision and breath powers.
  
  I like the minigames, especially the races and the kittens. Finding the kittens is a great way 
 to promote leisurely exploration.
  
  Free roaming around the city between chapters before you visit the question mark icon combined 
 with the minigames is probably the most fun there is to have in this game. It's entirely too bad 
 that even after the game is complete there is no way to free roam uninterrupted. More on that below.
 
  
  Okay, now those are about the the only things I like about this game. Great character control and 
 functionality, great environment, but the rest just isn't as good as it should be.
  
  Let's me start from the moment the game loads:
  
  You can't skip the opening company logos.
 
  
  It asks you for a save location twice before you can load a game and every time you want to save 
 or load after that. Once should be enough for the entire play session and it shouldn't ask at all 
 if there's only one storage device present on the console.
  
  The variety of things to do is severely lacking. It's the same robots/dragons/mutant whatevers 
 over and over and over and over and over again. The meteor shower sequence and the tornado sequence 
 were an all too rare glimpse of creativity in mission design. I cannot believe that even after 
 the delay this is all EA could come up with for things for Superman to do. 60 years of Superman 
 to draw from and we get the same mission over and over again the entire game. 100% unacceptable.
 
  
  There aren't even any missions that come from the movie. The cutscenes and the gameplay are in 
 no way linked. Had I not seen the movie prior to playing the game the cutscenes would've made no 
 sense at all. Even though I did see the movie the gameplay still doesn't make any sense as none 
 of it is explained in the game. Where are all these robots and dragons and mutants coming from 
 and why are they here except to annoy the hell out of me?
  
  The method in which these missions are initiated is also poorly designed. They just happen, with 
 no control over when. This makes the free roam aspect of this game almost pointless because you're 
 interrupted so frequently with more of the same repetitive missions. I would've liked to have seen 
 the alert icons pop up to alert me that I can initiate a fight if I want, but if I don't want to 
 they just sit there and wait for me to want to. That way I could enjoy the free roam, fly around 
 and look for lost kittens, do some racing, whatever, without being interrupted every 15 seconds 
 to fight more robots.
  
  Keep Superman and Metropolis, strip out the story mode and everything it involves and redo it from 
 scratch and you might have a game worthy of buying. Had I known that the demo on Xbox Live Marketplace 
 was the entire game I wouldn't have bought it. This game is a rental or a bargin bin purchase. 
 Paying $60 for it is a total ripoff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalDeath101
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  To start, I have to say that I am slightly biased towards EA. I despise them as a company because 
 they take good games developed by decent companies, buy them up, and make them into crap. Not to 
 mention they are the only company I know of that has released the same game over and over and over 
 again. *Madden and all other EA sports games, Ultima Online, Battlfield 2 + Exp packs, so on so 
 forth.*
  
  SUPERMAN RETURNS: The Video Game.
  
  This game will keep you hooked for a solid 10 to 15 minutes. Flying really fast is entertaining 
 for awhile, which is followed by wreaking havoc on the city until the game is over. During battle 
 sequences you feel as though you do not have control over your character. The targeting system 
 is sloppy and allows you to target civilians, cars, or silly objects such as trash cans. This makes 
 anything other than essentially doing nothing in the game frustrating. As the only thing that seems 
 worked on in this game is flying.
  
  The music is really great and changes pending what is happening and where you are. If you fly way 
 up into the sky, you will hear a lighter orchestra playing, where as when you are in the city it 
 has a louder and more action inducing tune.
  
  IN SHORT:
  Get the demo and do not purchase the game. There is really nothing more to the actual game than 
 there is available in the demo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyRageing
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:13 am PT
Review:  Superman Returns Flys onto 360 with lush graphics, interactive city, and awesome flying mechanics, although 
 the game is plauged by the repetitive gameplay, that is the only krytonite that the game really 
 has. The Story is a some what decent movie tie in but all in all this is the greatest Superman 
 game ever made. Whats That Its A Bird Its a Plane Its... Just Shut up and fly around thats what the 
 game was made for like spider-man two its just not enough for some super-geeks but to me this is 
 one. Super game even if Superman looks.... Just retarded in tights but hey some things never change! 
 I Give It Ah 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegatrance
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Look at Gamespots review score 4.5 .... now look at what regular players give it about 8.3 I think 
 if you dont care for Superman and dont have a vivid imagination .. then dont play it , you might 
 get bored. But if your a Superman fan in any way... or your like me and have always had dreams of 
 flying or like skydiving or stuff like then this is THE game for YOU.
  
  Gamespot says Superman Returns isn't a particularly good-looking game .... WOW ... ummmm what the 
 hell? Great graphics ... great cape physics , great blur when flying at super speed. Cars look good... buildings 
 look awesome. Reminds me of graphics in Saints Row kind of. Superman looks .. well like Superman.
 
  
  Fighting system a little flawed and yes the random events that happen will get repetitive. I havent 
 completed the game.. no where near it. But the game is fun... and if you want to go on a rampage 
 and destroy the city ... you can do it with Superman... just dont save the game i guess lol.
  
  Remember the first Superman movie with the tagline You will believe a man can fly. Well listen 
 up... this game makes you believe again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skate2best
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Finally a Superman game that is true to superman. I loved the demo and the game far surpases the 
 demo. i havent gotten past the second act yet but the game is very good. If any of you played Superman 
 64 you remember the rings? Well insteead (360 only) you have Mxyzpytlyk who forces you to race 
 him. Far more enjoyable and actually has a purpose. I love looking for cats and the random crime 
 is usually just fires or robots and while not bank robbers is still fun. The begining misssion 
 while a tutorial didn't feel like one. EA finally made a great Supereman game and I am now going 
 to play it more! I love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therock_26
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  The first Superman game that I can remember came out in 1987 on the NES... and it was absolutely 
 horrible. Over the years, Superman games steadily improved, but for the most part, they remained 
 crappy. The honor of the 'best' Supes game can be argued between (in my opinion) between the Sega 
 Genesis Superman and the SNES Death and Return of Superman. Since these, the man of steel has been 
 on a neverending downward slope, and the latest 'Superman Returns' game does little to lift ole 
 Clark out of the ditches.
  The concept of the game follows closely to what Spiderman 2 attempted to pull off. Open-ended gameplay 
 meets weak, repetitive, and arduous side missions. In short, the man of steel is faced with an 
 array of robots... that's it. To be fair, you also fight off a couple meteors and some very irritating 
 robot/cyborg like thingamajigs in Warworld. But for the most part... you fight off robots like they 
 were mosquitoes pestering the surrounding populous of Metropolis. In one short two minute mission, 
 you may destroy five or so robots then fight Metallo. Afterwards, you fight three more robots and 
 put out a scoldering fire. Next, you may fight Metallo again. The entire damn city is in chaos! 
 And it gets repetitive and frustrating!... sorry guys... it's just that I was SO looking forward 
 to this game and... y'know how the anticipation of having something is oftentimes more fun than 
 actually having it?... Good, because I thought I was the only one.
  
  Anyhoo, Superman Returns also suffers from poor gameplay in the sense that sometimes, once Supes 
 is airborn, it can be darn-near impossible to bring him back down to earth, especially if engaged 
 in combat. The character responsiveness is entirely off given the fact that in a six button combo, 
 by the time you've pressed the sixth button in the scheme, Supes is still on punch #3! In tight 
 situations, the camera is completely random and you'll spend a great deal of time centering it 
 on the action so you can see the robot whose blasting the kryptonite out of you. The soundtrack 
 leaves much to be desired. There isn't one Superman theme song on the game to my knowledge. I was 
 so looking forward to hearing the opening theme that I could taste it. Instead, I was treated to 
 some generic super hero banter. Speaking of which, the voice overs completely suck and I question 
 at times whether or not the real actors even performed them. Last, but far from least, the game 
 is entirely too short. I've heard some people have already finished this game less than six hours 
 after purchase. A word of advice to those who this applies to: Half or Ebay. com ASAP!
  
  I can't sit here and honestly say that there is nothing good about the latest rendition of Supes 
 misadventures. The graphics are gorgeous at times and the creative team really did a superior job 
 of designing the layout of Metropolis. The bosses impress when they have to and you can't beat 
 Supes' flying mode! (The man of steel does NOT walk if he doesn't have to.) The animation sequences 
 are moderately well done, but hardly takes advantage of the XBOX360's capabilities. The creative 
 team certainly set a standard with free roam as far as the ability to fly is concerned and this 
 was certainly a step forward for the man of steel. All of this aside, the game could have been 
 and should have been better. I don't have a problem arguing that this may be the best Superman 
 game ever made. But that's not saying very much about it. It only implies that Superman games have 
 been garbage from the beginning of 1987! I consider this game the equivalent to the X3 movie... a 
 missed opportunity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathiasX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Finally! Vindicated after 12 long years... err well something like that. Superman Returns definetly 
 delivers the goods! The feeling you get when you fly near the road and then bust into superspeed 
 flight is jaw dropping. You have NEVER gone this fast before in a game. The powers are great with 
 normal and super blast powers with just a click of the directional pad buttons you are switching 
 to suit the need. Although the game itself is amazing looking and fun, it seems to be a bit too 
 short, I just bought it 3 hours ago and i'm 60% done. Interesting eh? I sure hope EA makes some 
 downloadable content for this one in the near future ala costumes, missions, etc. Anyways if you 
 like Spiderman's free roam you will LOVE this. It is definetly polished! Well done EA.. the best 
 Superman game ever created! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riptide572
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  So it has arrived, Superman Returns for the Xbox 360. So long have the fans of Superman been disappointed 
 by one horrible game after another. I am happy to announce that most of you should not be disappointed 
 in this title. The controls are solid, the city looks great, and it really gives you the feel of 
 being Superman himself. The main disappointment In fact is that the game makes you feel like you're 
 in Supe's shoes so much that you wish you could do more. Once you've grasped the controls and had 
 the man in blue tights out flying around for awhile you almost feel restricted in a sense. Speaking 
 objectively, this isn't any revolutionary game design that will blow you away; infact, if you've 
 played the Spiderman 2 game you're gonna have an idea of how the game is going to pan out. It will 
 get repetitive after awhile, but the boss fights are very fun, and tend to keep you pushing forward 
 to see the next one. The unfortunate thing is that these little segments seem to be the most fun 
 and enjoyable segments of the game, such as early on in the game in Warworld. You wish you could 
 have a little more of that, rather than completing a dozen random missions to get the the next 
 level. On another note, the sound is absolutely amazing. The orchestral score makes you feel like 
 you've just been thrown into the middle of a movie, and the first time you hit superspeed and pass 
 the speed of sound, it's quite a rush. It's kind of suprising though that they did not seem to 
 get the Superman theme we all know and love into the game.
  Either way, this Superman title is definantly worth at least a rental. If you're a superman fan 
 or a fan of free-roaming games, you'll probably want to buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnake7882
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Finally a Superman game that is true to superman. I loved the demo and the game far surpases the 
 demo. i havent gotten past the second act yet but the game is very good. If any of you played Superman 
 64 you remember the rings? Well insteead (360 only) you have Mxyzpytlyk who forces you to race 
 him. Far more enjoyable and actually has a purpose. I love looking for cats and the random crime 
 is usually just fires or robots and while not bank robbers is still fun. The begining misssion 
 while a tutorial didn't feel like one. EA finally made a great Supereman game and I am now going 
 to play it more! I love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NbAlIvEr10000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, I don't know about you, but I, like many others, have been anticipating the wait for this 
 game for about 10 months!! AND ITS FINALLY HERE!!!
  
  Superman Returns the Videogame is all it was hyped up to be and moresome. Not saying that its the 
 greatest game ever, but really just a fun and enjoyable game with many different views and opinions. 
 The graphics are very good for such a large free-raom game and make it look more comicy as well 
 as the cinematic feel of the movie itself. The gameplay is outstanding. Easy and very comfortable 
 if you take the time to practice out all the jinks. Flying is simply amazing!!! As long as you 
 learn the control scheme of flying, things like the cooky camera won't bother you whatsoever. The 
 superspeed effect really makes you feel like Supes himself!! The superpowers are used very good, 
 however, they do feel a bit overused when it comes time to take out a few baddies here and there 
 around the grounds of the ciy.
  
  Overall, the look and feel of playing and being Superman in this game are really slacked up to 
 what a GREAT Superman game should be -----We've come a loooooong way since Superman 64, thank god!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 2.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Waste of the power of the xbox 360 is the new game superman returns, the game is like spiderman 
 or hulk ultimate destruction that kind of game is a bite interesting on the gameplay but you fell 
 that you are playing the anterior xbox conole or include a playstation 1 because the graphics tthat 
 are truly bad if you compare superman with gear of wars or oblivion you will very dissapointing 
 the compare in grapichs are abysmal an thats is the real problem with the xbox 360 that the video 
 player dony enjoy the real and truth power of the 360 and this is a very bad feeling about it because 
 why buy a xbox 360 if your normla xbox has the same graphics in some games like Far cry predator, 
 burnout revenge, fifa worldcup and superman return to no say more,,, be careful microsoft because 
 play station and wii are nearly to stay in sale soon you will have competence and you must arrenge 
 these details if you want to survive the console war and im am sure Xbox 360 is very powerful more 
 than wii and playstation 3 if you dont believe check the characteristics but whta for so much power 
 is if the team games dont explode that is a waste of consolo power dont you think and if you dont 
 bbelieve check and play superman returns and waste your money...
  superman returns with its worst viedo game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dluv
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I am 38-years-old and have been waiting to play as Superman or any DC character since the Atari 
 early beginnings. Sorry for all those young bucs that have the luxury of not having to have an 
 imagination but for me I can actually fly and it looks good.
  I just finished reading the Superman-Batman graphic novel Supergirl and I was ready for this.
 
  Now, don't take me as a slouch when it comes to gaming. I can play, I can play madden, just beat 
 Gears of War and have a damn good hockey game. Heck, after two years in Iraq with Gaming as one 
 of the only safe outlets, I feel qualified to comment on this matter.
  It is fun. If you read the comics, Superman is all about restraint. Except when it came to Doomsday, 
 and if you don't know who this is, you shouldn't even be commenting on the game.
  Yes Superman could just snap but snapping just enough to get it done in a way that cause the least 
 amount of casualities that is where the game rings true. He even said himself that when he touches 
 a human he has to concentrate to make sure he doesn't crush them because they are so fragile.
 
  Recommended reading to understand:
  
  Death of Superman 
  
  If you are like me and your wife says what are you doing when you are playing and reply, Saving 
 the world. And she understands, that is what it is all about.....
  
  heck, i like flying the most. If it was me for real, I wouldn't even need powers, just let me fly!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoBuCs123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  What is there to say? This game is flat out fun... Soaring threw the sky at 800mph, heat vision, 
 ice breathe, super breathe, it doesn't end. anyone looking to get this game, i highly recommend 
 you do so. I mean sure it doesn't have the best graphics but hey, the 80 square mile city makes 
 up for it. With bad guys from Lex Luthor to Monguel, it keeps the game intresting and fun. The Bizzaro 
 mini game is a nice addition also. Your goal is to destroy this city rather than saving it in this 
 mini game. The gameplay is great, although i wish the story was longer but other than that it is 
 a buyer for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captialpee
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  even though its not as bad as the one on the 64 its not any better either.
  the only thing i like is when he flies thats all. you just flying around being bored and all of 
 a sudden some robots are attacking people and you do that the whole game. people should know better 
 not to buy a game made after a movie cause they are upmost recycled trash. and they are not tolerated. 
 this game is boring and the graphics are like blah. go around saving people and you drop them near 
 an ambulance and they get healed makes no sense! at least in spiderman the people run to the hospital 
 not stand there after they just got ripped. they just need to stop making movies out of games cause 
 they are never good. controls are not bad flying is a lil ackward. game is low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chunwosu2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game has everything the movie has to offer. The best free-roaming game out there. the flying 
 is just simply amazing and superman's strenght is overbearing. This game has everything to over. 
 I doubt that anybbody can just finish .Get this game if you are a superman fanatic. Sound is this 
 game is incredible to listen to the sonic waves clash against superman while he is in the air. 
 Don't even try to rent this game just buy it , you wont regret it. Or you can even check out the 
 demo on the xbox live marketplace if you are a gold member. So go out and buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakotan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the most fun Superhero game I have ever played and I plan to play it more. It 
 has everything if your a superman fan.
  
  I will list a few things that didnt make this a perfect score tho. This game is set in a Macro universe 
 and doesnt have any Micro interactions.
  Meaning you can go inside anything. But like the Devs said if you want to fly everywhere with out 
 the pause of the run of the mill loading like TES4 then you need to keep somethings out. It doesnthave 
 the Kandor suit but hey maybe EA will sell it.
  
  The Cars and ppl in the game arnt very detailed but the Superman the things he does, the badguys, 
 and the city are very well done.
  
  The reason why ppl are getting pissed with game is the put up to much hype for themselves of what 
 was in it and didnt know what was in it.
  
  Sorry but this game isnt boring I played the Demo over and over and over again before I got the 
 game lol. Buy folks you will not be disapointed.
  Cause now You will Believe even more that a man can Fly!
  Thnx and be blessed in playing this 
 game 8)
  
  Update:
  after playing this even more I found so much you could really do with this game that I am uping 
 my score to a 10 if your a fan and 8.6 if your not cause believe me once you watch Superman returns 
 on DVD on your HD tv then get done and go play Superman you will love it more btw go grab Superman 
 2 the Donner Cut its way better then the first Superman 2 and its like watching a differant and 
 new movie its way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchiah17
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  well it looks like EA has been the only developer to do superman justice, I'm a huge superman fan 
 and I've played more than my fair share of superman video games beginning to the one way back on 
 the NES. The controls are almost perfect. could use some slight tweaking. I think a jump ability 
 would've been nice like in spider man 2. the graphics are ok, wish they would've spent a little 
 more time on the 360 version of the game. it looks almost identical to the xbox and ps2 versions. 
 The world is massive, the ability to fly anywhere is probably the most fun I've had with this game, 
 I usually just fly around causing mass destrection where I can ( I know it's not very superman 
 of me) . Overall this is a good game, it could've been better but I'm sure if they make a sequel 
 than that will be the superman game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: residentvelvet
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  When the movie came out..... it did not receive great reviews... I went to see it a week after it 
 came out and It turned out to be awesome....2 days ago, I downloaded the demo on xbox marketplace 
 and I was blown away....
  I found the game today at walmart, bought it and I have never had so much fun..... go out and buy 
 this game... it is very under rated. The Graphics are awesome.. the sound is awesome.... there is 
 a sweet soundtrack made by an academy award wining producer.... the flying controls are amazing 
 and a lot of fun.... You can shoot up into the sky at 800mph and then dive down blazing fast, with 
 cool speed warp graphics and then stop on a dime..... I play a lot of superhero video games... like 
 spider-man... x-men legends.... ultimate alliance etc..... but this is by far the most fun I have 
 had in a while..... If you like the superman character and think it would be fun to fly around a 
 HUGE city and take on cool bad guys.. then this game is for you.... I honestly don't know why 2dragonZ.. (the 
 first reviewer) did not like this game.... he probably tried the demo... couldn't figure it out and 
 was pissed off. so he wrote a bad review....
  This game has it all..... I have only been playing for 2 hours.. and I have not gotten bored once..... nothing 
 is repetitive.... flying and shooting out fire, wind and frost lazers from superman is cool and the 
 bosses are fun as well. The city is extremely detailed and large... and it does not end as close 
 to the sky as spider-man's does ..... you can fly up 2 miles and look over the city.. and cool music 
 starts to play as all you hear is you cape flapping in the wind..... I am writing a long review, 
 because I am upset at how this game is being overlooked.... At least download the demo and try 
 it out..... you will only get a small taste of what the games actually has to offer.... When you 
 beat the demo, after the fist boss..... there is a very long Video of game play..... IF YOU DONT 
 GO OUT AND BUY THIS GAME AFTER SEEING THIS VIDEO, THEN THERE IS SOMETHIGN WRONG WITH YOU!
  
  The reviewer above me said that the game was delayed to get a makeover...... and IT DID.... he 
 is WRONG that the games sucks..... the Graphics and sound and playability are AMAZING...... I really 
 think that people will like this game...... even if you get bored easily with other games..... this 
 one seems like you could play it for a long time.... invite friends over to show them how cool it 
 is to fly over the entire city....
  
  I give this a 9.4..... almost perfect game...... it beats all the other superhero games to date.... if 
 you played spider-man 1 or 2 for months on end like i did, then you will love this game....... EA 
 and the creators really got it RIGHT this time..... do not be shy to get this game, just because 
 other superman games have tanked in the past..........
  
  I am currently playing Gears of war, which is amazing. I like tony hawk project 8, dead rising, 
 tiger 07, zelda for wii, spiderman 1+2.. for xbox..... I know what I am talking about when it comes 
 to video games.....
  
  DO NOT MISS SUPERMAN RETURNS.......... THE GAME AND DVD WILL BLOW YOU AWAY.......
  
  THIS GAME 
 IS LIKE GTA MEETS SPIDERMAN 2 TIMES 10!!!!!!!!!
  
  Pros: Awesome graphics and sound\music\score..... flying around the large, detailed city..... fun 
 all around..... cool bosses and moves....... very emersive
  
  Cons: when you pick someone up and fly them high into the sky.... you cant drop them (too positive) ..... other 
 than that nothing...... at least you can destroy the city if you are feeling evil........ also.... a 
 huge con is people who review this game and say that is sucks.......... they are idiots!! THIS GAMES 
 ROCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garcia_jx
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  this game is very very boring to me. it reminds me of the old superman game for the 64 i think. 
 It sucks and it's way to positive. For example, when ur fighting one of the robots he makes comments 
 like U don't have to hurt people frozo It lacks gameplay and graphics. I would rather eat out of 
 the trash than play this game again.
  
  Pros: You can fly around the whole city and do what u please.
  
  Cons: Everything i mentioned 
 on top and more. Graphics stink, it gets boring after half an hour of play, game is to positive... etc 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2DragonZ
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  The game was supposed be be released with the movie and got pushed back for further development. 
 One would think this could mean a better gameplay and graphic after a longer development period, 
 but it turned out to be a disaster. It's great that superman's breath, ice, and fire super power 
 attacks are attached, but the developer just doesn't nail superman's signature super power - flying. 
 It's a pain to fly around in the city, the fly zone is simply too small. Without the ability to 
 fly past mountains or into space, the game feels very cartoonish. The toon shader appearance just 
 doesn't do the man of steel justice. When you are in the air, players won't feel any sort of wind 
 resistance which is very unconvincing. Gameplay wise, the game puts Superman against dragons and 
 robots which I find it very wrong. Not to mention some weird gameplay mechanics. Try picking up 
 a stop sign and see it grows into a massive size in Superman's hands. Swing the stop sign at cars 
 and see the cars go flying when the stop sign is totally undamaged. After so many months of expectation 
 to play Superman, this game turns out to be a big disappointment. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
