-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Supreme Commander
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/supremecommander/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Deep, massive gameplay.
 Awesome sense of scale.
 Decent control scheme.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Awful, indefensible technical issues pervade every aspect of the game.
 Broken artificial intelligence.
 Underwhelming visuals and weird sound issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 25, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.9, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 151 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Developer: Gas Powered Games
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: Jun 23, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Great strategic gameplay is dwarfed by embarrassing technical issues. 

  It's hard to guess how a game like Supreme Commander for the Xbox 360 gets approved for a retail 
 release. It's a technical disaster, prone to frequent lockups, constant stuttering, and plenty 
 of buggy behavior. These issues are maddening, because at its core, Supreme Commander is a great 
 real-time strategy game, filled with tactical intricacies that function on a massive scale. On 
 the PC, it worked brilliantly. Here, it isn't just rough around the edges -- it's just plain rough. 
 Fantastic strategic gameplay deserves better, and it's astonishing that it was allowed on store 
 shelves in its current state.  

           Supreme Commander is strategy on a massive scale.      

  The game's frame rate and 
 general performance are absolutely atrocious. The game engine hitches every few seconds, and standard 
 tasks like zooming in and out cause it to stutter. Explosions will cause the frame rate to drop 
 to a crawl, which makes Supreme Commander's famous nuclear blasts more annoying than exciting. 
 Whenever a superior's talking-head portrait is about to appear onscreen during the campaign, you 
 can tell because the game will pause for a couple of seconds. Saving a game or reaching the end 
 of a mission might cause a complete game crash or system freeze -- an issue that occurred close to 
 a dozen times during our play-testing, on multiple machines. Just moving around the menus results 
 in weird, unexplainable slowdown. One mission can be easily broken in at least two different ways, 
 so you could potentially find yourself reloading a saved game after you find your efforts have 
 been wasted. It's apparent that either the Xbox 360 version of Supreme Commander needed more time 
 in development, or that it is simply not a good fit for the hardware.  

  Supreme Commander's story isn't terribly involving, but it sets the stage for battles that feel 
 truly consequential. Three factions with human roots -- the United Earth Federation, the AI-infused 
 Cybran Nation, and the spiritually enlightened Aeon Illuminate -- fight for their rightful place 
 in the galactic landscape. The storytelling isn't particularly noteworthy on its own; missions 
 are doled out by your superiors, and they'll occasionally appear in pop-up windows during the campaign. 
 What makes the proceedings so interesting is that there is no clear bad guy: Each faction fights 
 for seemingly rational values. Whether or not the plot is meant to parallel real-world politics 
 is up for debate, but it's striking that these different factional philosophies are functionally 
 quite similar to one another. Even on a universal scale, humanity's splinter cells have more in 
 common than they think.  

  Each of the three campaigns features six missions, which doesn't seem like many. However, these 
 levels can last for two or three hours, and maps that look relatively small will continually expand 
 over the course of the mission until the battlefield seems impossibly huge. To help you keep these 
 gigantic playfields under control, Supreme Commander features the most impressive zoom function 
 yet seen, allowing you to pull the camera right up to your units, and pull out to see the entire 
 battlefield at once. These gargantuan maps hold hundreds and hundreds of units at any given time, 
 so it's not uncommon to have multiple battles raging at once, while smaller skirmishes take place 
 around the perimeter. Thankfully, a number of automated functions help you streamline the process 
 so you can concentrate on the bigger picture. For example, you can queue up multiple tasks for 
 engineers (your primary construction units) and set multipoint patrol routes, a very handy way 
 to keep your flying units constantly engaged with the enemy.  

           Spiderbots are always an imposing sight.      

  The sheer number of units and tech 
 levels open up endless strategic possibilities. Your central unit is the Armored Command Unit (ACU) , 
 which can perform standard building tasks, and is upgradeable in a number of different ways, depending 
 on whether you want to use it in battle or as engineer support. There are an insane number of structures 
 and units to consider, from mass storage units and shield generators, to radar installations, to 
 hulking units like the imposing galactic colossus that lumber across the land. If you like to turtle 
 up and play the waiting game, there are tons of defensive options, like antiair installations and 
 stealth generators. If you're the aggressive type, you can take to the air, use the land to your 
 advantage, or bring the battles to sea, where attack submarines and battleships can lay waste to 
 your foe's unprotected coasts. Options exist whether you like to creep toward your enemy's base 
 and let artillery pound on it, lay back while you build up technology, or use transport aircraft 
 to keep a constant rush of attack bots streaming toward your opponent. There are many viable ways 
 to play Supreme Commander, and they are all balanced well.  

  The control scheme and interface, always a potential worry in a console RTS, is generally up to 
 the task of keeping battlefields under control. The busy heads-up display elements of the PC version 
 have been stripped away, replaced with two simple bars that represent your two basic resources: 
 mass and power. The D pad is your gateway to command and building queues. Selecting a unit and 
 pressing up will bring up a radial wheel, where you can choose simple commands like attack or stop, 
 or more unit-specific commands, such as powering down a shield generator or building a nuke. Pressing 
 right produces a build and upgrade wheel, where you can level up your structures or produce units. 
 You bring up your grouping wheel by pressing down on the pad. Here, you can select all units of 
 a certain type, or create and select custom control groups.     

  The scheme works fine and isn't too cumbersome, and there are some nice touches that strategy enthusiasts 
 will appreciate. For example, when queuing up units, you can hold a bumper to produce five at a 
 time, rather than pressing A repeatedly. Setting up order queues for your engineers and ACU is 
 automatic, so you can easily get your engineers on a set of tasks and leave them be. The downside 
 is that you have to manually issue a stop command if you want them to do something different, which 
 isn't usually too much of an inconvenience. However, even a unit's automated journey to a rally 
 point is considered as a queued activity; if you want to issue an order and have the unit begin 
 before it has arrived at the rally point, you have to issue a stop order and issue the new command, 
 which is annoying and should not be the case.  

           The game engine has a hard time rendering even the simplest visuals.      

  Some technical 
 issues get in the way of the scheme. For example, if you use the grouping wheel to choose all available 
 engineers, the option may not work. The wheel may indicate a number of idle engineers, but selecting 
 the grouping may not do anything, so you'll have to search for them manually. It also appears that 
 the friendly artificial intelligence is broken. Occasionally, units that should be performing a 
 patrol will stop for no apparent reason. Other times, your engineers will stop midqueue and sit 
 idly, and you will have to issue a stop command and reissue orders from scratch. These occasions 
 aren't frequent, but they are common enough to be annoying.  

  Outside of the campaign, you can play stand-alone skirmishes, or you can take the fight to Xbox 
 Live, where up to four players can compete. While there aren't as many options as in the PC version, 
 there are an insane number of ways to customize your games, along with two new modes: King of the 
 Hill and Command Point. In King of the Hill, you must send your units to a designated area on the 
 map to earn points, while Command Point is a Battlefield-type game where you must capture all of 
 the designated locations on the map. The latter is easily the better of the two modes, and games 
 can last for quite some time, as the constant tug of war will keep you engaged across the entire 
 map at once. In every case, the large maps (though not as large as the biggest ones in the PC version) 
 lend themselves to a variety of tactics, and the resulting complexity requires flexible thinking. 
 The game's terrible performance doesn't seem to contribute to any online lag, and we didn't experience 
 any disconnects, though the visual slowdown can get so severe that it's hard to tell one way or 
 another. You can play ranked or unranked games, and leaderboards track the best of the ranked bunch. 

  The best visual aspect of Supreme Commander is its scale, since you can zoom in close to the action, 
 or zoom out to see the entire enormous battlefield, where every unit is represented by simple geometry. 
 Because you spend so much time playing Supreme Commander with the camera pulled all the way back, 
 you'll get used to that graphical simplicity. Up close, however, the game isn't much of a looker, 
 either. Textures are bland, units lack detail, and environments are fairly devoid of anything interesting 
 to see. Some loss of visual fidelity, in light of the game's massive scope, is understandable -- but 
 not to this extent.  

           Blowing things up is fun. The resulting frame rate drop is not.      

  The scaling 
 of the audio is even worse, and doesn't translate a sense of aural distance very well. If you are 
 using headphones or standard television speakers, you will get an earful of explosions and audio 
 effects that sound harsh and tinny. A better speaker setup will yield somewhat better results, 
 but even then, the sound is abrasive, as if the game is trying to squeeze out more sound than it 
 should. As before, the highlight of the game's sound design is the aggressive symphonic soundtrack, 
 which never gets in the way but sets the proper warlike tone for the colossal battles raging onscreen. 

  The PC version of Supreme Commander is one of the best strategy games in recent years, and is rightfully 
 beloved for its complex tapestry of economic control and massive battles spread across sprawling 
 maps. The Xbox 360 release attempts to deliver that great gameplay, but completely disrespects 
 it by stuffing it into a shamefully buggy package that should never have been released in its current 
 form.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: brentredinger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I originally rented this game and was disappointed by the stuttering graphics and frequent crashes. 
 
  
  However, I recently bought it for $12 and put it on my Xbox 360 hard drive. Its a whole new game!!! 
 The frame rate is way smoother. It still crashed once after I saved but that is nothing compared 
 to how it used to be. The only remaining bug is that if you zoom out fully it gets obnoxiously 
 loud. In conclusion if you can get this game for under $20 bucks and you have 4.7 GB of hard drive 
 space then you will have a good time.
  
  Gamefly is selling them for around $14 right now so thats a good option. I hear the main problem 
 with multi-player right now is that not enough people are playing it. I'm hoping to get the word 
 out that the performance issues are mostly put to rest when you install it to the hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMorris101
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game is the best RTS on any console. It may not be the best looking game out there (even though 
 I think it looks great) but it has plenty of deep strategy. There are not many games out there 
 that let you build up huge armies So what do you get then Well lets see We have Ground units, 
 air units, naval units, nukes, robots, huge special weapons, and much more. I should also mention 
 the great control system that allows you to manage everything. It has been reported that the game 
 has a few issues with slow down. I did notice this when I was zoomed right into the action. However, 
 it was not game breaking. I have since loaded the game onto my Xbox hard drive. This has improved 
 the game performance to a large degree.
  
  If you like RTS games but don't have a PC then you owe it to yourself to buy this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxlive1000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  supreme commander for the xbox 360 is a very under rated game and is really not such i bad game 
 and if you like stategy games alot and you want some for that sexy hd tv if you got one you should 
 by this game. 
  
  or you could always get red alert 3 and c&c or c&c kanes wrath and many more.
  
  but it does 
 have some probemlys and some very wield sound problems and the controls or desent enough (if you 
 live in the uk go to game its on sale for 10 new from 40 thats where i got my one from :) december 
 22nd 2008
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 19, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Supreme commander is a game that i loved on the PC and i thought i might buy it on xbox because 
 i loved it so much and i wont lie to you its not like its a bad game in fact it would have been 
 a great game but technical issues flaw the game and dumb AI are really annoying too.
  
  The game: The actual game for supreme commander is great, you get a grat sense of scale when commanding 
 giant armies and titanic experimental units, but be warned this game will take up time
  
  Audio: the audio in supreme commander is quite poor as you hear a crackling sound every time you 
 save and when the big battles pick up (if you ever get to one) the sound starts to lose time and 
 it chugs out sounds that happened five seconds ago and when you zoom fully out the sound actually 
 gets louder, yes it gets louder as you zoom out.
  
  Controls: the control scheme is very good for such a complex game but sometimes because you que 
 up orders you troops are supposed to be attacking but they are running to a point you set ages 
 ago.
  
  bugs: this game is full of them, its ridiculous like it freezes every so oftern and the framerate 
 drops so much its litterally like the game is set to slow-mo and half of the time when you set 
 the game speed up so you can build your base faster it does nothing.
  
  extras: The game has few extras but the only really cool revolutionary feature is the strategic 
 zoom where you can zoom all the way out into the mini-map but thats about it.
  
  Online: the online is quite poor with bad service and laggy connections.
  
  Overall: supreme 
 commander is so deeply flawed that you wonder if they actually did bug testing but a lengthly campaign 
 and fun skirmishes leave a lot of fun to be had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_ROMAN_VI_X
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I have to confess that my favorite genre of games has been strategy. I love strategy board games, 
 computer games, and just strategy in general. I've played all the good RTS's and TBS's (AOE2, Civilization, 
 etc) and I still do. Until recently my PC has never had the hardware requirements to play modern 
 games, and still has problems with a lot. So I turned to the Xbox 360 for a solution for more complex 
 strategy games. To be frank, they mostly suck. C&C was ok, UAW: EA had a ton of weird bugs, Civilization 
 Revolution was to repetitive and simple. 
  
  When I heard that SupCom was being ported, I eagarly anticipated and bought it. And I was generally 
 pleased, while it did have some bugs.
  
  The real great thing about SupCom for the 360 is the controls, you don't need to do anything funky 
 or spend time memorizing them. D-pad is groups and orders, left stick moves, right stick zooms 
 out to the strategic map and back in. Right bumper makes 5 units at a time/removes 5 units. Etc, 
 etc.
  
  While the campaign is a snore, the skrimish battles are what really makes the game stand out. The 
 AI has multiple modes (they have different names but there are Easy, Medium, Hard, variants of 
 hard that focus on one area in particular (ex: tech ai focuses on getting high tech before attacking) ) 
 and generally works well. The maps are well thought of and the game modes are your typical as you 
 would expect.
  
  What really stops this game from being a 9 or 10 is the bugs. The nukes reduce the frame rate on 
 some maps to 7 fps (for about 35 seconds) , zooming in and out quickly causes a hiccup, large battles 
 cause an unstable frame rate for a while. But the frame rate stabalizes after 5-60 seconds. While 
 it's not as bad as some bugs in other games (broken ai, etc) it is annoying. The devs haven't provided 
 a patch yet (as of Oct. 7th)
  
  If you have a 360 and are a RTS fan that wants a good game that'll last you quite a while Supreme 
 Commander is the way to go. It's only about $20 at most shops now.
  
  RTS Scores:
  AI: 9/10
  Sounds: 7/10 (some hiccups)
  Graphics: 8/10
  Stability 6/10
  Campaign: Mostly 
 easy, has good voice acting (mostly)
  Tutorial: It's ok, gotta play the first few missions to figure out some specialties.
  Overall: 
 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raistlarn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I feel that Supreme Commander is very under-appreciated mainly because it has "problems" such as 
 lag, freezing, poor A. I., etc
  So far I have only seen some lagging and when you switch to build a building how your mouse freezes 
 and that's pretty much it.
  
  The gameplay can be how you set it up literally you can spend a few hours building and tweaking 
 your base as I have doneonce. Or you can run over your enemies within half an hour of the start. 
 I personally skip the running over part and destroy everything with bombers in the first few minutes 
 just because a learned the hard way that you better have a hard shell if you are going to turtle 
 especially when your enemies start throwing experimentals at you.
  
  The control wheel is very well done better so than the command bar used in C&C 3
  
  There's 
 not really much to the graphics in this game the main focus is on gameplay.
  
  The only way to get better that this is to spend $ 1k+ on a good comp with dual core + a good GPU 
 and so on and so forth.
  
  So here is how I would rate this game
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Graphics 7/10
  Sound 6/10
  
  My overall rating 9.5/10
  
  If you don't know if you'll 
 like this game I say rent it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Supreme Commander is an RTS with an epic scale. The PC version met with rave reviews and the console 
 port brought with it much anticipation. But rather than give us hope that the RTS genre would finally 
 succeed on consoles, it instead gave us one more reason to cower in fear. The epic scale of the 
 game must have been simply too much because the game is riddled with bugs, bad AI, and just plain 
 poor execution.
  
  The game had a number of positive attributes, including the ability to create dozens of different 
 unit types and massive quantities of each. From a control perspective, you have the ability to 
 zoom to a Wayne's World-esque "Extreme Close-Up" or view the commotion from a high-level overview 
 encompassing the entire map. This all sounded great on paper, but in practise you'll encounter 
 pitiful frame rates once you reach, say, six units. And changing from one zoom level to another 
 causes slow downs that will eventually force you to just stay zoomed out completely.
  
  The control scheme was capable, assigning rotary command menus to the D-pad and using the analog 
 stick to make your selection. However, the shoddy AI often left you wondering if you had hit the 
 right button. The slow-down mentioned previously also led to rare occasions where the interface 
 failed to register your selections for several seconds and then suddenly executed each and every 
 button press that had been queued. You'll find yourself fighting the interface more often than 
 the enemy.
  
  The game also has a splendid concept of a command queue. Each unit and building has it's own order 
 queue, which allows you to set up strings of activities for your units. This came in particularly 
 handy for engineers and buildings but became a fatal flaw for offensive units because movement 
 orders were queued as well. So if you made a mistake after creating several waypoints, you found 
 yourself canceling the entire queue and starting from scratch. This got old pretty quickly.
  
  Even when you did manage to get your orders issued, the nonsensical AI would often prove to 
 be your undoing. More than once, upon issuing commands to a group of units, one or two would simply 
 sit still as though rebelling against the order. Sometimes they would respond after a little cajoling 
 but in a few cases I actually had to force them to self destruct lest they sit there useless, consuming 
 resources.
  
  My favourite bug of all had to do with the audio for the game. Mind you the soundtrack was pretty 
 compelling, if it could be heard. You see, the game attempted to alter the sound effects for realism, 
 depending on your zoom level. In other words, when zoomed out you would hear distant sounds of 
 the battle, just as though you were really hovering some 30,000 feet over the action. On the other 
 hand, when you put the camera right up close and personal, the effects were amplified accordingly. 
 This worked great until the game became confused and amplified everything over and over to the 
 point of distortion. No amount of fiddling with the audio options would provide any relief so I 
 finally had to turn the sound off entirely, lest I wreck my speakers.
  
  Considering how excellent the PC version was, it's amazing that this port shipped with so many 
 issues. Supreme Commander has a lot going for it and I highly recommend checking it out- just don't 
 do it on the console! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake9123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  the gamplay its the same as on PC which is great 10/10 so simpley its awsome
  
  sound AHHH ZOMING OUT SUCKS ITLL BE ALL QUIET BECUSE YOUR BULDING A BUILDING THEN WHEN YOU ZOOM 
 OUT YOUR LITERALY HEAR EVERY LITTLE NOISE ON THE WHOLE MAP 6/10 MANILY FOR THIS REASON GREAFIX- 
 360 is really sucking it up (badly) this is hey antoher game that 360 cant match up to my pc the 
 buildings have such bloby like texures it almosy makes you want to play the game zoomed out lol 
 and the exploions look like random white sparks with back chunks of nothing there is NO orange 
 or anything in expltion even some times the nukes are all white 2/10 for the horible FX
  
  so the game is good afer you pretend its for the PS2 old Xbox lol
  
  all i love to do is VS 
 the Tech and hord aI its so fun!!!! expecially when there is masive expermiantal units battleing 
 it out good game but if you have a good pc get it for that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Busfulloftatuhs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  Srry this is so long. (You wont regret reading though)
  
  SupCom is an AMAZING GAME!!!!!!!!!! After waiting and waiting and waiting for the highly anticipated, 
 revolutionary SupCom (PC) 2 come to 360 I only fell 2 disappointment like many others after reading 
 the critic reviews claiming the game had poor frame rate, bugs, glitches, blah blah, etc.
  
  Then I thought it cant be that bad??
  So I look at the player reviews, AHHHHHHHHHHHHH what 
 stress and confusion!!! Some people had no problems at all... and some did.. I was like... wtf's 
 goin on How come it's either you hate it or love, I mean all I see are in reviews are people claiming 
 they have no bugs- few bugs (no biggy) but still love it or people claiming the game's TERRIBLE ( 
 freezing when saving, poor frame rate, millions of bugs, and crappy stuff on top of crap)
  
  
  But the game is overall awesome..... The scale of the game in every field such as features, 
 tactics, map size, and unit cap is EPIC (pleasing graphics) !!!!!!! If your more of a rts gamer who's 
 into the REAL* concept of rts games which actually require thinking* like making strategic moves, 
 taking time to build all your stuff, and blah blah... this is the game for you!!!! On the other 
 hand if you like getting owned 5 minutes into the game by nubby tactics such as rushing and other 
 gay tactics by any1 with the capablity of clicking a mouse then there are plenty of other rt's 
 out there on console for you such as the overated Command and Conquer series. Come on it gets boring 
 after a while when you play several games over the years of the same franchise with the same old 
 same old, but wait!!! LETS KEEP THE SAME CONCEPT BUT LETS JUST MAKE THE GRAPHICS BETTER BIT BY 
 BIT FOR THE YEARS 2 COME!!!! The graphics are actually really good (lol) in alot of the rts type 
 games I bashed earlier. lol im a hypocrite.
  
  But w/e I dont want to type 2 much more since it's 1:30 when I typed this. 
  
  Overall, SupCom 
 is a revolutionary game. It took alot of guts for Aspyr to port a game like SupCom to the 360, 
 sure there is alot of glitches for some people but for others there aren't I still dont see why 
 that is but they aren't 2 big of a problem for me ( im sure they'll fix em) .
  
  
  In my research I found alot of ways 2 decrease probs if not stop them
  
  1. put console graphics 
 in a lower resolution mode in turn which will help stop lag
  
  2. clear cache, helps ALOT with freezing and bugs
  
  3. When big *** battles happen on 20x20 
 maps with crap flying everywhere I heard from a few people that if you turn the game speed to high 
 it should look normal during the battle
  
  But that's that, PEACE.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaiderNic99
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Well from what I have read in all of the other reviews on Gamespot many people have experienced 
 some technical issues with the game. After reading these I wonder what wrongs with these people's 
 Xbox 360's? To date I have yet to run into and bad AI or path-finding. The controls are excellent 
 from the get go. Yes some of the tech and stuff is a bit overwhelming but that's good. It makes 
 you have to really learn the games strategies.
  
  So far I can say after three solid days of playing Supreme Commander I have not run into any lag, 
 frame rate issues, or any idiotic AI. Yes the graphics are a bit unimpressive up close but that's 
 because this is a massive game. They want you to have to back away a bit to see your entire army 
 not fit it all on one screen.
  
  Until I run into these same problems, which I doubt I will, this game gets a perfect 10 from me. 
 If you love RTS's then it's a buy. If your not to big on them then it's definitely a rental just 
 to get you hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmlb42
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  supreme commander is a really cool game for the strategist who loves to waste time. in this game 
 building massive armies is freakin awesome with all the big robots and nukes it is really fun, 
 but this game is far from perfect it controls can take some gettin used to and there are a few 
 lockups but i feel that a patch can easily fix these problems, but heres a funny thing lockups 
 only occur on the 20 by 20 km levels with a 350 population cap so hold the horses and knockdown 
 the pop and play the 15 by 15 levels and u will be fine
  
  
  this game is a love it or hate it so i would recomend renting it
  
  p. s. in one of the other 
 reviews some guy played for 17 hrs , the only thing i hav to say is wow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrvincent
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Supreme Commander (SC) is a Real Time Strategy (RTS) game that ups the anti in all aspects relative 
 to other RTS offerings for the console. It's control scheme, scope and utter complexity is a  
 dream come true. Too bad that technical issues get in the way of all this. Did the port people 
 lazily and quickly put this on the 360 to make a quick buck, or is it possible that the hardware 
 just isn't ready for this massive game yet? Until a patch is released, or not, to fix the lag/sound/program 
 bugs etc, we will never know.
  
  Gameplay & Story: You build your own personal army of structures and weapons and have it out with 
 someone else who does the same. This army can also include an Air Force and a Navy. 
  
  Your army is powered by Mass and Power plants and you can create more Power/Mass output as you 
 "tech up".
  
  The factions are well balanced and there is a counter action for every attack. Those players who 
 like to "Turtle" now have a game to call their own. You can spend hours tweaking your defenses 
 to repel almost any attack, although, in the long run, those who branch out and expand will have 
 an advantage. Speaking of "Hours", make sure you visit the bathroom before playing because some 
 battles CAN take hours.
  
  In regards to the story or campaign, I mean, come on  playing an RTS game campaign is mainly for 
 training purposes. The meat of an RTS is skirmish either locally or online. SC does a good job 
 of allowing you to set up the game type of your choosing and provides a nice variety of maps. 
 
  
  Controls: The control scheme for SC has now made every other RTS control scheme obsolete. The way 
 you build your army has taken "set it and forget it" to new heights, and I am saying this in a 
 good way. 
  
  Sound: Some of the sound effects are good, and others are very odd. When you zoom out of the battlefield, 
 your speakers might get blown out from the noise.
  
  Graphics: Acceptable. In fact, I would call them above average for a game with this scale.
  
 
  Conclusion: This game is for those who like to build massive forces and manage them over a longer 
 period of time. If you have a case of Halo-itis and like quicker battles like those that occur 
 in Command & Conquer, then this game may not be for you.
  
  Despite the great concepts presented in this game, as it stands now, be prepared for plenty of 
 lag and occasional buggy play. There is a lot of debate about this issue at this time. Some are 
 having more trouble than others. When all is said and done I cannot recommend this game at this 
 time. Its too bad really  almost like someone put a nice lobster dinner in front of us, but we 
 can't eat it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: console-deity
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:05 am PT
Review:  Graphics: They are good, not the greatest ever but they are still quite decent. When you zoom in 
 you get a decent amount of detail and the textures are decent. 
  Sound: The voice overs are really good and the voices fit quite well for the characters. Sound 
 effects are what you'd expect from an RTS, nothing super unique here but all fit well.
  Controls: Some bloody brilliant work went into this, if you've played a console RTS it will take 
 you little time to pick them up but a total novice will need a little more time. Though they seem 
 complex at first within an hour or two you'll be zooming in and out and command almost like second 
 nature. 
  Game Play: With the epic scale of the maps and the well built units Supreme Commander for 360 is 
 a solid RTS. Sure many have built armies and waged war against others but not on maps this big 
 with armies this huge.
  Conclusion: to honest in this review I've had some small lag here and there but for the most part 
 it's not an issue, the easiest way to avoid it is don't zoom into any big battles and you'll hardly 
 notices. Still all and all this is a brilliant RTS and if you love the genre you should pick this 
 one up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dstryngAngl85
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game when it works (on a powerful pc) . However, it doesn't work well, if at all 
 on 360. The games frame rates drop disturbingly low. Even starting out the frame rate is so bad 
 that the screen jumps and it is difficult to control what you are doing. By the time a big battle 
 begins you have to zoom way out so the game doesn't freeze. The control scheme is not too bad but 
 mixed with the sorry performance it can be quite annoying. 
  
  This game is a complete waste of money and an extremely sorry excuse of a port. Save yourself the 
 time and money and stay away from this game as it should be illegal for developers to sell a game 
 with this kind of poor performance, just as it is illegal to pirate games for free from the developers. 
 In the case of this game, the consumers are being robbed by buying a half assed excuse of a game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wstargardt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I am not much of a reviewer, but i do like the SC to the fullest. As a big player of RTS i can 
 say that SC was a good intense feeling game that got me hyped up when i heard that it was coming 
 to Xbox. With the three very enjoyable factions of SC all are very balanced and contain a unique 
 storyline. The many maps of SC gives the player a chance to change of game play, such as on a island 
 you would choose to be more defensive as for a map where the resources are in the middle drives 
 the player to act aggressively. I do note however there is a bit of lag issues and some mechanics 
 that involve unit selections but other than those it is a well ranked game. As most PC-Console 
 games its not quite as good as the PC version but it gives you the right image of the game so even 
 tho if you own the PC version you may choose to stay with it. As always please RENT BEFORE YOU 
 BUY the best way to find out about the game is hands-on experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_exe1
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game is grand. A simple system allows new players or seasoned veterans a simple fast way into 
 the game. You gather mass and energy to create structures. To create energy, you build power plants, 
 but to build structures you require mass, which you can either build mass fabricators which create 
 mass and require alot of energy to run, or you can build mass exctractors over mass deposits on 
 the map.
  
  The resource system is simple. The combat is very intense and immersive as well. Ground battles 
 are interesting and cool to watch but once aircraft gets involved the game goes to a whole different 
 level.
  
  Alot of reviews claim to have game breaking technical problems. I havent had any. When theres alot 
 of units on the map, there gets to be a slight, maybe .1 second delay between commands, but nothing 
 game breaking. Alot of claims of freezes and lock ups. I played the game nonstop for 17 hours yesterday, 
 on hard in the campaign mode and the game never froze or failed on me. I played for 3 hours in 
 a skirmish pretty close to the unit cap for each player, but the lag was minimal, nothing more 
 than you would get with 1 player making 60 scrin assault carriers standing over a base with 3 armies 
 attacking. The lag hasn't been bad at all for me.
  
  The game is very hard, and can take hours to complete a single mission or skirmish. Players may 
 take time upgrading their base, or creating abunch of units to attempt to crush an enemy player. 
 Each action takes alot of time and resources, but the time flies.
  
  All in all, its a great RTS game that I believe everyone should play. Dont listen to the reviews 
 and get a bad image in your head for a game you havent even played yet. If you dont buy it at least 
 go rent it.
  
  The only annoying thing about the game that I could find was the 'snap' aim cursor that automatically 
 centers on nearby units, which can be disabled. And the fact that when you zoom out you can hear 
 every single sound in your line of sight, which is weird. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nec0Machina
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 25, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  The gamespot review has it pretty much right on. The controls translated over to a console really 
 well. But unfortunately the game lags like crazy, even when you've first started and only have 
 about 40-50 units and buildings. 
  
  When I first popped in the game I went right to skirmish mode and played on a 20km x 20km map with 
 one AI opponent and the max unit amout of 500. About 30 minutes in the game locked up on me. I 
 thought to myself "OK, well I did have the biggest map size and highest number of units setting, 
 but it was only 2 players instead of the max of 4. 
  
  So I tried the first mission of the campaign. Very small map on this mission, and I didn't have 
 very many units built (maybe 100 at most) . I was able to get through the mission (despite the horrible 
 lag every couple of seconds) , and when it got to the mission review screen at the end, I hit A 
 to contnue and it locked up again.
  
  I also experienced the thing the Gamespot reviewer mentioned about it showing idle engineers, but 
 you cant always select them unless you go and manually find them and click on them. Sometimes it 
 worked and sometimes it didn't. Also, there is no way to select all idle engineers. You can double-click 
 a unit to select all units of that type, but it doesn't work for idle engineers for some reason.
 
  
  In short, the game has serious potential. The control scheme works great - much better than I ever 
 imagined a console controller could handle an RTS game. The graphics weren't very good at all - 
 even the screenshots for the 360 version look much better than the actual game does - makes me 
 wonder if they used the PC version and tried to pass them off as Xbox360 screenshots. The crappy 
 graphics didn't really bother me much though, as this kind of game is more about good gameplay, 
 but the absolutely horrid framerate DID bother me. Every few seconds it pauses for about a half 
 a second or so. And of course, 2 system lockups in 1 hour is not acceptable to me.
  
  I give this game a 3.0 in it's current state. Maybe it will be patched up at some point, who knows. 
 I do know that my copy will be going back to the store tomorrow for a refund though. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
