-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Surf's Up
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/surfsup/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid gameplay design complemented by a decent trick system.
 Good visuals and voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Championship mode can be beaten in 90 minutes, and there are barely any supplemental modes.
 Physics and animations can sometimes get kooky and glitchy.
 Lame soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.2, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 117 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Surfing
Date: May 30, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hanging 10 in this movie-licensed surfing game has its moments -- just don't expect to enjoy it for 
 very long. 

  Thank god for the occasional bucked trend. Surf's Up could very easily have been yet another lamely 
 produced platformer or action adventure game based on an animated film. Instead, it's an oddly 
 competent surfing game. The game eschews any attempts at retelling the film's story, and is instead 
 content to act purely as a companion piece, letting you play as all the key characters from the 
 film in a game that feels like a combo of Kelly Slater and Wave Race for kids. It's not a remarkable 
 game, but at times it can be a decent bit of fun. It's just a shame that it offers so little in 
 terms of content.  

          Surf's Up isn't remarkable, but it's a decent little surfing game; and hey, it beats the 
 heck out of T&amp; C Surf Designs any day.     

  Jumping into a game of Surf's Up is a little off-putting at first. Your chosen surfer essentially 
 travels through the level on rails, and it's up to you to guide him or her past the various obstacles 
 that litter the game's courses. All along the way, a constant wave moves along with you, and you 
 can use this wave to perform tricks. The trick system is rudimentary, only tasking you with moving 
 up the wave until you get to the peak, then jumping off by hitting one of the trick buttons. While 
 you're in the air, you can do one of several different trick types, from grab tricks to special 
 tricks that can only be performed once you've built up a special trick meter. This meter is also 
 tied to speed boosts, which you can use to power past certain obstacles or opponent surfers.  

 
  As you go, you'll also be trying to pass through various gates, collect power-ups, grind on various 
 rails, and occasionally go crashing through stuff. All these tricks net you points, and the goal 
 of most levels is to hit a certain point target. There are actually two point targets in each stage, 
 but you only have to hit the first to progress.  

  The trick system works fairly well, and the controls are solid. The Wii version is the only one 
 that deviates from the standard control scheme, but it doesn't go overboard with motion controls. 
 The only motion you use in the game is to swing the Wii Remote downward to engage a speed boost. 
 However, the one caveat is that the Wii version is also missing a trick type, seemingly because 
 of the controller's lack of buttons compared with all the other console versions. The Wii version 
 doesn't necessarily suffer because of this, as it's pretty easy to hit the score targets without 
 this trick type, but it does come off as lazy that no effort was made to keep the missing trick 
 in the game.  

  If there's any real complaint to be lobbied against the gameplay on all versions, it's that it's 
 occasionally bewildering. The tricks and other mechanics are quite simplistic, but getting your 
 surfer to engage in certain actions -- rail sliding, for instance -- is an inconsistent process. The 
 game is unpredictable with when it wants to magnetize you toward a rail to slide or have you miss 
 it altogether. You also may end up wrecking into a few more rocks or other immovable objects than 
 you'd prefer due to character movement not being quick enough or the sometimes-wonky physics pushing 
 you toward an object even though you were turning in the opposite direction. These issues don't 
 really make the game frustrating, as the difficulty is easy enough to where even crashing on a 
 regular basis doesn't detract from you passing a level. They're just kind of annoying.  

  The other issue of note with Surf's Up is that there's just nothing to it. The game's primary mode 
 is the championship mode, where you move from level to level, hitting the score targets and eventually 
 taking on the big kahuna of surfing, Tank, in the last stage. However, besting the championship 
 mode doesn't take more than an hour and a half the first time through. Granted, you won't collect 
 all the various idols and other hidden doodads in one play, but it's hard to imagine anyone taking 
 more than three or four hours to pull that off. Beyond this mode, there's a basic multiplayer mode 
 that's for two players on the Wii and PlayStation 2 and four players on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3. It's not online, and the number of maps you can race on is limited, but it's there. Finally, 
 there's a lame side game called Leaf Sliding, where you're lugging a big leaf down one of three 
 down-sloping courses. This mode is mildly amusing once, but that's about it.  

          If only there were more to do in the game thanwell, just this.     

  The game does 
 at least have some decent presentational values backing it up. The graphics aren't stellar, but 
 the characters look good, the water moves nicely, and some of the trick animations are pretty cool. 
 Other animations look stiff and glitchy, but not horrifically so. Of course, the 360 and PS3 versions 
 look significantly better than the Wii and PS2 versions, but for its hardware capabilities, the 
 Wii version actually looks quite good, too. The PS2 version is another story. The frame rate is 
 much choppier in that version, and all the neat little visual effects on the water and environments 
 are pretty much absent, making it look a lot blander than the other versions. The game's audio 
 is decent, mostly because some of the actors from the film reprise their roles here, albeit in 
 an extremely limited fashion. Most of the dialogue comes from little news blips that act as surf 
 reports before each stage, and though most of the jokes are pretty dumb, the voice acting isn't 
 half bad. Less entertaining is the soundtrack, which is mostly generic rock, including some exceedingly 
 generic songs from bands like Simple Plan and Homegrown.  

  Surf's Up deserves a bit of credit for turning in something that isn't just a cakewalk action platformer 
 that does a lousy job of retelling the film's story. Sure, it would have been nice if the developers 
 had included  any  story to speak of, but from a gameplay perspective, the surfing-on-rails mechanic 
 works better than you'd expect and provides periodic moments of legitimate fun. It won't appeal 
 much to older players, and regardless of which platform you pick it up on, it's not worth its overly 
 expensive price tag, given the barren amount of content the game offers up. But for younger kids 
 who dug the movie, you'll get everything you need out of Surf's Up over the course of a rental 
 period.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Stevie_Q
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it - as a general rule, movie-based games generally suck. Without enough development 
 time or resources, it is nigh impossible for even the most talented studio to adapt a movie to 
 a game effectively. And for the most part, Ubisoft's Surf's Up is no exception. However, it has 
 to be said that the developer made a few smart decisions, and Surf's Up is not nearly as bad as 
 it could have been. In fact, it's quite good for a movie game.
  
  Probably the best decision that Ubisoft made was only loosely basing their game's story on it's 
 movie counterpart. The only similarities between Surf's Up the game and Surf's Up the movie is 
 that you travel from Cody the penguin's hometown of Shiverpool, Antarctica to Pen Gu Island to 
 surf in a big competition. The game doesn't even bother to tell you this clearly, though. There 
 aren't any cut-scenes, and you'll only know where you are going next when you unlock a new level. 
 One can't really comment on Surf's Up story because there isn't really one.
  
  Surf's Up's gameplay is surprisingly fun, but very basic. You will surf along levels with a wave 
 on your left or right-hand side, moving up and down the wave to gain speed for performing tricks, 
 taking jumps, or grinding rails. Tricks, jumps and grinds will earn you points, and each level 
 requires a specified amount of points to secure a victory. You will also earn bronze, silver, or 
 gold medals depending on how many points you get. As you perform stunts you will also fill an adrenaline 
 meter which can be used for speed boosts or entering adrenaline mode, where you can pull off tricks 
 worth major points. 
  
  There are ten playable characters, but you have to unlock more than half. They all have different 
 attributes in speed, handling, jump, and freestyle, and you can also choose different boards. The 
 attributes don't really matter in the long-run, so the main draw to switching up your characters 
 is the different tricks they all perform.
  
  The main problem with the gameplay is that that is it. It's very basic and simple, obviously to 
 make it accessible to younger gamers. It's surprisingly fun, just way too easy. You can beat the 
 whole game using just the Y and B buttons. There are other options, but why bother? The A and B 
 button both control tricks, but hitting B performs a trick worth four times as much as A.
  
  There is another mode, called leaf sliding. Basically, you sit on a leaf and go rocketing down 
 a narrow trench, trying to collect trophies and stopwatches that slow down your time for a few 
 seconds. There are jumps and secrets to find in each level, but the controls are really awful - 
 you will often rebound endlessly from side to side, unable to right yourself. Plus, there are only 
 three levels, and so the mode is best avoided.
  
  Surf's Up's graphics are actually not half-bad. They are very cartoony, which makes sense in that 
 it's based on a cartoon, and the water looks pretty decent. Being this a surfing game, nice-looking 
 water makes a huge difference. The colour palette is bright and exaggerated, giving the game a 
 "happy" atmosphere. Textures, apart from the water effects, are nothing special. Overall, the graphics 
 are pretty average.
  
  Surf's Up falters badly when it comes to sound. The game features an awful soundtrack featuring 
 run-of-the-mill, generic bands such as Blink-182 and Simple Plan. I suppose they fit the surfing 
 theme, but there aren't a lot of songs, either, so you'll be hearing the same ones a lot. Even 
 if the songs were good in the first place, they would surely grow tiring after the twentieth rendition.
 
  
  The other audio features are disappointing as well. Characters give the odd cry, cheer, or complaint 
 when they crash, pull off a nice trick, or win a race, but other than that, they are mute. The 
 SPEN (Sports Penguin Entertainment Network) announcer does some brief coverage and introducing, 
 but for most of the game you'll hear only the repetitive beats of the less-than-stellar soundtrack.
 
  
  Surf's Up can be picked up in a bargain bin for about twenty bucks, and if you're looking for a 
 quick, fun, and easy game you can't go wrong. There is also multiplayer, so it's also good to play 
 with younger children, be them your children, siblings, or nieces/nephews. The single player is 
 very short, and can be beaten in as little as a couple hours. There's lots of opportunity for replays, 
 though, as you can always go for a higher score or try and nail that tricky jump halfway through 
 the level. There are also many collectables, and finding them all is a surprising challenge.
  
  All-in-all, Surf's Up is pretty good: for a movie game. It's very shallow and can't compete 
 with big titles like skate. or the Tony Hawk series, but Ubisoft did well to strip away any attempt 
 at a story and keep the gameplay simple. This one's perfect to play with or give to younger children, 
 and even the more mature gamer can have a couple hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gripfill
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  When i first rented this, i'll be honest, i was doing it for the achievements, just until the next 
 huge game came out.. but after an hour of playing it, with a custom soundtrack consisting of Army 
 Of Freshmen and early Greenday, it became VERY addictive.. as simple as it is and as aimed at kids 
 as it could be, its fun none-the-less and would certainly reccommend it for any fans of the film 
 who want a cheap thrill from something they like.. Think of it as Tony Hawk 1 on acid with Penguins 
 and water. Sounds likes a messed up mix right? NO! Its ACTUALLY GOOD!!! 
  
  The controls are simple, the graphics aren't top next-gen quality but they most certainly pass 
 and the sound (with the exception of the crappy ingame soundtrack) is top notch too.. its fun, easy 
 and a good rental, Just don't expect much beyond the 90minute one player mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramitz
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Surfs Up is unsurprisingly the game tie-in to the movie released by Sony Animation last year (2007) 
 which features everyones current favourite Indiana Jones darling (stupid name included) Shia LaBeouf 
 as a surfing penguin named Cody.
  
  With this release, it would seem certain our French friends Ubisoft have obtained the license deal 
 with Sony pictures to produce ongoing games for their animated movies. This being the second outing 
 for them with the previous effort being the rather poor Open Season. It's a fair guess at this 
 point the film license rapists THQ must have been outbid or instead saved their revenue pots to 
 keep the DBZ & Spongebob rights or they no-doubt would have spunked over this in their own disgustingly 
 feeble methods too.
  
  Publishers aside, lets move onto the game.
  Surfs up plays very loosely with the Tony Hawks game formula of skating and performing tricks for 
 points. I say loosely as strictly the games levels aren't open world like the Pro Skater series 
 and unlike the downhill jam games there isn't any actual racing going on either.
  
  You play as the previously mentioned Cody as he attempts to win a prestigious surfing contest held 
 by penguins and generally be the best of the best all while talking and behaving like some punk 
 from the Z Boys. That's about as far as the game goes in explaining the story. If you haven't seen 
 the film then you're **** out of luck as you won't have a clue who any of the other characters 
 are or what they're doing. Pretty standard fair with these licensed film games I find.
  
  Levels (of which there are roughly 20) progress in a straight forward A-B line with an ongoing 
 'wave' on one side of your screen which you traverse on your surfboard to build yourself momentum 
 and launch from to perform tricks.
  
  At the start of each run you'll be given certain conditions to meet to gain medals and effectively 
 pass the course. Most of which are points goal based, though others include collecting hidden statues 
 and passing through a certified number of marked gates. None of these tasks throughout the entire 
 game are in any way challenging and you'll more than likely complete them without even trying.
 
  
  To build up your run points you need to get Cody (your penguin) to perform tricks as he goes from 
 start to finish. Unlike the complicated trick combinations of Tony Hawk or Amped you simply press 
 'A' or 'B' after launching from the wave and your penguin will perform a trick at random. The 'X' 
 button is your grab and 'Y' is your super special stoke trick which builds up after performing 
 enough basic tricks. You'll occasionally have to grind a few obstacles appearing in the water and 
 navigate breakable barriers you can speed boost through which combined with your tricks adds to 
 your total score.
  
  You can unlock other characters featured in the film to surf as who all have varying attributes, 
 some turn quicker and some build up their stoke meter faster. In reality though it's just a different 
 set of tricks for you to play with. Whoever you use, the game will still take little to no effort 
 whatsoever to finish.
  
  Whilst the game mechanics are incredibly simple, it's actually presented rather well aside from 
 the occasional glitch crash and that judging certain jumps can be somewhat trial and error. The 
 game breaking problem is that the goals are just far too easy. It's fair enough to perhaps provide 
 a child-like goal for a bronze medal type requirement, but I don't think it would have been overly-taxing 
 on the end user to perhaps make the hardest run tasks require you to master the game as it were.
 
  
  As it stands it's easy enough to complete and gain the full 1000 gamerscore in less than 5 hours.
 
  
  This makes it completely un recommendable as a purchase and barely as a rental. Considering most 
 pre-pubescents seem to have little to no trouble swearing their way through Halo 3's multi-player 
 and have no problems controlling their Spartan in the ways of tea-bagging it's over simplifying 
 for no good reason.
  
  It's not the first time Ubisoft have dumbed down a game beyond all reasonable amounts. Open Season, 
 TMNT, Naruto all exactly the same issues. Unless all French kids are retarded it's pretty much 
 a given that if a licensed game is made by Ubisoft it'll be a piece of piss. Somewhat in the same 
 way that if THQ make a licensed game it'll be a pile of crap.
  
  So unless you're a huge fan of the film which is unlikely as Happy Feet pretty much ****ted all 
 over it at the time of release it's really quite avoidable. Which is a shame as with a little more 
 difficulty it wouldn't have been so bad.
  
  Good: Workable & unique game mechanic, cute penguins, easy 1000GS. Bad: No difficulty, unfunny 
 & vague purpose, short length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeCJ2
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  A year back or so my friend rented this game because he has gamefly. For some reason this game 
 was at the top of his list and as I heard him say "Surf's Up came in the mail" I immediately asked 
 him why in the world would he do such a thing. However, we came to find out.. this game is sadly 
 pretty fun.
  
  Basically you go around an island and race against other characters, being able to collect beavers 
 (yah I know, BEAVERS) , pass through certain amount of hoops, and achieve a series of high scores 
 in order to unlock more stuff. The boards you unlock are neat and cartoony and have their strengths 
 and weaknesses. Think of this game like SSX where you can fly thousands of feet and pull of ridiculous 
 tricks. The visuals were pleasing and the different levels varied from volcanic rocks falling everywhere 
 to jungle/regular beach-like environments.
  
  Granted this is not a long game as it took us the course of the afternoon to beat it, but grabbing 
 objectives (besides the beavers, which take more luck than skill to grab) will net you about 950 
 gamerpoints or so. So if you want some points and a little enjoyment, rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  Yeah, okish is the best word to describe it.
  The best part of the game is the big bright sprites and the evolving landscape that manage to, 
 actually, deliver some sense of a Summer feeling , and that's very good.
  Not is good though. Allthough the production value is not flat poor (Fantastic Four Rise of the 
 Silver Surfer I'm talking to you) , it wasn't given a lot of care . Diversefication is missing, 
 and missing bad. The game's short, and I don't mean just in terms of playtime to complete the main 
 quest , it's overall, what I mean is: tricks allthough very funny and quite easy to pull (good 
 controlls) are few, level diversefication is also lacking (bad) , extras are aso very few and poor, 
 even in the gags department the game falls short, soundwise (as GameSpot stated) is also very, 
 very crippled (where it lacks songs, genres, and even characters voices are missing) .
  So, it's sad that kids games tend to have this ok, it's for a kid, so it's more than enough kinda 
 feeling. And giving it a thought, maybe they're right, I mean, I saw kids playing video-games and 
 they (mainly) just want to push buttons they don't demand quality, but perhaps devs could think 
 that sometimes parent/older brothers want to have it a go to and they (most) tend to be more demanding.
 
  All in all I had some fun playing it, and at 25 Eur, it's still a good buy for the collection 
 and to support the beautifull machine.
  Go ahead buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Unreal Engine 3 powered, decent Tony Hawk style control scheme, tricks range from basic 
 to more complex, dirt easy achievements, multiplayer support offline.
  
  The Bad: Lame voice acting, not much variety, extremely short, no online multiplayer, very lame 
 surf rock soundtrack.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Cowabunga dude, we're going surfing! Yup, Surf's Up is a game based on the Columbia Pictures animated 
 movie of the same name. It's basically Tony Hawk on water, with characters and flavor from the 
 movie to boot. You get to select your character, most of which are penguins, from the begining, 
 and can unlock new characters as you progress. You start out in an antarctic area and move on to 
 a tsunami style wave in the south pacific. Sound like fun?
  
  The gameplay is pretty much Tony Hawk on water. You can preform basic jump tricks, holds, grinds, 
 and special moves that you unlock when your Stoke meter is full. These tricks give you some wicked 
 sick points. Most levels have three different objectives for you to complete. Two are related to 
 scoring a ton of points, while the last one is for going through a select number of gates in the 
 level. There are also surf idols, which are little bronze penguin statues, for you to collect throughout 
 the level. You unlock new areas and achievements by collecting surf idols and completing objectives. 
 During the game, there are other characters from the movie who are tearing up the waves around 
 you, but you aren't competing against them at all. In fact, the game itself really doesn't tell 
 the story of the movie at all. It's just like the X Games for surfing penguins. The graphics are 
 suprisingly quite good, because the game runs using the Unreal Engine 3, but it doesn't exactly 
 look like Gears of War.
  
  The gameplay itself is actually pretty fun, but it doesn't last long at all. The single player 
 game lasts maybe 4-5 hours, but you can easily zoom through it, unlocking everything in around 
 3 hours. The achievements are super easy. I unlocked over 800 gamerscore by playing for maybe 5 
 hours, and going back to unlock all bonus objectives after beating the game.
  
  The voice acting in Surf's Up isn't done by any of the original cast, and it's really quite poor. 
 Granted, they only talk when you pull off a monster trick or crash into something, but it still 
 lacks in the voice acting department. The soundtrack consists of really lame surf rock songs. This 
 game is definately a good place to use your custom soundtracks, because the in game music is bland 
 and uninteresting. The game does have extra leaf sliding levels, adding some variety and multiplayer 
 for up to four players offline, but the lack of online support is frustrating. Overall, Surf's 
 Up is a decent rental, especially for those achievement hoarders looking for more super easy points. 
 It's definately not a bad game, but it isn't worth buying at all due to it's short length.
  
  Gameplay: It's a decent Tony Hawk rip off, but there isn't enough levels to make it worth paying 
 more than a few bucks to rent it.
  
  Graphics: It is a suprisingly good looking game, thanks to the effective use of the Unreal Engine 
 3.
  
  Sound: Lame voice acting and poor soundtrack hurt baddly. Custom soundtracks, anyone?
  
  Value: 
 Don't buy this game, it may be worth a rental, but that's the most it's worth.
  
  Final Thoughts: Why are penguins surfing anyway? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frvaca
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Too easy, but still nice. Producers should of offer different difficulty levels... I finished this 
 game in less then 2 hours... for 50$, it comes to 25$/hour. The videos are funny. I'm anxious to 
 see the movie now. Please, put some effort on missions next time. The maps are nice, but it's always 
 the same thing... You could repeat the same move over and over and still be able to finish the 
 game. By the look of the game, I imagine that ubisoft spented a lot of effort on this game, but 
 for what?? For a game with no content... empty... Try it, it's fun for 5 minutes, but after that 
 you have seen avery thing. Too bad. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
