-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tales of Vesperia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/talesofvesperia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent cast of characters.
 Long, intriguing story that draws you in.
 Combat is slick and flashy.
 Gorgeous visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 You can win many battles with mindless button mashing.
 It's a lot like previous games in the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 1,483 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Developer: Bandai Namco Games
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Aug 26, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tales of Vesperia is the best game yet in the series, and a beautiful and entertaining RPG in its 
 own right. 

  Tales of Vesperia radiates beauty. This role-playing game's most obviously inspired facet is its 
 vibrant visual design, but even if you were to overlook its pretty exterior, you'd find more beauty 
 tucked away in almost ever corner. The characters are vividly crafted, the dialogue rings truer 
 than you'd expect from a Japanese RPG, and the involving story is intricate without becoming overwhelming. 
 Of course, Tales of Vesperia is a game, not a film, so you'll be delighted to know that it's also 
 a long, entertaining journey filled with flashy combat and all the gameplay elements fans of the 
 Tales series would expect. It might feel a bit overfamiliar at times, but by tightening up the 
 battle system and keeping the pace brisk, the developer has produced a truly great sequel that 
 any RPG fan can get into.  

           The core cast is excellent, and you'll care about their fates.      

  The game's star 
 is Yuri, a well-meaning troublemaker living in the capitol's lower quarter. Devices called blastia 
 manage the world's magic needs, from monster barriers to mystical weapons. When a thief steals 
 the core of the blastia that regulates the neighborhood's flow of fresh water, Yuri sets off to 
 recover it, only to find himself caught up in a game of politics and class struggle. As he treks 
 across forests and deserts, Yuri and his trusted dog Repede bring various friends into the fold. 
 There's the naive Estelle, a castle noble who finds she has the most to lose -- and the most to gain; 
 Or the insufferable Rita, a headstrong magic researcher who keeps getting drawn into the drama 
 in spite of herself. One by one, the core cast builds, yet each character possesses unique charms, 
 and you will care about their struggles. This may be a simple variation on the genre's prototypical 
 journey of self-discovery, but the terrific cast keeps the story fresh and fascinating. Even small 
 touches, such as the end-battle celebrations, brim with charisma.  

  It helps that the dialogue, while not without occasional clumsiness, is translated rather well 
 and gives each party member clear motivation and personality. Quiet moments between Estelle and 
 Yuri are heartfelt, while the banter between Raven and his traveling companions is amusing and 
 generally unforced. The script's best bits come courtesy of the game's skits, in which the characters, 
 represented onscreen by talking-head portraits, interact, complain, and otherwise comment on recent 
 events. Newcomers to the series may find the skits visually jarring, given that the basic 2D images 
 don't mesh well with the lush backgrounds and cel-shaded character models. Nevertheless, the skits 
 are a series staple and deliver plenty of character motivation, humor, and story tidbits. And because 
 you have to press the back button to view them, you don't need to watch them if you don't want 
 to.  

  As you traverse the lands of Terca Lumireis, you'll find no shortage of eye candy to gaze at. Tales 
 of Vesperia's art style is its most striking feature, and at first you may be inclined to compare 
 it to 2007's luscious Eternal Sonata. There are similarities, but Tales takes a less fussy, more 
 muted approach. Environments look vibrant but clean, though that doesn't mean they lack detail. 
 You'll explore countryside villages, a derelict ghost ship, and a tall clockwork tower, among many 
 other locales, and each is visually interesting while remaining consistent with the overall look. 
 The game makes good use of soft lighting and understated cel-shading, and character models are 
 crisp and animated well. Not to be outdone, the musical score uses a variety of moody harp tunes 
 and rousing electronic themes that complement the visuals. The English voice acting, often a source 
 of worry among RPG fans, is pretty good, though the overzealous female voice artists do grate from 
 time to time.  

           The combat is easy, but it's flashy and rewarding.      

  Presentation can take a game only so far, yet Tales of Vesperia also plays well, partly because 
 the game keeps moving forward at a nice clip. Towns are relatively small without being claustrophobic, 
 so while you can chat with the townsfolk and stock up on healing gels and new armor, you won't 
 need to navigate unnecessarily sprawling cities or endure collection quests and other needless 
 filler. At over 50 hours it's still a long game, but the good balance between story exposition 
 and gameplay keeps the game from getting tedious.  

  The combat proper is par for the course for a Tales game, though it has been tightened up to make 
 for a more compelling experience than before. Battles are in real time and confined to a nice-sized 
 battlefield, and you have a few different options of how to approach them. Most players will take 
 the default approach, letting the game auto-target an enemy while they hammer the B button to perform 
 standard attacks and press A along with the left stick to execute magic attacks called artes. Most 
 battles can be won this way without much effort, and that missing challenge is an issue that has 
 plagued the series for years. However, because the easier encounters control so smoothly and look 
 so lively, they feel more compelling than in prior games. But don't expect a total cakewalk, as 
 later on you'll encounter some tougher enemies that require some extra effort, and the boss characters 
 are a legitimate challenge throughout. At these times you'll benefit from free movement (executed 
 by holding the left trigger) and good use of items and artes.  

  You'll usually be accompanied by three AI-controlled characters in these battles, and they hold 
 their own marvelously without much tweaking. However, players seeking out variety will find plenty 
 of ways to mix up combat. You can adjust the behavior of your teammates, switch out the various 
 party members, and control the character of your choice, which gives you a chance to play with 
 a bunch of artes and weapons. Battles are further enhanced with other combat tweaks, such as overlimits 
 and burst artes. You fill your overlimit gauge by attacking and being attacked, and once the gauge 
 is full, you can attack without pause and even execute powerful burst artes, which can be chained 
 together into exciting, flamboyant displays of power and particles. Or, if you're fortunate, you 
 could execute a fatal strike with a well-timed button press, which can mean instant death for the 
 unsuspecting spiked tortoise on the receiving end of your axe.  

           Fatal strikes will make quick work of your foes.      

  Other Tales gameplay staples 
 are here in various forms, such as cooking and a battle arena. As you explore, the Wonder Chef 
 (who simply must get his own show on the Food Network) will dole out new recipes that you can use 
 to temporarily enhance various stats between battles. You will also accumulate and improve artes 
 as you level, and even learn new ones from the various weapons you equip. Other gameplay elements 
 add further variety, from simple puzzle sequences involving gears to keeping your water canteen 
 full as you travel through the desert. None of these sequences are groundbreaking, but they're 
 executed well and fit nicely into the surrounding bits without bringing gameplay to a screeching 
 halt.  

  At its core, Tales of Vesperia isn't very different from its predecessors, but it's easily the 
 best game in the series thanks to its great cast of characters and clever balance of storytelling 
 and gameplay. It's beautiful, it's engaging, and it's fun, and while it won't challenge your combat 
 prowess, it will challenge what you should expect from a modern RPG. This is, by any standard, 
 the best recent example of how an aging series can be updated for contemporary consoles while still 
 delivering what fans expect.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (113 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: God_of_duty117
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 12:09 am PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia basics haven't changed much from the previous Tales games. There's still the 
 Wonder Chef, Sorcerer's Ring, and a Guild filled with people that like to dress up as animals. 
 But it has improved upon many things, and perfected the fundamentals. 
  
  The story starts you off as Yuri Lowell, who lives in the slums of the massive Imperial capital 
 with his trusty canine companion Repede. Who happens to fight with a dagger in his mouth. The world 
 is relatively low-tech, as humans still rely on swords and spears to fight, but have aquired ancient 
 technology from a previous civilization, called Blastia. Blastia unlocks hidden power among humans, 
 giving them the ability to fight off the hoards of monsters that threaten their very survival, 
 as well as other uses such as creating barriers around entire cities keeping the monsters away 
 without bloodshed. One day, a conman steals the Lower Quarter's Aqua Blastia which supplied them 
 with fresh water, causing it to flood. Yuri, who was once an Imperial knight but quit because he 
 didn't agree with their actions, decides to take matters into his own hands and sets off to catch 
 the Blastia theif. This one event connects into many other events, eventually having Yuri and his 
 friends fighting to save the world.
  
  The game's story all in all is pretty solid, though just notquite as good as previous Tales entries. 
 It's character's on the other hand, are much better than most. Yuri, as an example, isn't afraid 
 of doing something most would consider wrong in the name of what's right, setting him apart from 
 most other main RPG characters. Earning him (in my book) the title of most Bad-Ass RPG main character. 
 The other characters all have interesting stories that all play an important role in the main story, 
 but they do get a little generic at times.
  
  Skits from the previous titles make their customary appearance, but have full voice acting for 
 them this time. Anytime during actual gameplay, you'll sometimes be given a button prompt to initiate 
 a scene where your characters talk about a number of things. They seem a little "pointless" sometimes, 
 but they add a great deal to the game's expansive story.
  
  The voice acting is great, with only a few annoying voices. But they were more or less meant to 
 be that way. I wish it would give an option for listening to the original Japanese voice acting 
 though.
  
  The music is good. There are a handful of memorable tunes about (the game's "Sad" song is absolutely 
 fantastic, especially during a few very emotional scenes later on in the game) But the rest fall 
 into typical RPG dungeon crawling songs.
  
  It's graphics are definitely not the prettiest around due to their style, but they still manage 
 to be beuatiful. Vesperia employs anime style cutscenes which are top notch, although quite scarce 
 in numbers. They sometimes makes you think Vesperia would work as an anime. (Which according to 
 Namco, they currently have one in production.)
  
  Now for the core of the game, its battle system. Tales games have always had an unique system for 
 playing. Some RPGs have you punch in commands and wait for a time bar to fill up, or wait your 
 turn to attack. ToV's system is 100% in real time, where you can pummel opponents with quick jabs, 
 slices, and swings. You can perform basic combos, as well as all sorts of techniques. (labeled 
 Artes.) You can chain them together into impressive combos, or you can play as the parties spell 
 caster and blast them with fireballs from afar. You can also go into OverLimit mode making you 
 impervious to being stunned by enemy attacks, more powerful, capable of performing Mystic Artes 
 (The game's version of a final move.) and even under the right conditions, invincible. Fatal Strikes 
 are also in your command, where after pummeling a monster long enough you see a glowing ring around 
 telling you it's your chance to strike. It can kill any normal monster, but it just damages bosses. 
 The important thing to remember though, is that your enemies can do all of this as well. (Excluding 
 Fatal Strikes.) Making battles action packed, while still retaining obvious RPG elements.
  
  They're are also other things to keep you busy, such as cooking, synthensizing, side questing, 
 and leveling. Cooking allows you to take recipes you've learned to create food that will heal your 
 parties HP, increase their attack, and many other things. As long as succeed at making the dish 
 that is. You get recipes by either mastering a previous dish with a certain character, or finding 
 the ever elusive Wonder Chef who hides around as random things through out towns. There are a good 
 number of recipes to find and master giving some decent length to those willing to take the time. 
 
  
  The game' synthensizingis a welcome feature, using all the loot you obtain from felled monsters 
 allowing you to create extremely powerful weapons and armor way before you would normaly buy, or 
 find them. The weapons you make can also be used to give certain party members certain skills. 
 Anything from increasing different stats, to doing only one damage with each attack (Which actually 
 has its uses.) Mastering all of them requires fighting and all the weapons you can find. 
  
  After each battle, you obtain GRADE. (Supposed to be caps.) GRADE measures your fighting capabilities, 
 so the better you do, the more you obtain. At first it doesn't look like it does much for you, 
 but once you beat the game you can use all the GRADE you accumulated to purchase things on your 
 second time through. You can use it to keep everything from your previous playthrough (Except for 
 levels.) as well as adding things, such as 10x EXP. But you have to have a lot of GRADE to get 
 them, so you either have to fight a lot, or use a few farming tricks. Either way, this feature 
 potentially doubles the length of the game warranting multiple playthroughs.
  
  There are tons of side quests to do, to extend the length of this game even further. This is where 
 the only actual complaint comes in; it's extremely easy to miss out on things involved with most 
 side quests. You have to go to a specific place at a specific time to trigger one seemingly pointless 
 scene that is actually involved with a side quest that may net you a character's final weapon. 
 Making this game really anti-completionist.
  
  In the end, Tales of Vesperia brings nothing massive to the Tales Franchise, or the RPG genre. 
 But it does an absolutely excellent job at perfecting numerous things, making this game memorable, 
 addicting, and most important of all, fun.
  
  I deeply apologize for any spelling errors or gramar mistakes in this review, and please rate this 
 review based on it's quality, not the end opinion. Thanks for reading and I hope this review helped 
 you! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falru
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is the latest in the Tales series, created by Namco Bandai. The story begins 
 with Yuri, a downtown swordsman in the Lower Quarter of the Imperial City. Throughout the adventure 
 Yuri will, of course, encounter an entourage of friends that help him towards the goal of completing 
 of the quest (i. e. saving the world) . 
  
  The overall story is something we've definitely heard before, but the smaller twists and sub-plots 
 that happen along the way are more than good, which is what I generally rate RPGs for nowadays. 
 I mean seriously, there's only so many things you can do that involve saving the world!
  
  The characters you'll be introduced to are mostly great, with the exception of my least favorite, 
 Estelle. She's pretty cliche naive-noble princess girl that's going outside for the first time 
 and her voice actress simply annoys me. She's much more tolerable than, say, Sarah in Star Ocean: 
 The Lost Hope though (thank god) .
  
  The characters are:
  Yuri, of course, who at first seems typical but he turns out to have a likable personality and 
 is definitely a unique enough character as he struggles with his darker habits.
  
  Estelle, the only character I can't like. She frequently delivers overzealous lines and while not 
 up to her ears in cliche, she's at least treading water in it.
  
  Karol, a 12 year-old cowardly warrior who's always trying to look cooler than he is.
  
  Rita, 
 15-year old genius mage of Aspio who has a reputation for eccentricity. She's pretty talented when 
 it comes to blowing things up.
  
  Raven, a creepy "old man" you can't help but love.
  
  Judith, "tough-as-nails" fits pretty well like they said in the Gamespot review. She's a pretty 
 lancer who thoroughly enjoys killing things.
  
  Repede. A ninja dog. Enough said. I mean, seriously, he's a NINJA dog, what more do you need?
 
  
  Character immersion and development has always been prominent in the Tales series, and Vesperia 
 is no exception. You will frequently see skits involving the characters in the series' staple portrait-system. 
 It has an undeniably lovable charm with all the witty ways the creators decided to manipulate the 
 character portraits to mimic more realistic actions (for instance, Rita punches Raven and his portrait 
 falls over) , and I enjoyed all 500+ skits immensely.
  
  The main quest will take around 40+ hours to complete. I myself completed it in 46 hours. After 
 completing the game you can start an "Ex New Game" that lets you use all the grade (scores you 
 accumulate at the end of each battle that rates your performance) to purchase add-ons, such as 
 Double XP or Gald, and so much more.
  
  There is an IMMENSE amount of side questing to be done in Vesperia, and it fleshes out the characters 
 and story a lot. Not only that, side quests usually grant your characters titles, which sometimes 
 changes their costume. I have finished all quests in the game after playing it three times through 
 and after having acquired every title in the game, I have amassed 190 hours of gameplay, and have 
 witnessed so much more character development than just the main plot. There's also an additional 
 dungeon that's only playable after beating the game and offers an even greater challenge. Not to 
 mention an unlockable "UNKNOWN" difficulty mode that's absolutely bizarrely tough.
  
  Tales of Vesperia's art style is absolutely gorgeous in it's own regard. At first it may seem simple, 
 but amazing lighting effects make themselves apparent when you realize the shading on your characters 
 is not static, it simply looks like dynamic cartoon/anime-style shading. The enemies also fit the 
 style, but you will see some similar monster types in the games 364 monsters.
  
  Vesperia's combat can be immensely enjoyable, or immensely boring, the choice is up to, which one 
 will you choose? That's what I thought. Truth be told you could win the entire game using just 
 the A or B button to attack. However this strategy is pretty crappy, and the game makes that plenty 
 obvious early on. Instead, you'll find yourself analyzing each characters supply or Artes, and 
 figuring out how you might best tie them all together to form impressive combos. The AI is excellent, 
 all characters seem to have been individually programmed to perform their specific roles to the 
 best of their potential. Even then you can specify strategy choices for each individual character, 
 such as telling them to stop caring if their TP gets low. (Useful when you don't want them to keep 
 asking you if they're allowed to use an Orange gel) Speaking of items, characters will automatically 
 "request" item usage when they see fit, and are usually extremely prompt about it. You can deny 
 item usage with one press of the left bumper. Throughout the game you will accumulate -many- skills 
 and -many- artes for each character, which can lead to staggeringly large potential. The max level 
 limit is 200, with an achievement to go with it.
  
  BOTTOM SCORES:
  Graphics 9/10
  Gameplay 9/10
  Story 8/10
  Characters 10/10
  Replay Value 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalasgalefist
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Alright, first off, there's one thing about this game that instantly told me that it was great, 
 I was sad when I beat it. When you are sad that you beat a game, for the main fact that now all 
 you're left with is side-quests and to replay the game, you can tell that that is one awesome game. 
 But naturally, what kind of reviewer would I be if I didn't elaborate some... (an absolute sucky 
 one) .
  
  First, a run down of what exactly this game is.
  
  Tales of Vesperia is an installment in the Tales Of series which had such big hits as: Tales of 
 Symphonia and Tales of Abyss. ToV chronicles the adventures of a boy named Yuri who one day meets 
 up with this girl Estelle while trying to escape from the castle prison after breaking into a residence 
 to attempt to take back a missing blastia core (blastia are special mechanisms coming in many forms) . 
 As with any group of adventurers, Yuri, Estelle, and Yuri's loyal canine ally, Repede, set off 
 on a journey. However, (cue lightning and intense music) what they don't know is that their numbers 
 shall grow, and their purpose for adventuring shall change many times.
  
  So, what is so fantastic about said game? Well, first off, the graphics in the game are flat-out 
 extraordinary. The animations look very colorful and livid, and the cutscenes are intense. As with 
 any Tales Of game, ToV comes with its own line of side quests, each one varying in length and importance. 
 With a plot that comes with a wide variety of twists and turns and superb battle sequences, this 
 game will keep anyone busy for 50+ hours. In addition, if you consider yourself an achievement 
 guru, there's a long line of achievements that can be obtained throughout this game, some of which, 
 that can only be obtained through replaying the game.
  
  In the end, Tales of Vesperia is definately up there along with Tales of Symphonia in terms of 
 greatness, and may even surpass it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:24 am PT
Review:  The Final Fantasy and Dragon Quest series had the favor and admiration from fans except for the 
 good but not the most widely known JRPG's like Phantasy Star, Star Ocean, and Tales of-. But Tales 
 of Vesperia and Symphonia is one of them that fans had a lacking chance of denying, and don't forget 
 about Legendia and Abyss. 
  The game offers a plot device with a man vs. nature conflict, the reason for this is on the focus 
 of our ex-knight Yuri Lowell and his dog Repede go out on a journey to search for the thief who 
 stole the Blastia Core, which holds the barrier for their large city to protect from monsters or 
 unfortunate tragedies like that. The plot offers a good heads-up on a town saving resource called 
 Blastia, not only to cover the city with a barrier but to operate such machines. Our heroes meet 
 a wide cast of characters like Estelle, some cheerful, kind noble. Karol, a hyper-active child who 
 is nothing more than the punching bag a Genius Mage, Rita Mordio, with an uncontrollable obsession 
 for blastia resources, and there is a party of characters you travel with that is more fleshed 
 out with their own personality, desires, looks, feelings, and dislikes.
  The story unlike any other in the series that has a good Moving Action from finding a stolen core 
 to saving the Earth from a world consuming monster. To tell this is the very first Tales game to 
 slice into the Xbox360, the graphics did what they were told to do. Very stand-out, colorish, and 
 a huge world map that is fully improved with new towns, monsters, and new ways to travel through 
 air and water. 
  There is, of course, the "Deja Vu" of the game. Same old skits, fighting systems, cut scenes, and 
 pretty much nearly everything you've seen in the previous games. The combat system is nearly the 
 same, although it has not lost that one ingredient: quick, flashy, and addictive, the characters 
 are offered new artes, or techniques as they repetitively use the same Arte over and over again. 
 There is, right here, my biggest attractions in the combat system: Mystic and Burst Artes, but executing 
 these will not only require the timing to hold the right button before finishing the Arte you are 
 throwing off, but these will require a certain skills, but they are really fun to watch. 
  There is the fully voiced skits with characters' heads cut out and glued onto a portrait frame, 
 with laughs and characters expressing everything about themselves. But the voice cast and diaologue 
 can be solid or sometimes if annoying with the same old lines before starting a battle.
  This is may be the first RPG that I've finished, but with 100 hours of walking through, this has 
 to be the longest game I have played in my lifetime. Like any other RPG, the game lengthins as 
 you are forced to level up your characters before fighting any other hard-to-kill bosses. Travelling 
 through the world map is different unlike Final Fantasy where any place you walk in will send you 
 flying to the battle screen, but Tales of Vesperia allows you a battle encounter by running into 
 that monster that you see on the world map, easy huh? Some of the battle can be easily fought through 
 with constant button mashing or button combinations to execute a combo that will send the enemy 
 seeing stars, the battles could've been toned down a bit without the button mashing, but some of 
 the battles are hella-hard to finish. There are some faster ways to gain more money and experience, 
 by fighting some of the largest monsters called Gigantos, but these guys may be good target practice 
 but they are not fun to play with. A character with a level even twice as lower could be toast 
 from one hit, so make sure you train before going up aganst these things.
  Of course you can earn costumes and appeal attachments to your characters but you have to earn 
 a certain number of ingredients to create items and weapons, this process is called Synthesizing. 
 Create the same weapon that you have and the weapon stats will increase, and do the same with armor. 
 
  The best Tales aspect of the game isn't just the battles or the skits, it's the anime cut-scenes 
 that are well animated but there are very few you can see.
  
  Tales of Vesperia offers some of the same old- same old, but as far as any fan can see, this is 
 so far the best in the series. Can you imagine a game to break the Japanese RPG curse of the 360? 
 Any fan of admires Final Fantasy or Dragon Quest shouldn't miss this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I have played four tales games and this is the best. The voice acting is top notch the graphics 
 are good. Most of the game is voice acted so there's very little text to read. This is one of the 
 better RPGs to be released in recent memory. The story is a bit slow to develop bit ends up being 
 quite good. The best part of the game is its characters and the dialogues are well developed. A 
 few times I was laughing at the games humor. The combat is freeform so you can control your characters 
 actions. Attacks are simple using the buttons and directions on the thumb stick to attack. You 
 can customize the buttons to be what you are comfortable with. After a few hours you'll be able 
 to synthesize items that will allow you to change characters both on screen and in battle. Each 
 character levels up and will learn new skills. You can also learn new skills from weapons and side 
 quests. You can only equip so many skills so you can customize each character to fight how you 
 wish. As with most Tales games you can earn titles and some change your characters appearance. 
 Midway through the game you'll receive a dragon which makes traveling across the world rather easy. 
 A nice feature is that most achievements aren't tied to difficulty level so you can switch from 
 hard to easy without losing achievements. The game has lots of weapons for each character to choose 
 from and you can either buy or synthesize items. Most weapons don't require a lot of farming to 
 get the items needed. The only shortfalls to the game are that in certain areas the game removes 
 characters you may have been using for a while there are some areas that are full of enemies and 
 tiresome to get through. 
  
  This is a very solid game it has all the elements you'd expect in a RPG. A hero, a villain, optional 
 side quests, secret missions and a good deal of customization. The game has a grade store which 
 allow you to purchase perks for a second playthrough like earning 10x experience etc adding some 
 replay value to the game. 
  
  Good 
  Easy to get 80-100 hours of playtime for total completion
  Freeform combat is faster paced
 
  Lots of items & weapons to buy/synthesize
  Customizable controls 
  No random battles
  Excellent voice acting
  Crisp graphics
  Several characters to play as 
  
  Bad
  Lots of 
 backtracking for some side quests
  Some areas go slow due to lots of enemies
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAceOfSkulls
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 8:09 am PT
Review:  Ok, these days its hard to find games that are truely worth their launch price for something other 
 than online play. The Tales games have always been on the top of my "Must put aside cash for" category. 
 Mostly due to their combat and story. Yes, if you've played through most every JRPG before them, 
 the story can get a little cliched, but these games are some of the few where the story is truely 
 worthy of being told. Most people leave the JRPG category alone for some truely stupid reasons 
 (teenagers saving the world, strange hair styles, xenophobia, etc.) but accept that it is much 
 more logical to allow a single man to be outfited with a suit of armor (possibly without a helmet) 
 and let them fight off hordes of enemies when their faceless supporting characters (read meatshields 
 or minions) get blown away from a few rounds. 
  Luckily the Tales games are different from the whole teenagers go save the world because adults 
 are useless thing. Here we have a group of said teenagers (if they can still be called that since 
 the main character is 21 and the female lead is 18) being forced into doing said thing for various 
 reasons that leave only them able to (a trademark of the Tales games) . The story begins with the 
 troubled Yuri discovering that the orb that powers the source of clean water for the slums he lives 
 in has been stolen by the person the slums had paid almost all they owned to fix it. Yuri, having 
 been in the knights once and knowing the full depths of corruption of nobility, sets out to get 
 even and retrieve the orb (blastia core technically but that just seems to weigh down the review) . 
 He breaks into the criminal's house only to be arrested. In the castle, he meets Estelle, who has 
 discovered an assassination attempt against one of the few uncorrupt knights. Not wishing to reveal 
 anymore of the story, I'll leave off there but simply put that the story follows a much darker 
 tone when Yuri begins to realize that he must walk the thin line between hero and villain. He starts 
 to do the things no one else is willing to do. It's not quite as powerful as Symphonia but the 
 darker twist is something most games like this try to avoid and I praise ToV for pulling it off 
 without making me hate Yuri.
  Story out of the way, time for gameplay. No turn based combat in this game. You're give a list 
 of spells and attacks along with free roam of a ring full of allies and enemies. The strange hairstyles 
 and clothes come into play here like they do in every Tales game as you will soon enter a free 
 for all brawl where without them you'd lose track of your controlled character. The difficulty 
 is wavering given that some battles you will breeze through and others you will break a sweat and 
 emerge as the victor just barely. Other times you will die. Luckily the game doesn't have many 
 long cutscenes before vicious boss battles (it does have some) . Also, no random encounters. You 
 will always see the enemy on the screen before battle and most of the times can avoid them (not 
 recomended too much) . Theres plenty of things outside of combat too that extend the game without 
 the feeling of it dragging on.
  Now for the flaws. The voice acting is superb most of the time but when you get to the anime scenes 
 you'll find that they tried to Speed Racer it instead of taking the time to get it to sound like 
 actual conversations. Also, some of the terminology seems just a bit too absurd to ever imagine 
 people using. I'm going to remind you as well that just like with most games with a huge cast of 
 characters that speak, you're going to find a few that feel like nails on a chalkboard. As mentioned 
 before, difficulty is a bit of an issue. I went from one dungeon that I breezed through to the 
 next where simply reaching halfway down seemed to take forever. In the game, most of the characters 
 look just perfect, which makes me wonder why they thought turning Yuri into a 16 year old in those 
 anime cutscenes (I'm starting to hate them now) was a good idea. Also, you'll need a strategy guide 
 to get all the unlockables and don't even think "Oh, I'll just pick them up at the end game" because 
 some of them are timed with the story. I normally wouldn't include anything about said unlockables 
 if they weren't so darn addictive. Turning the main character into cheesy devil with sunglasses 
 before a bossfight is hilarious.
  All things considered, this is a great game. It's not often I find a game where I can play for 
 50 hours on single player without feeling bored out of my wits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NARUTO_CRAZY
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was absolutely fun with an incredible opening and used the same music and singer for 
 the opening too. The game starts with the main character Yuri Lowell who wanted to change the world 
 by becoming a imperial knight but was disappointing of their actions, so he quit. So Yuri befriended 
 Estelle and such to change the world in their own way they can think of. The graphics of this game 
 is very beautiful including characters, enviroment, and the attacks. You can use this feature called 
 an over limit to keep landing an normal attack until the guage runs out and you can use mystic 
 artes while in this mode. This game allows multi-player function so bring your friends over to 
 play. There are many interestings places you can go to in Tales of Vesperia. So if you have an 
 Xbox 360, I suggest you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:36 am PT
Review:  As much as I love RPGs I've never been a fan of anime, and in the past I've never been a big fan 
 of anime-inspired games. However there were some exceptions in the past with the PS2 that made 
 me a bit more open-minded, and last year when I finally played Eternal Sonata I was convinced that 
 even anime-style JRPGs can be very enjoyable if it's put together well. So, after hearing good 
 reports concerning ToV I didn't waste time making a purchase as this was one of those rare games 
 I bought before waiting for the inevitable mark down in price. Fortunately the game was worth every 
 penny.
  
  GAMEPLAY (9.0) - Let's face it, even if a RPG has a great story and presentation, if the combat 
 becomes a chore that can pretty much kill everything and be a real game-stopper. Fortunately the 
 combat in ToV was fun from the get-go and became deeper and more enjoyable the further in the game 
 you get. ToV features a deep, real-time combat system. The combat is both easy to learn and has 
 a lot of depth. In addition to some button mashing it's essential to learn the use of artes, the 
 game's special attack and defense abilities. As the game goes on the characters will learn additional 
 and more powerful artes, sometimes through experience and sometimes through using a particular 
 weapon. The artes become very important in the many Boss battles, as some will take very heavy 
 damage against a specific arte attack. Furthermore, because encounters are not random (you choose 
 to enter combat, both in the dungeons and the over world map) , you can grind as much or as little 
 as you want. Another plus is that ToV offers a coop option. Up to three other people can hop in 
 and out of the game, controlling other allies in battle. I didn't realize this until about halfway 
 through the game, and from that point on I played with my son Dylan, and we really had a fun time 
 together during the battles. Your allies do have decent AI but there were times that having a real 
 person fighting with you really helped.
  
  GRAPHICS (9.0) - Last year I was very impressed with the graphics from Eternal Sonata, and ToV, 
 while not being quite as detailed in some areas was still a very beautiful game to look at, especially 
 on a HDTV. The characters are beautifully rendered, and the backdrops of towns, caverns, forests, 
 castles and countless other locations are superb. Everything has a hand-painted look, with animation 
 (especially during combat) that is smooth and lightning fast, and frame rate issues are nonexistent. 
 You should never find yourself disappointed with the game's visual presentation.
  
  AUDIO (9.5) - Surprisingly for a JRPG, the voice acting is well above average. While the translation 
 isn't perfect, and the delivery by the English voice actors (unfortunately no Japanese option is 
 available) isn't always spot-on, the characters sound genuine and appropriately emotional for the 
 given situation, not to mention that at times they can be very funny. There are not only many lengthy 
 cut scenes but also a number of simpler and optional skits. The skits are little more than talking 
 heads, but their is still a ton of personality to these conversations. The sarcasm, rivalries and 
 naiveties really come through and can be quite engaging.
  
  STORY (8.5) - While some parts of the story can be predictable (rag-tag group that includes a princess 
 somehow gets caught up in saving the world) it was still presented very well and it kept my interest 
 all the way through. The main protagonist, Yuri, is a very likable character that is refreshingly 
 different from many other lead characters that spend most of their time whining about their fate 
 and how they just want to go home. Yuri is a former knight that eventually couldn't take anymore 
 of the system and hads dedicated himself to helping the poor and oppressed. The game starts out 
 with Yuri simply trying to track down a magic user that apparently ripped off the people from the 
 poor section of town and then of course gets caught up in much bigger things. Yuri isn't looking 
 for fame or fortune, he simply desires justice, and at times you'll be surprised at just how far 
 he'll go to see that justice is done. yes, the game includes some wacky JRPG characters - a kid 
 that uses clubs and axes that are bigger than he is, a dog that usually has a pipe in his mouth 
 but switches to using a knife in his mouth during combat, but I didn't find them annoying as the 
 developers did a great job in making you care about these people.
  
  VALUE (9.0) - The game took me just about 60 hours, and I really didn't spend too much time level-grinding. 
 I mainly just made a point of attacking any monsters that were in my immediate vicinity, and this 
 was generally sufficient for leveling. ToV offers a ton of sidequests, and while I did do quite 
 a few I'm sure that there were many I missed. It might almost take getting a strategy guide if 
 one was determined to get every sidequest, as some of them depend on doing things that wouldn't 
 naturally occur, such as spending an extra night at an Inn, while others might not happen if you 
 don't do something specific at a certain point in the story. When I finished the game it gave me 
 a certain amount of options as to what I'd like to carry over for a second playthrough, and the 
 options were based on an overall grade I received from the battles. I believe the grades were based 
 on things such as how quickly I defeated the enemies, etc. 
  
  SUMMARY (9.0) - I had decent expectations before I started to play ToV, and I'm happy to say they 
 were exceeded. Though there were a few other decent-to-great RPGs I played from 2008 (Lost Odyssey, 
 Fallout 3 and Fable 2) I have to say that ToV was the best of the lot, and I really felt a bit 
 sad when it was all over, as I wanted to keep playing. Completely recommended to any JRPG fans 
 and really to any RPG fans for that matter, simpky an excellent game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AirForceAngel
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I am in love with this game. I begged for this game a very long time and when I got it, at first 
 I was a bit flustered. This game can be very hard at times. The bosses are monstrous and will piss 
 you off until your face turns red.
  
  Still, if you give this game your best go you will find a lot in it and get a lot out of it. The 
 characters are well-dialogued and developed, the towns and world are unique and interesting. The 
 storyline is also pretty neat. The game gets pretty in-depth and the battle style is something 
 I particularly enjoy about this game.
  
  The game comes with a lot of twists and turns and it's just a lot of fun to play through. You may 
 find yourself taking breaks between boss fights if you keep losing because one of the downsides 
 of the game is unusually long cut-scenes that you can't skip over and they always come before a 
 boss fight, so if you lose more than twice you'll feel the repetitiveness start to wear on you.
 
  
  I still think any serious RPGer should at least try this game. It is so cool because it's not too 
 easy and it has nearly all the aspects of a well-made RPG. You won't be disappointed in this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsubtownerx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I should point out that this was my first experience with a "Tales of" game, so I guess this review 
 is more for the newbies to the series. After spending countless hours playing this game, I have 
 decided that Tales of Vesperia is now officially in my top 5 all-time favorite -Japanese Roll Playing 
 Game-. A big part being that the main story is an epic one that seems to never end. Yes, the game 
 is long, but in a very very very good way. This game is so addictively fun, you won't want it to 
 end. Now throw in some of the best voice acting you've ever heard, and now you've got something 
 most developers could only dream of. And if this still isn't enough for you, you'll be happy to 
 know that there's about 150 hours of content in this game that should satisfy any hardcore gamer 
 out there. 
  
  It may not be the best looking game ever, but that doesn't matter because it still looks good and 
 plays like a charm. The load times in this game are almost unexistent which in my opinion is how 
 all games should be played. The battle system is also quite enjoyable and may take some time to 
 master, but as you progress through the game early on, the game itself will do a good job at teaching 
 how to work everything out with a pretty good in-game tutorial. There's tons of skills to be learned 
 for all party members and tons of weapons to be found (or made) . Believe me you'll have your work 
 cut out if you want to find everthing, but again for me this is a fun thing.
  
  The sountrack is pretty good, nothing special but still good. There's a plethora of different monsters 
 to be found, so combat is always interesting. Can you find them all? Well you'll need to if you 
 want a chance at getting all the achievements. The only real thing that bugged me was the unexistent 
 mini-map. Why they chose not to put one is beyond me. Especially seeing as how nice the world map 
 is. Overall this game is a gem and needs to be played by all JRPG lovers, or any RPG lover for 
 that matter. So do yourself a favor and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Vesperia is the first tales game I ever played due to my late entrance to the series. Since this 
 game caught my eye on gamespot, gametrailers, ign etc, I have been waiting to get my hands on it. 
 To me, this game is fantastic in terms of a JRPG.
  
  Graphic 10/10
  
  The graphic is stunning, that's it. I heard they use cell shading or whatever but it is well done. 
 You don't see any lazy arts or any graphic problems. Battle graphic and animations are also very 
 colorful and flashy with no slow down. I really can't complaint about anything. 
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  The intro music was awesome, the town music is charming and the battle music 
 is well done. The voice acting is also very good, they display the characters personality and also 
 fits in to the games. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  The real time battle really puts to shine, 4 players are allow to participate and it is very fun 
 having intelligent players to help out instead of AI. The AI on the hand, isn't that dumb so it 
 is still fun playing alone. 
  
  The world and explorations component are quite enjoyable, there are lot of citys and city, and 
 they are clearly recorded accessible in the menus. All the stuff the games teaches you are also 
 recorded so players don't need to worry about forgetting where to backtrack to.
  
  All 7 characters have their own set of artes, which is special moves they can perform in battle, 
 they also have different play styles, speed, attack, defence and weapons etc. so it sums up that 
 you will need lots of trial and errors to see which team works best for you.
  
  Replay Value 8/10
  
  Achievement is one thing you want to play this game at least twice. The 
 grade system, which allows you to get certain power up or carry over items or artes, helps greatly 
 to give players more motivation to play through the game again. However grades are hard to come 
 by and often it ends up having players to grind for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DokiXAdvance
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia
  360/J-RPG
  
  [JP] August 7,2008
  
  [NA] August 26,2008
  
  Tales of Vesperia is one of the many games in the Tales of Series, a Japanese RPG series that has 
 been around since the Super Famicom days. It is the first installment on the Xbox 360, and by far 
 one of the best.
  
  
  Story
  
  Like all RPGs the story is the most important part of this game. You play as Yuri Lowell, a former 
 member of the Imperial knights, who grew up in the lower quarter (slums) of the Capital of the 
 Empire, Zaphias. Apparently the Aqua Blastia (a stone that controls the water supply for the lower 
 quarter) has been stolen by a thief, who was supposed to fix it. Yuri goes after the thief and 
 follows him into a mansion in the upper quarter (rich part of the city) , He breaks into the mansion 
 only to be captured by the Imperial Knights and sent to the dungeon for 3 days. He is able to break 
 out with the help of another prisoner named Raven. While on his way out he meets a mysterious young 
 girl named Estellise, that has an urgent message for Yuri's best friend and Imperial Knight Flynn 
 Scifo. The two of them break out of the castle and embark on a journey to get the lower quarter's 
 aqua blastia back from the thief and deliver a message to Flynn. Along the way they will meet many 
 different people as there journey unfolds. 
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Tales of Vesperia has beautiful cel-shaded graphics not unlike Eternal Sonata. Everything in the 
 game is highly detailed, from the way Yuri's sword moves as he runs all the way to the movements 
 the characters make as the speak, and even how the flower petals fall out of the tree in the town 
 of Halure. 
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is much the same as the other games in the series. It uses an improved version of 
 Tales of the Abyss's battle system called "Evolved Flex-Range Linear Motion Battle System ". Which 
 if you are unfamiliar with the Tales of Series is kind of like a mix of a traditional rpg and a 
 fighting game. You can get skills and artes that enhance the battle system throughout the game. 
 Instead of random encounters like other rpgs, you will often be able to avoid a lot of the fights, 
 because you can see the monsters on screen and the battle only starts if you touch one. In order 
 to go to different towns in the game you walk around on a world map that is not unlike that of 
 the Final Fantasy games. Later on in the game you will get a boat so that you can go to different 
 continents and islands on the world map. 
  
  
  Controls
  
  The controls in this game are pretty much the basic RPG controls. You use the analog stick to move 
 around in towns, on the world map, and in battles. You use the A button to examine things and talk 
 to people. In a battle you use B for a basic attack, A for a arte, X for guard, and Y for the battle 
 menu.
  
  
  Characters
  
  The game has a large cast of characters that you are sure to become attached to. There are characters 
 like Rita Mordio, a young fifteen year old girl that is the smartest mage in the Scholar city of 
 Aspio, or characters like Karol Capel, a twelve year old cowardly boy that has been in more guilds 
 that I care to say. Part of what makes this game great is the characters and how they form bonds 
 with one another.
  
  
  Closing Comments
  
  If you are a fan of the Tales series or you just enjoy a good story this is the game for you. With 
 70+ hours of gameplay, it will last you for awhile. 
  
  
  Presentation: 10
  This game is exactly what the fans ordered and what more could you ask for.
  Graphics: 10
  
 Amazing cel-shaded graphics make you say wow every time you see them.
  Sound: 9
  The music is very well composed and you may even want to put some of the songs on your Ipod.
 
  Gameplay: 10
  The gameplay is exactly what you would expect and want from a Tales game.
  Lasting Appeal: 10
  This game lasted me 70+ hours on my first play through and I still have a 
 lot of extras I have yet to do.
  Overall: 10 (Amazing)
  This is definatly the best RPG on the 360. Anyone that owns a 360 should definatly pick this one 
 up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shing02
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia doesnt bring anything new to the table, but after playing the game for well over 
 60 hours I can honestly say that Tales of Vesperia doesnt dissapoint. The developers have nailed 
 this game completely on almost every aspect it had to offer.
  
  I can honestly say that Tales of Vesperia will be a truly wonderful experience for both the fans 
 of the Tales series, and others who dont particularly keep up with the series at all. I mean seriously 
 this game is awesome, it has the most intriguing story for japanese RPG fans and each of the characters 
 personalities are just so damn lovable! The soundtrack is wonderful and it perfectly matches the 
 flow of the game. For the people who are fans of the JRPG genre, this game will be a treat for 
 you guys to enjoy throughtout the entire experience. While the game may not offer a truly unique 
 experiece like it's western contenders such as OBlivion, Mass Effect, or recently released Fallout 
 3, it is still a wonderful experience for those of you who are looking foward to a damn good solid 
 traditional JRPG.
  
  Like many other role playing games the main focus in Tales of Vesperia is obviously the story. 
 You play a character named Yuri Lowell who is a former member of the imperial knights, which consits 
 of a large number of soldiers who dedicate their lives fighting for peace so that they can make 
 the world of Terca Lumireis a better place. Later Yuri Lowell decides to leave the imperial knights 
 because he simply felt that he was wasting his time in an army who doesnt have a decent chance 
 saving the world. Instead he decides to stay in the Lower-Quarter risking both his freedom and 
 life watching over his fellow citizens. One day Yuri Lowell finds out from a local resident that 
 a Blastia, which was an important magical resource that has protected the entire community from 
 various monsters lurking outside of town, was stolen from his neiborhood. During the first half 
 of the game Yuri and the gang will spend time trying to retreive the stolen Blastia while tracking 
 down the mysterious theif, and shortly after find out that this simple task will eventually lead 
 to an epic journey that spans across the entire world of terca Lumireis.
  
  The presentation of this game is absolutely amazing. This is one of the best cell shading I've 
 seen in a game since "The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker" for the Nintendo Gamecube. If you are a 
 huge anime fan such as myself then there is no dought that you will have any problems enjoying 
 the game's unique design. I know you guys who are reading this have probably heard this 1000 times 
 but the game really does make you feel as if you were playing an anime! Another awesome thing about 
 this game is the opening anime sequence that starts as soon as you pop the disc in your console. 
 Alot of Tales fans may be familiar with these sequences being that they are included in almost 
 every tales game, but what sets this apart from alot of other Tales game's introductions is that 
 the song included in Tales of Vesperia is not another orchestrated score instead its an actual 
 song performed by a famous japanese pop star. 
  
  The gameplay in ToV is nothing that much different from any other Tales game that I have played 
 in the past. All of the battles are in real time once again and the battle menu players use within 
 combat for quick acces to items are still here so I felt right at home with the basic controls 
 for this game. One thing I always enjoy about Tales games is the amount of tweaking you can do 
 to the way your characters attack. For instance, it is always fun to aquire new fighting skills 
 such as Artes which can be set by accesing a menu that allows you to assighn a unique combination 
 of skills you want for each of your characters to perform in battle. Another cool thing that the 
 developers added to this game is the skill system. Aside from aquiring battle skills such as Artes 
 you can also aquire skills that come equiped with various weapons. Skill are able to do various 
 things for your characters such as boosting their attack and defense, adding variety to their attack 
 patterns etc. Each weapon has a unque skill that a specific character can obtain by simply equiping 
 a weapon and using that weapon to fight within battle, gathering the total number of skill points 
 you need to permanelty aquire a skill. Then after aquring a skill it will be automatically transfered 
 to that characters skill menu, allowing the player to set that skill. 
  
  The voice acting is by far the best iv'e heard in a Japenese role playing game in a while, and 
 for those of you anime freaks who cant stand the english voice overs you always have the option 
 of switching the character dilogue to Japanese. In my personal opinion both the Japanese and the 
 English Voice acting is quite superb!
  
  Many may argue that the feild map is to linear espeically considering the amount of open world 
 Role Playing Games that are dominating the industry today, and yes the game is fairly linear just 
 like every other japnese RPG iv'e played. This is one of the many complaints I had with this game. 
 I beleive that the developers couldve spent a little more time with the game's feild map because 
 Terca Lumereis is a huge universe and it was dissapointing to see that ToV is just another victim 
 within the JRPG community that is afraid to follow the open world aspect that Western RPG's arnt 
 shy of. Another complaint that I had was the fact that within 20 hours in the game the boss battles 
 started to get a little tedius. I would often find myself spamming the same moves repeatedly for 
 succesful painless victories. Dont get me wrong this game is far from easy and does offer quite 
 a challenge but most bosses can be defeated with just using a character who specializes in powerful 
 ranged attacks.
  
  Tales of Vesperia is a satifying game that is sure to please the harcore and gamers who dont particlarily 
 like Japanese RPGs! I am recommending this game for any body who loves to play games because it's 
 a classic gem that everyone should pick up so go out right now and purchase this game you will 
 not be dissapointed!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas, and I enjoyed every single moment of it, especially the humor. Ex. 
 Raven acting like a pervert, Rita getting hot-headed, or Yuri getting careless. Tales of Vesperia 
 ranks number 3 in the series for me behind Tales of Symphonia and Tales of the Abyss. The reason 
 why I rank TOV at #3 is because the story is not as good as Symphonia and Abyss and there are a 
 few flaws to overcome. The story in this game is awesome! The many adventurous, humorous, and boss 
 fight moments will keep you grasping your controller. There are a couple of annoying moments though. 
 The characters.... well, rock. My favorite male character is Yuri and my favorite female character 
 is Estelle. Yuri has a good personality, and it's funny when he gets careless. Ex. Yuri scares 
 Karol. I also think Estelle has a good prsonality and she's really nice. The gameplay in this game 
 is good. The gameplay is the EXACT same thing as Tales of the Abyss, you use the Free-Run Real-Time 
 battle system. That's really no surprise to me, because the Tales games always use the same battle 
 system no matter which one it is. The gameplay is addicting and fun, but does get boring after 
 a while. I like it, I love it, I want some more of it (music note) . The Over Limit gauge to me 
 is flawed because only one character can use it. Sometimes all of your characters can use it but 
 only 1 bar. To use the all-powerful Mystic Arte, you have to consume 3 of the 4 bars. You also 
 need the Special skill to use the Mystic Arte, and the Hit Plus skill to maximize the Mystic Arte's 
 potential. Overall, number 3 in the series, fun and addicting gameplay, memorable characters, 50+ 
 hours of adventure, lots of humor, and very good music. Oh, I forgot to mention the music. The 
 music is very good. My favorite is the Taquorn Tower music. If you own an XBox 360, PLAY THIS GAME! 
 You will like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyZagaro
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The Tales series, starting with Symphonia, has a small but loyal following in America. Vesperia, 
 the latest entry in the series, looks incredible at first glance but falls apart to "okay" very 
 quickly.
  
  Graphics:
  7/10
  
  They're okay. The cel-shaded effects are nice, but the character animation in the cinematics is 
 very stiff and poorly done. In battle, they're a lot more fluid, but the actual attacks don't really 
 stand out. In general you're not going to be wowed, but it gets the job done.
  
  Sound:
  9/10
  
  It's a really nice soundtrack. You've got a lot of music in the game, with a good mix 
 of quality town/dungeon/battle themes. No complaints here.
  
  Gameplay:
  7/10
  
  Great and not so great at the same time. Combat moves at a good pace, and Free Run seems to handle 
 a LOT better than Abyss. So, what's the problem? For one, the characters are REALLY unbalanced. 
 Yuri and Rita are ridiculously overpowered, and Karol and Raven pale in comparison to the rest. 
 Tales has always had at least one inferior character, but this is a poor excuse. Another annoying 
 factor of the game is that it's WAY too easy. You can abuse Overlimit, watch Yuri shining fang 
 everything into oblivion or do another one of his infacombo tricks, and it's lights out even on 
 the final boss. On the flip side, the skills/weapons system is rather fun to play around with. 
 The EX new game feature, pretty much the Grade Shop option [where you purchase goodies such as 
 10X exp and stuff like that] adds a bit of replay value as well. There's a lot of good, and a lot 
 of bad, but in the end, Vesperia manages to to tip the scales in favor of the good. 
  
  Story:
  2/10
  
  The story WOULD have been decent [not GREAT, but decent] , but the way it's 
 written is downright hideous. The characters get stuck on repeat WAY too many times. Every five 
 minutes Estelle will consider leaving the party, and Yuri will talk her out of it. Every five minutes 
 Karol will go on a rant about Don Whitehorse. And later in the game, every ten seconds the game 
 will beat you over the head with the same message OVER AND OVER AGAIN. Some crap about "we chose 
 this path, so we have to take it" which is repeated about TEN TIMES IN THE FINAL SCENE. I'm not 
 joking. I'm really not. It's really a shame too, because the characters can be very enjoyable when 
 they aren't stuck on repeat. I almost wanted Luke back [Anybody who's played Abyss will know what 
 I mean]
  
  Controls:
  9/10
  
  Longtime Tales vets may have some trouble getting the controls for the 360 controller to work for 
 them, but they're easy to get a hang of once you fight a few battles.
  
  Overall:
  7/10
  
  It won't win any game of the year awards, but if you can look past the gameplay issues 
 and terrible storywriting, Vesperia can prove to be a very enjoyable experience. If you're an RPG 
 fan, there's no reason not to give it a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vuxnut
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:58 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to talk about the story or the characters much, play the game to find these things 
 out. I don't believe in any spoilers so this just a bare bones review.
  
  From the excellent voice work to the immerse story line this game was an absolute gem. 
  
  
 A great deal of work was put into the pacing of the game. I NEVER ONCE said "oh man i wish all 
 these cut scenes and dialogue would end so i get into some battles. or i wish the stinking story 
 would progress I'm tired of just the endless battles." No, i never once said that because there 
 was a perfect balance throughout the entire game. 
  
  Also the battles don't get boring because they slowly introduce new battle mechanics up until about 
 20 hours in and once that finally stops you are so immersed in the story line you don't care you 
 just want to find out what's going to happen. 
  
  I would also like to ad the achievements in the game are done very well. They are not cheesy or 
 easy by any means. sure some are no spoilers here but most are things you wouldn't normally do 
 or require actual thought or skill. 
  
  Overall this game is very rewarding in every aspect and any fan of old school RPGs like some of 
 the previous tales games and the thousand arms series and the star ocean series (one of my personal 
 faves) is going to have a great time with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a big fan of the Tales Series, and I was still sceptic about this game. first 
 off if you have ever played the demo it does the game absolutely no justice whatsoever. this game 
 is a must grab for RPG gamers period. The game starts off with a great introduction into the story 
 and from the get go gets you addicted to the story. The Combat system is not much different than 
 the other tales games but this one seems to have something compelling it forward. The characters 
 are cool as well it has such a great cast. one thing that the game olds true and dear to, is (sorry 
 to say) but the main character looks like a girl. I swear japan is obessed with femmy looking women. 
 While the game is good it does have a flaw it is sorta hard I found myself repeating the first 
 boss battle over and over again. until I finally found myself getting the hang of things. Like 
 I said a must get game for RPG fans and of course you fell tales fans. If there is another taless 
 game like this please let me know. highly recommended. a great game to add to your collection 9/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ms_nintendo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I've played quite a few games in the Tales series, including Tales of Symphonia, the most critically 
 acclaimed of lot, and also my favourite RPG of all time.
  
  I've played some of the other Tales games, namely Legendia and Phantasia -- both which turned out 
 a bit disappointing in comparison. However, Tales of Vesperia had quite the opposite effect on 
 me, and here's why:
  
  1) The Graphics
  Vesperia makes excellent use of the visual capabilities of the Xbox 360. It stucks with the cell-shaded 
 in-game graphics that were used in Tales of Symphonia, but now the outlines are much thinner and 
 smoother, and the movements are much more fluid. The anime cutscenes are also of superior quality.
 
  
  2) The Characters
  The characters in Vesperia have some shades of complexity to them, similarly to the ones in Tales 
 of Legendia. My personal favourite is the main character, Yuri Lowell. Instead of being the really 
 stupid, typical 'goody-two-shoes' kind of hero, he's cunning, and quite the vigilante. All of the 
 characters also have great voice actors who really fit their personalities well.
  
  3) The Battle System
  MUCH more complex than what most Tales fans are probably used to. In addition 
 to the base, intermediate, and advanced skills, you also have the option of inflicting 'Fatal Strikes', 
 which are powerful finishing moves. Depending on whether your attack is downward, upward, or horizontal, 
 the colour will be different. Not only do you get a huge grade bonus for using them, but they also 
 make boss fights easier, and... they look really cool *_*
  
  These are only some of the reasons I really liked this game. There are many more, trust me, but 
 they would probably be full of spoilers. All I can say is, if you're a fan of Tales and RPG's, 
 you really don't want to miss out on this game, because you are very unlikely to be disappointed 
 at what it has to offer you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notSFF
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm just gonna say this right now and get it out of the way: Tales of Vesperia is easily the BEST 
 360 RPG yet. Now that that's out of the way, on to the actual review:
  
  If you're one of those types who see JRPGs as only being capable of cliched/boring plots, this 
 game will prove you dead wrong. Unlike other JRPGs, you're not thrust right into the "save the 
 world" plot, but rather you simply start small and go from there. What starts as a simple quest 
 to find a stolen Blastia Core (which are, essentially, what allows Vesperia's society to thrive) 
 quickly becomes much more as the heroes begin dealing with corrupt nobles, ambitious political 
 figureheads, and a secret about the world's history that could have disatrous effects on humanity. 
 The pacing is really well done, as well, as the story slowly evolves from a simple "find the stolen 
 item" plot to something much bigger. Also, the characters have some of the best development I've 
 seen. From the friendly but to-the-poiny Yuri, to the innocent Estelle, to the smart and snarky 
 Rita, to the driven (and, erm..."endowed") Judith, the cast really grows on you. As for the villains... well, 
 to avoid spoilers, the game makes it pretty clear which villains you're supposed to symphasize 
 with, and which ones you're supposed to hate (and trust me, several villains are downright MONSTROUS 
 in what they do) .
  
  Tales of Vesperia utilizes a real-time battle system, but there's more to it then simple button 
 mashing. As your characters grow, they get access to various attack skills called Artes, which 
 range from the mundane Base Artes to the incredibally powerful Mystic Artes. Also, the many weapons, 
 sub-weapons and armor you'll find give special "Weapon Artes", which, when fully unlocked, give 
 the characters tons of new features, such as improved stats, the ability to use items on multiple 
 characters, and more.
  
  Like most Tales games, Vesperia has a cooking and Skit system. Cooking is exactly that. As the 
 game progresses, you'll learn various new recipes. These recipes are either learned from events, 
 or by having a certain character cook a certain food. Each food item will restore your health, 
 and occasionally give you a combat bonus. As for the skits, they're basically anime-style shorts 
 that both provide humor and deal with the party's interactions with one another.
  
  One last thing must be addressed, and that's the sidequests. There's a LOT of things to do in Vesperia, 
 such as finding and fighting special "Gigante" beasts, competing in an arena, and even a Casino 
 (kinda) .
  
  All in all, Vesperia is one of the greatest RPGs out there. Even if you normally aren't very fond 
 of JRPGs, you owe it to yourself to pick up this masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterywriter
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I am hooked on this game. If you don't like hack and slash meets turn based game play, well.... 
 TRY IT ANYWAY!! Turn based combat is my preferred method and yet I really enjoy the way this game 
 combines both TBC and Hack AWAY! I recommended this game to a guy that works at a game store and 
 he was leery about it because of the cell shading and it's NOT tbc. I told him you would miss out 
 one one REALLY stupendous game if that's your only excuse to NOT at least try it. He was all "I 
 don't know" I said do it. You really won't regret it. The Cut scenes are nothing short of just 
 absolute beauty. My TV is a 32 inch Sharp Aquos HD 1080i, It plays every game system including 
 Nintendo GC games like they are brand new. I can't get over the picture quality of EVERY game I 
 play. Anyway, I highly recommend at least a "try out" for TOV, you really wont be sorry. I also 
 recommend getting a game guide, the maps are rather difficult without it. (Could just be me though) . 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadrikerXIV
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to lie - if you don't like JRPGs this game is definitely not for you. Tales of Vesperia 
 takes the classic Tales formula and optimizes it to near perfection. This, however, can also be 
 considered the game's one major flaw. The characters are awesome and the adventure is presented 
 well, but the clich story and plot twists are highly predictable and have been done to death.
 
  
  The visuals are drop-dead gorgeous and the dubbed voice acting is, surprisingly, very good! It's 
 very rare for me to say this, but I actually prefer the dubbed voices over the original Japanese 
 cast. Tales of Vesperia's combat mechanics are fluid and responsive, and item synth adds a bit 
 of depth to the game's inventory. Being able to unlock additional costumes for your characters 
 allows you to customize the skins a bit and the mini-games are fun and engaging.
  
  As I wrote earlier, the lack of innovation is the game's one major flaw. However, most Tales fans 
 will turn a blind eye and overlook this without much trouble. As for newbies who haven't tried 
 any of the Tales titles, I would highly recommend giving Tales of Vesperia a shot. This is a fine-tuned 
 game and is one of the best in a long line of Tales titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  The Characters are typical Anime type.... but there is nothing wrong with that... but as long as 
 you know what you are in for. Don; t expect that since this is a next gen title that it will be 
 amazing. It is similar to Abyss or Legendia..... IF you like them, then your going to be pleased. 
 
  I am well into Vesperia now....3 quarters of the way through. I think it is well worth the price. 
 The graphics are improved over the last gen. The combat is very close to Symphonia. 
  My complaint at this point is .. we need something new here.... Blastia seems a lot like Exsphere. 
 Estelle, who is Daughter of the Full Moon... that is a heck of a lot like Colette, The Chosen One. 
 Estelle iks brighter, but still filled with indecision and ignorant to the world. 
  Yuri is sort similar in personality to Kratos.
  They just keep recycling Personalities.... Rita... sort 
 of like Raine.... Karol is a token kid in the group like Genius was.
  
  The old man Raven... sort of like an old Zelos. (Why is Reven an old man? He looks young to me ... er... well 
 I guess I am old then)
  
  So I am not impressed but the Uniqueness of the Characters, even though I like them... and the story 
 is ok. 
  It is still an 8.0 rating because the formula still works for RPG's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trini_hoshi
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Tales of games been around for a decade now, and one thing remains true this is the best series 
 not named Final Fantasy.
  
  Tales of Vesperia is about Yuri, Estelle, Karol, Rita, Raven, Repede, and Judith exploring a big 
 world of monsters and, fun. The dialog between characters like always is funny. The presentation 
 is like an anime as always. 
  
  Like previous tales of games this game has a multiplayer feature where you and three of your friends 
 can play as well. Something that most rpgs dont offer. 
  
  The battling is in a 2-d form with sidescrolling action giving it a retro feel which is one of 
 the tales of signatures. 
  
  The game lasts about 50 hours but, its so fun you will play through more then once. 
  
  This 
 is the best rpg on the 360. 
  
  If you played tales of in the past you'll love it and, if you haven't this is the perfect tales 
 of the finally dive into the world of rpgs not called Final Fantasy. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiking27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutley amazing. The story is so amazing as is the voice acting. It would be nice 
 if all the majoir charecter intractions had voice acting, but it is not enough come close to ruining 
 the game. The graphics don't push the limits but they are above satisfactory and for certian people (including 
 me) they are great. My only problem is how tough the early boss batles are. This is my first tales 
 game, but even my friend who is a veteran to th series could barely beat the first boss. Speaking 
 of battles let me just say they are flawless. It is fast, fun and not typical rpg style. No turn 
 based style at all. I have a feeling ths might not be only for me but any game where you can play 
 as a dog with a huge blade sounds good. The game is just loads of fun and I am excited for another 
 one from the series. So if I am sying how amazing this game is then why do I give it a 9.5? It 
 looses one point for how difficult it is. The early bosses just destroy you so easily that it loses 
 some appeal since you could end up stuck at a climatic apoint f the story and then not be able 
 to see the next part because of how difficult it is. You can change the difficulty setting but 
 as fun as it is to destroy your enemies while they can only do 1 damage is fun but it makes you 
 feel like you are missing something. The other reason I don't ove this game completley is that 
 if you loose a boss fight you can't skip the cutscenen leading up to the fight. Sometimes this 
 is not a problem because some cutscenes are fairly short others can go on for almost 5 minutes 
 that you must watch over and over agin until you beat the boss. So that is my opion. A few problems 
 that kinda piss me off but otherwise an amazing game that 360 owner's should check out. Even if 
 you don't like rpgs try this game because you might be pleasntly suprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somgu
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I have only played 4 tales games. Symphonia 1 and 2, Abyss, and Vesperia. But I'm sure the others 
 are good too.
  
  You play as Yuri Lowell an ex knight of the imperial army that lives in the capital in the lower 
 quarter with his dog that looks like something from Naruto Repede that holds a pipe in his mouth 
 and uses a freakin dagger. While their the fountain starts leaking because it has no blastia core 
 to make it stable. So Yuri and Repede go find Mordio the guy that was suppose to fix it and think 
 that he had stolen the blastia. So they go to the mansion to catch him but end up going to jail 
 again. Then you meet an old man name Raven that helps you get out of jail and get back to the lower 
 quarter. But the knights found out the you broke out and a group called the Red Eye were attacking. 
 While trying to escape you meet the princess Estellise that is trying to find Flynn, Yuri's childhood 
 friend and a knight to tell him he's in danger. So you end up looking for the blasia thief and 
 helping Estellise find Flynn.
  
  Everything looks very beautiful and its all shell shaded. Characters are all greatly designed and 
 voiced very well. The skit scenes are now all voiced and are funny to watch. Gameplay is still 
 the same as the other Tales games but now you can attack upwards instead of automatically attacking 
 an enemy in the air. You can still freerun and it's very useful so abuse it. Also you can now do 
 a slash attack while in freerun. To obtain skills you have to buy weapons and master them. They 
 included a new skill called fatal strike that can kill an enemy in 1 hit or deal a great damage 
 to bosses. You can now put attachments to characters like hats and stuff and have them while having 
 costumes on. Some attachments don't show on some costumes so that's alittle disappointing. Also 
 because it's on the 360 you'll have to play it for not very long cause it'll over heat. But since 
 it's on the 360 you can get achievements and download some stuff. But if you don't have a 360 them 
 hopefully it'll be on the ps3 later in the future. They did it for Eternal Sonata why not Tales.
 
  
  Good thoughts:
  - it's what you'd expect from a Tales game
  - lots of likable characters
  - great voices
  - skits are voiced
  
  Bad thoughts:
  - 
 on 360....... for now
  - beware of ring of death
  
  Theirs not much else you can complain about this game. If your a Tales fan go get it right know. 
 Hell it sell out the 360 in Japan when it came out. Doesn't that tell you that that's a good game? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-obiwan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  tales of vesperia its just so beatiful game i havent had so much fun in a while talking in rpg 
 world of course! this game its one of the best tales games on the series! Awesome Graphics so detailed! 
 really good voices, good sound , and the music its so good too but i kind of liked alittle more 
 eternal sonata on that , nevertheless this game got awesome music dont get me wrong on that!. 
 tales of vesperia just brought good stuff really good story at the beginning kind of weirdo but 
 then it keeps getting better ive been playing this game alot ! and im not bored of it! i suggest 
 you to get your own copy if you dont have it yet! this is one of the best jrpg games on the xbox 
 360 really worthy the money. thanks to namco bandai for bring us the first tales game on the 360 
 console and we expect many more in the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeXeFFecT
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I'm going to keep this short. Any fans of the series should instantly buy this game. It's a 
 typical Tales game with the usual graphics, usual button mashing action packed battles, charismatic 
 characters, engaging story, and amazing game play. The artes system is unique, learning new artes 
 and spells as the game progresses and once you learn the appropriate skill, you can learn altered 
 artes adapted from artes learned in battle. The game lasts about 50 hours the first time through 
 (at least it took me about 53 hours and 33 minutes) and once beaten, gives you the New Game Ex 
 option. I haven't started that yet, but I plan to take that on next time I'm feeling board. Anyway 
 all in all it's a great game and deserves a lot of credit. If you're into the Japenese RPG's then 
 this is definitely one you should invest your time in. Aer, Blastia, Adephagos, Imperial Knights, 
 Guilds, and Spirits... what more could you want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  Two words: Co-op RPG! I can't get over how exciting that is; it's a rare feature to be able to 
 embark on a demanding and many-hour journey and bring a friend along! Tales of Vesperia isn't the 
 first RPG to do this, but it's got a finely tuned engine at work here. The Tales series have always 
 had a real-time combat engine, with the main character being controlled by the player while his 
 allies lend support with various spells or weapons. Their strategy can be defined with commands, 
 and Vesperia allows you to hotkey the right thumbstick to different artes (skills) for different 
 characters, allowing you to bring heavy hitting spells into play whenever you'd like, but the AI 
 can be a little rough in spots. Granted, you can manually input your commands, but that's a little 
 cumbersome. No, no, it's much better to just nudge your buddy and say, "Hey, I need a Fireball 
 right NOW on this guy!" or "I'm poisoned; Can I get a Recover?" This is solid!
  There's more to the game to the combat, of course. As with most Tales entries, Vesperia carries 
 a truly epic story. It starts simply enough, with a former Imperial Knight running on the wrong 
 side of the law and falling into the company of a strange young lady. Naturally, it doesn't take 
 long for this lady to get him wrapped up in even MORE trouble and a globe-spanning adventure starts 
 having world-shattering consequences. The Tales games rely not only on the epic stories they present, 
 but in the "skits" that occur between events and while you're wandering around. These skits are 
 optional to view, but they give you a closer perspective into the character's motivations for traveling 
 and what they're thinking about certain situations.
  
  Vesperia has a terrific ensemble of characters, a brilliant story, and terrific graphics. From 
 the full-blown anime sequences that are a hallmark of the series to the cell-shaded animation that 
 fill the bulk of the scenes, along with the amazing backgrounds, this game is a graphical masterpiece.
 
  
  The game also carries a fair amount of replay value with its New Game Plus feature. Many RPGs have 
 this, but Vesperia is one of the first to allow you to customize your second playthrough experience. 
 After the game, you're awarded a Grade based on your overall performance. These Grade points can 
 be applied to different features, such as Double Experience or carrying items forward that you 
 earned in the last game. This will allow you to collect items that you missed the first time around 
 and there's a couple hidden quests that become available your second time through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cantius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Ever wondered how fun a Tales game is? Well, look no further. Tales of Vesperia is a great start 
 for people who want to be aquainted with the popular tales series. Tales Of Vesperia is a real 
 time rpg, which I love. Instead of turn based rpg games, you get to control your party and attack 
 your enemies.
  
  Story [7.5]
  To be honest with you guys, the story in the game was one of the weaker points, but it wasn't bad 
 at all. The characters were great, the setting was unique and the dialouge was good. It was just 
 that the villains you fight have almost no character development, and once you defeat them, you 
 pretty much forget about them. The story is about Yuri Lowell, a carefree protagonist who lives 
 in the lower quarter of Zaphias, the heart of the Empire. Reckless as ever, he gets thrown in jail, 
 and busts out, meeting the second main character, a princess. Estellise. After that, they escape 
 and go on a journey to find a knight named Flynn, who's Yuri's best friend. Although the story 
 starts slow, it gets slowly better and better as your party grows and how they react to the events 
 around them. The story is divided into three parts, pretty much like arcs. But anyway, I give the 
 story a 7.5. I expected better from a tales game, but it isn't bad.
  
  Gameplay [8.0]
  The gameplay in this game, like all other tales game, is the most enjoyable part of the game. Firstly, 
 and foremost, you move your character around like any other RPG game, and you have a good camera 
 view. When you exit a town, you go on the overworld, where you go to different towns or dungeons 
 to advance the story and soforth. As you progress through the story, you'll gain access to a boat, 
 and the ability to fly. There aren't any random battles in the game. Instead, the enemies pop on 
 the screen wandering around the overworld or dungeon, waiting to be killed. When you touch them, 
 you go into battle and that's where the fun starts. Using the B button to attack, you can initiate 
 combos with the A button, which chains your 3 hit combo to a azure blast. You can also guard by 
 using the X button, and going to the item menu with the Y button. As you get farther into the game, 
 you can equip skills, which can give you abilities in battle, or enhancements such as more hp and 
 useful stuff. Skills are gained by equipping your weapons, and mastering them after fighting enemies 
 for a certain amount of time. Once you've learned them, you can equip them on the skills menu. 
 There are bunch of stuff in the game you learn, such as altered artes, arcane artes, and burst 
 artes. Then there's mystic artes. Although I won't explain em, all I can say is that once you've 
 unlocked them, the gameplay gets much better as you do more combos and different variations of 
 combos. Another mechanic in the gameplay overlimit, which have four different lvls. At first, you 
 have only lvl 1, but as you synthesize items to gain orbs, you can lvl your overlimit up to lvl 
 4, which makes you more powerful. While in overlimit, there are no limits to your usage of artes 
 or attacks. You can keep attacking and use your artes continuosly in a row till your overlimit 
 is gone. This is where mystic artes come into play. After using and arcane arte or burste arte, 
 you hold the B button to initiate your mystic arte, which is a flashy attack from your character. 
 But there's a catch, you need a "special" skill in order to use them for each of the respective 
 characters. Ahem, anyway, now that I've explained most of the game mechanics, let's talk about 
 synthesizing. Synthesizing is fairly easy to use, which where you gather materials from monsters 
 to create weapons, armor, helmets, and even special items to put on your character. You also cook 
 in this game by getting the right amount of ingredients. Cooking is used mainly to boost your characters 
 up, or healing them. I almost forgot about fatal strikes. Fatal strikes are instant kill moves 
 on normal enemies. To trigger them, you have to use certain amount of artes on your enemies, till 
 you have a blue, red, or green target reticle come up. Once that happens, you press the Right trigger 
 to initate a fatal strike. I really like how they put a lot of new stuff in this tales games. It 
 makes it more fast paced, more intense, and more fun. Overall, I give the gameplay a solid 8.
 
  
  Graphics [9.0]
  The cel-shaded graphics and the gorgeous display around you are one of the best graphics I've seen. 
 It's not realistic like Gears of war, but it focuses on a more anime-ish style graphic. Think, 
 Eternal Sonata, but cel shading and different environments. Anyway, the graphics is great, and 
 the cel shading suits Tales of Vesperia perfectly. I just wish the next tales game for the Xbox 
 360 has cel shading too. I give the graphics a 9 out of 10.
  
  Sound/Music [8.5]
  The music and sound are also on of the best parts about the game. As you enter the towns and dungeons 
 throughout the game, you'll hear music that perfectly suits the town/dungeon. Though it doesn't 
 compare to Tales of Legendia's music, it's certainly a good one. The battle musics are also nice, 
 but I expected atleast one epic one. I thought the battle music was kinda generic, but nevertheless, 
 it was satisfying.
  
  Final Word -
  In conclusion, Tales of Vesperia should be in everyone's JRPG collection. Tales of Vesperia is 
 worth every last penny of that 60$ your paying, so hurry up and go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXOSMOSISXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  there is not much to say other than this game is really good. This was my first tales game i have 
 bought so far and it has now wrapped me up in an amazing and highly addictive rpg series. For those 
 of you who are sucked in by complex/entertaining characters and a good story this is the game for 
 you. This game is basically built on story, at least for me, and combat. *WARNING* this is not 
 a game for those who hate reading text line after text line after text line, while tedious you 
 kinda need to read them to keep in touch with the story and know where to go next in the game. 
 The main highlight of this game, and for me the most entertaining part of it, is the combat. Though 
 early on victories are mainly achieved by button smashing ( combat somewhat similar to soulcalibur)
 
  to survive later you need to implement strategy into your gameplay. This game is around 60 hours 
 total, and even past the story line has many other side things to do. This game was really addictive 
 for me, so it was easy to over look set backs such as text, bad japanese to english tranlation, 
 button smashing, and (for me) being far underleveled compared to bosses. All in all this is a great 
 game for all rpg lovers alike and sould not be overlooked. if you have the money this game is definantly 
 worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMTarien
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Now I had decided not to do anymore reviews, because my reviewing style seem out of place and I 
 feel awkward trying to do reviews as I feel blundering. But this game more then deserves something 
 from me.
  
  I'm not here to explain the Tales games, but to give you an overview of this particular one and 
 why it shines so bright.
  
  The world in Tales of Vesperia has the type of setting your probably use to in an RPG; a world 
 currently at a restless peace relying on technology left behind by some ancient civilization. That 
 technology being "blastia", which is a, for lack of a better term, magic imbued crystal like substance 
 that seems to be operated with science. Yes, science. They have "scripts" and "solution" and just 
 plane scientific coding and computer like programming which is written into the blastia to give 
 it the desired function.
  
  Probably the main use for blasita is the Barrier Blastia, which is used to created a barrier around 
 towns and settlements that keeps the monster  which the world is riddled with and no one known 
 why  out. Blastia has other functions as well, i. e. pumping clean water into cities. And last, 
 but not least, use for things like combat by imbuing the wielders with a magical type prowess and 
 skill.
  
  The main character is an ex-knight, vigilante, rebel with his own cause. Sounds stereotypical, 
 right? Well, Yuri Lowell is anything but. And in my opinion one of the best leads in an RPG in 
 years. Yuri has a dry sense of humor, which is exercises liberally. I have read a lot of reviews 
 making him sound emo and quiet. That is SO not true. He is a sarcastic in almost everything he 
 says and does, yet in a very friendly approachable way. He has zero respect for authority, yet 
 he seems to grant it to them anyway, subtly enough they don't even realize it. His hunger for trouble 
 and fun is mixed in so well with his nonchalant persona mixes together so well he constantly manages 
 to somehow keep you guess while predicting him at the same time.
  
  The storyline isn't anything ground breaking, the combat is nicely Tales with some good upgrades, 
 the replay value is high, the game isn't overly difficult.. But where this game shines above so 
 many others is the character interaction.
  
  I cant recall any other RPG with such great inter party interaction. Characters such as a dog who 
 wields daggers by holding them in his mouth, a teenage pissy female genius mage, a charmingly naive 
 yet book smart princess, a young scardy cat boy trying to find his spine, a voluptuous female warrior 
 with a charming sweet personality yet totally lacking social common sense and a creepy old man 
 that no one seems to know anything about.
  
  After each battle, while the spoils add up your characters always have some type of interaction. 
 They repeat, but there are so many of them you want to sit and watch. Some of their interactions, 
 things they say, and jokes they make off of others speeches from previous battles and occurrences 
 had me rolling. For instance one of them party members took turns doing aOur weapons are love, 
 justice" etc, to everyone else sighing. Then sometime later a particular character says "our weapons 
 are LOVE, JUSTICE and Seeeexuuuality~" and it was so out of place I almost peed in laughter.
  
  Then there are skits. If you have played any other Tales you will be familiar with them. Certain 
 things trigger then, you hit a button like select, and you get a skit with characters which just 
 shows individual little windows of just a head shot of the characters and their dialogue. I have 
 never encountered skits as good as these. The images are slightly animated. Yet it works remarkably 
 well. And they are all fully voiced. Their facial expressions, things they say and do.. I have 
 never seen a game pull of subtle little teeny teeny tiny emotions and humor in such a way. I can't 
 even describe it in a way to do it justice. 
  
  Of course their interaction in normal cut scenes is great as well. The voice acting fails at times, 
 but normally only the intense emotional moments, which aggravates. 
  
  This game also had some very, very dark and intense scenes. Being as how everything seems to bright 
 and funny, then these dark scenes.. You expect them to end in a jolly happy type of way. They don't. 
 Because of the normal atmosphere of the game and these dark scenes feeling so out of place they 
 really get your heart pounding. Because evil, and darkness SHOULD feel out of place in the world 
 and feel so alien and completely out of context as to offend your very sensibility of "this should 
 not be happening." And it does that to you. Perfect.
  
  There are a couple of very good plot twists I didn't see coming, but nothing as drastic or deep 
 as say, Tales of Symphonia, but still very good non the less.
  
  I'll wrap this up by saying my only real complaint with this game was the music. It was very inappropriate 
 at times. A scene is playing where you should be crying and the music feels like your in a disco. 
 An intense scene is playing where you should be white knuckled and the music is inciting you to 
 break dance. A romantic sweet moment and you're resisting the urge to start krunking. Etc etc.
 
  
  In closing, this game may not be ground breaking in terms of story or concept, but the ride is 
 very enjoyable from beginning to end and the characters have more life and character then I have 
 almost ever encountered in any game to date. You will never forget them.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowkirby2007
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is a Awesome Games, A Great Story, The Battle System is Great, and the Characters 
 have a Interesting Plot. The Battles has New Additions like the Secret Missions, Burst Artes and 
 Fatal Strikes. This game has a lot of tittles, Weapons, Rare Items, and a lot of Strategies and 
 Artes. Also Mini Games. The Story Starts a little confusing but it reveals the real plot after 
 playing 5+ of the Game then the Plot gets Interesting and it gets you wondering what will happen 
 next. I've Played about 222 Hours so far, and Still not done with all events in the game. get it 
 its Awesome! This Game is the reason why I bought the X-Box 360, Because I'm a Huge Fan of the 
 Tales Series =D If you Love Tales of the Abyss and Symphonia, get Tales of Vesperia.
  
  Story: 9.25/10.00
  Graphics: 9.75/10.0
  Gameplay: 10.0/10.0
  Fun: 10/10
  Overall: 9.75/10.0 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Tyrant
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is the first next-generation title of the famed Namco-Bandai franchise. While 
 it doesn't innovate much, it certainly delivers an enjoyable RPG experience.
  
  Graphics: 8.8/10
  The anime-like graphics are very well done, and add to the colored and lavish 
 world of ToV.
  
  Sound: 9.0/10
  The soundtrack isn't memorable, but holds up pretty well. Voice Acting is outstanding overall, 
 with a few minor exceptions. The effects add a nice touch to the experience.
  
  Gameplay: 8.0/10
  Very similar to the previous iterations of the series. Some touches were added, 
 but the combat system, at its core, remains the same.
  
  Story: 8.2/10
  The story is great, if you can keep up. There are various twists and turns to a huge world, that 
 in the end, delivers a satisfying tale.
  
  Overall: 8.2/10
  Tales of Vesperia is a fine addition to the RPG library of the 360, with great production values, 
 good storyline and gameplay. While not as good as Tales of the Abyss, Namco-Bandai should stick 
 to the formula and the results should be good.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krobloons66
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  The Tales series has, for over a decade, provided a bevy of games that "break the mold" of standard 
 Japanese RPGs while at the same time following a very formulaic groove; this has been a source 
 of contention for many people, some who enjoy the games, and others that admonish or outright condemn 
 them for being the same thing over and over. 
  
  Tales of Vesperia doesn't do anything huge to alter the formula of the series, but it polishes 
 and tightens everything to such an extent that it stands out as one of the best JRPGs to be released 
 for years, and has taken it's rightful spot as one of, if not the best of the Tales series.
  
  Tales of Vesperia takes place in the world of Terca Lumireis, a world that relies heavily on 
 the ancient technology known as "blastia". These blastia provide everything from potable water, 
 to street lamps, to massive barriers that enshroud each city and provide protection from the vicious 
 monsters that roam just outside. Blastia are also used by humans as bodhi blastia, which allow 
 the user to learn powerful skills and abilities to use in combat.
  
  The story revolves around Yuri Lowell and Flynn Scifo, two childhood friends who have taken different 
 paths to the same ultimate goal: change the Empire, one of the major ruling factions in Terca Lumireis, 
 for the better of the people. You play as Yuri, resident of the Lower Quarter of the Empire's capital 
 Zaphias, in the midst of a crisis: the aque blastia, which provides water for the residents of 
 the lower quarter, has been stolen, and you must track down the thief who swiped it. Along the 
 way you will meet many different characters, from a naive girl of royalty, to a loyal (and incredibly 
 smart) hound who carries a pipe as a keepsake from his previous owner, to a young boy who can never 
 quite find his place in the world.
  
  The characters may all seem to be standard fare for a JRPG in the early stages (aloof swordsman 
 with a heart-of-gold, sexually obsessed comic relief older guy) , but as the story progresses, you'll 
 find yourself growing attached to the characters and their own personal struggles with right and 
 wrong, "good" and "evil". In Tales fashion, many characters seem to be hiding something, and while 
 some are easily predictable, some may catch you off guard and change the way you view your companion 
 for the rest of your journey.
  
  Your journey itself is a long one and, not counting some of the game's enormous subquests, should 
 take you between 30-40 hours to complete. Your party will interact with each other in 2-D sequences 
 known as "Skits", which are fully voiced and range anywhere from serious to amusing. They give 
 a little insight into the characters and how they are feeling about new developments in the story. 
 As is expected in any RPG these days, the road is rife with twists and turns as you follow Yuri 
 in his vendetta to put the world right, even if it means dirtying his hands in the process. Flynn 
 shadows you throughout the story, questioning Yuri's motives and providing a few interesting if 
 not overused moral quandaries to argue about. Not much more can be said about the story without 
 spoiling it, but if you enjoyed Tales of Symphonia's plot, you will enjoy Vesperia's. 
  
  The graphics are gorgeous, with some of the best cel shading seen in a game to date. Admittedly, 
 some of the character animations are a bit stiff or goofy-looking, and a bit more effort could've 
 been put into making the fully-voiced cut scenes more lively, but it makes up for it with great 
 effects in and out of combat throughout the course of the game.
  
  The game, as should be expected, excels in sound. Composer Motoi Sakuraba brings us an epic and 
 extremely fitting soundtrack, with some extremely memorable songs, including one of the best theme 
 songs for a Tales game, "Ring a Bell" by Bonnie Pink. Some of the songs played during cut scenes 
 are a bit overused, and a bit more variation would have been welcomed, but it is easily made up 
 for with some excellent combat music.
  
  For the uninitiated, Tales of Vesperia uses the "Evolved Flex-Range Linear Motion Battle System", 
 which is the best incarnation of the combat system yet. On the world map or in dungeons, enemies 
 will be visible characters that will attempt to engage you when you get near them, removing random 
 encounters from the game and letting you skip certain fights if you so choose. In standard JRPG 
 fare, you have HP and TP, and special abilities known as Artes. However, unlike recent games like 
 Lost Odyssey or Eternal Sonata, you have complete freedom of movement in battle, allowing you to 
 switch targets on the fly, move out of the way of an enemy's attack, or just piss your teammates 
 off ("The enemy's over there, you know!") . 
  
  In combat, the idea is to link your basic attacks and artes together to form combos, which will 
 keep your enemy incapacitated while you dish out massive damage. You can also enter "Overlimit", 
 which effectively allows you to use any attack over and over, and also bestows certain effects, 
 such as removing the TP cost of artes to making you completely invincible. You can also learn Skills 
 in Vesperia, which are similar to EX-Spheres in Symphonia. You learn these skills from the weaponry 
 you obtain on your quest; different skills give you different bonuses, like increasing your basic 
 attack combo, linking together or creating new artes, and even granting additional abilities in 
 combat. There are also powerful abilities known as Burst and Mystic artes that you will learn later 
 in the game. They can only be used while in Overlimit, and any character, including villains, are 
 able to use them. 
  
  The difficulty of combat is entirely dependent on what you choose. You are able to alter the difficulty 
 at any time, so if a certain boss is giving you trouble, just drop it to Easy and pulverize him. 
 There are 4 difficulties total (One unlocked after beating the game) , so it should keep even the 
 best players challenged (Assuming they don't use cheap tactics, naturally) . 
  
  Overall, Tales of Vesperia is one of the best JRPGs to be released in years. The story and characters 
 are well-done, if a bit clichd at times, and the graphics, art direction and soundtrack are beautiful. 
 Don't forget the combat, too; for first-time Tales players, or veterans of the series, the combat 
 system is still one of the best in any RPG ever released. If you like JRPGs, you will love Tales 
 of Vesperia.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CatOfImplosion
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is the tenth game in a long-running Japanese role-playing game franchise, and 
 it's the best one yet. In it, you assume control of Yuri Lowell. The set-up: A petty thief has 
 pilfered the Aque Blastia, a device that controls the waterworks in the Imperial capital's Lower 
 Quarter district. With the nobles and bureaucrats in the Upper Quarter showing indifference to 
 the needs of the unwashed masses below, it's up to populist Yuri and his canine partner Repede 
 to track the bandit down and retrieve the blastia. 
  
  The quest will encompass 50+ hours of travel and real-time (not turn-based) combat, and it doesn't 
 necessarily end with the reclamation of the Aque Blastia (duh!) . Over the course of the adventure, 
 Yuri is joined by a lively and likable band of characters: Estelle, a noble with a great deal of 
 responsibility on her shoulders; Karol, a twelve year-old but surprisingly worldly monster hunter; 
 Rita, a sixteen year-old scholar who's eccentric but a prodigy in her field; Raven, a suspicious 
 old man with a dirty mind; and Judith, a distant beauty who makes a surprising entrance into the 
 proceedings. 
  
  The action is driven by a clean, un-convoluted plot in which every character has an established 
 motive that is never deviated from. As the protagonist, Yuri provides a refreshing pair of shoes 
 to step into. Instead of being a nave, wide-eyed idealist, he's a worldly, cynical idealist. His 
 nonchalant attitude toward the intense and the absurd is both funny and admirable. He even demonstrates 
 attitude in combat, where he vigorously tosses about his blade in an acrobatic manner. 
  
  The gameplay is comprised of dungeon-crawling and the aforementioned real-time combat. There's 
 a nifty system in which you can learn special abilities sealed within weapons. These allow for 
 effects such as enhancement of core attributes, combo extension, advanced skill chaining, and even 
 alteration of skills (among many, many other effects) . You can either use these abilities by equipping 
 the weapon they're sealed in, or you can master them after a period of time and equip them without 
 the weapon. There's also the new Fatal Strike mechanic, in which repeatedly using one of three 
 skill-types builds up a meter that lets you perform a deathblow on an enemy. Returning from Tales 
 of the Abyss is the Free Run mechanic, in which you can step out of the standard linear movement 
 and walk around in 360 degrees; it's been tweaked to make cheap escapes more difficult. 
  
  Vesperia also contains all the familiar Tales elements: side quests, unlockable character titles, 
 skits (which are fully voiced in English for the first time ever) , a cooking mechanic, legacy cameos, 
 and minigames. Like other 360 titles, there are also achievement points to unlock, with 450 guaranteed 
 during a standard play through. The hi-def cell-shaded graphics are stunning, and the soundtrack 
 is superb mix of signature Motoi Sakuraba tunes and some new sound from a Hibiki Aoyama. This is 
 a great role-playing game that's worth the $60 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  ong after we forget the details, we remember the feelings certain games of our youth evoked. Though 
 it's difficult to put into words, Tales of Vesperia (the latest entry in Namco Bandai's long-running 
 action-role-playing franchise) manages to recapture -- even if only for fleeting moments -- some 
 of those elusive intangibles that led to lost RPG weekends on the Super Nintendo and PlayStation 
 1. It's not some complex, inscrutable formula we're talking about here, either -- just fun, fast-paced 
 combat; a charming, likable cast; a colorful, inviting world that begs exploration; and quick, 
 seamless pacing that's always got you on the move and tackling something fresh. Vesperia feels 
 like what Tales of the Abyss, the previous franchise entry on PS2, was always meant to be.
  
  With its choppy, chugging overworld and interminable loading (one of the few RPGs where I actively 
 avoided combat -- not because I dreaded the enemies, but rather, the loading screen!) , Abyss felt 
 like a modern jet trapped in the chassis of a WWII fighter plane -- an intended epic constrained 
 by antiquated hardware. Vesperia takes that otherwise solid foundation and crafts perhaps the finest 
 franchise entry to date. It hits the ground running from the start (literally ? you're hot on the 
 heels of an artifact thief) thanks in large part to badass, charismatic ex-knight protagonist Yuri, 
 a vigilante on a one-man crusade against a corrupt empire. Yuri's simply more relevant and relatable 
 than Luke, Abyss' whiny teen noble lead; I think it's safe to say that no 1UP reader has ever been 
 a constantly kvetching amnesiac aristocrat, but we've all had those moments where the deck feels 
 stacked against us and we fantasize about taking the law into our own hands -- and Yuri's the embodiment 
 of that vigilante spirit. Sure, Vesperia's filled with traditional tropes (plucky princess, sly 
 trickster, buxom warrior chick) , but most of them are inoffensive at worst and wholly charming 
 at best. And, yes, many "surprises" are telegraphed right from the start -- but not all of them. 
 Yuri's tale of vengeance includes some surprisingly mature themes and twists, and I actually felt 
 some empathy for the final foe during the requisite last-battle speech -- not because I actively 
 disliked the heroes, but because the antagonist had an actual point. Vesperia doesn't go quite 
 as far with the grown-up themes as I'd like, and some intriguing plot points should've been fleshed 
 out a bit more -- but for the normally candy-coated Tales to "go there" at all is commendable.
 
  
  Whatever disagreements Vesperia's narrative might inspire -- and, to be sure, some will find it 
 cheesy and meandering -- most should agree that its combat and exploration are some of the finest 
 in the RPG genre. From the snappy, strategy-laden, fighting-game-style combat (more Soul Calibur 
 than Suikoden) to the no-hassle, streamlined menus to the extensive character-customization options, 
 it's just plain fun -- even after 60-plus hours, I wanted more... and was slightly disappointed 
 that Vesperia didn't offer quite enough endgame goodies for my liking. That's what makes the recent 
 news that Namco Bandai plans on offering downloadable level upgrades in Japan so absurd -- this 
 is about as enjoyable and painless as RPG "grinding" gets. Vesperia's highs shine so brightly that 
 any extended criticism -- of the technical elements, at least -- feels silly. In fact, my biggest 
 complaint doesn't relate to the Japanese development side at all but instead lies with the English-language 
 localization. North American Tales games have typically released about six months to a year after 
 the Japanese version -- see the upcoming Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World on Wii as an 
 example. Vesperia debuted here less than a month after the Japanese release, though... and it shows. 
 The English script feels somewhat rushed, and it's clear that some lines of text were translated 
 without any context at all, leading to quite a few awkward, stilted exchanges. Some segments are 
 very well written and acted, though, which just makes the weaker moments stand out all the more. 
 My guess is that the culprit's a tight, unrealistic schedule, not a lack of translation talent. 
 Still, Namco Bandai's flagship RPG series -- especially a standout entry like Vesperia -- really 
 deserves an English-language script that complements the game instead of debasing it.
  
  For years, detractors have labeled the conventional Japanese RPG a dated genre that simply doesn't 
 have a place among the likes of Gears of War and Halo. Tales of Vesperia exposes that assertion 
 for what it truly is: a load of bunk. Traditional elements -- an anime-styled cast, a lush, expansive 
 overworld, and a familiar fantasy setting -- will always be welcome, so long as they're done well. 
 And Vesperia succeeds as well as any Japanese RPG this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  The Japanese RPG genre has struggled to remain viable in today's video game market. With the poor 
 showing as a possibility for any Japanese RPG in the western market, there is pressure on developers 
 to change their formula in one way or another. Tales of Vesperia goes against the grain, in that 
 it doesn't try to change anything. For fans this slight evolutionary step might be enough, but 
 this game doesn't make any attempt to draw a new crowd.
  
  Being on the 360, the game does move the series forward in obvious ways. The graphics, still cell 
 shaded, are more detailed in just about every way. The game also takes good advantage of 5.1 sound 
 if you have the system. The widescreen display does well for the battles and keeping all your characters 
 in a viewable area. That said, these things are really all considered standard on any Xbox 360 
 game.
  
  The rest of the game is pretty much like any one of its PS2 counterparts. That isn't to say it 
 is bad. The characters and plot are all compelling and the real time tales battle system is still 
 very fun. The downside is that the game still plays very slowly compared to other modern games. 
 You still have the encounters where it loads a battle scene, and then when you win you still have 
 a victory screen showing the results. That slows down the game considerably, but you can always 
 avoid battles since the enemies are visible on screen. I also felt the story sequences could have 
 been speed up a little. When the game is just starting you get a lot of story and it feels like 
 it takes a while for it to pick up momentum.
  
  All in all the game is exactly what fans expected. It doesn't have any surprise turn offs, but 
 there really isn't much to set this game apart. If you're a fan of Japanese RPGs then I'm sure 
 they will plenty to like. If historically you've avoided the genre, there isn't anything here that 
 will change your mind. It is a good game, but its been done before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkserge2002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia marks the first entry of the ever-growing Tales series for a next generation 
 console, and it does so wonderfully. It's a well-balanced title, fixing flaws from earlier games, 
 while also adding new tweaks to keep the game fresh. The story, while not terribly unique, is still 
 great. The characters are some of the most likable in a Tales games to date (I only dislike one 
 of the playable characters, which is definitely an improvement from Symphonia and Abyss) . Tales 
 of Vesperia is a solid RPG for the 360 that any RPG-fan should play.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  If you've played Tales of Symphonia or Abyss, then you'll know what to expect from Vesperia. The 
 battle system builds off of Abyss's, adding new things such as free run attacks, Fatal Strikes, 
 and a four-level Overlimit system. Fatal Strikes can be initiated when an enemy receives enough 
 fatigue in one of three areas (up, down, or side) , and will instantly kill the enemy while also 
 boosting your character stats. These add balance to the game, especially at higher difficulties, 
 when it would normally take a long time to kill stronger enemies. The Overlimit system has been 
 changed so that the entire party shares a single meter, but the meter can be charged up to different 
 levels, each of which have different effects. 
  Also new to the system are Burst Artes, which are very similar to Mystic Artes, but are weaker 
 and can be used multiple times during Overlimit. The FoF system from Abyss has left, but in its 
 place are certain skills that will change some artes. 
  Besides these changes, the battle system is pretty much the same as before. Playing with friends 
 in multiplayer is still a blast, although the enemy AI tends to target player 1 the most, which 
 can be annoying. 
  The rest of the game outside of battle is also the standard fare: You run around in dungeons finding 
 chests and solving rather trivial puzzles while advancing the plot. 
  
  Story: 8.5/10
  There's not much that really separates this game from the average RPG, but the story has fewer 
 flaws than usual Tales games. The only time I really cringed at the plot was during Emhead Hill 
 (the area in the demo of the game) , so don't let that influence your opinion of the plot too much. 
 The pacing is very good, as I never felt like the game was moving too quickly or slowly. The plot 
 is also more mature than earlier Tales titles, not having some of the more superficial moral "dilemmas" 
 of earlier games. Overall, the plot is entertaining and will keep you interested in continuing 
 the game.
  The characters are definitely an improvement over earlier games. Yuri is an extremely likable character 
 and displays a wit and sarcasm that previous main characters haven't. He's also not afraid of getting 
 his hands dirty, which is a sharp contrast to the main characters of Symphonia and Abyss who played 
 the righteous heroes in their respective games. The rest of the cast is for the most part good, 
 and the behave intelligently and realistically throughout the story.
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Tales of Vesperia has some of the smoothest and cleanest graphics of this generation. The cel-shading 
 is very crisp and clean, and some parts feel just like an anime. The frame rate keeps up most of 
 the time, but on a couple occasions, I've seen the frame rate drop due to too much action in battle. 
 The serifed font was a little awkward at first, but I became used to it after the first few hours. 
 
  
  Tales of Vesperia is great game for anyone who is interested in RPGs. It does not do much to innovate, 
 but it takes previous ideas and weaves them into a balanced, solid title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inditra
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Having been a fan of the Tales games for a few years, I was anxiously awaiting the first next gen 
 installment of this long running series. My decision to buy an XBox 360 may or may not have been 
 heavily influenced by the fact that Tales of Vesperia was announced as an exclusive. I was blown 
 away. This is not only the best game in the Tales roster, but one of the best RPG's I've played 
 in the past few years.
  
  Story 8.25/10
  
  The story is great, but I think it's actually one of this games weakest points. It starts out very 
 strong, in your quest to return the aque blastia to the lower quarter, but after that, there's 
 a period where the plot kind of limps along and gets a little lost. It picks up back later and 
 goes strong until the end, where I felt the most disappointed. I felt the ending was anti-climactic 
 and kind of thrown together at the last minute.
  
  Characters 10/10
  
  If the story is ToV's weak point, the characters are what make it worth playing. I have never liked 
 a male protagonist as much as I like Yuri. He's not brooding, not hyper, not annoying, not Neo, 
 Jesus or any other kind of messiah figure. He's just a guy. But he's a cool guy. Estelle, well 
 she's your typical princess with special abilities character, but I enjoyed her development. Rita 
 I found annoying, but not exceedingly so, and she's useful. Karol needed a different voice actor, 
 other than that, he's fine. Judith was one of my favorites. She's clever, funny and pretty much 
 totally smoking hot. Raven was the most entertaining of the group. Repede kind of could have been 
 left completely out of the game.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  Typical Tales battle system. You control one character while the AI controls the rest, with the 
 option to prompt them. The AI did an awesome job of keeping up and not making retarded decisions. 
 The only complaint I have is occasionally, I would get stuck in a corner of the battle screen and 
 have to wait for it to free me.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  Great score. The battle themes were awesome and I liked how they evolved throughout the course 
 of the game. I didn't like the song in the opening at first, but it grew on me in a big way.
  
  If you are an RPG fan or even if you're new to the genre and own a 360 this is a game that 
 you cannot miss. on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBLACK-MAGEx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  After all these games, and all these heroes, the tales series is just about the only rpg series 
 that i can always count on to keep nailing it, with a wonderfully 3-D cast of heroes and an ever 
 changing quest.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  wow! take the color orgy of eternal sonata and the classic character design of the tales series 
 and you get a vibrant and attractive world, that will continue to evolve and grow as you play.
 
  
  Game play: 9/10
  Again, the only series that steadily and elegantly grows minutely but wonderfully every game. in 
 each installment, the major flexibility that was added in tales of the abyss, is made even more 
 accessible and fun, shedding the elemental Fonon field maneuvers for the "fatal slash" a mind rattling 
 unblockable attack that is acheived similarly to the FOF maneuvers, but fit into the flow of battle 
 much better. Also the over limit is implemented much better. All in all Tales of vesperia's battle 
 system is a much headier and fulfilling experience that the past installments.
  
  Story: 10/10
  everyone knows the most important thing in any good jrpg is the wonderfully epic 
 story of good against evil, but its the differences of HOW the story is told that makes an rpg 
 distinguishable and great in it's own right. Tales of vesperia has a story you are not likely soon 
 to forget. It takes all the mainstays of the genre such as an empire that's hurting its people, 
 a lower citizen that whats to be respected, and a princess and turns them on there head in wonderful 
 twists and turns, combined with such an amazingly thought out pacing, there's never a dull moment 
 in TOV. The defining feature of TOV though has to be its wonderfully motley crew of characters 
 from a wise-cracking old man that seems to disappear whenever trouble comes, too a pipe-smoking 
 ninja dog, these characters will have you expressing all sorts of emotions from vigor to battle, 
 to side-splitting laughter.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10 seriously just change the name to tales of FTW because this game just cannot disappoint 
 any real JRPG lover. In other words get this game RIGHT NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagangstapimp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is a great addition to the Tales of series by Namco games. It has great visuals, 
 great cut scenes, great voices, great game play, awesome characters and a pretty good story which 
 all combine together to form a great game. 
  
  Turns out the main guy is Yuri Lowell (Not Lowenthal lol) who is a pretty cool guy. He is a go 
 getter and does anything and everything his way and gets away with it. He ends up being dragged 
 into things by certain events and meets other cool friends. All the characters fit in well together 
 and the many and I mean many skits in the game will keep you laughing pretty often. While the story 
 could have been better it was enough because the game play is very addicting.
  
  The game play is just about the same as every other Tales game, including GRADE earned after battle 
 and so on. The difficulty can range from v very easy to very hard. You can actually change the 
 difficulty in the options menu at any time in the game. The majority of the bosses on normal in 
 the first play through can be pretty difficult and each contain a secret mission achievement, most 
 of which are very difficult to unlock. The MANY artes and skills that can be learned in the game 
 can have many different ways to turn the tides in battles. You can use them to create new combos 
 and different styles of fighting pretty much.
  
  And finally the graphics. The game looks more like some kind of anime but it still looks great! 
 The cut scenes look even better and goes well with the theme of the game.
  
  Everything blends well and makes the game a worthy addition to the Tales of franchise. I give this 
 game a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanbara_t
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Hi there guys this is my first review for GameSpot, so lets start...
  
  Tales of Vesperia is so far one of the best RPG I've played, and is the best in the series so far 
 IMO (Tales of Symphoni, Tales of Legendia, Tales of the Abyss, Tales of the World :Radiant mythology 
 & Tales of Destiny I & II) of course it has so much to offer, really nice graphics, specially the 
 battle effects, the magic spells look just amazing, the play time, the replay value.... so much 
 to tell...
  
  Graphics (10) :
  Tales of Vesperia grapics are simply beautifull its almost like you r waching an anime... the colors, 
 the character spites r really well done, the close up to the characters faces allow us to se the 
 detail and effort they put in to them, plus the battle effects r simply beautiful and amazing, 
 spells like revitalize, regenerate and many others show us the detail, we can even see how each 
 line of the magic circles is being draw in real time...
  
  History (9) :
  The history is not that impresive, however is well developed and the character develop is also 
 really well done, they let us know small but important details about the characters, plus there 
 r alot of side quest to do, explaining better the main history, character related and other stuff.
 
  
  Music (8) :
  For Vesperia's music we got Motoi Sakuraba like almost all the Tales series games, and he did a 
 good job, the music is good, it fits, but there r many themes that sound familiar to other tales 
 games, by the other way the sound effects are great we can hear everything clear, the birs, the 
 water, as well as the footsteps, in battle everything sounds exelent and the American voice acting 
 is exelent.
  
  Gameplay (10) :
  Vesperia uses a upgraded version of the system used in tales of the abyss, this time we got many 
 features, the free run is more balanced this time, the AoE spells are bigger, it got fatal strikes 
 that allow the player to KO monsters its just timing, plus this fatal strikes increase the exp, 
 gald and skill point rates, the overlimit gauge is more balanced as well. because now everyone share 
 a overlimit bar, so this time the player must think when and who uses it, the character customize 
 is great as well, each character can learn skills, however there are exclusive skills for each 
 character, and the skills are learned via weapon.
  
  Replay Value (10) :
  Like almost all the past tales games, tales of vesperia replay value offer to the player a large 
 selection of options to costumize the next play, making the next roud harder or easier, the player 
 can select the difficult level, to carry over items, money and other stuff, as well as exp rate, 
 and many other features, is up to the player to decide.
  
  So... Tales of Vesperia is so far one of the best RPG on the XBox360, is fun to play, is multiplayer, 
 great replay value, fast action packed battle system... is a must have for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zynqu
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  though tihs game is extremely easy, it truly os one of the best of its' series. the graphics are 
 amazing and the story is memorable. the makers also added a new feature once you beat the game. (i 
 won't spoil it for those who don't know what it is.)
  
  this game only needs one word to describe it. SH**
  (i mean in a good way)
  
  the new attacks 
 are similar to attacks from the past but can be upgraded to new a better attacks through equipments. 
 another amazing title from namco. this game is offers many new features that will attract many 
 players. even new comers.
  
  people may bad mouth this game but those people are usually those who don't have a 360. don't pay 
 attention to those that rate this game at a very low scale. if you try it, you will definitely 
 love it within an instant.
  
  this game is a revolution and will clearly have little rivals. this game proves that the tales 
 series will live on for many more years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L-Near
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start off, this is the first game I've ever played belonging to the Tales series which 
 is utterly amazing! Out of what I've played in the series after TOV, I can say that they have the 
 best graphic display, as well as, the best battle system in the series. The game has a sort of 
 addictive appeal in my opinion, and was extremely fun for the most part. Well, I love the story-line 
 as well as the main antagonist, who is oddly fighting for the same reasons as the protagonists. 
 One of my favorite parts, which I learned shortly after winning the game was the costumes (titles) . 
 Which also add a little bit of a change to a constant pair of clothing. The only thing I would 
 like is after winning the game having some online gameplay, but that's okay, lol. Anyway, the other 
 thing is that their clothing should change as their "armor" does, and use the original clothing 
 as default clothing or something, but both of these are just things that I would like to add to 
 the game... Apart from that it's an awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vesparider-01
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is the latest and greatest of a long and rather prestigious line of tales games. 
 However, that's just it. It's a tales game through and through. It gets so after a while you can 
 just string base combos together and win, and the game's story is so much in the same vein as the 
 others that I could almost see the next event happening. In fact, every prediction I'd made about 
 the story of the game so far has come true.
  
  Not to say I hate it, however, it's just the same as most of the other games, albeit prettier and 
 improved overall. I've actually been a long time tales fan, and this satisfies me quite nicely, 
 but I'm I feel I should be fair and not pretend to speak for anyone else. Now, I believe that each 
 type/genre of game should be reviewed based on different categories, and for rpg's I've broken 
 it down to five or six aspects, in this case five: Story, Battle system, Soundtrack, Graphics/Map 
 design, Extras/Replay value. Here they are:
  
  Story: The story is similar to many other tales game stories. You start out as someone unsuspecting 
 but with a little bit of ability, but it eventually turns into some kind of epic thing involving 
 the whole world. It's rather epic and amazing, but after a couple renditions it starts to wear. 
 Still fun though, 7/10.
  
  Battle System: Overall, as a tales game, the battle system is already rather fun to play around 
 with and will keep people into the fights longer than say, those of FF (if only because you're 
 fighting in real time and not picking from numerous menus and walls of text) . Moreover, compared 
 to past tales games the battle system still holds itself among the best out there. The combos are 
 quick and flowing, the artes are many, beautiful, and powerful, and the possibilities even evolve 
 as the stories go on. Best of all is the satisfaction when one achieves a large combo and makes 
 it up to the scoreboard on Xbox live. However, the air combos are still a little clunky unless 
 you play as judith (Unlike in Tales of Innocence, for instance) and after enough leveling it is 
 possible to even sit out of the battle entirely and just let the AI do the work. So, for the good 
 foundation but a lackluster finish, the Battle System gets an 8/10.
  
  Soundtrack: I'll be the first to admit that during a game the aspect I pay the least attention 
 to is actually the soundtrack, but even so this game's soundtrack has grabbed me. The opening theme 
 was very good, and during actual gameplay, even if I'm not paying attention, I'll occasionally 
 catch little snippets of a BGM that'll make me just pause playing the game and listen for a while. 
 The voice acting is even more than tolerable, it's actually good, which was rather against my expectations 
 given the current trend of american voice acting as compared to the japanese. Still, a good surprise 
 is a good surprise. What's best is that even though you might be stuck somewhere for a while listening 
 to the same BGM, while it does get old, it will never start actively grating on your ears like, 
 some games (at least for me) . For this achievement, the Soundtrack gets a "sound" 8/10.
  
  Graphics: In a word, this game is beautiful. Of course, it is on the most powerful system the tales 
 games have been on so far. The dungeons are spacious and well detailed, the towns give a sense 
 of largeness even beyond what you can explore (which can be frustrating sometimes when you can't 
 help but think there's something to get in the background) , and the atmosphere in each place matches 
 its purpose with aplomb. This game doesn't have the largeness of Lost Odyssey, or the sheer vivid 
 and colorful beauty of eternal sonata, but Tales of Vesperia still gets the job done and more. 
 Not to mention the animated cut scenes add some variety and a nifty touch to everything, even though 
 they are few and far between. This game's graphics grabs itself a 9/10.
  
  Extras: This game's extras take place mostly in its numerous side quests that affect things from 
 just giving you tidbits of story, to giving you weapons and titles and more. But the classic tales 
 grade shop is also there, and while the side quests extend the story by possibly several times 
 it could have been, the grade shop will keep you coming back for another round of the game as you 
 try to complete this games large set of achievements. The replayability of RPG's has never been 
 the genre's strong point, but this game does exceptionally well and so deserves a 10/10 for this 
 category.
  
  The combination of these categories come together to make a thoroughly enjoyable game, even though 
 it might feel as if such a thing has been enjoyed before. Overall, I give Tales of Vesperia a 9/10. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is one of the best Japanese role playing games to come out this year. Even though 
 the game didn't sell well in America unlike in Japan, Tales of Vesperia is still an amazing game 
 and any fan of Japanese role playing games should check it out in some form. The story is engaging, 
 the characters are some of the most interesting in recent role playing games and the gameplay is 
 fantastic. The flashy quick paced combat is a blast to play through and the role playing elements 
 can be as deep as you want them to be. On top of it the game looks amazing and sounds amazing. 
 
  
  Tales of Vesperia has an intricate and complicated plot. The plot starts of quite simple. It centers 
 around Yuri Lowell, an imperial knight drop out, and his quest to find the lower quarter's aqua 
 blastia. The blastia control everything in the world of Tecra Lumireis. They protect cities from 
 monsters, allow normal citizens to have special powers and they also control necessary functions 
 like water control. As Yuri hunts down the thief of the Blastia, he comes across a variety of characters 
 which stem from the kind and lovable Lady Estelle, the spunky Karol, the hilarious Raven, the short 
 tempered Rita and the warrior Judith. The characters are all great and there is not one character 
 in the game who is bad or unnecessary. The plot of the game though seemingly simple from how I 
 summarized it is far from the real deal. The game changes a lot and with numerous plot twists the 
 story is one of the best this generation. 
  
  The gameplay of Tales of Vesperia is well done. There is a lot of depth in the combat but much 
 of the time you can get away with using the same combos. Of course though you can make it more 
 varied and it become a lot of fun. You can also control any character in your party later on in 
 the game which can add some depth. The combat is quite simple, B is normal attack, A is used for 
 using special skills called Artes and X blocks. The combat is extremely fast paced. Boss Battles 
 are some of the best battles in the game as they should be, often a special strategy has to be 
 done in order to down the boss and this makes the combat far more tactical then in normal battles. 
 The game also employs the standard potion system, weapon system, and armor system. There is also 
 the cooking system which works well but it is hard to get the necessary items to make food with. 
 There is no faults with the gameplay in Tales of Vesperia, just my only complaint is it doesn't 
 do anything new. Either way though it's still great fun and it is superbly executed.
  
  Technically Tales of Vesperia is a wonder and should be the standard for cell shaded graphics. 
 Every character looks amazing and the amount of detail in the graphics is pretty damn good. The 
 cities all look amazing and some of the lighting and particle effects are awe inspiring. The only 
 weak spot is some bland over map areas but other then that the game is graphically flawless. The 
 game also sounds amazing. The English voice actors do a great job and each character is well acted. 
 The only fault is that sometimes the dialogue doesn't appear but this issue is almost gone later 
 in the game. The game also has great music and the theme song for the game sung by Bonnie Pink 
 is one of the best I've heard. On another note, people complain about the character studies but 
 I see no problem with them. They are all voice acted so they are fine to listen to and often interesting. 
 The only problem is they can look a bit weird at first but once you get used to them there is no 
 problem with them. 
  
  Overall Tales of Vesperia is the whole package. It has an amazing story, a great cast of dynamic 
 characters and it has the gameplay to boot. If you didn't like Japanese role playing games already, 
 Tales of Vesperia will not change your mind but of course any fan of JRPGs should pick it up and 
 give the game a chance. It will be an experience you will remember, I guarantee it. Tales of Vesperia 
 so far is the best RPG of 2008.
  
  Pros: Great story, great cast of characters, flashy combat is fun and easy to use, technically 
 impressive, lengthy, addictive
  
  Cons: Starts off slow, sometimes there is no voice overs, few innovations
  
  Overall: An amazing 
 role playing game well worth your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFlcl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia, when the creators created the 10th anniversary game, they really did their job 
 on this one. In my opinion, this is the best Tales of game out there today. The storyline is really 
 well done, and the battle system feels like old times, just with some new tactics involved as well, 
 such as Fatal Strikes, and also the new additions of Hi-Ougis/Mystic Artes directly from the Japanese 
 port. Anyway, if you're looking for a long game, with some multiplayer experience, as well as immersive 
 and great gameplay, this is a game to pick up. Because Vesperia delivers it.
  
  With a ex-knight of the empire, and a dog that has a pipe in its mouth, what else do you really 
 need? Oh and of course, a game that lasts at least 60+ hours not counting the side missions. But 
 onto the review!
  
  The gameplay of Vesperia, is like that of its predecessors, you move left and right, and press 
 one button multiple times to attack, but also pressing another to guard, and another to use certain 
 skills. But now with the addition of 'free run' which is when you hold the left trigger to roam 
 around the battle field whenever you want. Anyway, the gameplay for battling is your average fights, 
 with a twist of course, but the usual, hack and slash, dwindling your opponent's HP away, and using 
 amusing skills which normally light up the battle field with colors.
  
  As for the storyline, you play as an ex-knight going by the name of Yuri Lowell, who has to set 
 out on a mission to retrieve a stolen Blastia. A blastia is what creates barriers to protect the 
 cities or empires from monsters which roam about. You meet many allies and foes along the course 
 of the storyline, and with many plot twists, there's not shortage of questions.
  
  Graphics. The graphics in this game are not as high-quality as Halo 3 or Gears of War graphics, 
 but with lush looks, and pastel colors, they really brighten up the day or mood. They're not horrible, 
 and they're not all the great either, but they are pretty good. Especially even in the heat of 
 a big battle, with a lot of things pushing the xbox to its... well potential, you've got to say 
 it's pretty high-quality.
  
  Extras. I know I'm missing a few things here, but oh well, anyway, there are large amounts of side-quests 
 in the game, as well as little secrets here and there that will grant you some achievements. Such 
 as doing a certain thing in a boss fight, or accomplishing a feat, or even creating something. 
 Also for characters, by doing some side quests you can get costumes for your characters, even little 
 attachments, like a hat, or a canteen.
  
  Without a doubt in my heart, Tales of Vesperia is a great addition to the xbox games, an RPG among 
 RPGs. It's immersive, large, and will keep you playing for a very long time. (if you're into that 
 stuff that is) . As final words, Tales of Vesperia, Delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7guns
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is good, simple as that and definitely one of the best in the category.
  
  The story is awesome. It's not the kind of story which is just reasonably good and does nothing 
 more than just keeping the player's interest alive and help him or her out just enough to help 
 get though the game. The story is its strongest element and has enough depth to it to keep any 
 RPG-fan hooked for days. In fact the story is more than just intriguing. It has a lasting effect!
 
  
  The characters are pretty much just the way you would expect them to be. They are very different 
 from one another and are always fun. It's also very interesting to discover each individual character 
 little by little alongside the story, since they are all so well integrated into it, and they all 
 in their own way adds significant amount of quality material to it.
  
  Next, the game play which is pretty fluid and then, the fighting, which, although comes down to 
 something more than average button mashing, is not bad in any way. The different moves and magic 
 attacks keep the game play enjoyable, and as your characters levels up they unlock pretty strong 
 and awesome and flashy looking attacks. This is why even the toughest boss battles are always very 
 exciting and addictive, even if you feel like crying every once in a while. :P
  
  The MYSTIC ARTS that you unlock much later in the game are insanely powerful and are a pleasure 
 to watch, even when the boss characters are using it on you and blasting your a** into oblivion. 
 Hahaha 
  
  Don't miss the game. You won't find many more like it out there. I would encourage every RPG-lover 
 to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redspade21
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  beautiful details on the characters , great game but the story not close to as good as Tale of 
 the Abyss story, graphic were ok, the characters were beautiful but other than acouople towns it 
 was really bland and boring. story was great but could of been way better,, not an instant classic 
 but it is worth the money, the difficulty is perfect i fished the game at lvl 60 just under 50 
 hours, don't ever run from a battle and you should be fine. it has sum really cool side quests, 
 and i like that it has random bosses that are really tough just spread around the world. the game 
 play was great, the battle system is one of the best battle systems out there, lets you take a 
 break from the classic turn based battles. the anime cut scenes were so great in this, i found 
 the colors were bland and boring in the anime cutscenes, making them not so much to look forward 
 to as in the previous tales games, overall i recommend this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  A long time i was waiting for a great rpg to make me play a lot and make me verry happy and sad 
 at the same time.
  It make me very happy to see a great rpg like this Tales where you can do a lot of things , explore 
 the world on your own way, do a lot of sidequest's , hunting monsters , build and upgrade you own 
 weapons and armors.
  The story of the game is simple amazing, the soundtrack is epic, everything in this game is good.
 
  But then...... the sad part comes. The end, normaly i get happy for finishing a game but not when 
 the game is so good in the point that you dont want to finish, its like you need more, i finished 
 this one like 2 times and began a third one. I really recommend this game for everyone who likes 
 just a little about rpg's and for the people who don't like it, this is game is one time that can 
 change your mind about rpg's. Great and epic game. 
  Rent is not needed on this one. Buy it for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlrunions
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Honestly I have always wondered if I could ever find a game that could compete with the likes of 
 Final Fantasy XII. Well I did in Tales of Vesperia.
  
  Story
  You Play as Yuri A loud mouthed Kid who has a huge sense of justice. he likes to do this his own 
 way. after a aqua blastia gets stolen from his home town he sets out to get it back. along the 
 way he meets a rag tag bunch of people that help him out on his journey that leads to far more 
 than just a blastia thief. Along the way Yuri must face the consequences of his actions, as well 
 as try to save the world that he wants to protect. As far as saving the world goes there is no 
 real originality there, but how you get to that point is a real tale. But I will not spoil it any 
 more for you.
  
  Graphics
  In a word beautiful. it really does feel that you are playing a huge anime, and that is just awesome.
 
  
  Game play.
  If you know anything remotely about any tales game you pretty much know what you are getting into 
 here. gong from town to town fight monsters, and bosses at every dungeon. The battle system. is 
 pretty much like a fighting game, but with much more strategy, and fortunately the allies whom 
 fight with are no slouches in battle. Combat is fun, and not random either always a plus. Also 
 the game is quite long 50 hours or more just for the first play through. So you will defiantly 
 get your moneys worth with this game.
  
  Sound.
  Once again the music done by Motoi Sakuraba is top notch, and wonderful to listen to in the game 
 or on its own. But the voice acting definitely should get props here as well. Especially Troy Baker 
 whom does the voice of Yuri. he does an outstanding job of bringing Yuri to like, and because of 
 that I adore Yuri. But everyone else does a great job as well.
  
  all in all this is a great game that I recommend for anyone to get. not just tales fans or even 
 RPG gamers, but everyone whom has a 360. Believe me it is that good.
  
  
  Final Score 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Now I've played tales games since they were of Phantasia and since then, they've never really hit 
 that initial greatness. Symphonia was good but not great, abyss was ok, but Vesperia finally brings 
 it back and here's how.
  
  Pros:
  - A cast of characters you'll care about and love
  - Beautiful Cell shading graphics
  - A great story and it has a few unexpected twists
  - Fully 
 drawn anime cut scenes - a great variety of side quests
  - A wide range of customization of characters
  - Fluid battle system
  - Lengthy main quest 
 spanning roughly 50 hours
  - Quality English voice acting
  - A wide range of enemies, with very little recycling of models
  
  Cons:
  - It ends
  - 
 No mini map
  
  Shades of Grey:
  - Party AI is hit and miss
  
  Anyway, so if lengthy RPGS are your thing, this is definitely a must have for a 360 owner. Cause 
 lets face it, its a lot better than some of the other RPGS we've had passed down on us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoticMage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is an amazing JRPG (Japanese Role Playing Game) released by Bandai Namco for 
 Microsoft's Xbox 360. It is the first (and hopefully not the last) 'Tales' game to be released 
 for this console. In short, I consider Tales of Vesperia to be the best JRPG currently available 
 for the Xbox 360.
  
  Story 8/10
  
  I am probably one of the few people, who believes, that the story was the weakest part of this 
 game. Now I will admit that there is a possibility that I am totally biased when I say that I felt 
 that the main story, not including sub events and side quests, was too short. Having played and 
 been exposed to the 'Tales' series through Tales of Symphonia, I automatically expect a similar 
 experience in all almost elements of the game with some fine tuning and new experiences. Tales 
 of Symphonia's story seemed to go on forever, and I love that because I really don't want games 
 to end. Vesperia's story is really straightforward and it doesn't deviate too much, but I got through 
 it faster than I got through Symphonia on my first play through. Also, unless you watch the skits, 
 there is barely any character development in the main storyline. You have to rely on the interactions 
 in the skits, which is by no means a fault, but I know that some first timers would not want to 
 watch them all.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  Tales of Vesperia has set the standard for all cell shaded or anime-orientated games to follow 
 in terms of graphics. This is pretty much perfection; it really cannot get any better. Everything 
 is so smooth and fluid that sometimes you are not sure if you are playing a game or watching an 
 interactive movie.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  As usual, the gameplay should always be the core of the game. If you've played a Tales game before, 
 then it has everything you would expect it to have and it works absolutely marvelous. For newcomers, 
 I will explain the battle from this point out. It is a different sort of RPG, where as all the 
 action takes place in Real time. You must press buttons and move the analog stick along the battlefield 
 to attack your enemies. If you are used to turn based RPGs, it will take some time to getting used 
 to. Some people may claim that it's a button mashing game, but there is surprisingly a fair amount 
 of challenge. You will have to plan your attacks and your strategy well in advance depending on 
 the difficulty setting and your skill level.
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  Firstly, Namco Bandai did an excellent job with selecting voice actors for the English dub. Cam 
 Clarke as Yuri Lowell keeps proving why he can play almost any possible role. He's one of the greatest 
 voice actors I have encountered. The score for Tales of Vesperia was a hit and miss for me. I really 
 enjoyed a lot of the different musical pieces for the towns and dungeons, but the battle music 
 generally turned me off. It felt like there was a piece of momentum missing during the battle sequences 
 because I didn't like the music. Another problem with the audio is that it felt like a lot of dialogue 
 was missing. It seemed to me that there were too many scenes without voice acting; this is most 
 especially true during part 1 of the game. I can understand why they did this: it is possible that 
 there was not enough space on the disc. Every skit in this game is voiced over. This is the first 
 time on a North American release. That takes up a large amount of room. I also speculate that they 
 did not feel there was enough justification to make a second disc in terms of content.
  
  Overall 8.5/10
  
  This is definitely the best Tales game I have played since Symphonia. It 
 is most definitely on the same level. Vesperia has pretty much perfected the battle system for 
 the series. I expect future Tales games to carry on the same standard as Vesperia.
  I have a couple notes for a possible PS3 port should Bandai Namco choose to do it. I see it as 
 a possibility, and I'd definitely buy the game again if it included additional gameplay content 
 and also more voice acting in conjunction with the inclusion of Japanese audio.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazycaboose568
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  I've played many Rpg's in the years that I've been alive and let me tell all of you, that Tales 
 of Vesperia is one of my top favorite Rpg's of all time. For starters, Tales Of Vesperia is home 
 to some of the most likable Rpg characters to ever hit a video game. Every now and then Vesperia 
 manages to pull out some comic relief throughout the game. The main character, Yuri Lowell, is 
 probably one of the best Rpg heroes that will come out in awhile. He's funny, very smart and always 
 has a clear mind, no matter what. I won't spoil and tell you the details on the rest of the characters, 
 cause that's how I roll. Now let's move on to the two main aspects of the game that really make 
 it shine, the voice-acting and the combat-system. 
  
  
  There's been a number of Rpg's that have recently come out in recent years that have over the top 
 game play, but the voice acting is mediocre at best. Amazingly, Tales of Vesperia manages to deliver 
 GREAT voice acting and game play all in a 2-in-1 deal. The game play feels somewhat like kingdom 
 hearts, considering that it has a real-time combat system. It is very fun and addicting. As for 
 the longetivity for the game, all I have to say is,"how much time u got?" The game is essentially 
 60+ hours long. Let's just say this, I'm currently 10 hours into the game and im not even done 
 with 1/3 of the game yet, so you're definetly getting your money's worth. The graphics in this 
 game are phenomenal, very similar to Tales of Symphonia but the characters don't look like midgets. 
 The anime cut scenes really capture the mood of the game as well as the intensity. If you are still 
 hesitant on getting it, even after you've read this review, by all means, rent it first and then 
 make your final decision. I know one thing's for sure, I will definetly beat Tales of Vesperia 
 more than once, after I beat it the first time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuicideSekt
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  If you like RPGS and love taking a part in an amazing adventure then this 360 game is a MUST BUY! 
 The game is not only full of morals but also has an intricate story line! The opening video plays 
 a great song that actually gets stuck in your head for days after hearing it! The animation is 
 smooth cell shading in an anime style...... simply beautiful! Reminds me a lot of another amazing 
 Rpg for the 360 called Eternal Sonata! The battle sequences are also smooth but one fallback is 
 the fact that you can only USE 1 of your characters during a battle... all the rest in your party 
 fight/heal all automatically! Although you do have some certain ways of controlling the other party 
 members through using Artes shortcuts! Otherwise all GREAT! The cinematics are OH SO beautiful 
 and leave you wanting more! Must have RPG for the 360 owner!
  -Steve 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tandem_Toad
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 3, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best cell shaded works I have ever seen in a video game. Having said that, the 
 rest is pretty exclusive for fanboyism. The dialogue, story, gameplay, and controls scream Japan. 
 This is not a bad thing. It just won't appeal to a broad audience. If you are looking for an RPG 
 in the lines of Oblivion or Mass Effect, then this is not the game for you. However, if you're 
 into anime, then you should probably give this a shot. You might like it. The best that I can describe 
 it is that the game is like a cross between Zelda and Sonic. That sounds like an odd comparison. 
 Nevertheless, that is the exact feeling I got with the short time I played it. There is a lot of 
 flash with the combat like Sonic. However, the controls aren't as intuitive as the controls in 
 Zelda. Again, there are towns and RPG elements like Zelda, but the fixed camera and childish dialogue 
 favor Sonic. All in all, I didn't care for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  First and foremost what stands high for this game are the visuals. The graphics are beautiful, 
 detailed and... what is the word?... "whole"... the graphics depict a truly believable environment. 
 The lack of a movable camera is the only point that you would miss.
  
  The second huge component of this game is the story, both in its contents and in the way it is 
 told... funny remarks and intelligent dialogue are present all along the game.
  
  On the bad side, combat scenes are a little too easy, especially when you fall to the temptation 
 to use the "Auto" feature. 
  
  Control mechanics, as often with RPG's need a little time to get used to them but after the first 
 hour you should be pretty well acquainted with all the menus, options and button behavior.
  
  Bottom line: If you like RPG's, don't miss this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pirate-Man
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Tales Of Vesperia is an Jrpg but i called it "The View" cuz you can move freely in the battle and 
 make it more interesting, let start OK!!!!!!!!! A power struggle begins in a civilization dependant 
 on an ancient technology, the blastia, and the empire that controls it. The fates of two friends 
 traveling separate paths intertwine in a epic adventure of justice, trust and friendship!!!!!!! 
 Sounds interesting!!! Ha HA HA HA???????. If you have play other tales games youll know what is 
 a JRPG. Normals rpg are goood Like My first favorites Rpgs Like FFVII And Chrono Cross And The future 
 like MY favorite gamecube Jrpg Tales of Symphonia. These gME IN MY opinion is better than TOS, It 
 kick his A%$. Awasame Gameplay ,characters and specially STORY. Youll play as Yuri Who i named Markuz 
 who is a Swordman and use axes too, Karol who i named Chuu who use Big weapons like Hammers and 
 etc, Rita who i named Tetra that use magic, Estelle who i named Irennes tha is a healer, Raven who 
 i name Tavven that use ow, Rapede who i named Hanubis who use a dagger and Judith who i namedJade 
 tha use a lance. Like you see you can change the name of the playable characters, Outfits accesorys 
 and weapons. the story is deeper than any game i play on 360. the graphics are cell-shaded like 
 cartoon and is awesome and at last is long so it gotta kep you busy for long. I alredy cleared 
 the game and i have left achievements . I know that is expensive but is worth it. I reccomend this 
 game to you. So long. AHOYY!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Next_Kenpachi
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  My RPG experience extends as far as Lost Odyssey to the Final Fantasy series and even a couple 
 LOTR games and this one is definitely one of my favorites. A big thing for me is the amount of 
 gameplay I can get out of the game, and then the replay value. I was happy to see that my first 
 runthrough took 50+ hours with little to no sidequests. The sidequests themselves can take up to 
 that long, providing solid replay value. The actual battle system itself is also very deep and 
 enjoyable. The difficulty is good, with different settings that each are rewarding in different 
 ways. The different skills, magic, parties, enemies, and dialogue keep the battles interesting. 
 The story was surprisingly deep and the characters just as much. While the character development 
 wasn't too deep the characters personalities were well designed. I will say it again that this 
 is one of my favorite RPG's and also the best one out on the 360 and every RPG fan should have 
 a copy of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClodStrofe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  A friend first introduced me to the Tales series. The game was Tales of Symphonia. I had initial 
 doubts about the game, but when I finally played, and beat it, I found it was a good, enjoyable 
 game, plagued by bad storyline, and characters. It was a shame, because the game play, the sound, 
 the everything, other than those to aspects, were wonderful.
  
  I've played around with Abyss, with the same friend. The game is enjoyable. The characters seem 
 a bit better. But this is not an abyss review. As far as I can see, we have the same story problems. 
 But now comes Tales of Vesperia. Hoping to shove the bad plot aside and start fresh. Does it solve 
 the problem?
  
  In Tales of Vesperia, you take the role of Yuri Lowell. He is an ex-knight, because he's tired 
 of trying to make 'change' that way. He now lives in the lower quarter, with his faithful companion, 
 Repede, who just so happens to be a dog with one eye. Yuri wants to find a way to change how things 
 are in the world, and so does his best friend Flynn. However, Flynn is in the knights, Yuri is 
 not. Very quickly, Yuri finds himself in trouble with the law, and has to leave the capital.
  
  Sounds... promising? The story has 3 parts to it, actually. The first, starting part is the 
 one trying to settle things (Bad guys. Thieves. You know the drill.) With enemies. Part two, he 
 needs to settle things with a certain someone, and save, a certain someone, and stop, a certain 
 someone. In part 3, it's your standard save the world. Now part 1, and 2 were great. The were fairly 
 unique, in terms of standard RPG's stories. There was lots of plot twists, and events, it kept 
 you wanting to play. But when Part 3 rolls around, it really seems like the designers got lazy. 
 They borrowed the plot of Tales of Symphonia. Tweaked it, and bam. Part 3. I also noticed many 
 similarities to Final Fantasy 7 in the game. But that's a debate for another time. In the end, 
 the story is quite good.
  
  The characters are a huge improvement from Symphonia. Yuri is a very likeable main character. He 
 is a bit troubled, and eventually realizes (Ala, Dark Knight) he can't hold to the law, if he wants 
 to protect people. He's torn between his best friend, his group, and the right thing to do. He's 
 vengeful to those who hurt the innocent. Underneath it, he's a sarcastic, sassy guy. He has a personality. 
 Which is bounds better than Lloyd Irving.
  
  Estellise, or Estelle, is your next character. She gains a strong bond with Yuri. And she fills 
 the role of damsel in distress. However, there's more to her than "I'm sorry." or "I'm clumsy" 
 (You know who I mean, *cough* Colette) she has depth. She's a genuine good character. She wants 
 to help the hurting people. And eventually, realizes that she can't. She's constantly torn between 
 what to do. To return to the capital, or stay with Yuri. She has a few plot twists to her, which 
 I can't reveal without spoilers. But really, I liked her a lot.
  
  Repede. There's not much I can say. He *never* says anything in the game other than "Woof!" "Bark!" 
 "Grrr!" he gives off the personality of a badass, following his own will. It does seem however, 
 that he and Yuri understand what each other are saying. Aside from that, Repede is fine.
  
  Karol... The first impression you will get is that he's an annoying kid. But wait up. As the game 
 progresses, he gains character. He's a true, loyal, brave person. Even more so than Yuri, in my 
 opinion. He brings comedic value, as he's always picked on. I ended up loving Karol.
  
  Rita. She was a character talked about a lot. She's very popular. Yet, I don't like her. Her "I 
 know everything, hence I am like god" attitude, really pisses me off. She reminds me far too much 
 of Genis, and that's not a good thing. She never shuts up. How does *no one* ever say something 
 about her? Blah. As the game goes on, she changes a bit, but it doesn't make things much better.
 
  
  Raven. Now he's a lot of anime/game clichs rolled in one. That's what you'll assume at first. 
 But he aside from his age jokes, and perverted nature, is a plot twist. The plot twist really changes 
 Raven. I can't explain, it's a huge spoiler. But please, play it, find out. You'll like him more 
 in the end.
  
  Judith. I didn't think I'd like Judith much but... I think she's my favorite character! She has 
 a great personality. She's kind, but when it comes to the truth, even if it's something someone 
 won't admit, or not wanting to, she's very blunt and to the point about it. She has a few plot 
 twists herself. And on top of it all: She's hot. 
  
  One of the most unique things, that Tales of Vesperia has, I've never seen to this extent in a 
 video game. The characters, question their motives, they question why they are traveling together. 
 Never have I seen you have to stop in the middle of a game, and have everyone find the reason for 
 going on. They each have their own motives (Some are unclear, until later) and they do question 
 themselves a lot. That was a wonderful touch. It really adds to the game.
  
  So far so good. An improvement on the story, and a HUGE improvement on the characters. What about 
 the rest of the game? I'm happy to say: The rest is still amazing.
  
  The sound and music is wonderfully done. Most of the tunes are melodic. But they are all really 
 really great. They set the mood quite well. The battle music (The third one) is great, and pumps 
 you up too. Then there's stuff like Halure Village's theme, which is calm. It sounds like something 
 from ToS. That's a good thing. Now to go to Voice acting, I think a good 80+% is voice acted? 
 The skits are too. And the voice actors, are very, very well done, and picked. Most, if not all 
 the lines are said very well, and not too awkward.
  
  Game play is fairly similar to ToS. Except you can move all around the battlefield this time, by 
 holding down the left trigger. This is VERY useful to avoid an enemy's fireball, or magic attack. 
 Not to mention certain bosses mystic artes. Other than that it's nearly identical to ToS battle 
 system. And that's great.
  
  All right. So Good characters, good story, great music, great game play this means great game? 
 One more thing though, that is Replay Value. The game's a good 40 hours (At least for me) and that's 
 without side-quests. There's New Game Ex, which you can use Grade to make the game easier, and 
 get things. Not to mention, get some stuff you missed before. And it's probably a good idea. The 
 game is great.
  
  So I mainly touched the characters and story, but the rest is very similar to ToS, and other tales 
 games. This is easily the best Tales Of ________ game yet. If you have an Xbox 360, and not this 
 game, you're missing out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diasflac1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Okay I wanna say that 5 score I saw is way off. This game isnt broken or unfinished so a five is 
 too low. Save that for the Just Cause or the Spiderman: Friend or Foe type games. 
  
  Alot of the game depends on how you play it.. If you play on easy then you can jus sit there and 
 mash the button and win, but if you play on hard you can mash till your fingers are blue and you 
 will not live that long. If you set control to manual then u cant aim and hit mostly since its 
 all user control, but if you set it to semi-auto you can actually do combos and fight normaly. 
 However in manual you can do strategic things like powering up and using projectiles from far away.. 
 As I said, it depends on how you play it. 
  
  Now the bad. 
  
  It takes a while till the game picks up and u are having alot of fun. You need the characters to 
 get together before you are playing the real game. Also if you are new to the Tales series, you 
 are gonna have to get used to the battle system before you can enjoy the roles of the characters 
 and get the combo system down.. Its real time combat, and on hard they will fight dirty and double 
 and triple team you.. no honor in computer AI. 
  
  If you hate anime, or if you dont like rpg's but like action games, you should rent it and see 
 how u feel.. just give it time to get going. 
  
  If you like rpg's or like the tales series, then what are you waiting for?! This is the best in 
 the tales series. Yes it is even better then Tales of Symphonia, but not by alot. Thats a whole 
 differnt discussion. lol If you arent sure dont be swayed by the demo, try out the game. Rent it 
 or whatever but that demo sucks man, I admit that. That is all I have SPOKEN^.^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogsoblivion21
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 10:57 pm PT
Review:  As more and more RPG's come along for the Xbox360, they keep getting better. Tales of Vesperia 
 is no exception. This latest Tales game offers a very long story, great looking graphics, good 
 narrative, and enough content to last about 60 hours.
  
  As the case with all Tales games, Vesperia has a long story that involves the world being in danger. 
 The main role is accompanied by Yuri Lowell, an ex-Imperial Knight who lives by doing only what 
 he wants. When the blastia core (magical devices) of the lower quarter gets stolen, Yuri sets off 
 to find the thief and return order to his part of the town once again. Along the way, Yuri runs 
 into characters such as Estelle; a run away princess, and Karol; a monster nerd.
  
  Throughout the story, Yuri and his friends will run into new characters and get into new messes 
 while fixing some along the way. If not skipping scenes or rushing, the story can last up to 40 
 hours and wraps up nicely. Similar to other Tales games, the "talking heads" scenes make a return. 
 While they are completely optional, they do give more insight as to what is going on or character 
 opinions on certain issues.
  
  As you travel further into the world of Terca Lumireis, you'll run into more characters that will 
 join you on your quest. At first you'll only start off with a few, but later they'll keep coming 
 one by one. Each character has their own personal goals that they would like to accomplish while 
 on the epic quest. Everyone's goal is written out well and it can be hard not to care about them. 
 The character relationships can be heartwarming as well. When Yuri and Estelle talk one-on-one 
 you can't help but smile sometimes.
  
  When looking at the world of Terca Lumireis you'll find beauty everywhere. The visual style is 
 most similar to Eternal Sonata with the cel-shading, but side-by-side, Tales of Vesperia would 
 look more crisp overall. Some of the cutscenes are completely animated, like an anime show, and 
 look fantastic. While their aren't a whole lot of those scenes, they can pick up the pace since 
 some of the real time scenes can be a bit lacking.
  
  As you travel more you'll run into a number of towns. As you enter a new town you'll need to talk 
 to every party member, who will be scattered around the town. A lot of information comes from these 
 towns, monsters may attack, you might find new friends and possibly new enemies, and more quests. 
 You wont spend too much time in these towns since there aren't many errands you have run in them.
 
  
  Tales of Vesperia runs and plays very well. There's virtually nothing to slow down the pace of 
 the game, as there aren't any time consuming puzzles or vast arenas you have to run through. Vesperia 
 stays true to the formula of other Tales games. The combat is virtually the same here. It runs 
 in real time and you'll have a nice sized field to fight in. The default option is auto-targeting 
 enemies while you press the B button to attack, while pressing the A button along with pressing 
 the left analog stick in a direction to perform Artes. Everything looks and flows beautifully in 
 combat and is pretty easy for the most part, though some strategy is required for some later boss 
 fights.
  
  The combat is not all about mashing buttons until you win. There is the option to change the strategy 
 for you three AI-controlled teammates, or have three of your friends pick up controllers to play 
 as them. In later fights, item usage and character placement is imperative. If you're lucky enough 
 while using an Artes, a green, red or blue decorated circle will appear over the enemy. If you 
 press the right trigger in time you'll perform a fatal strike. These usually don't kill an enemy 
 right away, but if it does you'll be rewarded with more EXP and Gald.
  
  As stated before, Vesperia has other aspects that other Tales games have. For instance if you look 
 carefully enough you'll find the Wonder Chef, who will give you new recipes for you to cook and 
 you'll get new Artes as you level and find new weapons. In the end, Tales of Vesperia does not 
 disappoint in the least. It's refreshing to see an aging series get such a fresh update. While 
 Tales of Vesperia isn't too much different from the others, it absolutely is the best. It's one 
 of the best RPG's on the 360 to date and is worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaystormy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  The hype built up for Vesperia didn't catch up with me until the last month when I finally decided 
 to look into it. Being a tales fan, I couldn't wait to play another mothership title for the Tales 
 series. But when I found out it was on the 360, I quickly dismissed the idea of getting it for 
 I didn't want to get a system for one game. Temptation gave in though and once the xbox 360 had 
 a price cut in America I convinced my parents to get it for me as a Hannakah gift (yeah early I 
 know.)
  
  
  I say it was certainly worth it, (I AM getting other games for the system so ya know.) The gameplay 
 is a better more fixed up version of Tales of the Abyss'. The boss battles were easily the most 
 difficult in the series, and were even spiced up with the Special Acceivements.
  
  The story wasn't extremely interesting or groundbreaking, but it was enough to keep you interested. 
 The characters are the real reason to keep playing, their all engrossing and endearing in the own 
 ways that make you feel extremely connected to them.
  
  It is definately a great addition to the ongoing Tales series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roseice
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  First I'll say I didn't consider this game perfect, and the actual score I would've given if Gamespot 
 allowed is 9.8, which rounds to 10. Now for the review.
  
  I'm a big Tales fan, have been for a long time and had extremely high expectations for this game. 
 I was only mildly let down by one thing... the story. Tales games aren't known for their ability 
 to tell epic or even original stories, but something about Vesperia's story felt like it would 
 be different. Watching a lot of videos and keeping up with news on the game really got me excited 
 for it. 
  
  Unfortunately, in the second half of the game when the main story starts building, you really get 
 a sense you've seen a lot of these elements before. Anyone who has played all the Tales games like 
 I have will probably agree. The villians and how they fit into the story is mostly the same old 
 formula taken from past Tales games and repeated. The main villian issue in Vesperia is there's 
 a ton of very cool looking characters that don't have much involvement or back story... they're 
 the kind of villians you want to stick around for the whole game but you see them a few times briefly 
 before you have to take them out. Even more disappointing is how you don't even get a chance to 
 fight some of the them.
  
  But, back to the general story, it starts off great but eventually heads in the inevitable "group 
 of young heroes must save the world" direction. Luckily the game is long so there's a lot to enjoy 
 about the story before random events push you to that point, which isn't only my least favourite 
 aspect of this game, but most games. I've played very few that can pull off saving the world in 
 an epic way, not battered with cliches and  we've seen over 
 and over again. 
  
  And that is where my biggest complaint, which happens to be the only one worth mentioning, ends. 
 There's a lot to love about this game, if not everything, and though the story is Vesperia's weakest 
 point you never know, someone else could love it. It all depends on how many games you've played, 
 and if you've seen too much of something you'll get tired of it. If Vesperia was my first Tales 
 game, I definitely would've loved the story.
  
  I didn't mention this before, but while the story is cliche it's built up and made enjoyable by 
 the strong cast of loveable characters that are easy to get attached to, which seems to be the 
 Tales norm. Vesperia has some awesome, amazingly endearing characters, and that is one of its strongest 
 points. 
  
  Gameplay wise, I couldn't ask for anything better. It was everything I expect from Tales games, 
 with a lot of great additions to make battles and everything else more exciting. The battles are 
 fast-paced and seem much harder than anything from past Tales games, but getting used to the controls, 
 leveling up and gaining more skills is a quick way to remedy this. Most people's complaint is how 
 the system is "slow", and guarding and evasion take a little more skill. Speaking of "skill" the 
 skills you can learn from weapons can, if equipped, eliminate these problems for you. So it all 
 depends on how you want to play. If you want a bigger challenge, you can adjust the battle system, 
 difficulty, etc for your playing style. It's very flexible in that way.
  
  As for the graphics, Vesperia's style has got to be my favourite. The gorgeous, colourful, smooth 
 cel-shading is absolutely perfect, and enhanced the experience quite a bit for me. Everything looks 
 more detailed and beautiful, from the changing skies and weather, to the towns and dungeons. All 
 of it was wonderful to explore.
  
  The music and voice acting was also a treat in this game. Sakuraba was once again the composer 
 for this Tales games, and while this isn't his best work, I still enjoyed it a great deal. The 
 voice acting was something that surprised me... I didn't expect it to be better than Abyss' at 
 the very least. I was glad to see, or rather hear, mostly voice actors I haven't before as the 
 main characters. All of the voice work was well done. 
  
  Tales of Vesperia is the kind of game that has a lot of replay value. With the grade shop and myriad 
 of sidequests and subevents, this game will keep you busy for at least 100 hours if you try to 
 tackle it all. It's a lot of fun, and as expected I went right into my second playthrough after 
 beating it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game was very disappointing. I don't much care much for child-like heroes. The 
 game also seems to have weird dialogue and portrait dialogue (where they have pictures of the characters 
 talk on the screen over the background) . This makes it seem pretty outdated. The storyline is long 
 and some say engrossing but to me, it is a way too sugary. The game has no targeting system. The 
 anime seems simplistic to me. I am not trying to offend anyone, I am just giving my honest opinion 
 about the game. I paid a lot of money for this game and was sorely disappointed and would like 
 to voice my opinion like everyone else here. The game uses the same monsters over and over. There 
 is always a lot of text and portraits and exclamations all over the screen - which I am not a big 
 fan of. I like the more recent school of thought that less is more. I honestly don't know how this 
 game is getting good ratings on some game sites. I believe ths game should have been relegated 
 to handhelds. If you are considering buying this game, do yourself a favor and rent it first and 
 then decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meleiyu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  A beautiful game that's just MEANT for Xbox 360.
  
  The beginning is almost breathtaking as players begin their journey in a small town filled with 
 commoners. (Or it is also known as the lower quarters) and the water is flooding the ground because 
 of a missing Blastia. When the folks seek help from Yuri, he heads up to the higher quarters and 
 begins his search for the crystal. And from there begins a journey where new, unique characters 
 work together on an adventure. At first it's about searching for Flynn but it becomes something 
 more!
  
  Characters:
  
  The characters are very lovable, even the enemies, yes indeed! Yuri, though very sarcastic and 
 feisty, is a kind-hearted person who goes out of his way to help out others. Then we have Estelle 
 who is of royal blood and has a heart of gold as well. She only wants to help people. And along 
 the journey you meet new characters, like Rita, Karol, Raven, and Judith. Some are mysterious and 
 some are just out to improve themselves. One is even a feisty Blastia researcher! Of course, this 
 game wouldn't be a Tales game if there wasn't a hilarious or perverted character! Overall the development 
 wasn't as expected. Many of the characters improved along the journey, but a few were disappointing. 
 However, every player of Tales will definitely find a favourite character in this game!
  
  Music/Sound:
  
  The music in Tales of Vesperia brings back good memories since it is similar 
 to older releases. Perhaps it isn't as good as the songs in Tales of the Abyss or Tales of Symphonia, 
 but the battle themes can be pretty catchy. Plus the opening song by Bonnie Pink is one of the 
 best Tales opening songs ever! It's surprising when players state that they don't like Ring a Bell!
 
  
  Graphics and battle:
  Without a doubt, Tales of Vesperia has the best graphics (comparing it to all other Tales games) . 
 The characters are very clean and beautiful and the battles aren't laggy. Although it doesn't match 
 up to Halo or Call of duty, it is still a gorgeous game. Everyone is very animated with full detail 
 and the colours are absolutely amazing! The magic system has definitely improved and it's great 
 that Estelle is both a sword user and a healer. It's rare in Tales games, but that's what makes 
 Vesperia great!
  
  Overall, it is an excellent and memorable game. Definitely worth playing, especially if you're 
 a Tales fan. And it's great that RPGs like this and Eternal Sonata are appearing on Xbox360s! If 
 gamers haven't played an RPG on an Xbox360 yet, they're missing out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elessartelrunya
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Being the first Tales game to appear on the Xbox 360, Vesperia could have failed like so many RPGs 
 on the 360 in the past. But this one truly shines where others have faded. The battle system is 
 fun, the graphics are amazing, and the story, while somewhat cliched, is still entertaining.
  
  You want to keep playing and if there's any gauge for a game, the desire to keep playing trumps 
 any faults the game has. And it does have a couple. Being limited to 15 of each item can lead to 
 frustrating boss battles. Not being able to synthesize simple items was also disappointing.
  
  I can't help but grin each time i play. The characters are memorable, and thankfully only a 
 few are annoying (mostly minor characters) . The humor in the game is perfect. Funny for kids, but 
 mature enough for an adult such as myself to still enjoy. Overall, Tales of Vesperia is just plain 
 fun.
  
  Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jopak
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I already play all Namco tales games and in my opinion this is the best. you play in a new big and 
 beautiful world ,with new a great characters (yuri is the best) with new skills, abilitys, spells 
 and weapons. you can freely explore the word of vesperia by the sea and through the air ,also you 
 can see the monsters in the field ,the towns are beautiful too with a lot of secrets ( including 
 the wonder chef :P ) hidden scenes ,you can buy weapons, armor and items on every town like all the 
 rpgs ,you can get titles for your characters (some titles change your costume ) and play mini games. about 
 the characters you can level up to lvl 200 and lear skills, you can learn abilitys equipping weapons 
 to your character and fighting ,after the battles you got gald , experience and grade and loot 
 . you can use 7 characters
  Yuri Lowell : Yuri is the main protagonist. He is a former Imperial Knight who lives in the lower 
 quarter of the Imperial capital, Zaphias. He doesn't agree with the way the empire handles things 
 because he has seen their oppressive ways. Despite being sarcastic and cynical, he is loved by 
 the people of the lower quarter. He wields swords and handaxes in battle.
  Estelle :is the heroine of the game. She is a girl who mysteriously runs into Yuri in the castle. 
 Her sheltered nature, and fantastic words and deeds often confuse people. She is very dedicated. 
 Seeing someone hurt, she would try to cure them with her healing artes, paying no attention to 
 herself. Her real name is Estellise. Estelle is a nickname given to her by Yuri. She is also surprised 
 by the many things she encounters in the outside world. She enjoys reading books and takes the 
 knowledge she gains from them very seriously. In combat, she wields swords and staves, as well 
 as healing magic.
  Repede: Yuri's constant companion, a one-eyed dog with a big scar on his face. Though he holds 
 a pipe as a memento from his former master, he does not smoke. He is not friendly but he never 
 betrays anyone whom he has come to accept. He is totally in control and may be the most sensible 
 and calm being among them all. He fights using a dagger.
  Rita Mordio : Rita is a researcher from Aspio, a city that is dominated by a blastia research guild, 
 but is under the direct control of the Empire. She is considered the city eccentric and has a poor 
 social disposition. She is, however, known for her expert knowledge in blastia and aer, which has 
 earned her the title of famed genius mage. In battle she wields scrolls, whips, and a book, and 
 is capable of using offensive magic.
  Karol Capel : Karol is a little boy who claims to be from the Hunting Blades guild. Due to certain 
 circumstances, he accompanies Yuri on his journey He wields a giant hammer and various other large 
 weapons.
  Judith :Judith is a beautiful member of the Krytia tribe, a minority race. She encounters Yuri 
 while wandering the world with two companions. She is sensible and speaks of going ahead without 
 taking measures. Because she acts without explaining her actions, she cannot get an impression 
 of the situation. She appears gentle, but she decides without hesitation and pushes onward. She 
 speaks strongly without delay, which makes it difficult to socialize with her. When she goes into 
 battle, she becomes violent, which creates a feeling of mystery about her. She wields a spear in 
 battle.
  Raven :Raven is a frivolous and shady-looking man who lives as if he were already dead, and wears 
 long clothes. He appears before Yuri while he is traveling, and annoys Yuri and his friends. To 
 step back from troublesome things his voice becomes high-pitched immediately, and he becomes defiant 
 to answer with his worried personality. Despite that, he is timid but not aloof from the world. 
 As might be expected of someone his age, it is implied that he has experienced past hardships, 
 but no one knows the actual truth. He wields a bow and katar in battle.
  And you can fight and move freely in the battles ,use items , skills ,overlimit , fatal strikes, and 
 burst artes.
  The are big dungeons with a lot of monsters, big monsters, secret items, save points of course.
 
  the music is awesome like the whole game is great JRPG made it by BandaiNamco with a big replay 
 value ,wit new and cool things and better than the other tales games , worth buying and playing 
 ,I love this game and other thing Join to tales Brigade dot com :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalFantasyXll
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Finally they gave us a New Tales in the series, But this time for Microsoft Xbox 360, They wanted 
 it to bring us HD. & glad they did
  
  Let start off by saying this Gotta be close to the best in the series, It has Stunning Graphics, 
 Very well made Music. The art style is the best. Very rare to get a game like this these days. 
 Don't let the opportunity pass you by. The characters do an amazing Job & are very well likable. 
 voices are excellent. You got 2D/3d action battles that really stand out and are excellent. 
  
  Learning & Mastering Combos has to be the greatest, Along with having Random battles & a World 
 Map all in stunning HD.
  
  Has high replay value with 100+ Hours with New EX Game Plus having 100's of side quest.
  
  
 What more could you ask for?
  
  OK, You got a Stunning 200 Levels to catch up on: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JEDWARDC1982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  A definite sleeper hit. In the midst of other super-hyped titles, this game has gotten left out. 
 However, this is one of the best games for the 360 period, in my opinion. Great graphics, super 
 storyline, loveable characters, and very long (even for an RPG) yet not too drawn out. This game 
 has been spoken badly of for being too much like its predecessors - but for fans of the series 
 and for those of us who know what a quality game is, is similarity a bad thing? I say no. The only 
 negative thing I really have to say is that I'm not crazy about the battle system. I like to use 
 totally devastating and varied attacks instead of "slash four times, then follow up with a magic 
 attack." While this gets resolved to an extent at higher character levels and towards the end of 
 the game, you spend a majority of the game pressing the attack button followed by whichever Artes 
 attack you currently favor. My summary - A super-great RPG, one of the best ever (in my top 5) , 
 and is one of the few new games worth dropping the 60 bucks to buy it now instead of waiting for 
 the price to drop. - Namco Bandai rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  well, I enjoyed this game of a certain extent. to start off, the art design is simply beautiful. 
 the texture and shape to everything is designed very well. and the voice acting is pretty good. 
 it sounded the the characters were truly real. the thing that bored me was the fact that there 
 was so much talking involved. it truly felt like a Final Fantasy game, which was good, sort of. 
 and I really enjoyed the sound in the game. the battle effects were pretty descent, too. the thing 
 that made me return the game was the combat system. it just wasn't that good. the characters moved 
 slow and blocking would sometimes take me awhile to do. now don't let that turn you off or anything, 
 I'm just not too much into the game. I never really watched the TV show, so that's probably why 
 it wasn't that enjoyable for me. but if you're a fan of the show, you're probably gonna like it 
 very much. I also hear that the length of the game is "epic." so that's a plus for you. I just 
 wasn't all that into it. but hey, this is just my opinion. make your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Finished this game today after playing for 100 hours (yeah I was goofing around, grinding and trying 
 to do side quest) .
  
  Graphics  In game I liked. Normally I am not into the cell shaded cartoon look but they worked 
 here and were nice. I was not quite as impressed with the even more anime cut scenes. Everything 
 looked slightly different and not in a good way IMHO it was too anime for me. Still though overall 
 the graphics were fine, not the best certainly not the worst.
  
  Sound VO  the acting was pretty good through out the game. The worst of it is two bumbling guards 
 you meet early. I thought all the main characters did a good job and the kids weren't too whiny. 
 I wish more of the scenes had VO work however.
  
  Sound music  It was nice enough not the best I have heard (never felt inspired or entertained 
 by it) . It did start to grate after enough hours playing but mostly it did not annoy me and was 
 easily ignored
  
  Sound environmental  Mostly I noticed the city noise which was nice otherwise this was pretty 
 non-existent with the fight sounds being what you expect.
  
  Story  at times confusing but it seemed that they stuck to the rules they setup in their world 
 and that's important for good fiction. I liked at least one twist with one of the characters which 
 I can work with (as long as I don't think about it too much) . I thought the story progressed well 
 and ended as I would have expected after getting to know it. I liked all the characters (some of 
 their lines quite funny "I have been hacking at them since we met" and I thought the ideas of the 
 characters making their own choices and the debate on what is "right" and "wrong" were good side 
 items to explore. I just wish as a player I got to make some of those choices.
  
  Game play  I liked it well enough (though I did fall asleep a time or two while playing) , it can 
 be as deep or as button mashing as you like. I thought that some of the bosses were hit a miss. 
 As in you would be progressing as expected without too much grinding just going with the story 
 but every once in a while you would hit a boss that was waayy far beyond were you would be naturally 
 and would have to grind. I think there were 3-4 bosses that were like this for me, all the others 
 were tough but I never felt they were unbeatable like those 3-4.
  
  If you like achievements and well thought out side quest, this game lacks a bit in those. There 
 are LOTS of achievements to get and there are plenty of side quest it's just never obvious (nor 
 are their decent hints given) in game letting you know where\when these are and many are time sensitive. 
 The game log does not log the side quest either. So its either you look the stuff up on the internet 
 or you happen across it, but it would take more then one play through to "happen" across all of 
 it. There is plenty of content here though, so if you like it there is plenty of replay value with 
 the Ex Game after you beat the game the first time. 
  
  Good game (better then Eternal Sonata) I would recommend a buy even at full price. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  I think that this game is one of the most interesting games I have played. the graphics are very 
 interestingly done, with most of it being a cartoon. This seems to be a good game for someone who 
 likes anime. I do not enjoy the gameplay that much, maybe because I am new, but I hate the way 
 that no conversations can be skipped out on, no easily accesible quest log, no real period of time 
 where the action isn't intense. This can be good, but there is one boss fight in the beginning 
 of the game that took me forever to do. I really don't think that I am that bad at RPGs, but all 
 it is is button mashing. There can't be that big of a strategy, so I don't know what I was doing 
 wrong there. I also think that the way the map is made is really a horrible way of presenting it. 
 I hate how your character is literally bigger than the city on the map (traveling) screen, but 
 when you enter is smaller. I also highly dislike how there is no fluid world to travel in. The 
 game could have made some beautiful backgrounds, like in Elder Scrolls Oblivion, to travel by foot 
 in between cities was both rewarding and entertaining. In this game, I feel like a lot of things 
 are chores. There is no arrow pointing in the direction you need to go in, so if you were to pick 
 up the game a week later from when you last played, there would be no telling what the hell you 
 have to do. 
  
  Another big problem I have with it is that you run around, but none of the other characters you 
 are partied with are shown, only in the cutscenes and fights are they shown. It is a little bit 
 weird to have that happen.
  
  To its advantage, the graphics are beautiful and it is occasionally funny. There are times when 
 the game almost makes fun of itself for the characters being so over the top. The main character, 
 Yuri, is very likeable and takes a very blunt, sarcastic view on things. He also can be very passionate 
 at times. I guess this is the best part of the game, because not much else is that great. I will 
 keep playing for now, to see if it does get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpawnSC
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  So i've been looking for a good JRPG to play and after seeing some reviews on Gametrailers. com, 
 Gamespot, and IGN all giving the game a score of 8+ I figured what the hell i'll stop by Gamestop 
 after work and pick it up. Did it live up to the hype? keep reading to find out! The story can be 
 a little confusing if you really don't pay attention to what is going on around you. Once you understand 
 the story and how the world within the game works it will suck you in. The story is very slow starting 
 off and after you put some time into the game like 5+ hours it really starts picking up. You will 
 get plenty of twist and turns and shocking surprises. The game takes 60+ hours to finish and if 
 not longer with all the side quest to do. Here is the snippet of the story:
  
  "A young man named Yuri, raised in the lower quarter of the imperial capital of Zaphias, joined 
 the Imperial Knights
  along with his childhood friend, Flynn, but soon found himself quitting the force, disillusioned 
 by its internal
  corruption. He led a relatively carefree life in the lower quarter where he had grown up, spending 
 his days helping to
  solve the problems of his fellow residents.
  One day, quite by chance, Yuri met a strange girl by the name of Estelle. She told Yuri that she 
 wished to see Flynn, so
  he agreed to lead her to him. But he was completely unaware that this strange encounter was the 
 beginning of a
  journey that would affect the fates of countless people the world over"
  
  
  See my blog for my full review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hajjjustin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  First off this is a great game i wont go as far as saying is the best story in the tales series 
 ill give that to tales of the abyess pick that game up if you can find it. but this game has a 
 good story none-the-less its jus a little short for a tales game.
  
  The Graphis of this game are the best in the tales series yet every detail is lush and clear and 
 the colors are vibrant every land scape is worth a look around.
  
  The music is good but sounds like some of the music was from other games like Xenogears and FF 
 games but thats ok i cant prove that anyway.
  
  the game play is nothing new to the tales series other than the weapon based skill system witch 
 im not a big fan of. this takes alot of time to builed up skills make weapons get the materials 
 for weapons and in the end you wont be able to use all the skills unless you plain on leveling 
 your characters to level 200.
  
  the story is good but not great its shorter than i would have liked but its still not bad. There 
 are alot of side quests as you would exspect from a tales game and the chracters will grow on you 
 but there is not alot of back story to each character some have some. some dont, some characters 
 you will like (raven) some you wont (rida) but that just what i think
  
  all in all its a great game not the best in the series but its not a let down at all if your a 
 tales fan or just a rpg fan pick it up if you have the time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jolleyho
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  Tales of vesperia is a game i was looking forward to for a long time. I have never played any of 
 the tales series before, but I am a fan of japanese rpg's and the lack of them on the 360 made 
 me want to play this one really bad. The game is slow, but the slowness helps the story of the 
 game which gets you so involved in the game. The action is very fast, I love the battle system, 
 and how fluid everything is. The best part of the game is how beautiful the game looks. The graphics 
 are some of the best I have ever seen on the xbox and it makes traveling to new environments that 
 much better. Most of the game can be played with mindless button mashing, but to beat the boss's 
 will u have to use strategy and skill to beat most of them. This game is a must play for any rpger, 
 especially since there isn't very much to choose from on the xbox. Guarantee, play it and enjoy 
 it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjoeb123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia, as you may know, is the latest entry in the long-running Tales series of JRPGs. 
 These games are a big deal over in Japan, but not so much here in North America. 
  
  There are cities in the world (Terka Lumeris) , and each are protected by a "blastia". They basically 
 ensure peace and order within the city. One day, a blastia is stolen in the hometown of Yuri Lowell 
 (you play as him most of the game) , and he goes after the thief. He meets characters such as a 
 noble named Estelle, a hot-headed blastia researcher named Rita, among many others. Of course, 
 that "chase" turns into a save-the-world kind of thing, involving bad guys who want to use the 
 blastia to take over the world, the "empire", etc. The story lasts about 60 hours. There are also 
 a great deal of side quests to do and daring achievements to unlock as well.
  
  Those of you who are new to the series will find the anime graphics simply beautiful. That also 
 means that Gears, Halo, and CoD4-ists may think that "It's not very detailed, so the graphics suck" 
 when they're wrong. Everything from the character models, environments, and even the anime cutscenes 
 have all gotten careful attention from the developers at Namco Bandai (or should I say Namco Tales 
 Studio, Inc.) .
  As far as the gameplay goes, it's the same-old same-old town-dungeon-boss-repeat thing, with your 
 inns, shops, bars, etc. at all the towns you visit. The battle system, however, is in real-time. 
 (You still have the battle transition animation, though.) You can attack or use magic (called "Artes") 
 at will, though some Artes require time to charge (mostly for Estelle and Rita) . You can work up 
 combos with button mashing, but later in the game, and for boss fights, you will also have to think 
 about item use, etc. You can use items and change AI settings at anytime by calling a menu with 
 the Y button.
  
  Also, during most boss battles, there are "Secret Missions". This means that you can do certain 
 things during a boss battle (attacking while it's down, destroying support objects, etc.) that 
 earn you 5 GS each as well as other in-game rewards, provided you win the battle, of course. These 
 missions can either be a walk in the park, or hard as hell, depending on the difficulty of the 
 boss.
  
  The sound is also of excellent quality. There are multiple battle themes, which plays depending 
 on whether you're fighting a boss or not, what kind of boss, and what part of the story you're 
 in. Some of the town music is also very good (espically the Dahngrest town music) . The English 
 VA is very decent as well. And in case you haven't heard, "Ring A Bell" from Bonnie Pink is the 
 game's theme song.
  
  All in all, this game is one of the best (and best-looking) RPGs for the 360 since Eternal Sonata. 
 If you are a fan of the Tales series or RPGs in general  you HAVE to add this to your collection.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CeruleanGriever
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  This new series in the Tales series is really great and easy to pick up. Trust me it's fun, great 
 dialogue, amazing, lovable and impressive characters, and a highly recommendable game for all RPG 
 fanatics. While playing i noticed that there's not one dull moment in this game the storyline is 
 extremely good, the gameplay is completely immersive. The skills and the fighting styles of all 
 the characters is nothing to complain about, i usually just pick my four favorite and play with 
 them throughout the whole game but i'll admit i play with all the character they're that great. 
 Tales of Vesperia has the basic elements of an RPG along with the uniqueness that tales bring to 
 the table. Even though Vesperia may feel a bit like Symphonia they're two completely different 
 games and trust me Vesperia is incredible all on it's own, the combat, the story, the whole adventure 
 it's amazing. Overall this game gets my support with a 9.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia Review 
  
  Story --------- 8.5
  Gameplay --- 9.0
  Graphics ---- 9.0
  Sound ------- 9.5
  Tilt/Value -- 9.5
  
  Introduction: 
  
  The Xbox 
 360 has had a very good lineup of Japanese RPGs due to much support from Japan and its early release 
 compared to that of the PS3. Games such as Eternal Sonata and Lost Odyssey satisfied those who 
 hungered for JRPGs but did it fully satiate their hunger with an extravagant JRPG? Does this game 
 truly deliver and meet all the expectations of a JRPG? After Namco-Bandai's last year of Eternal 
 Sonata, Tales of Vesperia is a full-blown JRPG with tons of extras to do that will finally move 
 players that don't believe that the Xbox 360 is the console for JRPGs.
  
  Story ------- 8.0
  
  The story of the game starts out in the world called Terca Lumireis that 
 rely on blastia, which is an ancient techonology, to make the world much more convenient. The blastia 
 controls the flow of water, enhances fighting abilities, and also creates barriers over cities 
 that prevent from monster invasion. Yuri Lowell, a former knight, living in the lower quarters 
 of the Imperial Capital Zaphias finds that a thief has stolen an aque blastia from the lower quarters' 
 fountain. What seems to be a simple chase becomes much more as Yuri journeys into the royal castle 
 and meets with a beautiful pink-haired girl named Estellise. Together they escape the castle with 
 their own agenda in mind and so begin their journey that will change the world forever.
  
  Tales of Symphonia's main focus in the game was its interesting plot. There were many plot-twists 
 and it gave players a journey that one would hardly forget. Tales of the Abyss was a journey of 
 a young man from an immature child to a fully matured man. While Abyss' story was an important 
 aspect overall, the key standing point was the change that the main character went through and 
 his interaction with other characters. Tales of Vesperia's story is important but the story is 
 just a cover-up for what the theme and the main focus of this game is. Unlike the previous game 
 the story won't be as dramatic or epic but that doesn't mean it's not very grand. However, what 
 is grand is the message the Tales of Vesperia has to offer. The character development in the game 
 is extensive and truly shows by the end of the game when the player compares to how they acted 
 before and how they act now. Not only is the development of the characters deep but the actions 
 and consequences that the characters face is even deeper. Yuri is a former-knight who quit due 
 to the many problems that the Imperial Knights have enforcing the laws. Because of this fact he 
 must face the fact that some things are not going to change unless he acts upon them. The game 
 puts a heavy emphasis on responsibility, view of justice, and thoughts of the character into the 
 player and that is something that not many games point out. What one might find lacking in the 
 story overall, he or she will definitely find in the each and individual characters that travel 
 with the player throughout this long journey.
  
  Gameplay ----- 9.0
  
  Tales of Vesperia truly shines in the gameplay portion of the game. The combat is engaging and 
 the exploration of the dungeons is well executed for the most part. The little things that one 
 can complain in the gameplay department are very few and if it can be complained it's due to many 
 of the limits that the game breaks.
  
  The gameplay layout is as such: The player controls a character and travels the world, fight all 
 the monsters in a certain dungeon, beat the boss, and proceed. Such a simple process however can 
 be expanded greatly. The player takes control of the main character Yuri Lowell and starts out 
 in the Imperial Capital Zaphias. The player starts out from Zaphias and journeys throughout the 
 world whether it be dungeons or towns. As the player goes exploring outside the town, there are 
 towns that the player can visit here and there and dungeons that the players can traverse through. 
 In the towns one can restock on all of their items or upgrade their items by buying new weapons 
 or Synthesizing new ones. The Synthesis system allows the players to forge new weapons, armors, 
 and extras for each character. The materials that player needs to forge the items are constantly 
 in demand allowing the players to decide if he or she should buy the item or synthesize it. 
  
  The towns are huge but you will never get lost and they are well-crafted to make each and every 
 one different from other towns spread throughout Terca Lumireis. Once the player is finished doing 
 the tasks in the town the player travels through dungeons for reasons that vary. The dungeons are 
 full of monsters that players can encounter to battle. The player can explore every branched root 
 in each dungeon to find every chest or breeze straight through it depending on the player's style. 
 Also while journeying throughout the world there are skits that can be activated when a title pops 
 up on the bottom portion of the screen. These skits, when activated, starts up a character conversation 
 that can add to the story, give humor, and more. The conversations are fun to listen to but they 
 can be a little abstract as it is just character mugshots moving their lips. Traveling the world 
 is done by a large world map in which the character can either walk to their destination or travel 
 by ship or a flight vehicle, which is later acquired in the game. Going from one point to another 
 point will never take too long and you won't do that much back-tracking in the game, which is always 
 a good thing.
  
  Of course, in a JRPG, the battles are what take the bulk of the time in the game. As the character 
 travels the world map or a dungeon in the very expansive globe, the player will run into monsters. 
 Luckily the monsters are not done in random encounter but there are monsters placed on the map 
 and by simply running into it will cause a battle to ensue. This gives the player the option to 
 run when in a dire situation or farm for experience points. The game's combat system takes the 
 formula from previous Tales of games and expands upon it. In Tales of Vesperia a redesigned engine 
 is in use called the Evolved Flex-Range Linear Motion Battle System. This system puts the controlled 
 character in a 2 dimensional plane in which the player will move to or from the selected target 
 in a set battlefield. However, by holding the L-trigger the player can freely move around the battlefield 
 to choose the best location on the battlefield to fight. The battlefield is a very large circular 
 area with invisible walls that prevent anything from walking out but this shouldn't limit the players 
 view about the battle. A party of 4 including the character that the player can control is set 
 into the battlefield once the battle starts and an all-out fight occurs between the enemy and you. 
 
  
  The game controls work like such: The B button is your normal attacks, the A button is your special 
 attacks called Artes, the X button is to defend, and the Y button is the menu button for item use. 
 By pressing different combinations of the A and B button along with the Left Thumbstick the player 
 can chain up combos that can vary in length. This becomes crucial later on as some enemies are 
 easier to deal with when they cannot oppose you. In addition the normal attacks and the Artes, 
 there are other special moves the player can pull off by attaining skills throughout the game. 
 A character can equip a certain weapon and have access to a skill that is attached to the weapon. 
 As time goes on the player can learn these skills and use these skills without the weapon. Certain 
 skills will also enable the player to pull off more powerful versions of Artes called Burst Artes 
 and Mystic Artes. These moves come hand in hand with the Overlimit bar which is on the left-hand 
 side of the screen. As the character hits and enemy or receives hits the Overlimit bar fills up. 
 Once the bar is filled up to a certain point, the character can activate its strength and go into 
 Overlimit. This ability allows the player to instantly cast spells, use the amazing Burst Artes 
 and Mystic Artes, as well as chain up an endless amount of Artes. Along with the Artes is the ability 
 to use Fatal Strikes. When an enemy receives a critical hit an insignia appears on the monster 
 and by a well-times press of the R-Trigger can initiate a Fatal Strike. The Fatal Strike automatically 
 kills the enemy and is a nice addition to the battle. By the end of the game, the player will have 
 a variety of skills that the character has learned and has the option to customize the character 
 to optimum status. 
  
  The fights start out simple and short but become longer and complicated which requires more strategy 
 as the game progresses. On harder difficulties strategy is a necessity as the enemies are smarter 
 and have more hit points. Although the player controls only 1 character, this doesn't mean that 
 your party members are uncontrolled. Three friends can join in on the game and control the 3 remaining 
 characters. The addition of friendly co-op multiplayer is a nice touch and if playing with friends 
 is not an option then the 3 party members can be controlled by the computer AI. The player, thankfully, 
 has the option to customize the character's actions in the game through the Strategize function 
 which is always handy during the tough boss fights. The combat is very slick and smooth and runs 
 at its maximum potential. Combat in this game is handled the best out all the previous Tales of 
 games as it runs at the right pace without punishing the players too much. 
  
  However, not all games come without any problems. This game shares minor faults that might drive 
 a player to insanity if he or she is a completionist. There are tons of side-quests in this game 
 that it will add on probably 20+ hours of gameplay to the already 60 hour game. The problem with 
 having so many side-quests is that they are easily missed as the player journeys through the story. 
 This game encourages the player to replay multiple times which one can find tireless and tedious. 
 Also this game puts the Xbox 360 to the limits when certain battles become too hectic. The framerate 
 slows down somewhat and the 360 has a hard time keeping the game under control. This, luckily, 
 only happens when the player abuses the Meteor Storm with Overlimit, or when the player goes into 
 the secret 200-Man Melee. These faults are minor and do not deprive the game's true strength.
 
  
  The gameplay of Vesperia is done in a very neat and well-fashioned manner. There are very fast 
 load times, especially for such a long game, and is a technical spectacle. Certain portions of 
 the gameplay could've been more organized but overall the satisfying combat, the exploration of 
 the worlds, and the little skits that pop up here and there along with side-quests truly make this 
 game shine. 
  
  Graphics -------- 9.0
  
  Tales of Vesperia uses various types of graphical style such as CGI and anime but generally sticks 
 with cel-shaded throughout the game. The graphics in this game look very smooth and sleek. Although 
 the graphics aren't set in a realistic style or compares to that of last year's Eternal Sonata, 
 it still is well done. The character models look great and the facial expressions they give truly 
 show what emotion they are feeling. Although it isn't as detailed as Eternal Sonata's lush and 
 beautiful graphics, the little things that Vesperia has put effort into its graphical department 
 is spectacular. 
  
  The characters outfits and archetypes are well created; the visuals of the characters look generally 
 great overall. However, what will definitely make the eyes go "wow" are the landscapes of the towns 
 and the battles. The towns are well colored and look bright and shiny; they really are a piece 
 of art to look at. The Imperial Capital of Zaphias when looking in detail looks like an actual 
 city if it wasn't for the cel-shaded style. The artistic design is well-executed as well as the 
 graphics that compliment it. And of course there are the battles. This visuals in the battles can 
 be described in a single word, flashy. This game has bright lights bursting in and out of nowhere 
 and when the battle gets really hectic, sometimes one will wonder how did they pull off so many 
 different types of graphical marvels with only the color spectrum. The Burst Artes or the Mystic 
 Artes that one can pull of shine with wonderful colors and flash around everywhere like a fireworks 
 parade. Even the little things such as real time water reflection is in place. When Rita, your 
 spell-caster, casts Tidal Wave you can literally see the reflection of all your characters in the 
 battle. The characters mouths actually move when they talk in battle and the little graphical problems 
 it has are none. 
  
  The developers that put their hard work into the graphics section of this game certainly had their 
 hands full. With the cel-shaded style of the game that enriches the world with vibrant colors along 
 with the little things that players would never notice here and there really makes the presentation 
 and the graphical side of this game stand out. Although this game looks great in cel-shaded style, 
 this is not the only style of art that is used in the game. CGI and anime is well mixed into the 
 graphical formula. While the anime transitions fine as they are important cutscenes, the CGI doesn't 
 mesh really well with the overall game. Having 3 artistic styles is a bit overkill but isn't something 
 that diminishes the quality of the presentation overall.
  
  As great as the graphics and the presentation of this game is overall, there isn't anything spectacular 
 about it that makes it exceed other graphical marvels. The battle scenes look amazing and gorgeous 
 and the towns look lively, but it isn't anything that would truly push the limits of the Xbox 360 
 to the max.
  
  Sound -------- 9.5
  
  Motoi Sakuraba has outdone himself once again. The musical score in this game is absolutely stunning. 
 The variety of each piece fits in every situation that the game presents and the timing of the 
 entrance of each one is spectacular. The music ranges from the proud roar of the trumpets when 
 the Imperial Knights enter to the sad orchestrated tune that is played when the characters are 
 down. The diversity of each one is amazing in its own right and the stunning composition of the 
 pieces is even greater.
  
  Along with the great musical outline, the voicing in the game is also very well-done. Each character's 
 voice magically fits in some way or another. Yuri's voice doesn't sound too deep or too high and 
 the tone of his voice fits all the time. Karol's voice sounds exactly like a panicking little kid 
 and Rita's is that of a young teenager who's arrogant and brilliant at the same time. The entire 
 voice acting cast did an absolute amazing job putting the right amount of emotion and placing themselves 
 in the right tone in each situation. There's really not much to complain about the voicing except 
 for the lack there of in certain portions in this game.
  
  Tilt/Value ----- 9.5
  
  Although the game isn't extraordinarily innovative, it still does an amazing job at utilizing the 
 battle system. The innovation isn't revolutionary but the minor tweaks that it has here and there 
 from prior Tales of games will make this game definitely feel differently.
  
  When a journey is finished around 60 hours or so, one would think that the game is done and over 
 with. Fortunately that is not quite the case. This game is long in one playthrough, but there are 
 plenty of side-quests to do and plenty of achievements to unlock. If you are a perfectionist, you 
 will be playing this game for a very long while. The side-quests in this game such as the coliseum 
 battles or the EX dungeon can give you a sense of accomplishment. Other side-quests include getting 
 all the titles, unlocking all Artes and such. If the total amount of time spent on the side-quests 
 are added up then it can well be 20+ hours. Not only that but the achievements in this game will 
 have the player going through the game at least 3 times. There are many difficulty modes to play 
 in as well as extra features you can unlock when the player starts a new game. Tales of Vesperia 
 is a game meant to last.
  
  Conclusion ------ Final Score --- 8.8
  
  Tales of Vesperia is the JRPG that everyone was looking forward to this generation. Although there 
 were previous franchises like Lost Odyssey and Eternal Sonata, they do not match up to the length, 
 depth, and awe of this game. Tales of Vesperia puts the player in the fascinating world of Terca 
 Lumireis, the exciting battles between monsters, and the heartfelt moments that each character 
 experiences. The game's graphics are stunning in its own way and is a visual spectacle. The sound 
 quality of this game is perfect from the amazing voice cast to the well composed pieces of Motoi 
 Sakuraba. This is the game that every player should buy if they are willing to experience a full-blown 
 JRPG that will knock the players off their seats. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister_korea
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a very sweet game. Starting from the first moment you put this disc into the marvelous 
 Xbox 360 you wlll fill adrenaline pumping through your veins. Sweet memories of anime you never 
 watched will go through head.
  Lets get serious first of all the gameplay is very fun. It only gets more fun as you advance throughout 
 the game, as the game fighting mechanics evolve into a more immersive experience. The fighting 
 mechanic is not shallow. Sometimes you'll have a hard time trying to memorize all the complex fighting 
 moves. It only gets harder as you try to memorize each different moves of each different characters. 
 That's only half the story. Your head will get dizzy from the complex but very sweet story. 
  First time though you wont get all the hidden things hidden throughout the game so you will come 
 back and play again and again.
  Highly Recommend
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkrosestar
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Now I will honestly say that of all the games in the Tales series, this was one of the best games 
 i've played. This games graphics are amazing and the story is very well told, the fighting on this 
 game is fun and relatively easy to learn but the best thing about this game are the characters, 
 they enough would honestly make you want to play the game, I haven't laughed so hard since i've 
 played Tales of the Abyss, the main character Yuri will honestly have you in laughing so hard you'll 
 be crying. The only thing I don't like about this game was the fact that the enemies were pretty 
 easy to beat down and with the exception of a enemies, you'll run through most of them almost in 
 an instant, credit given, almost all the bosses you have to actually come up with a game plan to 
 fight them effectively. This game is definately worth the buy and I would recommend it to anyone 
 that's an rpg fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: platinumpalus23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  this is a game easy to pick up and play, have fun, and a highly recommendable game for all RPG 
 fans. On average you will spend close to 40 hours playing tales of vesperia. while playing you 
 notice there is not one dull moment throughout the game and you will find it completely immersive. 
 the story is rich with your basic rpg elements that you know and love in a tales game and all the 
 action is the same. the game will feel almost like your playing symphonia with some differences 
 in the combat and ways you move arond the world map. overall this game gets a 9.5 out of 9.5... 
 i mean  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is actuallty one of the trhee best "Tales" games made (all others are sh+it) . With 
 all the good thing to do a great RPG, ToV have a good battle system that will remind us all others 
 GOOD "Tales" games.
  
  The dialog are (sometime) really hilarious and funny. The voice actor are also really great and 
 sound effect too (that something that havik really like) .
  
  The graphics are pretty, no one will doubt about it (well... for those who played others "Tales" 
 games) . The design are nice (like in every GOOD "Tales" games) . Monster, backgrounds and environnements 
 are also great, that make the game really immersive.
  
  There's a lot of thing to do in ToV, that make the game really good, because it's giving many things 
 to do and reenforce the re-playable capacity after you finish the game.
  
  
  Finally, This is a excellent game without any doubt. So go ahead and play it all the night, that 
 will make you nostagic about the time you've pass with Tales of Symphonia and Tales of Phantasia. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  It's almost impossible to sum up what makes Tales of Vesperia great, no matter how many pages I 
 have to do it with. Is it the great gameplay, the loveable characters, the spot-on voice acting, 
 or perhaps the customization? It may be all of those things together that make this game so utterly 
 amazing, but whatever it is, I can tell you that you may very well have a week's worth of sleepless 
 nights because of Tales of Vesperia.
  
  Tales of Vesperia is the latest in the long-standing "Tales of" series. Perhaps the most well known 
 of the Tales games was Tales of Symphonia, which was one of the greatest gamecube games. The game 
 manages to combine great RPG storylines and characters with fast paced action. Tales of Vesperia 
 manages to carry out this tradition with grace and style, and is definately worth adding to your 
 collection.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, this game is amazing. It's not realistic, but that doesnt matter, because 
 the charming graphical style will win you over from the very first scene of the game. Instead of 
 having CG style cutscenes, the game instead offers fully-drawn anime cutscenes at a few major points 
 in the game. The rest of the cutscenes are managed the games beautiful in game art-style, and you 
 wont be dissapointed by the results. The character models are good, the weapons are good looking, 
 and all the spell effects look amazing as well. 
  
  Gameplay: Now, as previously stated, the game does have traditional RPG elements, but it puts them 
 in a nifty, action-filled package. Monsters roam the world freely, and if they see you, they begin 
 to pursue you. If they touch you, you are taken to a separate battle-field and you must fight the 
 monsters in a ring-style arena match. Battles can last anywhere from a few seconds to several minutes, 
 and trust me, the longer battles are heart-pounding. You can go from near death to a full party 
 with good health in seconds and trust me, its a great feeling to do so. The enemies are strong 
 and the bosses are ruthless, so get ready for some stiff competition.
  
  Of course, the game wouldnt be an RPG without a leveling system. This game does feature a leveling 
 system just like any other, but it doesnt allow you to assign points or anything like that. In 
 this game, leveling increases your health, your damage, and other base stats of your character. 
 For this reason, you may find that you arent as psyched to level up as you would be in other RPG's. 
 Still, leveling is usually not something you focus on exclusively, and grinding is a very rare 
 occurence. When you arent in battle you will be moving through towns, perhaps solving environmental 
 puzzles in dungeons, or just trying to find where to go next. The areas in between battles are 
 far from boring, and often provide key plot-twists to keep you interested. However, you may see 
 a kind of pattern emerge where you will split from the whole party, go find and talk to them all, 
 come back to a designated location, and move on. It happens usually after a major story revelation, 
 and it hardly gets in the way of gameplay.
  
  Story: The story in this game is good at some moments and amazing at others. The game will sometimes 
 leave you stunned, with your mouth agape, and will sometimes leave you simply saying "I saw that 
 coming." Still, the story and the characters are half of what keep you motivated in this game, 
 and you will find that you genuinely care about each character's respective destinies. The game 
 is at some times cliched, but as mentioned, if you are an RPG fan, you will like the story here.
 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is good as well. The sound effects of moves are good, and the voice 
 acting is superb. There are times when the music in the game makes the experience as intense as 
 the toughest action game or survival horror game. The atmosphere is easily one of the game's best 
 selling points, and you will find that the music will grow on you until you begin to hum along 
 to the tune. All of the characters sound good, and their voices simply compliment their personal 
 characteristics. Yuri has a rather resonating deep voice, that remains cool and calm even in the 
 toughest situations. Judith almost never acts surprised, and her voice reflects that character 
 trait, as she sounds pretty monotone even when she is in danger. The voices of the characters will 
 most likely bring you to love them even more.
  
  Overall: Overall this game is about as good as it gets in terms of JRPG's. It has great loveable 
 characters, and fun unique storyline to follow, and lots of fast paced action riddles with tough 
 boss fights to keep you constantly challenged. Furthermore, this game will last you a good 60 hours 
 from start to finish and trust me, its hard to be bored with a game this good. If you are an RPG 
 fan, you owe it to yourself to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanyDemon2005
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I love the game story wise and when it come to the battle system so far the best tales battle system 
 so far, it has everything you want, so far for me it has been hard to put down i have wasted at 
 least four days on nothing but side quest and getting the best weapons, but getting there is all 
 the fun i dont get enough of the quirky battle conversations.
  
  For the cons of the game i will have to put the lack of mini map on dungeons which can get frustrating 
 however the battle keeps you happy wail you are lost.
  
  All in all i will have to say this is a game that most be own for any rpg fan out there it has 
 an story worth of the tales 20th anniversary and it brings back all my happy memories the change 
 of costumes makes for a fresh play the second time around and the grade shop help you come more 
 prepare to beat does hard battle missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ymazash
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  amazing, The game's star is Yuri, a well-meaning troublemaker living in the capitol's lower quarter. 
 Devices called blastia manage the world's magic needs, from monster barriers to mystical weapons. 
 When a thief steals the core of the blastia that regulates the neighborhood's flow of fresh water, 
 Yuri sets off to recover it, only to find himself caught up in a game of politics and class struggle. 
 As he treks across forests and deserts, Yuri and his trusted dog Repede bring various friends into 
 the fold. There's the naive Estelle, a castle noble who finds she has the most to lose -- and the 
 most to gain; Or the insufferable Rita, a headstrong magic researcher who keeps getting drawn into 
 the drama in spite of herself. One by one, the core cast builds, yet each character possesses unique 
 charms, and you will care about their struggles. This may be a simple variation on the genre's 
 prototypical journey of self-discovery, but the terrific cast keeps the story fresh and fascinating. 
 Even small touches, such as the end-battle celebrations, brim with charisma.
  
  It helps that the dialogue, while not without occasional clumsiness, is translated rather well 
 and gives each party member clear motivation and personality. Quiet moments between Estelle and 
 Yuri are heartfelt, while the banter between Raven and his traveling companions is amusing and 
 generally unforced. The script's best bits come courtesy of the game's skits, in which the characters, 
 represented onscreen by talking-head portraits, interact, complain, and otherwise comment on recent 
 events. Newcomers to the series may find the skits visually jarring, given that the basic 2D images 
 don't mesh well with the lush backgrounds and cel-shaded character models. Nevertheless, the skits 
 are a series staple and deliver plenty of character motivation, humor, and story tidbits. And because 
 you have to press the back button to view them, you don't need to watch them if you don't want 
 to.
  
  As you traverse the lands of Terca Lumireis, you'll find no shortage of eye candy to gaze at. Tales 
 of Vesperia's art style is its most striking feature, and at first you may be inclined to compare 
 it to 2007's luscious Eternal Sonata. There are similarities, but Tales takes a less fussy, more 
 muted approach. Environments look vibrant but clean, though that doesn't mean they lack detail. 
 You'll explore countryside villages, a derelict ghost ship, and a tall clockwork tower, among many 
 other locales, and each is visually interesting while remaining consistent with the overall look. 
 The game makes good use of soft lighting and understated cel-shading, and character models are 
 crisp and animated well. Not to be outdone, the musical score uses a variety of moody harp tunes 
 and rousing electronic themes that complement the visuals. The English voice acting, often a source 
 of worry among RPG fans, is pretty good, though the overzealous female voice artists do grate from 
 time to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moldyspud
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  What's good about Tales Of Vesperia? It's an RPG. What's good about an RPG? Levels. Gear. Adventure. 
 Becoming all powerful after going on a long journey of exploration and conspiracy.
  
  Does Tales of Vesperia give you that? Almost... not quite. It's a boring journey unfortunately. 
 Not much exploring to do. Everything is set up and you got to go to continue on. Sure you can go 
 out and grind the monsters, but don't expect to find anything in the world. You can gather junk 
 with the games Synthesis component... but basically all it is is killing monsters who drop certain 
 ingredients. Sometimes and very rarely you will see some stuff on the world map.
  
  The cooking part is a joke... not much to it and you'll probably never use it. You can... it's 
 there... but not so helpful. You find recipes from a cook who is supposed to be in hidden areas 
 but is really easy to find anything you need to get through the whole cooking thing anyway.
  
  I don't know what people were smoking when they thought the dialogue was funny... there is 
 no point in this game where they made me laugh, or even smile. Half the time the acting is so bad 
 and the voices are so annoying that I can't stand to listen to it. I'd much rather be reading it... 
 and from reading the conversations feel like some fifty year old wrote it from years ago... too 
 many worthless words that don't seem to fit the characters personalities... and while it's nice 
 that they all have different back stories, they are just like any other RPG characters.
  
  The combat system is almost a complete rip off of Kingdom Hearts, only it's not nearly as well 
 done. You get to do combos and special moves, but it really only means pushing the same buttons 
 every battle and never being in any real danger. Just B B B B and a direction. Unless you want 
 to add a special move, then you push B B B A. Only problem is you get stuck in the most annoying 
 way after a combo your frozen so you are forced to take hits... and it seems like every monster 
 has the ability to stun you and knock you down over and over so it's more like a cheap combat system 
 to waste your time. It's not bad... but it could be much much better. 
  
  To control another character you'll have to make an item a little later in the game or use two 
 controllers or let a few others play with you. Who would want to sit there and wait for combat? 
 I don't know. My main complaint is you have very limited control over what another individual does 
 and casts. You can tell the whole group to do one thing, but for individuals it's either sit there, 
 or do whatever it wants. Thankfully they aren't exactly dumb, but I wish the healer would heal 
 more, theres no way to turn up the frequency of casting, you'll have to tell them to do it, and 
 it's more annoying than it's worth... for example... tell them to cast and they get whacked? Command 
 lost. Try again, but that could get you killed in a boss fight. Which by the way, aren't exactly 
 a challenge.
  
  Its more like a mindless hack and slash than an RPG. I mean why can't I designate my attributes? 
 Why can't I buy them armor? Why doesn't the armor show up when I put it on them? The weapons do... 
 why not armor? The skill system makes hardly any sense... and do you really need it? No. It's a 
 joke. You can easily get through the game without even assigning skills to armor or weapons. It 
 helps, but it isn't necessary. 
  
  The story is just like any other console RPG out there, it doesn't add anything new, and if you'd 
 played these types of games before it won't surprise you at all. The only surprises you'll get 
 is that when you're completely cheap shotted by a boss until your party is defeated. There isn't 
 much exploring to do, and everything about the game is predictable... only if you've played these 
 before and if you bought it... chances are you have.
  
  On the other hand if this is your first dive into console RPGs, it might be worth a shot. But if 
 there was a Final Fantasy game worth playing on the Xbox, I'd recommend that. Still though, this 
 game isn't AWFUL... it's just not that exciting and it's not really worth 60$... It's very easy, 
 very predictable story, and hard to put up with the voice acting, with a repetitive battle system 
 that offers no versatility or reason to do anything different in each fight.
  
  I recommend this game to first timers only. Experienced players look forward to something else. 
 This just isn't worth it, and doesn't deserve the 8.5 score.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: John666666666
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 11, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I've played 4 TALES games counting this one. TALES of Symphonia, Legendia, Abyss and now Vesperia. 
 By far Vesperia is the worst Tales game I've played. There are many things I didn't like about 
 the game.
  
  1. The graphics for this game weren't very good. 
  
  2. The story wasn't captivating. It just didn't keep me intrested in the game. I know they used 
 the enviromental theme for the game. They could have done a much better job with the theme and 
 the story. If you want a great game that tackles that theme get Final Fantasy VII. I had to try 
 real hard to get through the game.
  
  3. The characters were terrible. I wasn't intrested or carred about any of them. Yuri was unintresting 
 and came off as a cold hearted bastered, not good for the lead character of a RPG. Estelle was 
 just boring and I didn't care about her story. Karol and Rita just didn't add anything to the game. 
 Raven started out well in the game and I did like him. I wanted him to stay dead, it was just a 
 great ending for his characted, but now they decided to bring him back to life, what a rip.
  
  The only characters I did like were Judith. I thought Judith and Yuri would get together, they 
 were a much better mach than Yuri and Estelle, and I think it would have made Yuri more intresting, 
 but the creators didn't take the game in that direction. I also liked Repede, he was just a fun 
 character and they way he interacted with the other characters. My favorite character in the game 
 was a minor character and turns out to be on of the bad guys. Yes it's Duke. I really like his 
 story and character. At the end of the game I actually wanted him to win some how, even though 
 I knew it wasn't possible. 
  
  Oh yes did I mention was a let down of a ending. Talk about a waste of my time.
  
  I am really 
 disappointed with Namco/Bandai. I have really liked the TALES games until this one. It's just really 
 sad.
  
  1. TALES OF ABYSS: 10
  2. TALES OF SYMPHONIA: 9
  3. TALES OF LEGENDIA: 8
  4. TALES OF VESPERIA: 4 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  When it comes to JRPGs, gamers tend to show a combination of excitement, and extreme caution. On 
 one hand, there are the more high-quality popular franchises like Final Fantasy - and then, there's 
 games like Blue Dragon. On the 10th anniversary of the original Tales of Vesperia, Namco-Bandai 
 has released a surprisingly entertaining game. But is it enough to make the grade?
  
  On the Vesperator
  
  Tales of Vesperia stars Yuri Lowell, an ex-knight who gets a little too 
 involved in a local problem in his part of the city, and eventually gets to, surprise surprise, 
 save the world. Although the storyline may cling more towards the original, the characters are 
 still unique and keep you guessing every now and then. The story felt a little slow in the first 
 hour but certainly picks up afterwards.
  
  Eternal Sowhat-what?
  
  The graphics are easily the selling point, even outdoing the developer's previous project, Eternal 
 Sonata. All the characters, Environments, and weaponry have a crisp, vibrant, and colorful look 
 to them, making ToV the best-looking cel-shading to date. The only gripe one could have in terms 
 of graphics is a lack of attention to the battlefield environments, and the world map doesn't look 
 that impressive.
  
  Artes and Crafts
  
  Using an adaptation of the original ToV, Tales of Vesperia implements a free-roaming action system 
 that starts off very light, but allows for some clever customization in both strategy and abilities 
 themselves. The artes method (Similar to the tech moves in Chrono Trigger*) allows easy access to 
 a few variety of beautifully animated moves by a change inside the menu. Looks aside, your preferred 
 style of hack and slash is dependent on your choices of moves. Yuri's dragon Swarm and Ghost Wolf 
 aren't too far off from many moves from Ninja Gaiden.
  
  It's like Chess... but with swords!
  
  Just like in the original as well, you other 3 partners 
 are accessible in mid-combat for using items and healing artes in casse the crap hits the fan. 
 If you get tired of playing Yuri all the time, feel free to change leaders to one of the other 
 characters as a nice change of pace: That's right ladies, no need to play console RPGs as the generic 
 male hero. Changing your leader to a healer can be a bright idea for boss battles if your AI friends 
 have a hard time keeping up.
  
  Omniwho?
  
  To add a little zing to this gameplay, some "uber attacks" have been added in the game, The over 
 limit gauge grows after hitting an enemy or getting hit. Once activated, you can attack in one 
 long combo for a short time. You can also use burst artes during this, a powerful attack that come 
 free of TP cost. Finally fatal strike, with the right timing, can instantly kill off an enemy, 
 and do excessive damage to bosses. All of this adds up to an old-school, entertaining method of 
 mercilessly killing... while cel-shaded.
  
  Sum up 35 hours in a Paragraph
  
  In the end, tales of vesperia reminds us what keeps action RPGs great, with enough tweaks to keep 
 you interested. With a massive graphical overhaul and a clever enough storyline, it manages to 
 upt even Eternal Sonata to shame. ToV is a safe bet in a world of iffy JRPGS, and is a reccomended 
 title for those looking for a little old with a little new, and very pretty graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3chos3non3
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  in troubled times of high gas prices, expensive groceries, and a wife who demands i follow her 
 budget, i gambled and traded in Tales of the abyss and tales of legendia to afford this new addition 
 to the quickly growing xbox 360 rpg family.
  
  and i was not dissapointed.
  
  bandai-namco proves again that they are everybit as good if not better than reknown RPG developers 
 square and level 5.
  
  vesperia exhibits beautiful design, ingame engine cinematics, solid voice acting in abundance, 
 beautiful and undaunting lighting effects, intriguing skill system, and most impoortantly - a story 
 with such upsetting plot twists that you tend to shun certain characters on subsequent play-throughs.
 
  
  far prettier than the recent PS2 tales entries ( but a little bit slower on the combat) , vesperia 
 awes its players with seamles character models between ingame video and battle. the addition of 
 voice acting throughout the character building skits was a small but vast improvement for the series.
 
  
  yuri is a little slow on the offensive end, but i corrected this by using another character as 
 my directly controlled offense whenever possible.
  
  nothing about vesperia is ground breaking, and perhaps that is what makes it so much fun to play. 
 they focused on making the RPG formula tried and true and seamless and didnt pitter patter with 
 breaking molds and failing miserably. the story is light but serious and poignant.
  
  if you desire that your characters all be boring and mature instead of full of life and purpose, 
 then perhaps you should go back to playing the horro genre and leave the serious RPGs like vesperia 
 to us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryosashi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  The latest entry int the "Tales of" series
  
  Story: the story is a cute and pretty well thought out. The dialog is well written and there is 
 plenty of it to read and listen to. I'm not going to give a story synopsis because its all over, 
 no need to explain. For my personal taste its a bit too cliche (seen it before) and and so far 
 is very easy going so the people looking for a deep more mature setting should look else were. 
 The best part of it so far is the amount of background and time they put into each individual character, 
 nothing 2-bit and snuck in wich is very nice.
  
  Gameplay: If you have played these games before, your not in for any surprise. For me its a decent 
 action orientated combat system. For me Ive seen it before so its less enjoyable, but to newcommers 
 its simple to get used to and wont confuse you. With that said it feels kind of lacking, most battles 
 and even the early on bosses just have you mashing the attack button and occasionally tossing in 
 an art for flash, but later bosses have you more on your toes. The games is quite large and quite 
 long, but the pacing is even enough to where grinding is not necessary. They do have puzzles but 
 they are simple. There are some nice side quest like things to do, though most are just collections 
 (don't expect the depth of sidesquests like the FF series though) Customization is done pretty 
 well, though not intensely deep (probably considering its more action orientated) but enough to 
 keep you interested along the way.
  
  Graphics: probly one of the few cell shaded games i can stand. its smooth and vibrant wich fits 
 the tone of the games story and characters. There is a few nice Anime style cutscenes, though i 
 wish there were alot more, it did help change it up. The only issue here is the overmap, its quite 
 dull looking, but one of few games were you actually travel on the overmap instead of clicking 
 on a spot. The other drawback is the small character cuts that tell nice bits of story, but give 
 you a few animation in blocks wich can be a turn off.
  
  
  
  Overall its a pretty good action-JRPG. i would say pick this one up purely for the fact of its 
 fun story and lengthy gameplay. Its not perfect or insanely deep like i would want, but will keep 
 fans of the series very amused. If your a non-fan this is one of the first you should get, i had 
 a hard time getting into the 2-D ones myself.
  
  Pro: -cute, long story with fleshed out characters.
  -one of the best looking cell shaded games.
 
  -length playtime to hold over RPG fans til the next game
  -actually has an overmap to travel on
  -plenty of little extras to keep occupied with
  
  
 Cons: -most fights can be button mashed.
  -conversations in block feel uninspired
  -not the prettiest overmap
  -lighthearted cliche story might not suit everyone.
  -some small 
 parts may feel like filler for the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pramod23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  There are basically 2 aspects to a rpg. The Story and the Gameplay
  
  The story (so far) in Tales is very interesting, it's good enough that I want it to keep going, 
 but the best is the fact that I like the characters. All the skits really flesh out their personality, 
 and we slowly learn their goals and motives. 
  
  The gameplay is also excellent. At first I thought the combat was slow and chaining attacks was 
 bad, with recovery times, but after playing a bit more I realized that it is part of the gameplay, 
 it's not a flaw but a design choice. There are multiple skills that can help you customize your 
 fighting abilities in order to remove recovery periods etc. being able to choose abilities that 
 modify the gameplay itself is great.
  
  The music is also excellent, and the graphics are nice and fit the style of the Tales serie well.
 
  
  I think it's a must-play for any RPG fan, mostly if you liked any other Tales game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombed420
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  Don't let the review staff at Game Spot stray you away from a truly great experience. Now, I will 
 give them credit for being able to review games by considering all demographics, but by doing so 
 they end up filtering out the hard core enthusiasts. An 8.5 is plausible, but only if you were 
 born in the younger demographic. As for me, I was born in the early 80's when games held a certain 
 appreciation for the old school formula used in RPG's. You see, it's simple: Add in an engrossing 
 story, a world map, a collection of likeable characters, and an exuberant fighting style, and poof, 
 you have the perfect formula for an outstanding game.
  
  "Tales of Vesperia" ends up striking all these notes, but with precision as it not only follows 
 the old formula, but expands upon it. The story is a lot more entertaining and enjoyable then the 
 majority of other RPG's I have played. The characters are all well designed, and created with just 
 enough flash where they don't stand out from the latter of other characters. Normally you will 
 be able to differentiate between who will join you solely on the way they stand out from the rest. 
 "Tales of Vesperia" does an excellent job of leaving the player guessing who will be the accompanying 
 factor along the way.
  
  Any fan of the FF series will appreciate the similarities between the way you learn abilities from 
 weapons, and the memorable Espers introduced in Final Fantasy III. The premise is that you equip 
 a weapon with a set number of abilities, and you begin gaining experience for it. Once an ability 
 is learned, it is then permanently adhered to that characters skill tree, as long as they have 
 the skill points to equip it. Final Fantasy III was able to implement this very well, but what 
 was a surprising addition in "Tales of Vesperia" was that the weapon visuals change. Each weapon 
 and some armor, have a unique look, and leave you anxiously waiting for the next drop just to see 
 a subtle change in your characters appearance.
  
  The fighting style is extraordinary, although very easy at times, but isn't really a problem considering 
 there is a scrollable difficulty setting. What really caught my attention was the way each characters 
 fighting style was designed. This is one of the first times where I honestly feel that an RPG of 
 this style can be enjoyed differently depending on the character you choose to control. Whether 
 you choose to be a melee fighter, a healer, a mage, etc, they all offer a unique set of attacks 
 and specials called Artes.
  
  Writing this review, I have noticed myself rambling on and on, and that is because this game has 
 rekindled so many expectations that I felt have been lost in newer RPG titles. If this any incantation 
 of future tales games then this is a welcoming addition to the bland array of main stream RPG titles 
 that have been tainting the very foundation of Role Playing Games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViolentSxht
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  I am new to the "Tales" series so I can't be positive how refreshing or repetitive this entry is 
 however I am greatly enjoying my time with it. Ten hours in and I can safely confirm Vesperia as 
 my favorite next gen RPG. The whole package is very polished and user friendly with a luscious 
 art style and an accommodating pace. Vesperia is satisfying in every regard, its quit obvious the 
 attention to detail providing a smooth experience in every aspect from menu's to combat. The characters 
 are not particularity memorable but quality dialogue throughout provides ample interest in their 
 motives and outcome. The environments and enemies are impressively varied and are always a pleasure 
 to take in and look forward to. This game is a real treat given the limited options these days 
 and I definitely recommend it to anyone with a passing interest in picking up a new RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC52236
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is a Japanese RPG that, while not being particularly mind-blowing, succeeds in 
 all the right places and with an unmistakable charm that makes for a truly enjoyable experience. 
 Fans of the genre will be more than satisfied, and even JRPG newcomers will find something appealing 
 in this welcome addition to the Tales franchise.
  
  You play as Yuri Lowell, a restless youth living in the lower quarter of Imperial Capital of Zaphias 
 whose brief stint with the Imperial Knights leaves him embittered by his own government's corruption. 
 When a thief makes off with the lower quarter's aque blastia core, a device that provides clean 
 running water for the people, Yuri takes this opportunity to sate his own appetite for adventure 
 by setting off in pursuit of the precious item. Along the way, he tags up with Estellise, a stereotypically 
 nave noble, and the two set off together in search of the lost blastia beyond the safety of the 
 city walls. As expected, eventually the duo become entangled in a mess of political intrigue and 
 underhanded plotting that extends far beyond the matter of a simple stolen blastia.
  
  Ultimately, Tales of Vesperia presents a narrative that is well-designed but wholly unremarkable. 
 The plot adheres to the archetypal themes we have come to expect to be present in all JRPGs, but 
 it fails to achieve anything novel with them. Yes, there are surprise twists interspersed throughout 
 to liven things up, but these twists are never very shocking. Still, the story is engaging enough 
 with sufficient depth to keep the player interested, even if it falls a few feet short of profoundly 
 epic. 
  
  However, any shortcomings of the story are made up for by a colorful cast of characters who quickly 
 endear themselves to the player. Your party will eventually grow to seven, and while all the characters 
 fit into typical JRPG molds, their personalities are likeable and vividly portrayed. The dialogue 
 is well written and surprisingly well translated considering the short interval between the game's 
 release in Japan and the United States. The story is also paced well; things move along quickly 
 and fluidly enough that even if the story may lean towards predictability, the player never loses 
 interest in what's happening, and there is enough action between the necessary plot advancement 
 to keep the player on his/her toes. 
  
  But of course, it is the action where this game truly shines. Save for the mandatory story-advancing 
 fights, battles are initiated by running into visible enemies that appear on the game screen. All 
 battles are fought real time, with the player controlling one of four characters (initially, the 
 player will only be able to use Yuri, but later into the game, the player can switch arbitrarily 
 between all four during battle) . Each character comes with a distinct way of fighting and every 
 player will be able to find a character that appeals to his/her own style. Yuri is fast and his 
 efficiency at close ranges make him a good choice in one on one combat, while those who prefer 
 causing chaos from afar will gravitate towards Rita with her arsenal of deadly spells. 
  
  Fighting is divided into normal attacks with your main weapon and special attacks known as artes. 
 As the game progresses, new types of artes will become available for use, and the player will be 
 able to string together normal attacks and different artes in satisfying combos that dish out large 
 amounts of damage. Later fights are fast paced and delightfully hectic; your allies will not hold 
 back (unless you order them to) and at any given moment the arena will be filled with flashes and 
 explosions as your teammates cast spells and perform artes in the midst of heated battle. It seems 
 that Bandai Namco took the "action" in action RPG quite seriously, and with fantastic results. 
 
  
  The gameplay mechanics are the very essence of fluid; attacks join together seamlessly and culminate 
 in a fireworks display that should appease even the most graphics conscious players. And, even 
 though only one character can be directly controlled at a time, the game employs a command system 
 and fully customizable AI that allows the player to easily direct the other characters across the 
 field. Of course, if the AI isn't cutting it, then it's a simple task of inviting a friend over 
 and playing co-op, which adds a welcome dimension to the game not found in most JRPGs. Enemies 
 come in many diverse shapes and sizes, and the constantly changing types of enemies maintains a 
 level of freshness to the random encounters throughout the game, which can be a bit on the easy 
 side.
  
  Speaking of such, one of the more common critiques of the game is that it is too easy. For the 
 first portion of the game (before more advanced skills and artes become available) , it is true 
 that fights can degrade to button mashing the attack button, but given how fun the excellent battle 
 system makes such button mashing, there really is not much lost from the game because of it. And, 
 by the time the novelty of the battles wear off, more advanced techniques will have become available 
 and battles will begin require more skill. If the player still feels a bit unimpressed, he/she 
 could always crank up the difficulty in the game options. Apart from random battles, boss battles 
 (especially the optional ones) can be quite challenging.
  
  All of this is nicely enhanced by the artwork and soundtrack in Tales of Vesperia. The cel-shaded 
 design of the game is beautiful and simply a joy to look at. Even if the character models and towns 
 may not be as excruciatingly detailed as a game of, say, the Final Fantasy series, the quaint charm 
 of the graphics design succeeds at showing how tasteful simplicity can be just as effective as 
 unbarred realism. Each city almost seems to have its own personality; Zaphias with its bright hues 
 seems regal and stands at stark contrast to the more earthen colored Dahngrest, a messy metropolis 
 run by people unaffiliated with the Empire. The small and compact layout of many of the towns and 
 cities was admittedly a bit disappointing; the opening city of Zaphias is supposedly the largest 
 city in the Empire, yet its scope did not feel impressive at all. However, this was most likely 
 a conscious decision by the game designers to shift focus on the outstanding gameplay, as this 
 compactness in no way carries over to the dungeons, which are large but not to the point of being 
 tedious. The world map somewhat breaks the otherwise enchanting aesthetic of the game with its 
 less colorful design, but this is overall a minor blemish on what is otherwise a truly phenomenal 
 treat for the eyes.
  
  The soundtrack as a whole fits the game well. The opening theme, Ring a Bell by Bonnie Pink, is 
 amazingly catchy and comes with a pretty piece of anime eye candy. The rest of the game comes with 
 a varied assortment of orchestral tracks that complement the game's atmosphere nicely. Although 
 you won't be humming any of the in-game music in the shower, they're still enjoyable enough to 
 add something to the game. Most importantly, the quality of the voice acting in the game is surprisingly 
 good; save for some sparse sketchy parts, most of the voicing is excellent and fits the characters 
 perfectly. Yuri's lines are recited with an appropriate touch of cynicism, while Estellise speaks 
 in an ingenuous tone that hints at her innocent idealism and sheltered life. Even Karol, the youngest 
 member of your party, has a voice that brims with youthful energy yet manages to escape being obnoxious, 
 a difficult feat as young characters are often the most egregiously misvoiced in these types of 
 games. 
  
  With a backdrop of a good soundtrack and a vibrant fantasy environment, Tales of Vesperia seals 
 the deal with its addictive gameplay and effusive charisma. Although it by no means elevates the 
 JRPG genre to a new level, ToV executes every important detail well enough to make it one of the 
 best JRPGs to come out for the next generation. And, with easily over fifty hours of game waiting 
 as well as a certain amount of replayability, this is one game that gives quite a lot of bang for 
 the buck. If you are an avid fan of JRPGs, or even if you are just a player who wants an immersive 
 experience that will keep you distracted for days, Tales of Vesperia is one game that should go 
 on your wish list, and it will become one experience you will not soon forget.
  
  Overall:
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  - A beautiful game overall that gives plenty to ogle at. The 
 only stain on its charm is the world map, which could be a bit more detailed.
  
  Story: 8/10
  - The story is interesting enough, but it leans towards the clich. It is greatly 
 enhanced, however, by a great cast of interesting and likeable characters.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  - Immensely addictive and fun. Satisfying combos and a diverse selection of 
 attacks and enemies means the excitement never stops.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  - Apart from the opening track, the soundtrack is not memorable, but the music is still enjoyable 
 and makes the game a better experience. The voice acting is well executed.
  
  Value: 9/10
  - Over fifty hours of gameplay with a new game plus system that adds some replayability 
 to the game. This game is definitely worth the price.
  
  Final Score: 45/50 = 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeoGreenleaf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Alright sports fans. Here's the 411 on Tales of Vesperia, Namce Bandai's newest romp in the Tales 
 of universe. After a couple of crappy straight to video sequels (Tales of Legendia, and Tales of 
 the Abyss) the team is back with Vesperia. Tales of Vesperia follows the adventures of Yuri and 
 Estelle as they, you guessed it, try to save the world. Old plot device, but hey it works. Despite 
 some clunky dialogue, due mostly to the fact that one cannot perfectly translate Japanese to English, 
 the story is rich and deep and will easily suck you in like a novel. The graphics are beautiful. 
 Done in a 3d NPRS Manga style (That's 3 dimensional non photo-realistic shader for you non-animation 
 students out there) which gives the game an anime look while maintaining the depth of the 3-d. 
 Each scene looks as though it were hand painted and the environments will make your jaw drop. The 
 audio is as to be expected from this kind of game, however the voice acting is impeccable, delivering 
 believable and emotive performances all around. The music is the same Japanese fair that accompanies 
 most JRPGS, which is not to say its bad, just... usual. Gameplay is where this adventure shines. 
 The X. L. I. M. B. S. engine is back in full force allowing again for 4 player multiplayer battles. 
 The change now is that the camera doesn't just follow the player 1 character, it zooms out to cover 
 the entire battle field. Alot of the fights lack the challenge some more sophistocated gamers desire, 
 but it is still fun nevertheless. Overall this game is worth picking up, if you're a fan of the 
 genre and are looking for something to play on your xbox360. With a rich story, interesting characters, 
 and great tried and tested gameplay. Tales of Vesperia gets my vote. 
  8.5/10
  
  PS: If you don't like these games (Or can't form coherent sentences, let alone coherent arguments) 
 don't bad mouth them for that reason. The game is good, and core gamers (by which I mean people 
 who play FPSs that the industry has named such) should realize that not all games are going to 
 be the same firefight over and over until your eyes bleed from the rapid passing of constant needler 
 shots. We don't care if you and your friends tanked the game because you can't handle a little 
 Disney, save the princess, free the world, heroes who aren't butch homosexual eye candy. Well composed 
 arguments however will get your review read, and maybe listened to.
  
  -DC
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjackstc
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why people love this game so much and give it so high points. For me, this game is 
 just crappy. I spent exactly 12 hours to play it and it was completely waste of time. Sound: 5.0/10
 
  Graphic: 4.0/10
  Story: 2.0/10
  
  The sound is not so good, nothing particular. The graphic is so normal (just exactly like Naruto 
 game, only worse) . The story is strange and boring. The difficulty of the game I think is "Extremely 
 easy", even when you beat the bosses. There's nothing interesting in this game to attract you to 
 play it as Final Fantasy. I tried and I tried to be patient playing this game to expect at higher 
 level there might be some more actions. But NO, I spent enough time and I don't wanna waste it 
 no more. Plz, if you really wanna try this game, then rent first. Don't buy it. At least you only 
 waste your time, not the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFireLinkX
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  The tales series has been going on for many years and still they have not disappointed me at all. Tales 
 of vesperia is a fast paste action Rpg in which you play a character named Yuri Lowell, you start 
 the game as you would any rpg low level and you must train threw out the story line to get stronger 
 and take down any monsters in your way. The story line is very good tho there is alot of dialog 
 they keep it on point and at times make it very fun and funny to read. The characters that you meet 
 along the way each have a different role to play in the story line. The boss fight's feel just right 
 not to hard but not to easy even tho you may change this by simply going to your options. There 
 is also alot of replayability in the sense that when you have beaten the game once you start a 
 new game with the grade points you earned they will give you options like gaining 10X more exp 
 so the 2nd play threw wont be a grind they have other ones like taking your old weapons skill's 
 etc with you and by doing another play threw of course you will be rewarded with a new ending. They 
 also keep you busy with alot of side quests and other place's to explore if you wanna take a brake 
 from the story line, tales of vesperia is the best rpg for the Xbox360 right now so for any one 
 that's been waiting for great rpg game Tales Of Vesperia will not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Klofle
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I think the game is awsome because of its length and content. It has puzzles that make you think, 
 while maintaining action. I think the battle format is one of the best. The game takes awhile to 
 beat, but it's worth it, because a lot of games don't have good storyline, but this does. Some 
 things are cheesy in it, but I had a ton of fun playing it, and still will. This is not a game 
 to rent, it's a game to buy, unless you are the kind of person who rents before buying. Even if 
 you are, you should get this game after you rent it. I'll admit I did rent it, but I wanted to 
 make sure I wanted it. Overall, I have to say, this game if for dedicated tales fans, and those 
 who aren't. If you are just looking for a game to rent and not buy, don't rent this game. It's 
 a atles game, meaning it has a long storyline that takes a long time to get through, and if you 
 wanted to rent it, you would be a lot better off buyinig it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spongedart
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is the greatest game that you can't find at your local wal-mart. That isn't to 
 say you can't find it. By far this is the game rpg fans were waiting for on the xbox360.
  
  When you first boot the game up, and the opening intro with it's catchy tune start, your instantly 
 hooked into the world of Yuri and friends. From the opening cutscene, done in great anime form 
 to the ending scene you feel like your a member of the world and actually care about the characters. 
 At 60 hours for a straight run through of the main story you'll enjoy it, probally so much that 
 you'll continue to play till you have play over 100 hours achievment. Believe me, i'm getting to 
 it. Unlike other tales games, this one includes many more anime cutscenes that imerse you in the 
 world like never before. Another thing that really stood out but really didn't was the little things. 
 When in the world map or in a city you can see what weapon Yuri has equipped or another characters 
 sub weapons, like changes to Judiths boots, or Rita's book or perhaps Repede's collar. The little 
 things like that help to make the game feel more conected to the real world while still reminding 
 you that it's a game. It really shows what these next generation consoles can do. Old things return, 
 like the colliseum and the wonder chef, and I don't have a problem with it at all. The last tales 
 game before this was Abyss, which introduced the skills that players could learn. Unfortunately, 
 all skills could be learned and equiped making it feel sort of cheap towards the end with level 
 70 or 80 characters. Vesperia elimanates this problem by making characters have a certain amount 
 of points administered to use the skills. Also, in abyss, mystic artes were easy to acheive. Simply 
 go into over limit and use an arcane arte and well the arte is happening hold down X and you could 
 do a mystic arte. Now its a bit more complicated, with everyone sharing the same over limit gauge. 
 The gauge has to be at level 3 and activated at once by pressing left on the thumb pad. Then an 
 arcane arte must be used and while that is happening you hold down the attack button. Sounds easy 
 but building the gauge to level 3 is hard and by the time it gets there you might as well go for 
 a level 4 gauge anyway. Synthesising is cool and now that you need to pay it makes you think what 
 upgrades really matter more than others. There is a healthy set of artes to choose from for each 
 character and you'll probally find yourself liking certain skills more than others but that isn't 
 a bad thing since most of the skills are good to begin with. The only sad part is that the game 
 ends. And thats all i got to say about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123abshchry
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is a work of art. From its graphical style to its script, the game is quite simply 
 the second best tales game of all time (sorry Namco, Phantasia is special to me heh heh) . 
  
  Story
  
  Vesperia follows the adventures of Yuri Lowell, ex-knight turned sarcastic badass 
 in black, and a colorful cast of characters drawn to him and his ways. The world in Vesperia draws 
 power from Blastia, ores used to create protective barriers and even pull off the dazzling artes 
 we're all so fond of. I won't go into much detail so as to prevent spoilers from slipping. Suffice 
 to say that Yuri's adventure begins with the theft of the Aqua Blastia belonging to the Lower Quarter 
 of the Imperial Capital. Yuri, being a resident and protector of the Lower Quarter and its citizens, 
 sets off to the castle to investigate. Your first ally awaits you there, and the great plot starts 
 to unfold. The story also deals with some mature themes, such as a great scene on a bridge I won't 
 tell you about.... ha!
  
  Gameplay
  
  The battle system is just as good as always, with a few ideas thrown in. These additions are explained 
 during the course of the game so I'll refrain from spelling it out. Honestly however, when I first 
 started playing, the delays of Yuri's attack animations annoyed me. His fighting style is very 
 unique, after a sequence of attacks he'll perform a small trick such as following the flow of his 
 attack far enough to throw his sword over his shoulder and catch it, ready to go at it again. I 
 got over this annoyance and now greatly appreciate the fluid animations. Furthermore, after getting 
 a few skills under your belt battles become more involved. Skills are learned from a characters 
 weapons after gaining sufficient LP from battles. There is also a very well done crafting system 
 in the game, which allows you to turn monster loot into gear with a little coin. 
  
  Aside from the battles this is classic Tales. For those new to the series, outside of the fighting 
 system it follows the trusted RPG formula: new town, new story element/side quest, new dungeon.
 
  
  As a bonus, there are unlockable costumes for most characters, similar to Symphonia, as well as 
 attachment pieces. Attachment pieces are statless fun gear used to change your appearance slightly, 
 such as a pair of sunglasses or a fancy hat.
  
  Sound
  
  Very well done. The chosen tracks fit nicely into the game's environments. Good sound effects, 
 and surprisingly good American voice acting, Yuri especially. Sadly however, Repede's (dog) voice 
 just.. just irritates me, but it doesn't detract from his cool factor.
  
  Overall
  
  There is plenty to discover in this game, things you'll love and things you'll hate but, on the 
 whole this is a fine example of a great RPG. The 360 is getting some love in this department with 
 titles like Vesperia and the upcoming The Last Remnant and Star Ocean 4, so be sure not to miss 
 out on the fun and pick up Tales of Vesperia.
  
  Note
  This is my first review and I would appreciate any feedback.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clovers16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin. There are so many great features in this game that it is hard to describe them 
 all. Upon my first playing of the game I wasnt astonished by the graphics, however as I played 
 more and more, and witnessed different surroundings I learned that they truly are wonderful graphics 
 for an anime style game. The storyline however is what turly drives the game. It is very interesting 
 and engaging at the same time. The gameplay is exactly what you would expect from a good RPG. The 
 fight system is also very well worked out. It isnt too bland or too complex. the characters are 
 another great aspect of the game, as eich of them is unique and superb in their own way. There 
 are also many amazing surroundings in this game. it also gives a good deal of difficulty and provides 
 a lot of hours of gameplay. Overall I would reccomend this game to anyone, especially RPG fans. 
 It truly is a fantastic game that you cant let pass you by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosita46
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  Since I started playing this game I am totally hooked... I have such a hard time putting down the 
 game for even for for sleeping and for that in my opinion this game is SOLID !!!! everyone has 
 had there share of putting this game down and I do believe you have your right to your opinion. 
 But guys give it a chance this is so much more than shooting, killing and blood ( not that I do 
 not play those games but Tales of Vesperia has Amazing Graphics, music the characters, story line 
 and the change of characters in gameplay makes this game stand out from 2 other games that it has 
 been compared to. Please do not get the wrong idea I loved Eternal Sonata but not enough to keep 
 my interest in continue game playing, Tales is one of a kind that I is why I keep checking the 
 online game store to buy the Premium game. This is my 2nd Review of a game that I am playing and 
 I hope I get better at this. I enjoy playing games because it takes you somewhere else and for 
 the time I am playing i forget about all the things that are going one in my personal life. So 
 to Bandai Namco THANK You. Well that is it for now I have Tales on Pause status and I am gonna 
 play have fun and enjoy life!!! My personal motto in life is Don't Blink, just Play....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xCMoney05x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  So many games today try to become innovative and unique. Some of these games seem to focus more 
 on aesthetics, providing people with beautiful graphics, all while lacking overall substance. Somewhere 
 in the midst of gaming today, some titles come out of the muck and stand out like sores. Some of 
 these sores are good things, some of them bad. Tales of Vesperia is a sickness I enjoyed.
  
  Tales takes a genre that most people think has been beaten to death and succeeds in giving 
 itself a place in the world of JRPG's. It has a very simple yet intricate story to tell, marvelous 
 character development throughout, a believable world full of monsters, magic and all the bad guys 
 we've come to expect over the years, and a combat system that -- while very simple -- satisfies 
 the casual and hardcore gamer alike. It is a game worthy of an RPG fan's time, and one that I hope 
 people notice.
  
  I don't like adding in the story when I write a review, especially since this story is very standard 
 fare for the genre. You will save the world from evil, done.
  
  The characters are a different story. Almost all of the dialogue is spoken by voice actors, all 
 of which do very well. You will watch them grow and change as the story progresses, and each character 
 has this sense of individuality amidst a grand scheme of separation in the world they live in; 
 everyone is torn between the forces of the Empire and the people over which they reside. The game 
 does present all of this in very unique ways. You have your basic interludes of discussion that 
 happen at a regular pace throughout the adventure, but then it introduces a pretty cool idea called 
 a skit. In these skits you will see the characters represented by static pictures and subtitles 
 at the bottom of the screen. These discussions are all very related to the current situation at 
 hand in the game. For instance, once Yuri finds out he needs to go to the royal district in the 
 opening game he talks to his dog about how the city is ill-handled by the people that have the 
 money to change things. This provides an extra opportunity to get to know the characters, and the 
 world, in the game while not destroying the pace of the mood at hand. The only thing you might 
 say about this idea is it's cosmetics aren't really amazing; it is fairly depleted with color and 
 detail in comparison to the rest of the game. In the end, the game sets us up with a fantastic 
 cast of characters and does it brilliantly.
  
  So what is the use of a good character if they play poorly? There isn't a use for such a situation, 
 so it's a good thing Tales has a good combat system. I use the word good on purpose; it won't blow 
 you away and it won't challenge most people that touch it, but it plays well and succeeds at what 
 it attempted to do. All battles are in real time and the system has a good control scheme. You 
 have two main attack buttons that you can eventually combine to come up with some pretty amazing 
 combinations. On top of this you have a block button, which is eventually coupled with directional 
 commands that allow you to pull of various moves such as back steps. Then you can access your menu 
 with another button, which conveniently pauses combat. That is an important feature since the combat 
 moves at such a quick pace. The final idea that I have been exposed to (I'm 12 hours into the game) 
 is the Over Limit system. Think of this as a Devil Trigger mode in Devil May Cry, but not as powerful. 
 It essentially lets you avoid pauses in between combo attacks, meaning you get the opportunity 
 to string a huge number of attacks for a major combo score. This leads me to a feature that I don't 
 quite understand yet: you are given a "grade" at the end of every battle. The outcome of this grade 
 is determined by various parameters that are set up before the fights begin. Some of these include 
 things like taking damage, or avoiding it, blocking attacks, finishing in less than a specified 
 amount of time, etc. These parameters never change, though, and you will see a very recycled number 
 of grades popping up. I still have yet to discover the impact, if any, of these grades but it is 
 cool to see how well you did once the fight finishes. Overall, the combat is satisfying and fun.
 
  
  The combat is heavily affected by two major aspects in the game: Artes and Skills. Characters have 
 various Artes at their disposal; Yuri will have attacking Artes while Estelle will have Healing 
 Artes. These are learned by using Artes in abundance, the more you use them the faster you'll learn 
 others. The coolest aspect of this is the way you map these Artes to your controller. You hit the 
 A button, one of the aforementioned attack buttons, with a certain direction and you will perform 
 that specific Arte. You can essentially set up your entire combat experience by deciding what button 
 presses do what in co ordinance with your Artes. Then you have Skills. This is possibly the most 
 intriguing part of the game for me. Skills are incredibly diverse in their selection. Some of them 
 increase health or TP (Magic) , while others allow you the ability to perform various miscellaneous 
 battle actions like back stepping. The way you learn these skills is through weapons. Every weapon 
 has certain skills allocated to it. Once you equip said weapon, these skills are available to you 
 automatically, as long as that weapon is still equipped. Once you learn the skills, they will be 
 available to you even without the weapon. The catch is the fact that you allocate these skills 
 by using Skill Points. I am now at a point in the game where I need to pick and choose these skills, 
 and it provides a lot of excitement. I like having the ability to shape the way my characters play 
 in the game. And since you can play as any of the characters during battle, it provides even more 
 excitement; being the "healer" can be a lot of fun sometimes. 
  
  Even through all of it's simplicity, the combat aspects of the game are well fleshed out and provide 
 a lot of entertainment. A lot of the reason behind this is the presentation of it all. The game 
 is absolutely beautiful in almost every way, save for the skits mentioned earlier. The characters 
 are all cell-shaded but the environments aren't. They mesh well and create a dimension of presence 
 that isn't seen much anymore. The spell effects look sharp when needed, and beautiful when needed 
 as well. You really get a sense of how big the world is when the characters speak of traveling 
 to various places; nothing feels contrived, it was all well thought out and concepts became reality. 
 You'll stop at dozens of places and every one of them doesn't feel like filler, you really care 
 about what is happening in the story at all times. Most of this is due to the wonderful character 
 development mentioned earlier. 
  
  The game is fantastic, but not for everyone. While it isn't anything new, it is something of a 
 rare gem. For a game to take a format that has been so widely used, and refine it to be something 
 this smooth, is impressive. It's been done before, but that's not to take away anything that this 
 game has to offer, which is a lot.
  
  Pick it up, it's worth it. At least until Fable 2 releases, hopefully.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hanzo175
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is an RPG experience that anyone with an XBOX 360 has been waiting for. This 
 game not only has a great game-play and graphics, but the storyline is also captivating. From the 
 moment you put the disc into your console, your going to want to keep finding out more and about 
 the game while enjoying this wonderful experience all together.
  
  Pros: The 2D cel-shaded graphics are more polished then the previous tales games. The storyline 
 is great in this game. The game-play is also well balanced and provides good replay value. Also, 
 the voice acting in this game is excellent too.
  
  Cons: You could win matches by button mashing if you have a large party
  
  Overall: Tales of 
 Vesperia is an RPG experience that anyone who likes the genre on the XBOX 360 should play. You 
 will definitely get your moneys worth when but this Tales title or any other on in general 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suisfonia
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  Like most of the tale's games I bought (minus Symphonia as I don't own a gamecube) this is one 
 of those "tales" games that'll take some getting used to.
  
  Unlike Tales of the Abyss, the previous one I played, the difficulty here begins almost at the 
 first boss you fight - he isn't easy and thus will require some thinking on your part. From that 
 point on the bosses will get easier, though at times you'll find yourself getting annoyed.
  
  The gameplay is very nice though and I've come to like it, despite the cartoonish characters, 
 it is a break from other games that I've played - like Halo 3 for example.
  
  Of course, you 'do' have your chidish characters, your snotty brats, and those who are just plain 
 annoying - but what game's don't have those?
  
  The graphics are very nice for a game that's made to be cartoony; very crisp and left me somewhat 
 speechless when I saw them. It's amazing how far we've come in graphical design, from the days 
 of pong and such...
  
  Sound is rather itchy, while it's good, it could be better. 
  
  Voice Acting is alright, though it could be better to be honest with ya.
  
  The story line, 
 so far that I've gone into, is rather simple yet also done just right. 'course I spend most of 
 my hours just fighting the monsters outside town, but still, the storyline is worth doinging, though 
 you may have to level yourself up quite a few times.
  
  All in all, ToV is an RPG that will satisfy some and annoy others - it's just how RPGs are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batacatafog
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 30, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia... The latest in the "Tales of..." series now comes on the 360. This game remains 
 loyal to it's previous games by clinging to it's button-mashing battle system and cartoonish style. 
 If you're a fan of the series, then this may just be worth your $60. If, however, you are new to 
 the series, then I suggest you check your options in getting a new game. This is so because Tales 
 of Vesperia revolves around snotty characters, child-trained fighting, strangely annoying cutscenes, 
 crapped sound effects, and a poor story.
  When it comes to graphics, this game does not hold back in attempting to be as shiny as possible... 
 and, luckily, this game usually succeeds in a flashy Arte "show". Unfortunately, these graphics 
 may just snag a newcomer's cash for it WILL NOT make up for the rest of what's messed up in this 
 game.
  Gameplay is simple... and stupid. It basically consists of button-mashing. After thwacking at a 
 monster for about two minutes, you figure that you might as well throw in a skill or an Arte just 
 to make things A LITTLE more interesting. However, flashy as they are, Artes won't altogether deal 
 out THAT MUCH damage. As you progress through the game, monsters will increase in strength and 
 will, in many occasions, still survive, even after an EXTREMELY elaborate Arte has been performed. 
 I find myself wondering how some monsters were STILL alive after everything I've thrown at them. 
 Even so, battles are not really hard AT ALL. Many monsters don't even stand a chance. The only 
 thing that bites is the fact that it'll take awhile for you to fell ONE beast.
  The story dug at my skin. For some reason, watching all of the cartoonish and ridiculous cutscenes 
 did not sit well with me. The style reminded me of a really annoying cartoon... Pokemon! I HATED 
 that show. Thus, I hate the story, cutscenes, and stupid characters... not to mention that the 
 main looks like a female.
  Sound effects... it would've done me better in keeping the sound turned OFF. As you play ToV, you 
 will mainly hear repeated Artes and skills shouted and growled by the characters, strange and awkward 
 combo noises, and EXCRUTIATING voice acting. Not that it's bad, it's just very annoying. Many lines 
 and scenarios are extremely cliche and uncreative. This is why I dreaded the cutscenes. Why couldn't 
 they slot out a little of the humor and take out all the cliche crap? I don't care about a "missing 
 barrier" and how it SUDDENLY DISAPPEARED. Cliche, if I do say so myself.
  Overall, this game receives an A+ for staying loyal to its prequels and their styles. However, 
 it gets an E in creativity and depth. If you're a die-hard fan of mindless RPGs, cheesy storylines, 
 and stupid characters then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imyourdaddy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  (This review is dedicated to newcomers of RPG's)
  
  I'm mostly a first person shooter kind of guy but I risked $60 on this game and I don't regret 
 it at all. I LOVE THIS GAME! I never really liked RPG's especially the japenese RPG's because it 
 was turn based. I think the last time I really liked an RPG was Final Fantasy 7 on the old Playstation. 
 If your a newcomer to RPG's (especailly for the next gen consoles) or want to try something new, 
 then check this game out. This is CURRENTLY the best RPG out right now until The Last Remnant and 
 Final Fantasy 13 comes out on the XBOX360.
  
  This game has great gameplay and it's pretty easy to get into. This game does a great job of explaining 
 the gameplay to newcomers to the tales series or to people playing an RPG on the next console for 
 the first time. The Graphics are great and is similar to japanese anime movies. The gameplay isn't 
 the annoying turn based but kind of like an Action RPG were you hack and slash or you can switch 
 to another character and bombard the enemy with spells from a distance. What made me LOVE this 
 game was the STORY and I love how the game explains the background of each character. This game 
 has a great sense of humor and you tend to love each character you play.
  
  This game does have some flaws but very minor. I don't play a lot of RPG's but for a newcomer I 
 found this game pretty easy. If your a hardcore RPGer then you might be disappointed about the 
 difficulty but you can always change the difficulty to HARD in the options. Plus, the fighting 
 well get kind of repetitive and you won't find the over the top spells like you see in Final Fantasy.
 
  
  As a newcomer to RPG's, I really liked this game. The gameplay was good but the Story and Characters 
 is what makes me play the game for hours. IF YOUR A NEWCOMER TO THE TALES SERIES, NOT A BIG FAN 
 OF RPG, OR WANT TO TRY SOMETHING NEW THEN CHECK THIS GAME OUT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deltahunter3
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Tales games are known for their real time battle style and the great story line. Tales of Vesperia 
 has all of that, plus amazing graphics, great voice acting, and a slightly more difficult game 
 overall. In my opinion, this is the best Tales game of the series, and I thought very highly of 
 Symphonia. The story lures you in even more than in previous games and will make you never want 
 to stop playing.
  
  Gameplay: The real time battle system is as good as ever. Strategies go even deeper in this games, 
 but you can still make your way though by mashing the B button. It's easy for first timers to get 
 into and hard for anyone to master. The traveling distance seems to have been shortened from previous 
 Tales games so there is less down time between the action. There's plenty of secret items and cut 
 scenes that takes some dedication to get all of them, but none are necessary to beat the game. 
 There's a tutorial right at the beginning, so don't be intimidated if you've never played a Tales 
 game before.
  
  Graphics/sound: The graphics look amazing for a Tales game. The game is beautifully done and the 
 cutscenes look gorgeous. The graphics just make it that much harder to turn away from the game 
 as each cutscene seems to outdo the one before it. The sounds make the game come alive as each 
 situation has a sound perfectly fit to it. The sounds are a bit more modern, but it will still 
 remind of the other Tales games. 
  
  Controls: I do have to say, after playing Soul Caliber 4, it was hard adjusting back to a Tales 
 game. It's not a problem with the game itself, it was a problem with me switching around block 
 and attack. Overall, the control scheme is well fitted to a xbox 360 controller and pretty much 
 every button has a function. 
  
  Final: There is no better rpg for the 360. You will play this game for hours on end trying to get 
 every item you can. My recommendation though is to enjoy the first time through playing it and 
 not worry about achievements. If you worry about achievements you won't fully appreciate this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasuke_Ninja21
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Tales fanatics such as myself have been waiting for a great Tales game since... hmm probably Tales 
 of Symphonia, without a doubt Tales of Vesperia delivers what we have seen throughout the Tales 
 series from the great characters to the EFR-LMBS which..... ok that just the battle system but you 
 know what i mean.
  
  Story:
  
  Alright first thing is first, is the story compelling and does it suck you in like past Tales games? 
 the anwser is yes... and no... i've been playing this game non stop like a mad man for the past 3 
 days now and have put 18 hours into the game and the story is there but its not like Symphonia's 
 story with all the twists and everything, you really get a sense of whats going on and it seems 
 like you know whats going to happen before it does which is what i would suspect from long time 
 fans, for new commers to the series which could be many this being on the 360 and all is refreshing 
 and gives you an idea of what is soon to come.
  
  Alright so the game starts off with ex-knight Yuri and his faithful side kick Repede who is which 
 a dog that can fight using a dagger..... sweettt... alright so the blastia core (Blastia is the substance 
 which allows anything to happe, water, fire, wind and such) Blastia allows these resources to be 
 more easily harnaced, The aqua blastia core which was stolen from the lower quarters of the Imperial 
 City gets Yuri and a handful of characters caught up in a large adventure for a quarter of the 
 game trying to get this blastia core back which is not really inspiring really but other things 
 do come up as you move along in the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Now this is probably a madmans dream the system has never been better and is that you are able 
 to smoothly destroy your opponents, the system also seems to be a bit faster and cleaner as it 
 was when using different types of skills, so you basically fight on a 2-d battle field where you 
 attack your opponents head on or changing different opponents, not to say its a one way lane, you 
 are able to free roam around to get behind slower enemies which is something you do directly later 
 on.
  
  You have seen alot of the skills from the characters before but one thing that really... really 
 bugs me, Estellise is the basic healer for the group using first aid... but thats it all the others 
 dont use any healing powers except for Karol using a first aid slam... later on you do get more 
 healing technqiues for Estellise but she is not like a Raven where you are able to get everyone 
 healed all at once.
  
  Other then things that bug me alot of things is what you expect now, Yuri is a kind of mix between 
 Kratos and Loyld using sword bassed attacks but not as fast, then you have Karol who weilds a large 
 weapon and able to knockdown enemies, and then you have fast character like Judith able to perform 
 reasonable mid to shortrange attacks that are fast and of course a magic user.
  
  Another addition to what is already an addicting thing is the addition of fatal strikes which allows 
 you to cleanly cut down an enemy in one shot which may or may not kill them depedning on their 
 health, later on you are able to chain these togeather which is awsome... another return appearence 
 is the return of the Overlimit Meter which allows you to perform your burst Arte (Arte is the abillity 
 to perform a skill) the burst Arte is kind of like a unison attack or a single attack from the 
 Tales series putting in massive ammounts of damage in a single chain.
  
  Alright so gameplay its brilliant its smooth its clean you just want to fight stuff most of the 
 time.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music is really great... i actually have the opening music from Bonnie Pink on my MP3 and its 
 just a really really good beat and it fits into the opening very nicely, that also means the other 
 scores such as the battle scores and exploring scores are great, their alright but they do get 
 old after a while and they try to change them up during the middle of the game but it dosent exactly 
 matter when you just wanna fight stuff...
  
  Graphics:
  
  It looks ******* amazing DONE!! moving on!!..... Nah im joking and not about the amazing part, the 
 game does look incredibly well and i would imagine getting an award for its art style cause it 
 just looks fanastic, all the visual's are creativly made as well as the facial animations being 
 top notch with blinking and eye wandering which looks great, one thing they could have done better 
 though... was the skits... its just a portrait... with a face.... seriously thats it? It could be better... i 
 just dont know how.
  
  Overall:
  
  This games ******* amazing Lol seriously this game is what the 360 needs a great RPG to get people 
 back into the genre again, so if you enjoy RPG's if you like a reasonibly cool story which plays 
 out during the end game session or just like fighting stuff with nifty cool moves as well as using 
 new weapons... this is probably your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursemarkChris
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  The game's star is Yuri, a well-meaning troublemaker living in the capitol's lower quarter. Devices 
 called blastia manage the world's magic needs, from monster barriers to mystical weapons. When 
 a thief steals the core of the blastia that regulates the neighborhood's flow of fresh water, Yuri 
 sets off to recover it, only to find himself caught up in a game of politics and class struggle. 
 As he treks across forests and deserts, Yuri and his trusted dog Repede bring various friends into 
 the fold. There's the naive Estelle, a castle noble who finds she has the most to lose -- and the 
 most to gain; Or the insufferable Rita, a headstrong magic researcher who keeps getting drawn into 
 the drama in spite of herself. One by one, the core cast builds, yet each character possesses unique 
 charms, and you will care about their struggles. This may be a simple variation on the genre's 
 prototypical journey of self-discovery, but the terrific cast keeps the story fresh and fascinating. 
 Even small touches, such as the end-battle celebrations, brim with charisma. 
  
  It helps that the dialogue, while not without occasional clumsiness, is translated rather well 
 and gives each party member clear motivation and personality. Quiet moments between Estelle and 
 Yuri are heartfelt, while the banter between Raven and his traveling companions is amusing and 
 generally unforced. The script's best bits come courtesy of the game's skits, in which the characters, 
 represented onscreen by talking-head portraits, interact, complain, and otherwise comment on recent 
 events. Newcomers to the series may find the skits visually jarring, given that the basic 2D images 
 don't mesh well with the lush backgrounds and cel-shaded character models. Nevertheless, the skits 
 are a series staple and deliver plenty of character motivation, humor, and story tidbits. And because 
 you have to press the back button to view them, you don't need to watch them if you don't want 
 to. 
  
  As you traverse the lands of Terca Lumireis, you'll find no shortage of eye candy to gaze at. Tales 
 of Vesperia's art style is its most striking feature, and at first you may be inclined to compare 
 it to 2007's luscious Eternal Sonata. There are similarities, but Tales takes a less fussy, more 
 muted approach. Environments look vibrant but clean, though that doesn't mean they lack detail. 
 You'll explore countryside villages, a derelict ghost ship, and a tall clockwork tower, among many 
 other locales, and each is visually interesting while remaining consistent with the overall look. 
 The game makes good use of soft lighting and understated cel-shading, and character models are 
 crisp and animated well. Not to be outdone, the musical score uses a variety of moody harp tunes 
 and rousing electronic themes that complement the visuals. The English voice acting, often a source 
 of worry among RPG fans, is pretty good, though the overzealous female voice artists do grate from 
 time to time. 
  
  
  
  The combat is easy, but it's flashy and rewarding.
  
  
  Presentation can take a game only so far, yet Tales of Vesperia also plays well, partly because 
 the game keeps moving forward at a nice clip. Towns are relatively small without being claustrophobic, 
 so while you can chat with the townsfolk and stock up on healing gels and new armor, you won't 
 need to navigate unnecessarily sprawling cities or endure collection quests and other needless 
 filler. At over 50 hours it's still a long game, but the good balance between story exposition 
 and gameplay keeps the game from getting tedious. 
  
  The combat proper is par for the course for a Tales game, though it has been tightened up to make 
 for a more compelling experience than before. Battles are in real time and confined to a nice-sized 
 battlefield, and you have a few different options of how to approach them. Most players will take 
 the default approach, letting the game auto-target an enemy while they hammer the B button to perform 
 standard attacks and press A along with the left stick to execute magic attacks called artes. Most 
 battles can be won this way without much effort, and that missing challenge is an issue that has 
 plagued the series for years. However, because the easier encounters control so smoothly and look 
 so lively, they feel more compelling than in prior games. But don't expect a total cakewalk, as 
 later on you'll encounter some tougher enemies that require some extra effort, and the boss characters 
 are a legitimate challenge throughout. At these times you'll benefit from free movement (executed 
 by holding the left trigger) and good use of items and artes. 
  
  You'll usually be accompanied by three AI-controlled characters in these battles, and they hold 
 their own marvelously without much tweaking. However, players seeking out variety will find plenty 
 of ways to mix up combat. You can adjust the behavior of your teammates, switch out the various 
 party members, and control the character of your choice, which gives you a chance to play with 
 a bunch of artes and weapons. Battles are further enhanced with other combat tweaks, such as overlimits 
 and burst artes. You fill your overlimit gauge by attacking and being attacked, and once the gauge 
 is full, you can attack without pause and even execute powerful burst artes, which can be chained 
 together into exciting, flamboyant displays of power and particles. Or, if you're fortunate, you 
 could execute a fatal strike with a well-timed button press, which can mean instant death for the 
 unsuspecting spiked tortoise on the receiving end of your axe. 
  
  
  
  Fatal strikes will make quick work of your foes.
  
  
  Other Tales gameplay staples are here 
 in various forms, such as cooking and a battle arena. As you explore, the Wonder Chef (who simply 
 must get his own show on the Food Network) will dole out new recipes that you can use to temporarily 
 enhance various stats between battles. You will also accumulate and improve artes as you level, 
 and even learn new ones from the various weapons you equip. Other gameplay elements add further 
 variety, from simple puzzle sequences involving gears to keeping your water canteen full as you 
 travel through the desert. None of these sequences are groundbreaking, but they're executed well 
 and fit nicely into the surrounding bits without bringing gameplay to a screeching halt. 
  
  At its core, Tales of Vesperia isn't very different from its predecessors, but it's easily 
 the best game in the series thanks to its great cast of characters and clever balance of storytelling 
 and gameplay. It's beautiful, it's engaging, and it's fun, and while it won't challenge your combat 
 prowess, it will challenge what you should expect from a modern RPG. This is, by any standard, 
 the best recent example of how an aging series can be updated for contemporary consoles while still 
 delivering what fans expect. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrvn2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is a great way to kick off the Tales series in the next gen consoles. First of 
 all, the gameplay, which I thought was superb. Every battle was full of action and depth while 
 I thought animations looked brilliant apart from new little glitches. Story is a bit cliche but 
 desirable while I thought the characters together were just right as a group. Thought Yuri was 
 a great character because he is a person of justice but also has that sense of enigma and very 
 cynical and that what made me feel drawn towards him. Supporting cast was also pretty top notch 
 although I would like to see Repede talked because I felt he had something more about him but the 
 creator didn't really want to utilize him that much which is kind of disappointing. Difficulty 
 was just right. Thought the cooking was fun aswell, mixing the ingredients together to heal your 
 HP kept me going for the game and the map is also very well done. It looks very modernized but 
 they could do with a bit more detail. But the monsters looked very detail and the whole game itself 
 have plenty of depth. The sound is pretty good... Whenever they try to do voice acting in English 
 in a Japanese game doesn't always sound good but this was pretty decent to be honest. Overall, 
 superb RPG game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Tales of Vesperia is the first Tales game for this current generation of consoles and is coincidently 
 the first game to celebrate the Tales 10th anniversary. If you have played any recent Tales games 
 from lets say Tales of Symphonia and on, then you'll know what to expect here, if not Vesperia 
 is a great entry to get into the Tales series. 
  
  Vesperia's story is mainly focused around the character Yuri. He's an ex knight who decided to 
 serve his own form of justice for the less unfortunate and yearns to explore the outside world. 
 In the realm of Vesperia there's a technology called blastia, which is basically a multipurpose 
 everything tech. Blastia is used to do things like every day chores such as gathering water, used 
 by knights to kill monsters, and it's used to construct barriers. After a blastia theft, Yuri tries 
 to intervene but ends up in jail. It is here where he meets Estelle who is equally as anxious to 
 explore the world as he is. The two decide to work together, and the story progresses from there.
 
  
  The story itself isn't that stand out from other games in the genre, that's a fact. Where the Tales 
 series has always shined though is the character developments. Through out the entire game the 
 characters are always developing and you begin to care about the characters and their relationships 
 with each other. And almost always there are some twists in there that will just pick up the story 
 to another level.
  
  Obviously, Vesperia is a JRPG, you can tell that just by looking at it, but it doesn't have that 
 turn based battle systems that most people associate JRPGs with. Like all the Tales games before 
 it, Vesperia is comprised of real time battles. There are no random encounters, you'll see all 
 enemies on screen and can avoid them if you want. In battle your main attacks will be handled by 
 the B button, A with a combination of a direction on the left stick will be your special attacks, 
 X is for block/jump, and Y brings up the menu. While you can only control one character at a time, 
 you can switch up your group's tactics and formation on the fly. The battles usually remain fun 
 and active but after a while such as a multi hour sitting, you can get bored and force yourself 
 to take a break.
  
  The anime inspired visuals are impressive as well as the sound design. While the cell shading isn't 
 as pretty as another Namco Bandai RPG, Eternal Sonata, it makes up for it just being pretty in 
 HD. While some aspects of the cell shading aren't that spectacular, the environments such as the 
 cities and towns you visit are downright beautiful. Tales has always had great music, and nothing 
 has changed there. One short coming of the audio is the lack of Japanese voices which JRPG purists 
 crave.
  There is no shortage of things to do in Vesperia. The game has been said to last you about 60 hours 
 at a steady pace, which means for those looking for all the side quests and items, it will last 
 you even longer. It's safe to say, with a purchase of Vesperia, you'll get your $60 worth.
  
  With great characters, fun gameplay, and all the other elements that contribute to the Tales 
 "magic" if you will, this game is a perfect example of why the series is still running after 10 
 years. Any JRPG fan should look into this game, it will be worth your time for sure. And we only 
 have more Tales to look forward to in November with Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of the New World for 
 the Wii.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
