-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tenchu Z
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/tenchu360/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Sneaking around and killing from the shadows is pretty fun.
 Co-op play via Xbox Live.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some of the worst AI you'll ever see.
 Missions are repetitive.
 Combat is lousy.
 Most levels can be beaten by simply running right through them.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 5.7, 54 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 1,881 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: K2 LLC
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: Jun 12, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ninjas, ninjas, and more ninjas can't save the technically flawed, uninspired Tenchu Z. 

  There some things in life that are just flat-out cool: Pirates, robots, and ninjas are a few that 
 immediately come to mind. Unfortunately, having just one of these things in a game doesn't make 
 it cool, or else Tenchu Z would be one seriously cool game thanks to its copious number of ninjas. 
 If you really immerse yourself in the role of a ninja it's possible to have some fun with Tenchu 
 Z, but it's unlikely that most people will be able to get past the game's many flaws, which include 
 a disjointed story, repetitive missions, and terrible enemy artificial intelligence.  

          Shhh. Be very, very quiet. I'm hunting bad guys.     

  Tenchu Z's story is told by 
 cutscenes that take place before and after each one of its 50 missions. While there may be plenty 
 of story, it's difficult to follow because you only have to play certain missions to beat the game, 
 which means you only get the highlights of the story and none of the small details that hold it 
 together. Basically all you need to know is that you're a ninja trying to stop a bad guy who traffics 
 an illegal drug and wants to take over your town.  

  The game starts with you picking your character's sex and then customizing his or her outfit. You 
 also get to customize a second ninja, but other than watching them occasionally pop up in some 
 cutscenes, you'll never get to see them and their presence is never explained. Before you get around 
 to picking a level you'll find yourself in your own village. Here you can buy and equip new items, 
 weapons, and clothes. You can also purchase new skills and shift your attributes a bit to help 
 you cope with the level you're getting ready to attempt. If there are a lot of enemies you may 
 want to increase your health or strength and decrease your agility. If you're going to be spending 
 your time on the rooftops avoiding combat you might want to consider lowering your health and increasing 
 your agility. It's an interesting concept, but you'll rarely need to make any adjustments.  

  Fifty missions is an impressive number, at least until you take into account how little variety 
 there is from one mission to the next. Nearly every mission has you seeking out a specific person 
 so that you may kill, talk to, or rescue them. Sometimes you'll have to kill everyone in a level, 
 follow someone without getting detected, or acquire a specific item, but even these objectives 
 don't feel vastly different from one another. Each level generally starts with you outside of a 
 town or village. Your job is to avoid detection while you accomplish the level's objective.  

 
  To do so you'll want to stay silent, hide in bushes, lurk in shadows or behind corners, or even 
 stick to the rooftops. A meter gives you a visual representation of how well you're hidden; another 
 shows the alertness of the enemy; and yet another meter shows how close you are to the nearest 
 foe. If you can stay hidden you can get the jump on enemies and kill them quickly and quietly with 
 the push of a button. You can also knock them unconscious to avoid spilling blood, but despite 
 your enemies' ability to smell blood on you, you can get through the game just fine by killing 
 every person you come across. If you are discovered, enemies will become more alert and will actively 
 seek you out, but they have the attention span of fruit flies and will quickly abandon pursuit 
 and head back to their post as if nothing ever happened. If you choose fight over flight, you'll 
 spend your time hitting the X button to swing your sword as you flick the right analog stick and 
 right trigger in an effort to keep the camera fixed on your target. It's difficult to tell when 
 enemies are dead, when you've hit them, and when you've got an opening to attack.  

  If you immerse yourself in the role of a ninja and play the game as the developer probably intended, 
 there's some fun to be had here. It's satisfying to stalk your prey and then kill them without 
 alerting the guard who's lurking mere feet away. The big problem is that you're never forced to 
 play the game this way because, except for in a few levels, there's no penalty for being seen. 
 Sure, you won't get a big monetary bonus after beating the level if you get spotted repeatedly, 
 but the enemies are so stupid that you never need the smoke bombs, blow guns, throwing stars, mines, 
 or any other of the game's cool weapons. It's far too easy to wait for your enemy to turn his back 
 and then summersault up to him to kill him (which, somehow, makes no noise) . On the hardest difficulty, 
 even the second-to-last level in the game can be completed in about 30 seconds by running straight 
 past everyone and then waiting for your objective to turn his back so you can kill him, spraying 
 absurd amounts of poorly drawn blood with one press of the X button.  

  If you're somehow able to avoid temptation and play the game "normally," you'll be punished by 
 enemies that can somehow sense your presence through walls and a camera that doesn't do well in 
 close quarters. Everyone gets to suffer through a clunky control scheme that has you press the 
 right analog stick in, move it to aim, and then hit the left bumper to fire, as well as glitches 
 that see enemies stuck in walls or floating on air. When you die you're further punished with long 
 load times as you're taken back to your village, where you must reequip your items, choose your 
 mission, and then sit through more loading. You can play cooperatively with friends via Xbox Live 
 and system link, but the game's so poor that you probably won't want to.  

          You have all sorts of equipment at your disposal, but you'll rarely get a chance to use 
 it.     

  Tenchu Z's graphics do little to improve the experience. The first few levels don't look half bad -- the 
 towns and villages look decent, and there are some nice details to admire here and there. Then 
 you get further into the game and notice that each village looks the same as the next one and there 
 are only a few different types of buildings. Characters all look pretty cool and they're all intimidating, 
 but their faces are an absolute mess and there are only a couple of different character designs, 
 which are animated poorly and frequently fade in and out of view thanks to a less-than-impressive 
 draw distance. You'll also notice that someone inside a building can cast a shadow through the 
 floor onto the ground below. The prerendered cutscenes look nice, but most cutscenes use the in-game 
 engine and don't look very good at all. Tenchu doesn't sound too hot, either. The music is sparse 
 and there's almost no variety to the sound effects. The voice acting is in Japanese, so it's difficult 
 to say whether it's any good or not, but there's no doubt that the script is terrible. Characters 
 who don't move their lips when they talk certainly don't help the cause.  

  From top to bottom, Tenchu Z is a disappointment. No matter what aspect of the game you look at, 
 there's a fatal flaw. There are 50 missions, but most of them are the same. You can sneak around, 
 find creative ways to get to your objective, use a large number of interesting weapons, and kill 
 bad guys with the press of a button, but you don't need to because you can simply run or summersault 
 right past everyone. You can extract some fun out of the experience if you use your imagination 
 and approach each level like a ninja, but unless you really, really want to kill some ninjas, you 
 shouldn't waste time and energy trying to make this game fun. The developer certainly didn't.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (190 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: metalmaggot46
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 6:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  Superb. The Gameplay makes you feel just like a ninja, especially in the later stages of the game. 
 It can be somewhat frustrating but is fun overall. Watching some of the Silent Kills/SK's is quite 
 entertaining and i enjoy watching my character stab someone's neck from above is great to look 
 at.
  The Missions can be repetitive but each level lays out a different layout and challenge.
  
 
  Sound Design 5/10
  Nothing special. It sounds like a ninja game. thats it.
  It didn't pull me in but it plays an important part. you'd be better off playing music off your 
 Flash Drive/Zune/PC
  
  "Hook Factor" 5/10
  This game is slow to start and you have to play for a while to become interested. Once you get 
 the higher level skills, it really picks up to the 9/10 gameplay factor.
  
  Difficulty: Easy
  Ok, this game is a little too easy. I played on medium and destroyed it. the 
 AI look dumber than Bill Gates at an Apple Conference sitting next to Steve Jobs Trying to Make 
 Sense of what he's hearing.
  
  Graphics 6/10
  Not good. It looks like an Xbox game that's been bumped up with a new engine and water physics.
 
  
  Playing Hours 9/10
  This game keeps you occupied for a very. long. time. There are fifty missions and some can get kinda 
 hard. There are a huge amount of clothes, skills, and items you can unlock and buy. I still don't 
 have 100% yet.
  
  Replayability 7/10
  It's OK. I beat all the missions and i still play them so i can get the achievements and the rest 
 of the skills and items and clothes. In terms of starting an entirely new  
 
  
  In all entirety, it's a fun game. worth a buy or at least a rent. I didn't expect to like it but 
 i was pulled in by the ninja gameplay.
  -MetalMaggot46/MetalMaggot66
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihs21596
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Damn i love ninjas. Especially creating my own ninja. The game sports a surprising amount of customisation, 
 and (SPOILER WARNING) at the end of the game you'll be able to get a Solid Snake-esque costume. 
 First off, though, dont believe gamespot on this one. Sure, they almost always get their score 
 right, but this just doesnt justify how awesome the game is. Tenchu Z is, without a doubt, the 
 best ninja game I've played.
  
  Awesome stealth kills, great customisation, not to mention the awesome ninja gadgets you can get 
 (from vanishing powder to grenade-esque thingies) and some pretty awesome ninja-land settings. 
 one of my favourites is a big mansion that you have to navigate (there's a trap door on the roof) 
 to find this guy who your ninja must kill, because ninjas kill things all the time. 
  
  Considering being a ninja must be fun, the developers have some nice humour to go with the games 
 visceral and thrilling takedowns (not combat, combat is mostly lame) which more often than not 
 turns out to give players a little chuckle throughout the game (especially the hilarious combos 
 you can come up with when awesoming-out your ninja's clothes) .
  
  The awesome takedowns, hiding in shadows, doing awesome things that ninjas do and generally just 
 being a ninja is a pretty cool concept at the outset, and now THERE IS ACTUALLY A GAME OF IT ON 
 THE 360 OMG gives this game a nice 9 out of 10
  
  Stay tuned for more reviews people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostXII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 10:09 am PT
Review:  This game has flaws... we all understand that but if you enjoy ninja games (Not Ninja Gaiden kind) 
 then you might come to love this game, the single player takes about 6 hours to beat if you go 
 through every mission. The cooperative multiplayer however is where all the rest of your time will 
 be spent, the biggest flaw to the multiplayer is that you can't voice chat while in a mission because 
 everybody's mics are breaking up... but this is LIVE and the party feature makes that flaw as if 
 it was never there, you will love the cooperative and you will love this game. All of the stealth 
 kills are cool to do and being able to create your own character gives everybody's online identity 
 there own uniqueness. The story is forgettable but you should still go through it to unlock items, 
 clothes, and abilities for purchase in the shop. I thought the multiplayer was the best part. It 
 is why I have gone from playing for like 6 hours to something like 30 hours. You should definitely 
 check this out, maybe give it a rental or like me, just research it and if you like what you see 
 then go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellboySpawn73
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 12, 2009 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I can't quite put my finger on why I didn't like this game, but I'll do my best.
  
  Three words come to mind: suspense, excitement and addictiveness. Unfortunately Tenchu Z offers 
 up little, if any, of the above. Sure, there's a plot, there are a heap of missions to take on, 
 you can build up your skills and becoming increasingly lethal, and you can build up your inventory 
 of weapons and clothing. Everything any self-respected action/adventure/rpg-loving gamer could 
 home for. Plus you get to be a ninja!
  
  So why does it leave you with a hollow "I've just wasted hours of my life I can't get back" feeling 
 after you try really hard to get into it? Well, I go back to those 3 words
  
  Suspense  it's seriously lacking. You would think that trying to be stealthy as through towns 
 and buildings while trying to execute the most clinically ninja-like assassination would be, well, 
 riddled with suspense. But it just aint. There's something rather dull about the whole process, 
 quite possibly due to the clunky graphics and clunkier controls. Things just don't feel smooth 
 and inviting. Plus the AI's ability to detect you is so damn inconsistent  "hey, I'm sneaking, 
 I'm draped in darkness, and there's a wall between ushow the hell do you know I'm here when the 
 previous dude didn't?"
  
  Excitement  see above (yawn!) . After you've done half a dozen odd missions, the gloss has really 
 started to come off. The initial buzz of being all ninja-like has well and truly died off, and 
 you're left doing really repetitive missions and just going through the motions. It's seriously 
 mind-numbing.
  
  Addictiveness  see suspense and excitement. Without either, the compulsion to see the main story 
 all the way through to the end just isn't there. I confess  I fell way short of finishing this 
 game, but it gave me no incentive to keep going (yep, not even the lure of gamer points could keep 
 me goingand I LOVE getting gamer points) . 
  
  Honestly, some early ninja thrills are replaced with glazed eyes and a bored mind. If you must 
 try it, rent it so you can return it knowing you didn't waste too much money!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigruffjm
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 23, 2009 6:08 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of Tenchu so I have hope. Make the controls and movements fluid, their 
 Ninja after-all, and fix the camera. But being a completionist I finished all levels and difficulties, 
 even though there's not much difference and plenty of repetition. All in all I still enjoy the 
 series but I think the developers need to put as much effort into it as they did with the first 
 "Stealth Assassins" PSone, that was pure classic that changed the genre. The subsequent games to 
 follow were not as inspired as the first. I classified this game "to grow on you" because you'll 
 keep playing even though you may not be totally into, you just want to see how many ways there 
 are to kill, the world's worst "AI" characters, and see how many different outfits you can get. 
 Changing outfits became a highlight, unfortunately clothes do nothing to enhance the ninja's abilities 
 or weapons they can carry etc. Oh well maybe it'll get a new developer that will revamp the series 
 and make it the juggernaut that it always had the potential to be. It just needs some TLC. Here's 
 to the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamegirl8197
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:49 am PT
Review:  Hello to all the Ninja fans out thers!!
  
  Granted, this isn't the greatest Tenchu title to come out in recent years.... it HARDLY deserves 
 a 4.9 !!! This score given by the critics, I BELIEVE is undeserving. I believe it is greatly under 
 appreciated. The "citizen gamers" (as I like to call the general public") .... got the score correct..... the 
 score should lie somewhere between 6.9 to a 7.5
  It's actually a pretty fun game to play.
  NOT MUCH TO THE STORY LINE..........
  YOU END UP GOING THRU SEVERAL MISSIONS CONTINUALLY KILLING..... (but... that's 
 what most games are made up of today, unfortunately)
  
  BUT.... it's definetly worth the $19.99 price point. If you haven't played it..... but like the Tenchu 
 series.
  PICK IT UP!
  
  It's not the BEST....... But it's definitely not HORRIBLE!!
  
  And.... that's MY 2 cents. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinder_DarkWolf
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu is one of those games that you hear about or see in a store and think that must be an amazing 
 game, i get to play as a ninja and assassinate people while hiding in the shadows, it has 50 missions 
 and custom characters. What could possibly go wrong?. Well, possibly did go wrong and when it goes 
 wrong you better look out. Yes you get to play as a ninja but there are only eight different types 
 of missions which become very repetitive very fast. At first the game play is very addictive and 
 attention grabbing. At the very beginning you get to create your own male or female ninja and you 
 are able to customize him/her in many different way's during the game by unlocking some really 
 cool items. But after the 20th level or so, and after you've mastered the stealth kill system, 
 the game play can become suddenly shallow and dull. All in all unless you're a ninja freak you 
 probably won't enjoy it too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanuby
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  The Game itself does break down barriers or set standards. A lot of people might find it boring 
 and slowed paced. But fans of the thief series would enjoy the sneaking around and non-linear stages. 
 Much like thief, you approach the mission and have to do some snooping around and eliminating opponents 
 to progress. This also is a little bit like Hitman, but in hitman you have the option to go in 
 guns-a-blazing where as in Tenchu Z, the path will lead to dismal results.
  One noticible problem this game has is with the stages, they will quickly feel redundant and leave 
 you with a sense of deja-vu. The variety comes with the lay-out of the enemies. 
  If you enjoy Ninjas in the classical stabby in the back sense, and enjoy slowing things down to 
 be that classical stabby in the back kinda of guy, then you should enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpotatohead22
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Although I will agree it is extremley repetative (bad speller) This game is extremely addictive 
 from the character customization to the solid feeling stealth kills this game will probably be 
 up there as one of the best ninja games ive ever played.
  Dont buy it but rent it.
  iiiiiii i i i i i ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii i i ii i iiiii i i ii i i i iii i i i ii ii i i i ii 
 i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i ii i i i i i i ii ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i 
 i i i iii i i i ii ii i ii i ii i ii ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i ii i i i ii i i ii i 
 i i i i i i i i i ii i i i ii i i i i ii ii i ii ii ii i ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii 
 ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii i ii ii ii ii ii ii i ii i ii i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ii ii ii iii i i ii i i i i i i i i iii i ii i i i 
 i i Q 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhh34c
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty hard to pick up, and is very slow to get into. Those that find it frustrating 
 to have to sneak around everywhere will not like this game. This is primarily a stealth game, even 
 though there are combo moves and other movements which involve sword to sword combat. The default 
 controls are somewhat hard to figure out, as default controls are pretty much reversed vs other 
 games (I kept hitting B and A as I was attempting to attack, while X is the attack button. Also, 
 I was having extreme problems with the camera. As many of the situations involve the roof, holding 
 onto a ledge or whatnot, I found it extremely frustrating that I was not able to peer down as often, 
 or peek up.
  
  Besides that, it's pretty cool. It's been a long time coming since a Ninja Stealth game like this 
 has come along that has done well. Tenchu Z features many different combos, hundreds of different 
 clothing combinations, and many different item styles. The storyline is linear, but long enough 
 to satisfy. The one thing I do love about the game is the ability to do Online Coop, one thing 
 that 360 games have been excellent at creating lately. You can use your current character to travel 
 to different missions to help you out. Of course if you are lacking in the Gold department, System 
 Link Co-op is supported.
  
  One thing, however, online, I was kinda dissapointed with a versus Online mode. All online modes 
 involve Online Co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverkhalsa1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Ive previously played all the other games in the series, and was looking forward to playing this 
 when i got home, even though the response i got from reading most reviews was not good, but still 
 i thought id give it a go myself !
  
  Well, this game first of all is really repetitive ! Nearly every level is the same thing over and 
 over again ! i actually completed quite a few levels just by running straight through them ! The 
 AI of enemies is laughable, even on the highest levels, i was running around characters without 
 them noticing i was there ! Theres a lot of bad points to this game, and just doesn't have the 
 same stealthy feel to it as the rest of the series !
  
  The only good points are, that you can actually customize your own characters abilities and looks, 
 and its a simple and quick game to pick up. You can have a few laughs, going around levels doing 
 some stealth kills ! And if you want to add points to your gamer tag, this is the easiest game 
 to do so with since dynasty warriors, and a lot quicker !
  
  Overall, die hard fans of the series are most likely to play this, any new comers wont be interested 
 at all ....
  
  MUSIC : 7
  STORY : 3
  CHARACTERS : 7
  GRAPHICS : 6
  GAME PLAY : 4
  OVERALL : 4.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaponmaster01
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  I'm going to admit straight up. This games graphics make it seem like it was pre-destined for the 
 last generations line up of consoles. The graphics are not bad, but they aren't great either, but 
 like I say with all games, it's not the graphics alone that make a game great, and this game is 
 a lot more fun then Gamespot or anyone else is willing to give it credit for. Now I have not played 
 any of the previous titles for Tenchu, so I don't know what the expectations were for this game 
 before its initial launch. So ultimately I can't say whether it was better or worse, but to me, 
 this game has its perks.
  
  Another downside is that you barely understand what people are trying to say throughout the majority 
 of the "in-game" play. Cutscenes provide subtitles, but I've noticed on many occassions guards/bandits/what 
 not will in some cases converse (most of the time when your peering over a rooftop or hiding merely 
 a few feet away) with eachother. It's a small disappointment, but as I say the heart of this game 
 is in it's making you feel like a real ninja.
  
  Gamespot goes on about how you can run through the levels and complete them. My synopsis in this 
 case is: Yes, you can... but, in doing so you earn a measly Ninja 1 which is a the grading system 
 used to define how well you did with that mission. So ultimately, the more kills you get without 
 being spotted, or by accidentally subdoing an innocent. Means more points, which means more cash 
 to which you can spend either honing your skills, or purchasing new clothing to make your ninja 
 look more awesome.
  
  The customization system is quite robust, with many different items to purchase, which can be cool, 
 funny-looking, or cute. My personal favorite is the club sandwhich that will replace your standard 
 sheathe.
  
  The option to customize your characters fighting style and stealth skills are quite amazing too. 
 You can apply skills that allow your ninja to stick to cieling walls or drown out the noise you 
 make when your running around, and even conciel your appearance so that it's harder for enemies 
 to spot you. You can increase your combination moves, making your attacks swifter but weaker, or 
 shorten it up with slower, but more powerful attacks.
  
  I'm not saying this game has it's flaws, but for what it's worth, I saw potential and some fun 
 gameplay for 20 bucks. I give it a solid 8.0 for gameplay, creativeness, and all around quick fun.
 
  
  Sides, nothings more fun than sneaking around with 4 other buddies. Long live the ninja! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayermaster123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  i found tenchu z to be a good fun, when i was reading critic reviews they said it was the same 
 exact thing as before, i think the game would be better if you haven't played any of its predosesors, 
 The Combat in the game is somewhat solid yet lacking veriaty, doing stealth kills and such provide 
 much more fun, the customizeation in the game is pritty good allowing you to change your hair face 
 color ect. the online is fun if you can get online with all of your friends and work together but 
 if you happen to stumble into a group of dumbasses your time might be better spent watching porn. 
 The voice chat is mediocer at best and is best to use the chat rooms to talk to people. all in 
 all tenchu z provides something fun and exiting for new people to the series. 
  post note, the ai with the guards is at times extremely dumb and down right retarded. and the "50" 
 missions can sometimes be repetetive, there are people online alot, sorta but the game is jolly 
 good (: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soviet330
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 9, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Very few games can promise real ninja game play, but this game delivers a new experience compared 
 to the relentless first person shooters released year after year. Tenchu Z uses a combination of 
 timing, awareness, and skill to make game play interesting every time you pick up your controller.
 
  
  The voice acting between missions is done in Chinese with English translations, and though missions 
 may seem similar the problems and situations on maps are challenging to see how much of a ninja 
 warrior is in you. 
  
  Your character begins from a small ninja village where you can buy new clothing, items, or learn 
 skills. Skills are divided into normal skills, Combos, and Secret Arts to learn everything from 
 cool sword moves to clinging on ceilings, to even listening for enemy foot steps as a make shift 
 radar.
  
  Combat is also satisfying, though you mostly pray for indirect combat as a ninja. By using different 
 jumps, crouches, rolls, and ways of approaching an opponent your character uses many bloody, varying 
 combos to dispatch guards. Some require capturing your enemy first and bringing him to the ground 
 first before executing a crunchy head crack. Through game play however your chi energy circle acts 
 as a proximity detector, making enemy spotting a little easier and using your own judgment on tactics 
 whether using items like mines or shuriken to deciding where to hide the bodies. Just don't kill 
 any civilians now!
  
  Gold is of course earned by how many special combos and kills you received and avoiding detections 
 helps keep your scores high. This helps achieving a ninja 5 ranking on missions translating into 
 you kick ninja ass.
  Unlocking new clothing to style your ninja is also entertaining, but the variety of missions from 
 scaling a giant castle to infiltrating a monk monetary adds to the game play which is solid. Even 
 the graphics aren't half bad, and make it a pleasing experience to see your enemies blood spraying 
 out of him. 
  
  I give this game a 6 out of 10 for fun game play that is worthy to buy into your collection. You 
 might not play it every day, but there will never be a point where you will get rid of it. The 
 game is good to play on those summer days, with native music in the background but loses points 
 for technical glitches and bad xbox live glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jannlee111
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  this is absolutely without a doubt in my mind the best ninja game, the only reason why gamespot 
 hates it is cause the suck at it, they are so used to other tenchus but you just have to adapt 
 to it. i agree that wrath of heaven and stealth asssaisains were great games but i think this is 
 the best of all of them! the online may be a litlle laggy but halo isnt perfect either, the ending 
 couldve been better, but it just means they are making a new one which could be bad or good depending 
 on the console they release it on! and as so forth i think that you people need to try games for 
 yourself instead of just reading and watching reviews. if i wasnt a fan of the series i wouldnt 
 have tried this game and i wouldve missed out. the same thing goes for the dragonball z series, 
 no company that reviews games loves them but almost everybody will play them, they arent always 
 estatic about it but they will play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterj_123
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  OK well to start off the graphics on this game are well..... quite terrible it wouldnt look out 
 of place as an average ps2 game. Actually it probably doesnt belong on the xbox 360 at all, but anyway 
 i love it the reason it didnt get a 10 is because it doesnt deserve one, with repitive gameplay 
 and shoddy graphics it is NOT a 10. Although i think that gamespot where quite harsh on the game.
 
  There are 50 missions which are mostly collect a number of items , steal one item , tail a guy 
 , or the most used objective take out the target. The game isnt very hard unless you want those 
 ninja 5 ranks on every mission which can make some missions quite tricky depending on what difficulty 
 you have it on.
  The graphics............ well ive already talked about the graphics and there not impressive, and 
 i havnt had a chance to play online as i havnt been able to find a game although i did buy it on 
 the 28th may 2008 which is quite a bit away from the release date. I would recommend the game to 
 any tenchu fans , but to the rest of you play the demo first , coz your gunna love it you'll hate 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 4
Date: May 23, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to buy this game. It was at a discount, and I was going to be able to play with a 
 friend of mine who was also getting it (I'll get to that later in the review) . You can customize 
 a ninja, kill officials in an emulated Feudal Japan, what could go wrong?
  
  Thanks to From Soft, a whole lot went wrong.
  
  I usually try to play farther into a game before 
 I review it, but I couldn't do so with this game. First I'll cover the gameplay. The missions boil 
 down to playing hide and seek with the samurai guards, no matter what the objective is. You crawl 
 around, and once you're seen, you run somewhere and hide, waiting for the buzz to die down. Afterwards, 
 you go back and repeat until your objective is complete.
  
  The second thing I hate is that there are so many stupid aspects of the game, almost like From 
 Soft wasn't TRYING to make a decent game. You can buy clothes for your ninja, sure. The problem 
 is there is no way to know what it looks like. You have to buy it, and equip it, just to see what 
 the item you just bought looks like.
  
  You can buy combos for your ninja, but there is honestly no reason to pay 2000 gold for each attack. 
 The game penalizes you for being noticed (so anything other than stealth kills are out of the question) , 
 and bosses can be defeated by throwing them into water, or pinning them on a wall. What's the point?
 
  
  My final complaint is the problem I hate the most; the online co-op. It's half the reason I bought 
 the game, but it's virtually unplayable. Everything seems fine when you're in the lobby (or the 
 ninja village, in Tenchu Z) . Everyone moves around fine, you can hear everyone with no problems. 
 So far so good. The problem starts as soon as you start a mission. It's impossible to use your 
 microphone, so you might as well just unplug it, and you see people flying across the map. I would 
 be running atop roofs and see people spewing blood while the other player was across the map. It's 
 not my connection, because the other player had the same problem, and several people here mention 
 it, as well as IGN's review. Did From Soft even PLAY the game?
  
  It really just chaps my ass.
  
  In closing, I'm really happy that GameStop has a seven day 
 return policy, because this wasn't worth the asking price at all; even with a discount. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ilseroth
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 20, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I say "check your bargin bin" because thats where this game currently is.
  
  I'll skip a good hunk of the review by saying, though very japanese, the visuals are nothing to 
 sing about and the sounds, though fitting and work just fine, aren't going to make you just sit 
 back and go "ooOooo". The story sucks and somethings are just confusing (why let you make a partner, 
 then not let it, say, help on missions? Wouldn't that have been a great way to advance the series, 
 make an AI partner actually semidecent.... I digress to the biggest and most important part of 
 any game... the gameplay.
  
  Bieng a ninja comes down to 2 things, stealth and combat.
  
  Stealth...
  This game is kind of, inconsistent with stealth gameplay. If your stealthy then 
 your stealthy, thats that really... But the problem is there is no negative side to bieng seen. 
 You lose maybe 100 bucks out of the reward but still is really easy to make that up by going on 
 a kill kill frenzy... That bieng said the game gives you plenty of tools and skills to be a truely 
 stealthy. From caltrops to slow pursuers to a pretty firework display to capture their attention 
 if you take the stealth seriously the stealth works out very well. Although there is no *benefit* 
 to bieng sneaky, it kind of pays its own dividends every time you slink to the ceiling of a room, 
 slide over someones head and pull them up and chop their throat.
  
  That bieng said, the games "difficulty" ratings range from easy to well, still pretty easy especially 
 with stealth. Once your character starts to learn some of the skills they can cause their character 
 to be nigh on invisible as long as you dont stand next to a torch jumping up and down. Combine 
 that with enemies clearly in need medication for ADD, as they seems to forget what they were doing 
 as soon as they start and the games stealth becomes a bit too easy. You see a key part of the stealth 
 game is the getaway, that "oh @#$%" moment where you know someone is going to see you and your 
 all out of options, gotta run. Tenchu doesnt have that as you can simply slip up over the nearest 
 wall, hide in a bush and suddenly its like a ninja ever assaulted the castle with a lord in it.
 
  
  Combat
  Now, I hear this game getting alot of beef for the combat, apparently no reviewers used the lock 
 on system because I never really had a problem with cameras as long as I avoided getting spotted 
 by more then 5 people (and therefore getting surrounded, something very deserving of getting pummeled.) 
 That bieng said, although the combat isnt as fluid as other games the game is still passable to 
 start and once you start to get better abilities and attacks it escalates very quickly into some 
 good fights... the problem of course bieng that only one enemy in the entire game (the last boss) 
 has any real amount of health and usually the enemies other then big bosses cant fight (usually 
 just block until they think they have an opening and you can just pummel them to death) But still 
 the combat system is second to the stealth system and in conjunction with all the crazy skills 
 and items it serves its purpose just fine.
  
  
  The bottom line:
  Essentially... I dont know why I like this game as much as I do... The thing is you have to be 
 in the right mindset to play it to enjoy it I guess. Part of me is niggling about all the design 
 flaws, poor graphics and crappy AI but me playing it doesnt care, he is having too much fun flipping 
 over a guards head, grabbing him from behind, jumping into the air and spinning to have the guard 
 land and crack his neck. 
  
  You see despite the games flaws if you play it seriously it is a good stealth game and if you dont 
 take it seriously it can just be alot of fun... Once you stop seeing the threat behind each enemy, 
 simply deciding how you'll kill the next one can be a lot of fun, espeically online. Co-Operative 
 ninja play is what truely makes this game a great bargin bin purchase.
  
  So, essentially I have to say this isnt a stealth game, it is a Stealth RPG really... which is 
 odd, I think it is the first. So if you like stealth games and rpgs and want kind of a mix with 
 a lot of ninjas, sure pick it up but don't expect a graphical splendor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-A-V-O-K
Rating: 5
Date: May 9, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  I wish so much that i could just find one ninja game that was equal parts action and rpg, somthing 
 like mass effect. What you get with tenchu is a decent but watered-down stealth action game. The 
 only Tenchu game i played previous this one was the very first and this one is basically a cookie-cutter 
 carbon-copy of its predicessor with passibly updated graphics. Although slashing and goring guards 
 with your katana is an enjoyably guilty pleasure at first the novelty wears thin once you realize 
 its the only high point of the game. playing around with items and gadgets are fun but too frustratingly 
 unforgiving in the later missions. Online co-op was impressive and insanely fun especially if you 
 play with good buddy who will hold the guard still for you whilst you plunge your katana through 
 his heart. (ah those were good times) Tenchu is by no means on par with Ninja Gaiden but if you 
 like me have already been through that song and dance for the umpteenth time and need a new diverson 
 till Ninja Gaiden II, you might stumble across this one in your bargan bin for 10 or 20$. it'll 
 provide some entertainment but it wont last long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360nly
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Lots, lots of different ways to kill. Tons of item, extremely well done customisation 
 system with lots of options.
  
  The Bad : Mission objectives are just a reason to kill some dudes and dudettes. Repetitive in its 
 own right. Somewhat stiff animations.
  
  Tenchu isn't a game that offers itself on a silver plate to you. You won't be able to enjoy it 
 unless you know what you're getting into, and is ready to work for it. But if you played the first 
 games and enjoyed the formula of forgiving AI and free styled kills, you'll definitly love this 
 little gem.
  
  Gameplay : Tenchu's gameplay is simple, but extremely deep. You have to stalk and kill. The AI 
 is extremely forgiving, for if you are discovered, just hide for a couple of seconds to retry your 
 goal. More realistic behavior are also part of the AI, where you can pop out of no-where and stealth 
 kill a guy in his face during the second of surprise he'll take to realise you're attacking him. 
 You can hack and slash your way in, but chances are you won't, for the sheer joy of being Ninja-esque. 
 There is ton's of cool ways to your get to your objectives, tons of items from blinding powder 
 to poisonous rice balls , shurikens and blowing darts, etc, etc. You have some pretty nifty skills, 
 like hanging from the ceilling and lifting an unaware enemy up to you to stab him against it. Yeah, 
 you heard right.
  
  There's also too many items in this game. Too many items in this game might sound bad, but in a 
 sense it is not. In the begining you'll find them quite useful, until you can get the ability hide 
 yourself with a piece of chameleon cloth, or drag yourself to the ceilling. Then you'll be able 
 to equip other items that will provide some other ways to sneak yourself in.
  
  Graphics : Tenchu's graphics aren' t the best ones on the system, but to say they're old gen, it 
 is meaning you don't have the eye for detail. The game deals with textures pretty well, the scenary 
 of the level is great, you'll notice tons of details there and there, the faces looks convincing 
 althought lips doesn't move in cutscenes , for its best they don't happen too often. Sound : The 
 music fits the japanese era pretty well, everything is in japanese dubbed to english, wish gets 
 a couple of hours to get used to , but once it's done, you'll be satisfied with it. There's a lot 
 of cool '' woosh'' and '' cling '' sound effects.
  
  Features : The game has ton of stuff in it. You'll unlock tons of gear parts, items, skills, combat 
 moves and such during your progress. The harder the difficulty is, the faster you'll unlock stuff. 
 Even after 15hours clocked in the game, you'll still have plenty of things to unlock to keep the 
 game fresh.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flexmassta
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu fans will enjoy the new addition, but newer players will find it boring and repetitive.
 
  
  I dont understand why everyone thinks this game is so bad, a ninjas job is to hide and kill. The 
 game isn't going to have hovering enemies or gazillion bullets flying at you since this is based 
 on a very old time period in Japan.
  
  The MAJOR let down in my opinion is no matter how hard you try, you can't get your character to 
 look exactly like the originals ( Rikimaru, Ayame, Tetsuya etc.)
  
  The online function is pretty cool, and I appreciate that the enemies are a LITTLE smarter in this 
 release. ( yes believe it or not it has been WAY WORSE) .
  
  GOOD: Online play, level detail, customization, some really cool abilities
  BAD: missions are 
 a little easy, even on difficult, no real use for items
  
  Overall, this game was rated wrong. It should at least be an 8. 4.9? Seriously?
  
  If your 
 looking for the next Halo, or Fable then rent this game because you will be sadly mistaken. 
  However, fans of the series will enjoy the addition (wheres Ayame?!?!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percy6744
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Ignore Gamespot's reviews, they suck at it. If you gave this game a score below at least a 7 then 
 you did either of two things...
  1) You tried to play it like NInja Gaiden, running around and doing normal attacks instead of stealth 
 killing *hint* that's why you always got Ninja 2 or below
  2) You didn't give it a chance
  
  If you have even the slightest desire to move away from fast paced action games and try a stealth, 
 assassination game that is addicting and really fun, buy Tenchu Z. This is the true simulation 
 of a ninja and what they did. At least, the closest a video game has ever come. Ninja Gaiden is 
 just a great hack n' Slash game with no true ninja authenticity. 
  The Tenchu franchise has entertained me since the PSOne days. This is just another great addition 
 to the long running series. In my opinion, the best of the series. 
  
  Pros:
  -Good graphics
  -Addicting and fun gameplay
  -Awesome co-op multiplayer
  -Satisfying stealth 
 kills
  -Fully customizable character, something that needs to be in a lot more games
  -Girl and Guy characters
  -The true ninja experience
  -3 difficulties to play the game on
 
  -50 missions
  
  Cons:
  -Some bad lag once you get to playing with 4 people
  -Some levels have the same layout but I dont really care. I prolly shouldnt count it as a con
 
  
  I love this game. Period. If you try to play it like Ninja Gaiden you're a super loser. If you 
 want the true ninja experience, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobi_Daisuke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  After playing Tenchu Z for exactly 200 hours to date, I think I know what I am talking about when 
 I say that GameSpot's poor review of this game is enough to force me to believe that they have 
 lost all rationality in their reviews. Just because the game does not have impressive graphics 
 or effects does not make it bad. Just because you probably won't die from running past all the 
 enemies in the level does not make it bad. You can easily ignore the entire covenant army in Halo 
 3 if you want to, but that certainly did not stop GameSpot from giving it a 9.5.
  
  The Tenchu series has never been about super-fast gameplay or mind-blowing visuals. The game has 
 been about playing as a Ninja. Sure if you focus on all the tiny flaws in the game it is easy to 
 speculate that K2 did not put a lot of effort into its creation. But if you take the time to play 
 the game the way it is meant to be played, the game is near endless fun. The fact that GameSpot's 
 reviews of Tenchu Z are claiming that you can be seen through walls and that the game's graphics 
 are poor are just plain out lies. You are never "seen through walls" as previously speculated and 
 aside from the fact that Tenchu Z's graphics are not state-of-the-art and are pointy does not mean 
 they are bad. If you look at the objects on-screen, you will notice that even with a low resolution 
 screen that everything is incredibly sharp and pixels are literally invisible. Sure the enemies 
 give up searching for you if you escape their vision but can anyone honestly say that they want 
 everyone to be able to see you every possible chance they have without asking any questions and 
 be incredibly broken? I don't think so.
  
  Bottom line, the game is about stealth and not running into every enemy's vision. Sure fighting 
 isn't incredibly impressive and the controls are sometimes a little clunky but if you can stop 
 trying to actively not enjoy the game there is a lot of fun to be had. Keep in mind I have played 
 this game for 200 hours so I'm sure that the gamer community should trust my word over GameSpot's, 
 especially since they gave Army of Two a 6.5. User scores are what should matter the most, and 
 with a score of 7.2 from the gamers, take their word instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RubedoXT
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu Z just seems like a large demo in itself, in which they tried (but not hard enough) to satisfy 
 the fans temporarily for (God permit) a possible upcoming Tenchu title. It seems like a demo because 
 like I said on the review deck, ITS ALL UP TO YOU to create your ninja the way you want them to 
 be, ITS ALL UP TO YOU which of the 50 missions you want to do and what order, and ITS ALL UP TO 
 YOU if you want to have fun with this game. You can spend lots of time being creative with this 
 game in your own way is what makes this such a demo. It doesn't seem like a proper installment 
 because it doesn't have the proper enthrallment Tenchu is supposed to have.
  
  I see a lot of reviews that totally destroy this game, which for a while made me reluctant to buy 
 it. Well let's simply weigh out pros and cons. Cons first so that the pros contrasted afterwards 
 might change your mind about doubting this game.
  
  CONS
  -random ninja partner that rarely shows up in cutscenes just to speak FOR you. What was the point 
 in that?! they could; ve atleast had an item or something that summoned them for temporary help
 
  
  -is not next gen of games now? why did the graphics downgrade from its PS2 predecessor? mouths 
 don't even move in cutscenes. Cmon From Software, why are you holding back from improvement?
  
  -not enough boss battles
  
  -stiff normal combat and thats saying A LOT in comparison with 
 the PS1 games
  
  -50 missions 15 locations? not a good ratio
  
  -terrible AI, it's been established numerous of times
  
  -glitch fest, like even the simplest 
 thing like the stealth kill you perform while pressed against a wall where you grab the enemy, 
 toss him down and stab him, THE SWORD GOES NOWHERE NEAR THEIR BODY
  
  -barely ever need to use the items, no situations call for them. and why the hell is the rice ball 
 tossed gently rather than thrown?!
  
  -saturated storyline
  
  PROS
  -customizable skills! from combos, to innate abilities and special skills. Nice to add that little 
 variety 
  
  -customizable ninja, yes play dress up with ninjas, although limited in attire, proper combinations 
 make awesome looking ninjas
  
  -THIS IS VERY IMPORTANT!!! THE VARIETY OF STEALTH KILLS YOU CAN PERFORM, I believe this game has 
 the most amount of stealth kills than any Tenchu game
  
  -sweet movement, when you're not in an awkwardly controlled combat, the stealthing around feels 
 great especially to the point where...
  
  -... YOU CAN KILL NUMEROUS OF ENEMIES ALL IN A ROW!!! honestly, I saw a video of that on youtube 
 and thats what made me give this game a chance. It feels great if you have the patience to drag 
 a bunch of enemies to a killspot. Then again if you didn't have patience why would you be playing 
 a ninja game anyway right? :p
  
  -50 missions!!! each take about 30 seconds to complete if you're looking to be very linear in gameplay, 
 but a good 10-20 minutes if you're willing to play like a proper ninja and kill everyone you can 
 in the most stealthiest of fashions
  
  So all in all, if you've been a Tenchu fan since #1 like I have, this game is a great game to play 
 when you contrast how this series has evolved. It has evolved and devolved in many aspects. I suggest 
 anyone to get this game if they're the type of player that realizes the game is telling you "ITS 
 ALL UP TO YOU."
  
  
  
  EDIT: locations aren't as adventurous as the previous games in which it wasn't challenging enough 
 to navigate through
  
  and the intro music was amazing! but then why are the levels music so plain?!
  
  For the next 
 game, I hope the developers actually live up to their potential, I know they're better than this! 
 CMOM GUYSH!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Well, this one does...
  
  Since the first time I rolled from the shadows and drove a sword through some poor samurai's spine... 
 I was hooked on Tenchu.
  
  Any fan of the series knows that, except for the graphics, the gameplay is agonizingly slow to 
 improve. Little things get better with each successive title, but some of the same flaws that you 
 will find so many other reviewers ranting and raving about have been with us since our Playstation 
 days.
  
  Yes, the fighting system sucks, but it is better than it has been. I read a review that complained 
 about the special moves not being as good as the basic attacks... and I had to blink a few times. 
 Huh? What game were you playing? Those moves weren't meant to replace or upgrade your attacks but 
 suppliment them. I rather liked that I could build a combo chain by selecting where techniques 
 were in the attach sequence as well as the fact that some techniques did more or less damage depending 
 upon their placement. But they weren't there to be your awesome special moves... they were there 
 for whenever you needed to toss some schmuck into the air or knock them back or break their guard.
 
  
  This same reviewer complained even more about the fighting system because "the boss fights were 
 annoying". Again, I blink. Seriously, what the hell game ARE you playing? There were two... maybe 
 three... boss fights in Tenchu Z were you could not stealth kill them. Oh, you could screw up and 
 get spotted by the boss... but that was your mistake and doubled if you stood there and fought 
 instead of re-acquiring your stealth.
  
  The AI has always been stupid. Of COURSE they should be more on alert after spotting you once and 
 make a more determined search once they have seen you. I long for the day whenever a Tenchu game 
 makes you pay for NOT being a good ninja. But you can't complain about them being stupid and not 
 aggressive enough... and then complain that they sometimes get alerted to your presence whenever 
 "they shouldn't". If you are saying that they should spot you more... then don't whine in your 
 next breath that they spot you more. Sheesh.
  
  Myself, I never encountered an instance where I was spotted through a wall or under a building. 
 I always felt that the game was too lenient in letting me stay hidden whenever I SHOULD have been 
 spotted.
  
  What's next... oh, repetitive missions. Once again, veteran Tenchu fans are use to this. Really, 
 how much variety do you expect? Ninjas killed people, acquired information, and stole stuff. Not 
 many different permutations of that. Just because your objectives don't change much doesn't mean 
 that all the missions are the same, even whenever you do see the same level layouts multiple times. 
 Approaching things from different angles, with different foes, and even different objectives keeps 
 things from becoming TOO stagnant.
  
  The benefit of Tenchu Z was that you had 50 missions but you didn't have to complete them all to 
 move the cutscenes forward, if that was all you wanted.
  
  The customization was fun in a Pokemon, gotta collect it all, sort of way. Whoever complained about 
 a lack of options only looked at the beginning of the game and didn't play anything else. There 
 is a LOT, even if most of the clothing items have 4 to 6 paint jobs. Some of the accessories are 
 just plain stupid... but it is all about playing dress-up and seeing the ninja that you want to 
 be. I made myself quite adequately and it made my girlfriend laugh hysterically to see me sitting 
 in a blue scarf so that I matched my ninja better.
  
  It was a zen thing.
  
  Tenchu Z was fun. If you approach it as a brainless quest for success or mission completion, you 
 are going to be highly disappointed. It isn't that kind of game. Yes, it has major flaws, but many 
 of those flaws rear their heads in aspects of the game that are the antithesis of acting like a 
 ninja. I want to see enormous improvement in the Tenchu games but I was far more frustrated with 
 Assassin's Creed than I was Tenchu Z. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phe-gnome
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Tenchu Z is pretty much the same as any other Tenchu game, only you have the ability to customize 
 your character (minimally) , and with beter graphics. Some other reviews are a little harsh on the 
 game for it's flaws, and especially it's fighting system. They complain about how choppy and simple 
 it is, but what Tenchu game didn't have a terrible fighting system? Tenchu has always been more 
 about the stealth than getting spotted and pulled into a button mashing battle. If you are a fan 
 of the series, and play this game as it is meant to be played (like a ninja) , you will find this 
 game as good as the rest of the Tenchu series. If you play without worrying about getting spotted, 
 or just run to the end of every level (yes, it is possible to finish a level in 15 seconds) you 
 are going to find this game a total dissapointment. Don't expect too much from the customization 
 options either. It is cool to be able to change up your characters appearance as often as you like, 
 but as far as stats go it is very minimal. Tenchu is not a ground breaking game by any means, but 
 it surely isn't as bad as some reviews imply. Give it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moleman666
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  Today I review one of the worst games I have played on any system: Tenchu Z. When I played this 
 game I was all excited about the idea of being able to create my own ninja, as being a fan of RPG 
 games I love to be able to put my likeness into the game. That was before I saw that the customisation 
 options were VERY limited. You don't even get that much choice of clothes for your ninja. Then, 
 you create your partner, who you hardly ever see. I was willing to let this slide though because 
 I thought it would get better, I was wrong. The gameplay is terrible, and you will either end up 
 just running through the level and eliminating your target or getting into badly animated fights 
 where you will most likely end up using the same attack combo over and over again. It wasn't all 
 bad though, I did like using the grappling hook, a LOT. Tenchu Z: Crap game or grappling hook tutorial, 
 you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Tenchu Z could have been great if it wasn't for some annoying flaws.
  
  The game tries to show you the art of being a ninja (shadow warrior) is all about stealth, and you 
 can perform stealth kills that are awesome to watch.
  
  The general combat is stiff, I don't know if they purposely made it that way to encourage stealth, but 
 in boss battles it becomes a pain, especially when you have to stock up on health potions as being 
 the only way to beat some bosses (unless you're lucky enough to knock them into water) and special 
 moves are less powerful than the basic attack of just pressing square over and over again.
  
  Just pressing square over and over again will be enough to defeat any common enemy but when 
 you're outnumbered then the stiffness and lack of depth in combat will make it almost impossible 
 to defend yourself against multiple attackers (again I know they are probably just trying to encourage 
 you to use stealth but they could still have made the combat have a little more depth and your 
 character have more agility in combat.
  
  The camera angle sometimes takes you away from the action too.
  
  The assassination missions 
 were great because you could be creative how you wanted to sneak towards your target and you could 
 stab them through the shadow screen without them knowing you are there and you are strongely encouraged 
 to sneak towards your target undetected as they will have many bodyguards. Searching for items was 
 boring, especially when you search room after room throughout a whole village for a book or small 
 object that you could easily overlook because it's so small and on the floor. I hated the missions 
 you had to kill every enemy in the village, and you would search aimlessly hoping to find the last 
 one or two or 3 enemies that could be hiding anywhere in a large environment.
  
  The map doesn't give much detail either, so you have to guess or memorize where everything is.
 
  
  On the positive side, the game is fun when you can go across rooftops, use the grappler to pull you 
 to higher locations and up buildings (the grappler works so well) you can be creative in your ways 
 to enter hideouts, such as swimming through the river and finding a hidden entrance and you need 
 to walk slowly so enemies don't hear your footsteps.
  
  And the use of stealth and stealth kills really makes you feel like a real ninja.
  
  The boss 
 fights are terrible though, special moves don't help, and the stiffness leaves your character vulnerable 
 to the bosses special attacks, and like I said before to defeat bosses you just stock up on health 
 potions or knock them into water.
  
  There is 50 missions so the game will keep you busy for a while, they all involve either finding 
 items/people, assassinations, or defeating bosses. There is one mission where you have to spy on someone 
 without getting detected.
  
  The graphics have a traditional look to them, they don't try to be too colorful or too next generation 
 which I like.
  
  The towns are a bit dull but like I said it has a tradtional look, you have the small Japanese homes 
 and big Japanese castles. The scenery surrounding the towns is bland though with no beautiful Japanese 
 forests or mountains.
  
  The Japanese homes have the floor mats and shadow screens you would expect to find in Japanese 
 homes.
  
  When you perform a stealth kill you can see blood spraying out of a neck artery which is great 
 to watch or you can watch him slit their throat or sneak up behind them and impale them! which 
 is not the most efficient way to kill someone and not like a true ninja but hey it adds variety 
 in how to sneak up and kill a victim ;)
  
  The FMV looks great as if your watching a real ninja movie, but on cutscenes some of the body designs 
 are ugly (such as the female character, her body looks out of proportion)
  
  The voice acting is done in Japanese so it adds some authenticity and sub tittles are provided.
 
  
  Beautiful Japanese music plays sometimes at mission complete screens and during the missions you 
 hear some traditional Japanese music such as intense drum beats but it's kept quiet to suit the 
 atmosphere of a stealth game. When you complete the game you hear a beautiful Japanese song done 
 by a female singer with a beautiful voice.
  
  If you really want to be a true Ninja and can put up with the stiff controls and some of the boring 
 tasks, you might like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  Tenchu Z places you in the role of ninja warrior that can be changed to suit your own taste including 
 gender, dress and physical characteristics. The storyline is simple, you are a ninja warrior sent 
 out on a mission to carry out an assassination. The first few missions are fun and interesting, 
 after that, they become repetitive, using the same locations, and characters over and over again. 
 The only differences in missions are the name and location of the target. The environments, what 
 few there were, were interesting but small and the character graphics were reasonably well done. 
 The character movement, however, seemed a little too simple.
  
  Personally the game reminded me of a low budget movie where they filmed the first couple of scenes, 
 ran out of money, and then continued show the same scenes over and over again until they filled 
 up time span. The creators of this game seemed to have the same "go ahead and market it, nobody 
 will notice" type attitude. This game actually had me looking on the package for money back satisfaction 
 guarantee.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncleLev
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 3:51 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Tenchu series ever since I first got my hands ahold of a copy of the Japanese 
 Playstation import of the very first in the series, nearly a decade ago. I guess, that is why it 
 pains me to say this, but truth be told: Tenchu has definitely lost its edge. In fact, I think 
 that statement is being fairly conservative  a more liberal approach would be to bluntly declare 
 that From Software should stop making Tenchu titles altogether.
  
  Once upon a time a title called "Tenchu: Stealth Assassins" came along and expanded on the newly-thriving 
 "stealth" action genre. Stealth action was on the rise, fueled in a large part by the success of 
 Metal Gear Solid at the time, so Tenchu definitely jumped in at the perfect time. Perhaps one could 
 even argue that the success of the the first Tenchu game could be attributed to the increase in 
 interest surrounding stealth action, and a surprising lack of stealth games at the time. I mean, 
 let's be fair - the earlier Tenchu games weren't astounding or incredibly original, but there was 
 at least a lot of fun to be had. Well, that was around a decade ago and things have, sadly, changed 
 for the worse. Today the Tenchu series seems to continuously prove itself to be nothing more than 
 uninspired and shoddy attempts at milking the success of the original predecessor.
  
  For those of you who are unfamiliar with the Tenchu series, let me summarize. You take the role 
 of an assassin in feudal Japan and must do your best to secretly maneuver through small villages 
 in order to introduce Mr. Assassination Target to Mr. Steel. If you're wondering if there is much 
 of a story present, there really isn't anything there other than that which is necessary to establish 
 a vague premise  your a ninja and you're out to make certain individuals pay for their transgressions. 
 Since Tenchu has an emphasis on stealth, the idea is to get the job done secretly, but you aren't 
 forced to do so. If you want you are welcome to disregard the incognito route and just try to duke 
 it out with the guards, but going stealth is definitely the way the game was intended to be played, 
 and of course you will be ranked on how much of a ninja you were for each mission. The mission 
 objectives are very thoughtless and typically as easy in execution as principle. Most of the levels 
 consist of having a single assassination target, and on some rare occasions you will need to recover 
 X number of bombs scattered throughout a village, retrieve an item, kill every guard, or meet an 
 informer. On the surface, it may sound like there is a variety to do, but the core execution of 
 each task tells differently as each mission is practically identical in most respects. If you have 
 played any Tenchu game before, then you can go into Tenchu Z with a very good idea of what to expect. 
 It's a welcome notion that Tenchu Z hosts the classic game play you may have come to love, but 
 it's not the most alluring notion to realize that that's all there is to it. An absolute lack of 
 ingenuity in close to a decade is quite a turn-off, to put it in a friendly way.
  
  Without a doubt, Tenchu has aged far worse than any other series that comes to my mind. It's not 
 as though the games have just gradually gotten worse, but the fact that Tenchu refuses to evolve 
 and improve. I wish that this could be said of only a particular aspect of the game, its mechanics, 
 or some other specified feature, but the sad truth remains that virtually every aspect of Tenchu 
 Z remains untouched after roughly a decade.
  
  Do you remember those imbecilic guards that couldn't see you slitting the throat of one of their 
 buddies 15 feet in front of them? Well, they are back and dumber than ever. There were several 
 occasions where I was asking myself if the developers are actually using the same exact code for 
 the artificial intelligence, but then occasional circumstances would come up in which an enemy 
 would do something so incredibly lame that they must have actually become more stupid. If they 
 gave out Razzie awards for gaming, Tenchu would definitely blow the competition out of the water 
 for the absolute worst AI in modern gaming. For starters, guards have predetermined linear routes 
 which they continuously repeat absolutely clockwork. Each guard also has an incredibly minimal 
 "line of sight" (if you can call it that) which is laughable by all measures. Although, it's quite 
 interesting to note that the key characters throughout the game, such as assassination targets, 
 have much better sight than regular guards. Factual or not, many people seem to associate wearing 
 eyeglasses with intelligence. The developers over at From Software seem to take the opposite approach 
 in relating good vision to intelligence. Well, that's how it appears on the surface at least. The 
 programmers of Tenchu seem to rely solely on how capable of seeing you an enemy is to dictate their 
 inherit intelligence. Intelligence as defined by how far one can see: very weak. This not only 
 means it is very simple to maneuver around without being seen, but it means that should you ever 
 be spotted it is virtually effortless to loose your pursuers. You don't need to do any fancy weaving 
 through buildings to loose your tail; just run in a straight line. That's right, just run 20-30 
 feet away from a guard and they will completely lose track of you, as they stand puzzled looking 
 around in all directions. If you have aroused a guards' attention, but they don't necessarily know 
 where you are, you will likely see them fumbling around in circles being incapable of deciding 
 where to go. At first it's kind of funny to see a guard repeatedly jump or turn around in circles, 
 but after a while you really start to feel disappointed in how shoddy some of the coding is. Because 
 of the downright stupid AI, achieving Ninja Rank 5 (the highest skill level) on each of the missions 
 becomes an effortless task. I enjoy feeling that I perform exceptionally well while playing a game, 
 but I don't like the thought lingering in my mind that I am only doing so well because of severely 
 handicapped AI.
  
  The visuals make absolutely no attempt to impress either. The graphics are below average and show 
 very few signs of improvement. If it weren't for being in high resolution and minimal polygon increases, 
 you wouldn't even know the difference between Tenchu Z today and Stealth Assassins some nine odd 
 years ago. Characters and clothing still aren't very high-poly and have quite jagged edges, while 
 everything from buildings to objects and people show a remarkable lack of detail. Detail? What 
 am I saying; attention to detail is virtually non-existent. Even the bottomless pits, that are 
 uncovered from time to time, are nothing but a square. Instead of actually making a realistic looking 
 hole in the ground, with polygons creating an intricate shape, we are left with a simple square, 
 like the Stealth Assassins on Playstation. While you are crouching, your knees look like big jagged 
 blocks as opposed to having rounded-off edges. Most of the textures are smudgy and low resolution 
  I'd probably go so far as to say that some of the textures look like they are the same ones that 
 From Software has been using for countless years. You wont run into water many times throughout 
 feudal Japan, but when you do it shows a stunning lack of motion and texture clarity. There are 
 a few scenes throughout the game which consist of computer rendered cut-scenes, and while these 
 do look considerably better than the real time graphics, they still are below average by today's 
 standards. I must admit that when I first saw screen shots of Tenchu Z, when it was in development, 
 that I wasn't impressed. Yet, I never could have imagined that the graphics would be as poor as 
 the end-result is. Is it just me, or does it feel like From Software just isn't even bothering 
 to try anymore?
  
  Fortunately, the music is the traditional Japanese instrumental music many of us find both soothing 
 and suiting to such a game. On the other hand, it is virtually indistinguishable from previous 
 Tenchu installments, and will begin to sound quite repetitive pretty quickly. For the most part, 
 the music serves as nothing more than mere ambiance, but occasionally does paint the portrait of 
 a traditional Japan. It does well to fit the theme of the game, but there just isn't enough of 
 it and the desired variation just isn't there. When you are just doing your own thing and being 
 one with the shadows the music is much more relaxed and laid back, but when you are spotted and 
 an enemy is after you the music escalates and becomes more intense. Herein lies a rather negligible, 
 yet frequent annoyance. Sometimes the music will turn dramatic as if you were being chased, just 
 from startling a guard milliseconds before executing them. It becomes quite irritating because 
 you often become unsure if you really are being pursued, or if was just a poor judgment on the 
 game's end  thinking you were seen when you really weren't. I wish I could give you my honest 
 take on the voice-over work, but I don't speak Japanese. Like all the other Tenchu releases in 
 the past, very little of the dialog is actually localized. None of the spoken dialog is translated, 
 and during actual game play you won't even get subtitles as you would during cut scenes. It's probably 
 nothing to make too big of a deal about considering most of the time guards are saying a mere one-liner, 
 but occasionally, you will spot two guards having a short conversation, presumably about your assassination 
 target, and there is no way to know what they are saying unless you speak Japanese.
  
  It's not just the the fact that Tenchu is quite half-assed by today's standards, but the fact that 
 there are so many little problems that snowball into creating a truly poor experience. First of 
 all, the game play is extremely repetitive. Actually, Tenchu Z is probably the most repetitive 
 game I have played in a couple of years. You do the same exact thing over and over again countless 
 times. Even worse, is the fact that there are 50 missions in the game but no more 10 levels. How 
 is this possible, you might say? Simple, the developers re-use the same exact levels over and over 
 again throughout the game and just give you a different objective. I guess they might be thinking 
 that if you have been playing Tenchu for this long your brain has probably already been conditioned 
 to be so stupid from dealing with the inane AI that you won't even notice that you were in the 
 same place countless missions before. Even more disappointing is the fact that the different levels 
 that do exist all look incredibly alike and have some of the most dreadfully boring designs I've 
 ever seen. The textures are always the same, the buildings always look the same, walls always look 
 the same, and so forth. Tenchu Z exhibits an unprecedented level of repetition which may very well 
 burn out your brain, if you play it long enough, that is. Still, you might be trying to tell yourself 
 "irregardless, 50 levels is an awful lot of game play". Wrong! Most of the levels are so incredibly 
 simple that they can be beat in several minutes. In fact, if you aren't concerned about receiving 
 a high ninja rankings in the levels, you could probably skim through the game in a couple of hours. 
 There are 49 humorously easy levels and a single frustratingly difficult level in which you must 
 follow a target without being seen. Interestingly enough, I was not even able to distinguish any 
 greater or lesser challenge between playing on the different difficulty settings.
  
  The number of annoyances are just too many to turn your head too and aren't just limited to design 
 flaws, but a shoddy presentation. The loading time is ridiculous  typically 10-15 seconds (on 
 occasion even longer) . Plus, failing a mission, doesn't give you the opportunity to retry the mission; 
 instead you must wait for the loading time to enter the level selection area, and then wait for 
 another loading time after you have re-selected the level. If you are smart enough to pause prior 
 to imminently failing a mission, you can choose to restart the level, but even then, the level 
 is completely reloaded from memory making you wait 10-15 seconds, when it very well could have 
 been instantly taken from memory instead of re-reading the storage medium. Selecting levels is 
 also obtrusively annoying. Instead of selecting the level you want to play and pressing the A button, 
 you instead need to select the level and press the A button three times to different dialogs that 
 appear  how unnecessary, guys.
  
  And then there is the problem with items. Well, the problem is two-fold you could say. For starters, 
 there seems to be a second-or-so delay from when you press the item-use button to when your character 
 actually uses the item. This makes the most mundane of tasks an irritation. Say you are being hunted 
 down, and you want to shoot your grappling hook atop a building in order to escape. Well, just 
 be patient and hope for the best. The other problem with items is their lack of necessity. What 
 I mean by this is that they are all pretty useless. I always thought that perhaps the reason I 
 never used items much while playing Tenchu was because most of the Tenchu titles I have played 
 were Japanese versions in which the purpose of the items was shrouded behind a language barrier. 
 As it turns out, I no longer have this problem considering I am here playing and reviewing an English 
 copy. Yet, oddly enough, I still find the items to be more of a hassle than a benefit. Since Tenchu 
 is a stealth game which rewards being unseen, it makes no sense to ever need smoke bombs or darts 
 which will only give your location away. Further, if you are playing Tenchu like a good little 
 ninja, then your health will never diminish rendering the use of potions useless. In fact, I could 
 easily say that you could beat the entire game without using a single optional item and it still 
 would be a piece of cake. As it turns out, that is basically what I did anyhow.
  
  Using any of the items that requires aiming (grappling hook, or darts for example) also hosts problem 
 altogether. Besides the overall issue with item-use suffering from a delay, there is also the problem 
 of aiming being frustratingly imprecise. Moving the analog stick just a tiny bit will swing the 
 reticule far more than you ever intend, so it makes subtle movements with the aim completely impossible, 
 meaning in many cases you will have difficulty even getting the reticule lined up on your desired 
 target. What a drag.
  
  Among all the problems and complaints I might have, there are three which definitely deserve the 
 most recognition for continuously making an unwelcome appearance year after year. In no particular 
 order, here I go.
  
  Bottomless pits  what is the frigging purpose of these stupid things? Besides the fact that I 
 have never seen a perfectly square-shaped hole in my life, I've never encountered such a hole which 
 apparently doesn't have a bottom. It's not as if they aren't that common either as virtually every 
 level has got to have at least one or two of them. There you are walking along minding your own 
 business, and the controller vibrates and next thing you know a hole has opened up on the ground 
 you were just walking on. If you don't make a mental note of it, you may end up falling in it when 
 you are trying to escape and don't happen to spot it because of the camera. Seriously From Software, 
 it was stupid a decade ago and it's just as stupid and out of place today.
  
  Major annoyance number two: why can't you whistle, knock on walls or throw rocks to get a guards 
 attention?! Seriously, if you want to get the attention of a guard, you have to use a ridiculous 
 item such as a firework. Why on earth would you go through all the trouble of carrying a firework 
 around with you and setting it off just to get someone to check out a general vicinity? What is 
 so difficult about allowing the player to whistle or create noise some other way without requiring 
 unnecessary items?
  
  Last but certainly not least; is it absolutely necessary to go into the "cool" post-assassination 
 pose all the time? I thought the idea of a ninja was to be quick, quiet and unseen  not to pose 
 for the cameras. It's extremely agitating that you can be on a roll, and take out foe after foe 
 in the silence, and then after you've cut someone's throat open, you stand there trying to look 
 all cool while some other guard is approaching and spots you. What is so difficult about either 
 losing this animation altogether or at least allowing the player to prematurely jump out of it 
 in order to stay concealed?
  
  As you probably imagine by now, I don't have all that much positive to say about the latest Tenchu 
 installment. I really wish it could have been more, but I try not to fool myself. I've been a fan 
 of this series since it's inception, and I will continue to play the games hoping that sooner or 
 later From Software will revitalize their drastically dying series. With the success of stealth 
 oriented games today and the size of the gaming industry as it is, Tenchu is doing an amazing job 
 at becoming marginalized as the game from yesteryear that refuses to improve. With so many consistently 
 lousy Tenchu releases, it is (sadly) becoming increasingly clear that the success of the original 
 was in part to nothing more than a lot of luck and perfect timing. Today, you will most likely 
 only be able to truly appreciate or enjoy a Tenchu game if you were one of the original fans from 
 back in the "good-old-days" when the series didn't suck (sorry From Software, but truth be told) . 
 I'd really love to see an amazing Tenchu game someday, but if things continue to go the way the 
 series is headed, I won't hold my breath.
  
  
  
  Overall Score: 4.5
  
  Gameplay: (5) The sheer definition of "repetition". Shoddy presentation coupled with unimaginative 
 game-play and lots of annoyances.
  
  Graphics: (4) Low poly, lack of detail, low resolution textures - what is this, a Wii game?
  
 
  Sound: (5) Suiting, yet repetitive music. Dialog is not localized and annoying quirk with detection-music.
 
  
  Lasting appeal: (4) A total of 50 short and easy levels, all based on less than 10 unique (and 
 boring) level designs. This game takes the term "repetition" a whole new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  If you do not wish to read the full review I have made a brief; good and bad points about Tenchu 
 Z.
  
  Good: Stealth kills are awesome to watch, Ninja customization is cool with lots of options to chose 
 from, 50 missions to keep you playing for a while, A. I. is very stupid making it easy, Music suits 
 the game.
  
  Bad: Story is almost not there, Stealth kills become quite repetitive, Normal fighting is clunky 
 and not fun at all, Online co-op can be laggy most of the time, A. I. is very stupid making it easy, 
 Graphics look like a PS2 game.
  
  Graphics: They are by no means great but average. It does not use the 360's hardware and graphical 
 capabilities to the max, and makes you feel as though you are not playing on a next gen system. 
 6/10
  
  Gameplay: Is both bad and good. The bad part about it is that normal combat is very... very bad. 
 The simple 3 or 4 hit combo is clunky and most of the time you will miss your target. The good 
 part about it is how stealth kills are executed, in numerous ways. This is nice as it gives you 
 an option to approach a situation in a number of ways. 7/10
  
  Sound: The music to Tenchu Z fits the game perfectly, I especially enjoy listening to the opening 
 cinematic soundtrack. The sounds of swords drawing sounds quite realistic, however when you are 
 hit... the sound seems awful. But that is the only real complaint about the sound, and since you 
 shouldn't be attacked anyway since this is a stealth game... I find the complaint redundant. 9/10
 
  
  Story: What Story? There are some story elements inside Tenchu, but it can be quite hard to keep 
 track of it. All I understand is that every mission I'm doing is linked to a war between another 
 country. But at first it seems to be about drug trading?! The story is not a huge part of Tenchu 
 Z... sadly. However a long span of 50 missions, even though they are very similar, will keep you 
 in the ninja action for a while. 6/10
  
  Overall Tenchu Z is a fun game, but could have been better in a number of places. I give Tenchu 
 Z... 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon-of-Dark
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  i love this game - ill summarize all the points in steps
  
  Customization: I think the customization of your ninja is great, everything from his shoes to the 
 leaf in his mouth - there are loads. Also selecting your own sheath is good too. 8/10
  
  Graphics: I like the graphics. They arent awe-inspiring, but they're cool. Good for a simple kill-kill-kill 
 ninja game. Compared to some new games its graphics are not that good. But don't let it put you 
 off. Its good enough. 6.5/10
  
  Artifical Intellegence: Oh My God. The AI in this game is the most stupid thing i've ever seen. 
 But! It also adds to the fun! Accidentaly stepping out infront of a guard would mean pretty much 
 certain death in real life. But in this: Jump on Building/Hide in Bush = Hidden/AI stops caring. 
 Bad, but fun. They can also take too many hits in normal fighting. 20 Slices = Moderately Injured..... 
 6/10
  
  Fighting: Jesus Christ it sucks. But you shouldn't have to use it too often anyway.... which is 
 good. Because all you have is this stupid 3 hit combo thing which sucks. you may be able to add 
 one more hit thing using a buyable skill..... no big difference. I wish the fighting was more like 
 Assassins Creed... because thats awesome. 3.5/10
  
  Stealth Kills: OH YES!.... nuff said.........................
  but seriously they own your face. 
 
  They're the best thing since...... sliced bread.
  But they're sooo cool! Like you can hid and wait for a guy to walk near to you, and then you can 
 flip him over and slice his throat! and blood goes everywhere! :D
  But the selection of them may be limited. They depend on which angle or position you attack them 
 from. 8.5/10
  
  Story: Meh, it's ok..... not that much thought put into it.... but all you need is the killing. 
 5/10
  
  Music: Me Like! Very japanesey. Like Pan-pipes and flutes and stuff. Nice! :) 8/10
  
  Anndddddd 
 i think thats about it! 
  Overall i would give this game........7.5/10 
  I hope you liked this review!
  Byebyes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karma0666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I conisder it a good game do to the solid fact that you play as a ninja. If you do not or can not 
 have fun shoving a katana through somebodies heart and instantly killing them, then there is something 
 wrong with you. Of course that is do to the simple fact that I am a ninja fanatic, all in all though 
 its still a decent game. You can jump on roof tops, stealth kill opponents (including innocents) , 
 hide in the shadows, and a lot of other ninja related type of things. The only true problem that 
 I have with the way the game is is the fact that there are only three different ratings for it, 
 Ninja 3, Ninja 4, and Ninja 5. Other than that though I liked the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prkindrick
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  I bought this game hoping for a good ninja based game and to my suprise I bought a very shallow 
 game. This is a good game if you are not into exploration or difficulty. It really took me about 
 15 minutes befor I was killing everything in sight without raising alarms. But if you are looking 
 for something to just sit down and not really have to try then this game is for you. I guess I 
 would say that it isn't all that bad. There are ways to customize your character. This system though 
 is flawed itself, you are expected to spend this gold that you get by completing each mission without 
 being able to see the product that you are purchasing. Gold also can be spent to purchase an aray 
 of items to help you through your missions. The player also is able to buy new combos but this 
 still fails to negate the fact that the combat system is very dry and fails myserably. In the end 
 I find the most fun part of this game is dressing up my ninja and then running around jumping from 
 buildings. So if you are looking for a game to play dress up then shove a sword into somones spine 
 then this game would be a good purchase for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Multi-Magic
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Iv been a Tenchu fan ever since the first one of the series came out all those years ago. 
  
  People say the graphics are horrible but for the real fans its really what makes Tenchu, well.. Tenchu. 
 You buy the game to become the ultimate ninja, stab the &*% out of everybody and generally have 
 an awesome time with the items, the graphics.. well they just play a small part and as long as you 
 can see the awesome stealth kills clear enough, well thats good enough.
  
  However new to this game, and a first in the series, is the option to customise your very own ninja. 
 Personally, being a massive Tenchu fan already I think this is an extremely awesome added feature.
 
  
  Even though the 50 missions are not 50 completely different levels, it is 50 completely different 
 guard positions which is just as good. You get to know the level so the enjoyment is finding your 
 prey and timing it perfectly, not finding your way round the levels each time.
  
  Overall, I think this is an excellent add-on to the series and one of the better ones to date and 
 will keep me amused for hours and hours. Keep them coming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieio
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Sure, it is Tunchu and sure it is still pretty fun if you have the patience to wait and kill a 
 bunch of enemies. I have that patience, most do not.
  Evolution just didn't happen for this game, it is a dinosaur amongst high end games. The same old 
 thing done over again.
  I am glad I got this game on the cheap because had I paid full price for it, I would be very upset 
 and likely would have given it a worse score.
  Like many others who reviewed this game, I will not bother to list the endless flaws, but I will 
 say this... the game is playable and it is still fun if you get it for $10 or so, but it's value 
 is no more than that, and only if you like Tenchu games to start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chambiko
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 7, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  I have been a Tenchu fan ever since tha second tenchu came out. since it i naver played tha first 
 one. But this game is an insult to everybody who loves tenchu games. I waited so long for this 
 game, even as to buy it as soon as it came out. At first i noticed a few clinks @ tha start bt 
 quickly forgave it, but after 10 quick levels (mind you i was playing on hard) i noticed tha levels 
 were getting repetetive. after that its just tha same routine in the same levels for 50 missions. 
 special skills are pathetic, they hold no significant purpose to completing ur missions. they are 
 absolutely USELESS......... I REPEAT USELESS. 
  
  Thats all am gonna say. i dont have enuff time to wrte all tha problems with this game. somebody 
 give me the creators number or e-mail, i think i can give him/her some good ideas about the sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Sneaking through shadows and waiting for a moment of oppertunity is serious business, especially 
 if it deals with life or death situations. Take that intense concept and bring it to videogames 
 and you may have minor troubles. Reason being, gamers enjoy being able to rip loose on a digital 
 world without any waiting nor suffering serious consequence. Rewind back to the late 90's when 
 stealth games were nothing more than a measly few, and think about how awesome the original Tenchu 
 on the PSone was. TZ could be at fault for numerous reasons not following the old simple formula 
 that seemed to work just fine, yet it does bring some fresh ideas into the mix that shows great 
 potential for the series in years to come.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Other games that dive into the genre of stealth action seem to have a gimick that works as the 
 main draw. Certain equipment, special powers, extra senses and so forth. With Tenchu Z, you got 
 stealth kills. Nothing too flashy from the original concept where you approach a unaware enemy 
 and strike them down with various silent kills. Being a ninja, you don't exactly run up to baddies 
 and start fights unless you customize your character for such encounters. Unlike the older games, 
 when first starting off you dress up your own personalized male or female ninja with clothes, masks, 
 and hair styles. The feature doesn't really affect your in-game behavior or skills, so enjoy it 
 at your own leisure. Skills on the other hand are a major help in giving the game a RPG sense of 
 customization. Prefer to stay unseen, choose abilities that allow for diversions and evasion. Want 
 to make some noise, tweak your night stalker for all around combat and equipment perks. Once the 
 joy of altering your character wears off, you quickly notice there isn't much else to the game. 
 50 missions tell the story of corrupt nobodies who you must assasinate or meet up with. Online 
 features like co-op missions are a plus, yet the overall addition feels mostly like a after thought.
 
  
  VISUALS
  For anyone, including myself, who says graphics are NOT the most important part of a game is absolutely 
 correct. Then again, the studio who developed this 360 exclusive has no excuse for showing no major 
 improvement from their 2004 version of Tenchu. I love the Japanese setting and architecture, but 
 to see character models and animations lacking even in comparison to older versions of the game 
 is nothing more than a lame joke. Yes, there is a added bonus to seeing actual items on the characters 
 you personalize, but to see the game overall simplify everything else seems pointless. Level design 
 is pathetic. Nothing more than 6 areas are used continuously through out the game in various objectives. 
 Once you understand the lay out of every level, the repition sinks in as you can easily storm through 
 areas that hardly ever change. Cut scenes become a horrid display of in-game models and further 
 cements my belief that if characters can't even blink their eyes during close ups, skip the story.
 
  
  AUDIO
  In the Tenchu series, relaxing traditional music and accurate ambience is a major deal. For the 
 calm ninja, you find serenity in stalking after your target while the more aggresive ninja could 
 abuse surrounding areas by luring enemies into distant sounds. No matter how you approach it, audio 
 sensory in this game is useless. Performing task like a serious ninja can be rewarding, but never 
 dare adjust the difficulty setting. Enemies some how go from complete morons, to super charge morons 
 with extreme skill. Moving quietly is essential for any stealth game, yet this one allows you to 
 simply roll and jump to victory with no consequence. Even if enemies hear you bashing your sword 
 against a bell surrounded by bodies, they might as well lay down and die because they do nothing 
 more than stop, search, and return to their post. At least the music is decent . 
  
  EXTRAS
  Since level design is very straight forward and mission objectives are clear cut, achievements 
 come as a reward for basically playing the game. Killing a certain number of baddies, performing 
 a move numerous times, aquiring a rank (which is usually done by killing everything in sight) and 
 finishing the game is all that is asked of you. To help support my theory of online being added 
 as a after thought, not one achievement is in place to encourage such gaming. The most you get 
 out of such a wasted mode is sharing your customized character with other Tenchu players. Being 
 that no one plays the game online, you would be better off giving system link a shot in hopes that 
 someone you know might actually own the game. 
  
  OVERALL
  Past the guilty pleasure of quietly killing off mountains of idiotic computer characters and paying 
 witness to the same levels used more than 50 times, Tenchu Z clearly shows a lack of commitment 
 in excellence. The older games established a working formula that can still be fun, even in light 
 of so many other games that do stealth action. The real question is why was TZ so watered down? 
 It could be the lenghty stretch in levels that leads to repetition. Maybe the poor excuse for a 
 online mode was more of an experiment. Hell, even the customization feature which is one of the 
 few shining points felt very tacky. The one thing I hope for, being a huge fan of the series, is 
 all these errors were baby steps in building something even better to continue the great name of 
 Tenchu. The expression "you have to break a few eggs to make a omlett" never seemed more true with 
 Tenchu Z. If possible avoid this game unless you can scoop it up for a reasonably cheap price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  Plot
  In a departure from the rest of the series, the plot of Tenchu Z does not involve demons or mythology. 
 Instead, it is set in a fairly realistic depiction of Feudal Japan, albeit with exaggerated abilities 
 for the ninja characters. The country of Gohda, where the Azuma clan of ninja reside under the 
 service of Lord Gohda, is on the brink of war with the neighboring country of Ogawara. As a new 
 recruit in the Azuma clan, the protagonist is sent to assassinate those who are assisting Ogawara, 
 including army officials and spies who have infiltrated Gohda, as well as recover stolen items 
 and rescue prisoners. In between thwarting Ogawara's plans, the protagonist also receives (mostly 
 optional) missions in which he/she eliminates bandits and unscrupulous merchants.
  
  There is no connection between Tenchu Z's plot and those in the previous games, nor are there any 
 returning characters with the exceptions of Rikimaru and Lord Gohda. Chronologically, the events 
 in Tenchu Z are the latest in the series.
  
  
  Gameplay
  Gameplay is relatively the same as the previous games in the series. The main difference is that, 
 as mentioned above, players create their own character and unlock new skills, items and clothing 
 for him or her as the game progresses. Only one fighting style is available: a ninjato that can 
 either be set with slower but more damaging attacks (the same as Rikimaru's in previous games) 
 or faster and weaker attacks with different animations. The unlockable skills however are more 
 varied, with most of them making their first appearance in the series while others return from 
 previous games with some tweaks. Certain skills can be upgraded twice, enhancing the protagonist's 
 abilities beyond those of the characters from previous games.
  
  Enemies can now hear the protagonist's footsteps if he or she runs too close to them, and they 
 may hear the footsteps from a greater distance if the protagonist runs on noisy surfaces such as 
 a puddle of water. They can also smell the protagonist if he/she falls into a cesspool (only found 
 during some missions; after the protagonist emerges from the cesspool, a brown haze surrounds him/her, 
 indicating that he/she can be detected by smell at a certain distance) or is covered with blood 
 from an earlier fight. Unlike the previous games, lighting is also a factor here as the protagonist 
 is less likely to be spotted while standing or crouching in a dark area.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanCardillo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Tenchu Z is in its self a good game. There are a lot of things however that holds this game back. 
 The graphics for one ,look good but not next-gen. The blood in the game is vary bad. ( It looks 
 like red balls coming out of the guy you killed.)
  
  The sound is the normal stuff. Foot steps, Sword slashing, people dieing, Etc. It's not good nor 
 bad, it's passable. But it seems to run the same menu song all the time. It gets really annoying 
 after a while 
  
  
  The game play is classic Tenchu. Sneak ,kill, and repeat. It's not a bad thing if you're in to 
 that kind of game play. (Like me) When you do a stealth kill it makes you smile. In an "I just 
 Pwnd YOU!" kinda way. The Game play really isn't earth shattering. The Custom character setup is 
 really fun. (I made Sub-Zero!) But it's way to shallow. The core game play hasn't changed since 
 the first game, that's why it needs a much needed update. (The Xbox live achievements are a plus. 
 It will make you play the game more than once. But you can get most of them by just playing through 
 it once.) 
  
  
  The A. I is just stupid ,you could be 5 feet in front of the guard and he wouldn't see you, but 
 then again it's a Tenchu game. So that's to be expected. 
  
  
  All in all this is a Good Old School Tenchu. It's mostly for fans. But if you want to be a ninja 
 then this is your game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackenedSky719
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game falls so short of what it could have been that its almost depressing. As a fan of the 
 originals for the ps and I even enjoyed the one for the ps2, I was greatly let down by this game. 
 What story there was, seemed to only have been created to get you to complete the game. Not that 
 it really makes you want to complete the game, more or less the only desire the game creates for 
 beating it is if you're like me and you have to beat a game before you move on or get rid of it. 
 The amount of levels there are would have been rather impressive and given the game a great chance 
 for entertaining variety but instead it was repetitive and you only have to do a handful of missions 
 to beat the game, and you can run through them to get to the final boss without making one kill. 
 
  
  The saving graces of the game? Well there is the fact that you can change the clothes of your characters. 
 The multiplayer online feature isn't terrible.. or and the tutorial level of the game is better 
 than the others. Honestly the 5.5 I've given this game is probably to high, but as a fan of Tenchu 
 I had to honor it with at least that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDJxGodx
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  this game is alright if you really wanna slash and sneak as a ninja.
  
  pro
  cloaking allowing you to roam
  nice jump controls
  the attacks are cool but,
  
  cons
 
  i feel like i am running back and forth sometimes
  nothing is really unlockable but the achievements
  AIs are rather dumb
  (the attacks are cool 
 but,) the comabt system is week.
  
  So, if you MUST be a ninja, go buy this game, but i took it back. My friends saids give it a chance, 
 but after the third hour i could barely continue to play.
  If you think you would like this game then go buy assassins creed, its awesome. It has all the 
 pros of this game, more open ended, attacks are cool and intwinded with the combat system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Tenchu Z has one major improvement over the last attempt, you no longer have to fight demons and 
 ghosts. This may sound like a small thing but it is something that really got up my nose in Wrath 
 of heaven. You see, deep down what I really want is a realistic ninja experience that takes genuine 
 thought and good timing to properly execute a mission. In this respect Tenchu Z has missed the 
 mark by a considerable margin. Not that I expect the developers to be catering for my specific 
 tastes, I am not nearly that self important..... honestly. But there are many things wrong with 
 this game that they should be overcoming by now. The most obvious when starting it up would be 
 the graphics (I am a self proclaimed graphics enthusiast and make no apologies for it!) which would 
 be quite nice circa 2001. The main problem though, and it is one that has always been an issue 
 with tenchu. Is the AI. The guards protecting the target evil merchant / ill intentioned foreigner 
 / sexually depraved monk are about as intelligent as the average X factor viewer, they can only 
 see 10 feet in front of themselves and when they do spot you they forget all about you trying to 
 kill them within 20 seconds of losing track of you. They are very ill-suited for the job which 
 they are being paid to do. Maybe this is my ignorance and wealthy Japanese people in fear of being 
 assassinated did infact hire the cheapest most idiotic body guards they could find just to save 
 a few bucks but it is something that doesn't lend itself well to fun stealth action. This is not 
 to say I did not enjoy the experience, I did afterall finish the game. But it is definately not 
 for everyone, and was barely suitable for me. I get the impression that its really geared towards 
 anime fans and not striving for beleivability which is probably why I am left feeling disappointed 
 and unchallenged by the game. Still..... if ninjas are your thing it could be worth a look, just 
 try and get it on the cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geist9049
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  sometimes the wrong person is assigned to review a good game and a poor rating occurs. Tenchu Z 
 seems to have fallen into that category. Tenchu Z is a stealth game with decent graphics, and a 
 very open ended sandbox style of gameplay. there isn't much in the way of plot or explanation in 
 what you need to do. your told to kill, steal, or avoid your way thru an area and how you choose 
 to do so is up to you. there is a variety of skills to learn, items to earn, and quite a nice selection 
 of interesting outfits you can make for your custom character which is always nice. the official 
 review complains of being able to run thru the level to victory. But the game is what you make 
 of it and if you are a fan of stealth games and enjoy killing, Tenchu Z offers up alot to the stealth 
 gamer. I really enjoy earning the upper ranks in Tebchu Z for each mission and it does offer replay 
 value trying the various skills and interesting ways to kill. It was worth my time and money to 
 purchase this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  This is going to be a tricky review. This is a game that most people Hate... with a capital "H". 
 According to many its so flawed it showed have never been released. I'll give an overall review 
 then talk about its flaws and what it means to me.
  
  Its gameplay is simple... sort of. Your a ninja/samurai.... guy (or girl) ... whoever you choose to 
 create and you go on missions doing various tasks. Now the gameplay depends on you. You can be 
 stealthy and not kill anyone or you can kill everyone in the level! And it all makes a difference 
 on how you score! And if you score well you get more money, more money means buying more useful 
 items. But if your really good you don't really need much besides your katana and some special 
 moves you can buy.
  
  The game is complicated in some terms of gameplay. There are things you have to figure out like 
 various moves and which items do what and how to get into places without being detected and its 
 all easy once you get it all down. The game also has alot of fun things to do that will keep you 
 playing for HUNDREDS of hours if you want things like achievements! Such as defeating specific 
 guys in each level or playing on a certain difficulty. Which unlock special items in game (and 
 online)
  
  The graphics I think are fine. They aren't the quality of most games out there but its the gameplay 
 that matters and thats all I care about. When you kill someone blood splatters everywhere. More 
 on the graphics at the bottom of review.
  
  The controls are not that easy and take awhile to get use to. I'd suggest looking at a FAQ or GUIDE 
 once you play the tutorial level because trust me there are thing you'll need to know how to do, 
 more so if you are trying to go for some stealthy awards. 
  
  The music and sound in the game is awesome. I got soundtrack after I returned the game to Gamefly! 
 And the sounds are great too! 
  
  The online is surprisingly fun although like most coop games everyone races to kill people thus 
 defeating the purpose of teamwork and stealth. But the times when we did work together it was almost 
 as fun as the single player! 
  
  So whats so bad that people rate horribly? Well for one the graphics are supposedly "last generation" 
 as some people say. Only thing I seen is it doesn't have very good animations such as characters 
 sometimes look like they "hover" when they turn and your katana does a silly cut through them that 
 looks unreal. The blood is old looking sprites too. There is no physics in the game either. 
  
  The next issue and perhaps the only one that potentially hurts the game is the AI. I've seen 
 a blind and deaf man that is smarter. You can run 5 feet away IN FRONT of someone and they won't 
 notice alot of the time. Or if they do notice they are pretty easy to escape. They AI does seem 
 glitchy. However like with bosses you can run to other end of the level and hide in the hardest 
 to find spot and they will find you no matter what. However if you turn up the difficulty not much 
 changes. They are harder to kill and can kill you more easy but for the most part still aren't 
 that bright.
  
  But none of this you even notice unless your one of those who cares about that over gameplay. I 
 had so much fun I didn't even care. If you play it on hard it plays better and you have more fun 
 in general! This is definitely a game worth buying because of its replay value! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Tenchu Z is more attractive because you can create you're own ninja, You can choose is haircut, is 
 special technik, stat (Vitality, Speed and Power) , what is wearring and is equippement. You have 50 
 mission at all in 3 different mode (easy, normal, hard) . After mission you will have a Rank,1 (poor) 
 to 5 (pretty good) , the rank you will have will give you more money. You can do steal kill (what 
 a suprise) and oure steal kill will change with the position of youre character, in front, behind, to 
 the left, to the right or in air, this is very original. The story is simple and not so good, Rikumaru 
 give you mission and you have to do them all. You can fight Boss sometime, but there not so hard. The 
 gametime is variable, if you only do all mission on one mode (easy, normal or hard) that will take 
 you 10 to 15 hours, if you do all mission at all mode, you will finish the game between 20 to 40 
 hours.
  
  If you loved All the Tenchu series, this game is the best in series!
  So see you later and thx for reading my reviews ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacosrule193
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  the game is ok. u can roam around, but the places r too small. sure u can jump from building to 
 building but ur combat system sucks. cheesy looking game, fit for people who r desperatly looking 
 for a ninja game. well other than that, missions r good.
  
  good
  
  stealth!
  freedom to roam around, undetected
  can jump really high, and jump on buildings
  both close 
 range and long range attacks
  
  bad
  
  some mission keep talking u to the place u've already been
  needs more unlockables
  some of 
 enemy doesnt come after u, if u climb buildings
  
  i bought this game and gave it back because it wasnt my type. if u like ninjas or is a fan of this 
 series, u would like this game. if not, then dont bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryeinkazamoto
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu Z is one of the few games that i think gamespot rated wrong. Its not as horrible as they 
 make it sound at all... but at the same time its not ground breaking and overly fun either. Graphically 
 tenchu Z is sound, it's an upgrade from its play station 2 counter parts... but it isnt on par with 
 most xbox 360 games. It just feels like they tried to make it a little better looking then the 
 play station and stopped. The game also has graphical glitches, like seeing shadows through walls 
 or your part of your character model dissappearing when you are bumping to walls and such. Now 
 these werent big deals on the ps2 but now that we've moved up to 360, you'd think they would have 
 iced these problems. The sound of Tenchu is what you'd come to expect. They still speak Japanese 
 and shout random phrases as they walk around and get killed. For the most part everything sounds 
 fine, and the music that they've added sound like ancient Japanese music that a ninja may listen 
 to on their head phones as they are stabbing people. The A. I. in tenchu is also what you suspect. 
 Enemies still arent too bright. And still when you stab them, and hide for a second, they will 
 totally forget you are there... which i find pretty funny. For the most part they walk a certain 
 path, and when you are caught and they follow you, after you hide and they forget you the try to 
 go back to that path, but sometimes get lost and glitch up, making them turn around multiple times 
 or just stand still for a while doing nothing. The gameplay of tenchu is also what you'd expect. 
 They've added in a few new features and such and incorporated a neat level up system so you can 
 somewhat customize your character. Customization is pretty limited but they have quite a few items 
 for you to place on your character, which can be pretty fun. Tenchu's gameplay isnt ground breaking 
 but when you add multiplayer via xbox live it can feel pretty close. It is very fun to run with 
 other people in your ninja squad and stealthily complete mission. Although missions for the most 
 part all feel the same, playing on live seems to break up the monotony. But tenchu's serve is kinda 
 of flawed and talking on the headphones can be a pain. It likes to give bad headphone connection 
 and as one person is talking, they will break up and sound broken, which breaks up some of the 
 fun. Tenchu Z is a fun game if you can get past its flaws. It's mostly for hardcore tenchu fans 
 but some newbies can get into it too. I give tenchu a 5.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  You know, i'll never played a Tenchu games in my whole life's and this is my first game to start 
 with. Back to the old days when i still own a PS2, i'll never buy Tenchu game and i'll just watch 
 my friend played this game on his PS2 consoles without noticed the graphic and the gameplay at 
 all. But when i own this game, i'll feel the graphic is still outdated like the PS2 version, the 
 gameplay is too easy to completed and repetetive from time to time, but i'll like this game. Maybe 
 the graphic and the gameplay is still the same as other last gen Tenchu that make this game rate 
 going down. But that enough said, in conclusion i'll like this game and for users outhere, just 
 rent this game if you want to try it (if it worth your money or not) , if worth, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatwhitenight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I really like this game and I'm surprised it got suck a low score rating. Its a ninja 
 stealth game based during feudalistic japan. You are a ninja for lord Goda. You will be sent through 
 various missions through out the game. Although one thing stays the same in all of them. Kill the 
 bad guys, and not the good guys. (Pretty simple right?) There are many missions, although it gets 
 very repetitive pretty quick. The game does provide a decent storyline (if you can stay awake for 
 it long enough) though.
  
  A nice feature is that you can customize your ninja, similar to Frank from Dead Rising. You earn 
 money and can purchase clothing, armor, or even a bird that sits on your shoulder as you decapitate 
 your enemies. This game isn't hard, just long. I am a fan of the series, and therefore will buy 
 any new editions. It does provide some realistic ninja moves and action. The AI isn't the smartest 
 either.
  
  The best part of the game is the way or manner you neutralize your enemies. Everything from blow 
 dart guns, explosive mines, straight out combat to amazing stealth kills only described as oooooo 
 
  
  I gave this game a 8.5 because I love the series, but I would recommend anyone to rent before own. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Mataeus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  Okay, so lets get the bad out of the way first: The graphics are very substandard. Apart from a 
 bit of bump-mapping and some pointless refelections, this has 'budget title' written all over it. 
 It looks like a mid-life Playstation 2 game. Also the AI - It's awful. Oh yes. Tenchu's AI has 
 always been rubbish right from the very first one, and it HAS NOT CHANGED ONE BIT since the very 
 first release. Enemies will still see a corpse of their supposed comrade-in-honour and buddy, only 
 to stand on the spot, rotate a bit and then go back to what they were doing. (Ie, getting sliced 
 to bits on the edge of your sword) . A lot of levels are very simliar as well, as are objectives, 
 which will grind for some people. However, I personally consider this to be a good point as far 
 as Tenchu is concerned because my favourite element is the core gameplay - Using the grappling 
 hook to get to the roof tops, jumping down and splitting a guards neck with your sword with a manga-style 
 overload of blood and suitable WhhhuCHING sword sound effect. Thankfully, apart from the odd level 
 in a mine or cave, this is what you get. THE GOOD: Dozens of levels set in mansions, villages and 
 temples where you find a suitable vantage point to survey your surroundings, watch the paths of 
 the nearby enemies to see when it is safe to strike, and then leap down, stab the guard through 
 the top of the head, dispose of the corpse and swiftly take back to the roof tops before his buddy 
 notices. (I like to play for hi-score and getting the best rating, so even though his buddy seeing 
 the corpse wouldn't really affect the mission it would put him on alert and reduce my rating, so 
 it pays to play it properly and hide the bloody corpse) .
  
  This is where the game is really, really fun: The actual killing. There are many reasons to kill: 
 to get a high rating, to get a hi-score, to get more money at the end of the mission for buying 
 clothing and abilities, and for achievements: 20 kills, 50, 100, 300, 700 and 1000 kills with an 
 echievement for each milestone. There's also one guy on each level that wears a big straw 'Raiden' 
 hat, if you kill him there's milestone achievements there too.
  
  The mission objectives are usually assassination ones too, which is plenty of fun as you can now 
 take down bossess with stealth kills, although you get more points and a higher rating for facing 
 him head on with honour.
  There are plenty of different stelath kills to perform, from the front, back and side, down from 
 above, up from below, with bow and arrow and blowpipe, from the other side of those Japanese sliding 
 doors (Watching for the sillhouette and sticking him with your sword, then pulling him through 
 the door bringing it crashing down on top of him in a shower of over-the-top blood is very cool) , 
 pressing up against a wall then grabbing the guy from round the corner and pressing him against 
 the wall pinning him with your sword is great too!
  
  Overall, the game looks average (but well enough to play for sure) , the music is alright, sound 
 effects and ambient effects are basically nil but the stelath killing is excellent, very fun, great 
 to replay levels to try and get the quickest time with all enemies killed. People who have never 
 liked the series will not find anything here, but for fans it does exactly what you want it to. 
 Nothing has changed since day one for sure, but that's not a bad thing here. Considered as a remake 
 of the original Tenchu, you will be hard pressed to find a better game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalipekona
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Review of Tenchu Z In this review of Tenchu Z I plan to analyze the game in depth, discuss the 
 new features -- what works and what doesnt, and point out the areas in which the game succeeds and 
 the areas that need some improvement. But in order to give proper context to my review of this 
 game I also plan to trace an outline of the history and development of the Tenchu franchise as 
 a whole and to compare it with other franchises in the stealth/action genre to see how it stacks 
 up.
  
  Tenchu Z is the fifth major game in the series, not counting games that appeared on portable systems 
 nor games comprised of user-created missions. As with the build-up to the release of the past few 
 games in the series, Tenchu fans have waited with bated breath to see if this newest iteration 
 would provide the evolution in gameplay and presentation that might finally fulfill the promise 
 and potential inherent in the Tenchu concept. So whats the word? Well, Tenchu Z, like the past 
 few games in the series, is a bit of a mixed bag. Now, lets move on to see why.
  
  Back in 1998 when the original Tenchu: Stealth Assassins first came on the scene, the stealth/action 
 genre was in its infancy. In fact, Stealth Assassins, which released some months before Metal Gear 
 Solid, could be said to have kick started the modern stealth/action genre. It was, in any case, 
 the first of its kind, and in many of our minds, the best game of its time. However, over the years 
 the stealth/action genre has evolved and seen many exciting innovations in titles such as Splinter 
 Cell, Metal Gear Solid, Thief, and The Chronicles of Riddick. Yet the Tenchu franchise has stubbornly 
 refused to sufficiently update itself to keep pace. Indeed, it wouldnt be stretching the truth 
 too far to say that in terms of core game-play mechanics, Tenchu Z is the very same game we were 
 playing back in 1998 with Tenchu: Stealth Assassins. Sure, the series has seen a few tweaks or 
 additions here and there, but none of them has amounted to anything earth-shattering or anything 
 that significantly improved the core gameplay.
  
  Tenchu 2: Birth of the Stealth Assassins seemed off to a good start, as far as sequels go, when 
 it introduced an all new mission editor mode, a third playable character, a richer storyline, new 
 items, weapons, stealth kill techniques; and new abilities such as dragging bodies, swimming, and 
 sheathing your sword. Although some fans did not appreciate the more cartoon-like visuals, sparser 
 music and poorer character animations as compared to the original, overall the game was well received 
 by fans and critics alike.
  
  Tenchu: Wrath of Heaven, which marked the series debut on the more powerful Playstation 2 and 
 was the first title to be handled by Japanese developer K2, took away as many features as it added. 
 Gone were abilities such as dragging and searching bodies, swimming, and sheathing your sword. 
 Gone too was the beloved mission editor mode. In place of those features we received a new third 
 playable character, new unlockable abilities (awarded through the new Kanji stealth kill award 
 system) , and a primitive multiplayer mode. This game received notably lower scores from professional 
 game reviewers than its predecessors and marked the beginning of many fans disillusionment with 
 the franchise. Many complained the plot was shallow and poorly executed, the levels too linear 
 and the enemies too brain-dead. All in all, people just expected more evolution in gameplay and 
 graphics from the third game in the series, especially since it had made the jump to the next generation 
 of hardware. However, despite these flaws most fans came to embrace and enjoy Wrath of Heaven for 
 what it was, allowing it to eventually establish its place in the canon of Tenchu lore. Fans wanted 
 more though and we werent afraid to ask for it. On the Tenchu community forums we worked even 
 more fervently on the new wish-list of what we wanted to see in the next Tenchu game and we waited 
 to see if our wishes would come true. Tenchu: Fatal Shadows, titled Tenchu: Kurenai in Japan, came 
 to market approximately 2 years after Wrath of Heaven and saw the return of abilities such as swimming 
 and concealing bodies. It also introduced the double stealth kill technique and a new scroll reward 
 system that granted new special abilities for cumulative successful stealth kills. Most surprisingly, 
 for the first time since the original game, there were only two playable characters to choose from, 
 and Rikimaru wasnt one of them. K2 also did away with the multi-player modes. While it wasnt 
 the game that we were hoping for, it was at least a small improvement over Wrath of Heaven. The 
 unlockable costumes, items, and abilities enhanced the games replayability, while the retooled 
 A. I., which ranked as the second hardest enemy A. I. after the original Stealth Assassins, made 
 the game more challenging and fun. And the narrative, which revolved around Ayame and newcomer 
 Rin, had a more dramatic tone and was refreshingly well done. Nevertheless, the game received even 
 lower scores than its predecessor and many reviewers cited the series lack of evolution as a major 
 weakness. Looking back we see the basic pattern the developers have followed, in which specific 
 characters, abilities, items and weapons have been variously added and/or removed with each new 
 title in the series. In fact, when it comes to changing up ancillary elements from game to game 
 within a series, K2 has done a much better job with Tenchu than many other developers have with 
 other franchises.
  However, while creating new characters, items, weapons and abilities does help to keep a series 
 fresh and add to its longevity, those elements wont have their maximum impact unless there is 
 similar evolution and innovation applied to the core gameplay mechanics. After all, what use is 
 a new item or ability when I am able to kill every enemy on the map, without using a single item 
 or special ability, simply by waiting for the enemy characters to turn their backs, then running 
 full speed up behind them and sliding my sword across their throats? Put another way, why should 
 I care about an invisibility spell or a special ceiling clinging ability when enemy characters 
 have a hard enough time seeing me as it is? If K2 want players to really get excited about new 
 items and abilities they must create gameplay scenarios and sufficiently sophisticated A. I. that 
 will force players to employ those items or techniques in order to survive. That said, K2 have 
 done a great job in many areas and these strength should be recognized and commended. To begin 
 with, the artists and level designers at K2 have consistently done an amazing job creating an absorbing 
 setting and an entrancing atmosphere which drip with the mysticism of ancient feudal Japanese lore. 
 The high degree of architectural and environmental beauty along with little everyday details of 
 the era, such as paper lanterns, wall scrolls, rakes, etc, really go a long way to help you become 
 lost in Tenchus world.
  
  Also noteworthy are the character designs which are stylish and convey the aura and personality 
 of each character. K2's character animations while not as believable or fluid as the motion-captured 
 movements of the first game, are also quite good. Perhaps a little more realism and less anime 
 style would be nice, but overall they have done a wonderful job in these areas. Lastly, K2 have 
 done a very good job of making their games with an eye toward longevity. The Tenchu games developed 
 by K2 have been chock full of unlockable special abilities, items, new costumes, multiple difficulty 
 levels and enemy layouts, selectable English, Japanese, or B-side language tracks, and all new 
 playable characters. Options like these help to make us want to go back and play the games over 
 again.
  
  These are the strengths of the K2 development team, which along with the strength of the original 
 gameplay concept and unique setting, have managed to keep the Tenchu franchise alive, despite fierce 
 competition from stealth/action newcomers. And so now we arrive at the newest chapter in the continuing 
 Tenchu saga: Tenchu Z. Released as Tenchu Senran in Japan, Tenchu Z marks the first appearance 
 of the series on next-gen consoles.
  And as with the past few games in the series, the first question on many fans minds will likely 
 be: have the developers finally fixed those glaring A. I. deficiencies and evolved the gameplay 
 and presentation to once and for all actualize the potential inherent in the franchise? Well... 
 yes and no. But mostly no. As I said in the beginning of this review, Tenchu Z is a mixed bag. 
 The developers have managed to fix many long-standing problems and to introduce a few truly novel 
 concepts, but many old deficiencies remain and the core gameplay mechanic has not been updated 
 in any significant way.
  
  Perhaps the biggest departure Tenchu Z offers from its predecessors is in the new character creation 
 mode. This feature allows you to create your own character by choosing from among a number of preset 
 faces and then applying different hair, hair color, clothes, masks and other accessories. The choices 
 are somewhat limited in the beginning and it would have been nicer if you could actually shape 
 the face (a la Elder Scrolls 4) , but this aspect of the game does end up being quite fun and addictive. 
 The cool thing about it also is that you are able to change everything except your characters 
 face before each level. So that, if you want to, your character never has to look the same for 
 any two levels. I had a lot of fun designing the look of my ninja to coincide with the design and 
 atmosphere of each level. For example, in dark nighttime missions I would often dress him/her all 
 in black, from head to toe. And in daytime levels with earthy color tones I would often choose 
 lighter colors and a more natural look for my character. However, this character customization 
 mode is impressively more than just skin deep. It also allows you to customize your characters 
 physical abilities by assigning different moves to the basic button combinations as well as choosing 
 among various secret arts and special skills.
  
  One disappointment I did have about this feature is the fact that although you initially create 
 both a male and a female character, you are only able to play through the missions as one or the 
 other. The second character you create only shows up from time to time in the brief cutscenes after 
 missions. Why not allow us to select between our two characters before taking on a mission? It 
 seems like it would have been an easy feature to add and would have helped to relieve the monotony 
 of playing through 50+ similar missions.
  
  All in all though, this is easily the best new feature to have been added and should definitely 
 be included in the next Tenchu. In fact, a good idea might be to continue with the story of Ayame 
 and Rikimaru as playable characters, which fans have been hungering for, but let the third playable 
 character be an Azuma ninja of the players invention. This would provide the best of both worlds: 
 a deep story with characters we know and love along with the creative freedom that a character 
 creation mode offers. But as exciting as designing my own character was, I was almost equally impressed 
 by the improvements I found in the areas of control and camera. Simply put, the camera system is 
 now nearly flawless and the character control has been dramatically improved in all areas. The 
 camera can now move fluidly 360 degrees around your character at any moment, similar to the camera 
 in Splinter Cell, so you wont find yourself having to reposition your character or use the first 
 person view as often. In the beginning it felt strange pressing in and using the right analog stick 
 for the first person view since I was used to pushing in the left bumper and using the left analog 
 stick to look around, but after a short while I realized that the new arrangement is much easier 
 and more intuitive. I also really like the fact that if you move in a crouch to the edge of a ledge 
 or roof your character will now look over the edge and the camera will move to show you what is 
 immediately below you. Nice touch. In the many hours I have played the game so far I dont remember 
 getting frustrated with the camera even once, which is a huge accomplishment and the way every 
 camera system ideally should be.
  
  Likewise, control is a huge step up from previous Tenchus. The ease with which you can go from 
 crawling under an outhouse to zipping with your grappling hook to the roof of a castle is exhilarating. 
 Your character now runs at a faster clip and actually seems to possess momentum --as for example, 
 when you perform a sudden crouch in the middle of a sprint and your character slides a short distance 
 before coming to a halt. And when your character is crouched it actually looks like he means to 
 keep out of sight, instead of that silly half-crouch that Rikimaru performed in Wrath of Heaven. 
 Moving in a crouch is, as you would expect, slower than walking or running, but it is not frustratingly 
 so. Another improvement is the fact that your character will now automatically climb over low obstacles, 
 which feels a lot more natural than having to perform a major jump to traverse something so minor. 
 Thankfully, K2 were wise enough to get rid of that annoying double jump from past games, which 
 was so unrealistic. This time you have a very believable normal jump, in addition to a special 
 somersaulting high jump and a half-turning moonsault. You can also do a reverse flip maneuver while 
 hanging from a wall or ledge. I did experienced a few minor control issues, such as my character 
 sometimes failing to climb into crawlspaces despite crouching in front of them and pushing forward 
 (as you are supposed to do) or the fact that I would sometimes seem to get stuck for a moment if 
 I remained crouched as I came around the corner of certain structures. Nevertheless, the sense 
 of freedom of movement you get while playing Tenchu Z has been appreciably amplified above and 
 beyond what was already one of the Tenchu series greatest strengths. Few other games give you 
 this degree of control over your character relative to the environment and K2 should definitely 
 work to enhance this aspect even further in the next game. The character animations are, for the 
 most part, quite decent. The basic animations of running, walking, crouching, and hanging are all 
 somewhat improved over the past few games and most of the combat movements look fairly decent as 
 well. However, some of the animations do look a little jerky and a few of the stealth kill animations 
 like the hanging stealth kill and ceiling stealth kill need some work. And enemy characters still 
 sometimes slide around as if they were ice skating, similar to past games. I feel that the original 
 Stealth Assassins still has the best animation of the bunch. Most of the animations for that first 
 game were accomplished through motion capture of real martial artists such as Sho Kosugi and his 
 son Kane Kosugi. This made the character movements very realistic and imbued the game with a certain 
 aura of authenticity and believability which in turn helped to make the game more immersive. I 
 hope that K2 will consider using motion capture of real martial artists for any future Tenchu games. 
 Many people have said that the graphics in Tenchu Z are poor but I think a more accurate description 
 would be uneven. The graphics, like the game itself, are inconsistent. On one hand the graphics 
 are clean and run at a fairly solid frame rate but on the other hand many textures are flat and 
 blurry. And some things simply look rushed. For example, the front rectangular edge of many roofs 
 has flat art depicting the ends of the bamboo poles making up the roof instead of being comprised 
 of actual geometry. And in some cases the circles on the front dont even match up to the lengths 
 of poles above them. Similar examples are, unfortunately, not too rare. Some textures do show off 
 nice detail and bump mapping, but many other textures are devoid of detail. And some of the bump 
 mapping is poorly done, resulting in objects that look like they were made of plastic. There are 
 places in the game that will inspire you to think this looks kind of nice, yet in other places 
 you will find yourself thinking that just looks horrible. This inconsistency is sometimes jarring. 
 Also marring the presentation are simple technical issues that you cant help but feel should have 
 been fixed. For example, when you are crawling under a building you often see the shadows cast 
 by enemy characters inside the building appear on the ground beneath the building when they should 
 have been stopped by the solid wood floor above you. Another example is when you are in a room 
 with a single candle in the center of the room as the sole source of light, yet your shadow fails 
 to angle away from the candle as nature would dictate but instead falls at the same angle it would 
 fall at if you were outside under the light of the full moon. The shadows behave in several other 
 similarly odd ways that I wont bother to list. Then there is the fact that if you look at the 
 feet of your character while he/she is crouching you will notice that he/she is actually floating 
 a few inches off the ground. Curious... I never knew that levitation was among the abilities of 
 the ninja, or that if it were, they would use it so constantly. And K2 still havent managed to 
 match the position of the characters hands to a slanted roof or their feet to a sloped surface. 
 Clipping hasnt been completely conquered either. For example, while performing a stealth kill 
 through the shoji (rice paper wall/door) , the shoji and the enemy come crashing outward and the 
 shoji in many cases will partially pass through you. While these technical issues dont ruin the 
 game, they do tend to take you out of it for a moment.
  
  The biggest disappointment on the graphical front, at least from my point of view, is the lack 
 of dynamic real-time lighting. I was sure that if stealth/action games like Splinter Cell, Thief, 
 or The Chronicles of Riddick could pull it off last generation then my beloved Tenchu series would 
 surely be able to accomplish it on the new generation of hardware. And when I realized that huge, 
 sprawling RPGs like Elder Scrolls 4 and Mass Effect were now implementing real-time lighting I 
 became even more convinced that a stealth game like Tenchu (whose entire concept is that of shadow 
 warriors who use the shadows to conceal themselves) would most definitely be doing it this time. 
 It turns out I was wrong. What were K2 thinking?
  
  Yes, one must admit, the lighting in Tenchu Z has been improved. After all, our character now 
 admirably casts a shadow of himself instead of a circle or blob. And the specular lighting on characters 
 and objects near certain light sources is now more subtle and realistic. Light beams also look 
 more natural and diffused. And... oh yeah, we cant forget... now there are also shadows painted 
 on the landscape. But before you get too excited, notice the word painted. Thats right, all the 
 shadows in Tenchu Z (except for character shadows) are merely art drawn onto the textures of each 
 level, they are not dynamic or interactive in any way. For example, when you see the shadow of 
 a tree stretching out along the ground and you cross through it, you might expect that the shadow 
 would fall across your characters body, darkening him. But apparently youd be expecting too much 
 --the trees shadow stays right there on the ground under your character, as if you didnt exist. 
 And forget trying to extinguish light sources as you are able to do in other stealth/action games, 
 it doesnt work. In an era when games in nearly every genre have now taken to using real-time lighting, 
 the absence of it in a slow-paced stealth game dealing with ninjas is perplexing. Especially considering 
 that all the other upcoming stealth/action games, like Metal Gear Solid 4, Splinter Cell Conviction, 
 and Assassins Creed have extremely advanced dynamic real-time lighting. A game like Tenchu is an 
 absolute perfect candidate for real-time lighting and few games could benefit more from its implementation. 
 First, and perhaps most importantly, dynamic lighting would enhance and expand the core stealth 
 mechanics in a powerful yet entirely organic and intuitive manner. The light meter introduced in 
 Tenchu Z is a step in the right direction but since the shadows are simply art painted onto the 
 game world, the player is never really sure if they are in the shadows until their light meter 
 tells them so. Many times, an area that visually looks to be well-shadowed will not result in the 
 expected drop in visibility according to the light meter. This sort of incongruity between the 
 perceived amount of light and your characters actual degree of concealment makes it difficult 
 to reliably use the shadows as a means of staying hidden. As a result most players will likely 
 rely mostly on structural occlusion (i. e. keeping some structure between themself and their enemys 
 line of sight) to keep their character concealed. The use of real-time lighting would be the ideal 
 solution to this problem and would at the same time open up many other gameplay possibilities. 
 A few examples might be the ability to dynamically alter the amount of light in an area to your 
 advantage (and your enemies disadvantage) or the ability of an enemy ninja to hide himself in the 
 pitch black of a shadowy recess with the hope of ambushing you. It would also effectively put an 
 end to the jarring shadow glitches I described earlier. Furthermore, real-time lighting would be 
 the perfect way to limit visibility. Yes, you heard that right, limit visibility. Although you 
 might not be aware of its effect on a conscious level, I have always felt that the limited visibility 
 in Stealth Assassins was an important part of why we all enjoyed that first game so much. For a 
 while after the release of Wrath of Heaven I couldnt put my finger on why its gameplay felt so 
 lifeless and uninspired compared to the gameplay in Stealth Assassins. After all, the gameplay 
 mechanics in the two games are essentially the same. Then it hit me. Wrath of Heaven lacked the 
 sense of tension that its predecessor possessed. It was obvious that the weaker enemy A. I. and 
 more linear level design was partly to blame but I also came to realize that part of the reason 
 for the lack of tension in Wrath of Heaven was due to the fact that I could now see nearly every 
 enemy on the map long before I even had to approach them. The draw-distance had become so long 
 and the levels so well-lit that the tension that comes from possible surprise encounters with hidden 
 enemies had been virtually removed. This was a fatal omission, given that stealth games thrive 
 on their ability to create tension. A palpable fear of the enemy and the adrenaline rush that comes 
 from being forced to use strategy and stealth to overcome what feel like overwhelming odds is what 
 stealth games are all about. The absence of this vital ingredient tends to result in players becoming 
 very bored. So although it might seem like a step backwards to some of you, I sincerely believe 
 that the developers must limit in-game visibility in order to help make the gameplay more intense 
 and exciting. As I said, real-time lighting would be the ideal way to achieve this. But environmental 
 effects such as rain, snow, fog, and foliage could also be used to achieve the same result. Scanning 
 out over an area from a high vantage point it should be possible to see a few enemies in the well-lit 
 areas (even if they are far away) but there should also be some very dark areas on the map into 
 which the player cannot see (at least not from that vantage point) . Later, as the ninja protagonist 
 enters into those shadowy recesses his vision could automatically adjust to a sort of ninja night 
 vision which would cause the shadows to brighten somewhat, allowing the player to see and maneuver 
 in those darker areas.
  
  As a side-benefit, real-time lighting would add a whole new layer of depth and beauty to the landscape 
 and would supercharge the atmosphere with a sense of palpability and realism. Real-time lighting 
 always makes a game-world feel more believable and alive, and I am convinced that such effects 
 would be especially pronounced in a game like Tenchu. The mystical Japanese setting with its stunning 
 environmental beauty, exotic architecture, and delicate natural lighting, just begs to be illuminated 
 by a dynamic light and shadow system. Moving on, the sound in Tenchu Z is a step backward for the 
 series. Aside from the opening theme song, the music is sparse and mostly uninspired. The in-level 
 music is mostly comprised of short snippets of generic sounding Japanese melodies and drums that 
 repeat at timed intervals over the course of the level. Not horrible by any means, but definitely 
 not anything special. I m not sure who composed the music for Tenchu Z but I am pretty sure it 
 wasnt Noriyuki Asakura. He might have had something to do with the opening theme song, since that 
 one does have his style, but I am fairly certain he didnt compose the in-game soundrack. His music 
 has always been a highlight of the Tenchu series and I really felt its absence in this game. We 
 can only pray that it will make a return for the next game. I was also disappointed to find out 
 that the only language option in Tenchu Z is the original Japanese. They didnt even bother to 
 do an English dub this time, as was traditionally done for past games in the series. And no subtitles 
 are provided for the dialogue during missions, so most non-Japanese will unfortunately not be able 
 to understand the chatter between guards, for example. Despite the fact that I speak quite a bit 
 of Japanese and have always enjoyed the Japanese language tracks in the past games, I missed the 
 option to play through the game in English. I also felt the sound effects in the game could use 
 some improvement. Many of the effects sound chintzy and unrealistic, like they were pulled from 
 a bad anime movie. And I dont understand why our ninja protagonist sounds like a lead-footed buffoon 
 while running up behind an enemy, instead of a light-footed stealth assassin. Surely, even a one-eared 
 guard could hear somebody running up behind them making so much noise. I hope that the developers 
 will strive for more realism in their sound designs for future Tenchu games. But no matter how 
 much Tenchu Z stumbles in the aforementioned areas, none of it comes close to the mess that is 
 the Gameplay. Yes, yes, a few improvements have been made here and there, but the game inexplicably 
 also takes a few steps backward in some areas. Many of the old deficiencies also remain and the 
 majority of the added abilities only serve to make the gameplay more unbalanced. The over-arching 
 problem affecting the game is that the gameplay has still not evolved in any appreciable way beyond 
 that which was found in previous titles in the series. As noted before, Tenchu Z has fundamentally 
 the same gameplay as the very first Tenchu title, which was released two console-generations ago. 
 Only... its not even as fun as that first game. So essentially, what we have in Tenchu Z is a ten-year-old 
 game mechanic wrapped in a new coat of paint. Most competing franchises, on the other hand, have 
 seen significant evolution over the years. For example, the gameplay sophistication in Metal Gear 
 Solid 4 is light-years beyond what we experienced in the original Metal Gear Solid on PS1. Why 
 cant we see a similar evolution in the Tenchu franchise?
  
  Lets start with the enemy A. I., since that has been an area of weakness in all the K2 developed 
 Tenchu games. Whats hard for me to fathom is the fact that not only has the A. I. failed to evolve 
 for Tenchu Z, but it isnt even as good as the A. I. found in the decade-old Stealth Assassins. 
 And it certainly is nowhere near as good as the A. I. in games like Splinter Cell, Metal Gear Solid 
 or The Chronicles of Riddick. The basic problem with the A. I. in Tenchu Z is that the enemies are 
 a bunch of mindless automatons who follow a set routine in which they pace incessantly in an empty 
 room or stare blankly at a wall. Enemy patrol patterns should not be so predictable or inane. And 
 for supposedly being samurai and ninja the enemies in this game sure arent very observant. I can 
 be standing on a roof in plain daylight a mere 10 feet up and enemy sentries will fail to see me. 
 And they dont seem to be bothered by the shadow I cast down from the roof onto the ground in front 
 of them, since even then they dont look up onto the roof to see what might be causing the shadow. 
 When they do see something (but havent identified you as an intruder) they now go to investigate, 
 as we had been asking for. But they only walk to the spot where they last saw you and kind of glance 
 around while standing in place, then run back to the spot they were at before. This means all I 
 have to do to avoid being detected is to go around a corner or crouch behind some nearby object 
 and I can be sure that the enemy guard will not even bother to check these obvious hiding places. 
 Now contrast that behavior with the enemy behavior in Splinter Cell Chaos Theory, in which guards 
 break out flares to do a search of the entire surrounding area if they think they see something. 
 This latter behavior makes things more exciting since it forces you to work to conceal yourself 
 and gives you an adrenaline rush as you hide there, hoping that you are not discovered. It also 
 gives you more incentive to try not to be seen in the first place.
  
  Once you are spotted and identified as an intruder you are forced to either fight or flee. But 
 neither choice is really all that fun. If I choose to fight, I quickly realize that the fighting 
 mechanics are rather shallow and the enemy guards too easy to defeat. Besides, I wont get as high 
 a score for killing them in combat as I would if I stealth-killed them. So I run. But I soon discover 
 that the enemy has the habit of giving me a large head-start before taking up the chase and that 
 because of their short attention spans they will quickly give up if I simply slip around a corner 
 or into the next room. Somehow the common sense idea of checking the other side of a wall that 
 they just saw me run behind is too much for these brain-dead foes. So the chase, which could have 
 been one of the most intense and exciting aspects of the game, ends up offering a little fun only 
 because it allow us one more opportunity to laugh at the comical ineptness of the enemy A. I. Contrast 
 this with the A. I. chase mechanics in Assassins Creed where enemy soldiers will climb up onto buildings 
 and pursue you across the rooftops over a large section of the city, only giving up their search 
 when they have completely lost your position. Now, we dont need the exact same mechanic in Tenchu, 
 but losing pursuing enemies has got to be harder than just stepping around a corner. The use of 
 certain special hiding techniques should be necessary in some situations, for example. At minimum, 
 we need to see enemies that can climb onto roofs, use sensible search tactics, and wont give up 
 the chase so easily. Once enemies have given up on chasing you they should not go back to whistling 
 and being oblivious, as happens in Tenchu Z. The result of this defect is that you never really 
 feel penalized for being seen. Sure, you lose a little bit of gold each time you are spotted but 
 since you are able to hide so easily and have everything go back to normal so quickly, you almost 
 always have the opportunity to stealth-kill more enemies later on to make up for it. What should 
 happen instead is that once you are spotted the enemies in that section of town should enter into 
 a heightened state of awareness and caution (or at least the particular guard or guards that saw 
 you) and this should result in them becoming more observant and unpredictable. They should now 
 actively search the rooftops with their eyes, point their lanterns into shadows, and be more erratic 
 in their movements and patrols. These behaviors would make it harder for you to move undetected 
 or to accomplish a stealth-kill, and would thus provide a natural penalty for your earlier misstep. 
 New to the Tenchu gameplay mechanic is a sound meter, which is similar to the one in Splinter Cell, 
 and as its name implies, measures the amount of sound you are making. But while interesting in 
 theory, the reality is somewhat less exciting. Unlike the meter in Splinter Cell, this gauge does 
 not measure the amount of ambient noise in an area, it only registers the amount of noise your 
 character is making. This is really not that useful since we hear the sound at the same time we 
 see the gauge go up and never really know how much noise will alert an enemy. We know for example 
 that drawing our sword while close to an enemy will cause an enemy to become alerted, which is 
 a nice feature, but we have to estimate the distance at which that will occur based on our previous 
 trial and error experience. And while it is nice that enemies respond to sound, the feature isnt 
 nearly as valuable as it could be since the enemies dont really do anything when they hear something. 
 When you make a sound near an enemy, for example, he will simply slowly turn around, stay aware 
 for a few seconds and then go on about his business. Most of the time this happens you will already 
 be hidden from view and so it doesnt put you in any danger. The same goes for the enemies new 
 olfactory abilities. Yes, they can now smell you after you have fallen in a cesspool or if you 
 are covered in blood but all that means is that the enemy will stop and sniff the air for a few 
 seconds and then continue on his predetermined path. Aside from dogs, who will attempt to sniff 
 you out, this almost never puts you in any added danger. In the case of both sound detection and 
 smell detection, it would have been much better if it had included enemies that would search the 
 immediate area for the cause of the sound or smell. Another aspect of the gameplay that I found 
 to be a disappointment was the near lack of boss fights. I sorely missed the encounters with powerful 
 bosses that we were frequently forced into during missions in past games. Tenchu Z only offers 
 a few boss encounters and even those really arent up to the standard of past games. Many levels 
 in Tenchu Z conclude with you assassinating a target. But I was disappointed to find out that if 
 I chose to fight that final enemy head-on he or she turned out to be no more powerful than any 
 other low ranked sentry. What a let-down.
  
  Overall I felt Tenchu Z was way too easy, even on the very hardest difficulty setting. I had no 
 problem consistently getting the Ninja 5 ranking, which really took away a lot of fun and challenge 
 from the game. Past games (especially Stealth Assassins) had me coming back year after year because 
 they kept me constantly trying to improve myself. In the time since I have beaten Tenchu Z I have 
 rarely felt motivated to return to the game. If the levels offered barely any challenge the first 
 time I played through them what challenge could they give me after having honed my skills through 
 dozens of hours of play?
  
  So finally, to sum up this gargantuan review I would have to admit that Tenchu Z has to a large 
 degree been a let-down. The overarching story is sparse and unmoving, the AI laughable, and the 
 gameplay broken and repetitive. The graphics and sound are also nothing to write home about. I 
 cant fathom the lack of real-time lighting and I miss the inspired music of past Tenchu games. 
 And yet Tenchu Z still somehow offers enough fresh new ideas to keep it from being a complete disappointment. 
 The character creation and customization features are greatly appreciated new additions and I think 
 some fans will get a decent amount of enjoyment from the new 4-player cooperative online mode. 
 For people new to the series, I would recommend this game as a rental first. Seasoned veterans 
 I think should definitely experience Tenchu Z, despite it flaws. I only hope that K2 will listen 
 to our criticisms and make some serious improvements to the next Tenchu game or I fear that Tenchu 
 will not be able to survive much longer as a franchise. That would truly be a great loss for the 
 world, since Tenchu is still the only game in town when it comes to authentic ninja stealth action. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wh1te_m4trix
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Okay, first of all I wont place any spoilers in this review since I am perfectly aware some people 
 haven't played it yet. So feel free to read all.
  
  Ok so first of all the game is pretty long, and 50 missions might seem like a huge variety but 
 after the 10th mission or so the maps start repeating over and over, and there isn't much difference 
 in objectives since they all involve killing ( which might be good in some occasions ) . Some objectives 
 include: searching and acquiring a certain item in the map, Slaughtering everything in sight, killing 
 a certain enemy (boss) , or following a certain person ( might get frustrating on certain difficulties 
 ) . The game has 3 difficulties: Easy, Normal and Hard. If its you're first game of Tenchu the you 
 might obviously want to go for easy until you get used to it all ( it has an incredibly fast learning 
 curve ) . This game has full customization of the character, you can choose either male or female. 
 Also theres a big variety of items but you'll rarely get to use them. As you progress on the game 
 you will be gaining certain skills, etc. in the shop. Most of them are useless, mostly depends 
 on your type of gameplay, if you like to be stealthy you might obviously want to go for skills 
 that affect your visibility or noise effects. If you prefer Fighting your way trough the mission 
 ( not suggested ) then you might want to go for skills that affect your strength and durability. 
 As I pointed before it just depends on your type of gameplay.
  
  The game features support for 4 player co-op on xbox live, sadly it doesn't have any split screen 
 co-op support. It makes up for a fun experience, yet the servers are quite laggy most of the times. 
 So you might just want to try multiplayer to make more money.
  
  Graphics are kinda out-dated since it looks like a newly released last-gen game. Sometimes when 
 you drop enemies in the floor they're heads go trough the wall and stuff.
  
  Gameplay is where Tenchu Z excels the most, sure, it might be repetitive, but the game grows on 
 you after you gain certain skills later on in the game.
  
  Sound is pretty average, music fits the environment and the blood squirting sounds are quite up 
 to date.
  
  Once Again, Hope this review helped and well hope you guys liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimD04
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 6, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of customisation. Seriously. Anything with the ability to fine-tune, dress up or otherwise 
 play dolls with your character, vehicle or what-have-you is an instant lure for me. Chromehounds, 
 Armoured Core 4 and so on are obvious choices for me. I even considered playing Need for Speed 
 Carbon since it supposedly has unprecedented car customisation. And I don't even like racing games!
 
  
  So you can imagine the scene: I see the advert for Tenchu Z: a ninja game with stealthy killing, 
 and you can dress up your ninja. But wait, there's more! You can fine-tune your ninja too. Make 
 'em strong, fast or tough, or any combination thereof. To top it off, there's brand-new ways to 
 dispatch your foes including shoji killings, killing while hanging from ledges and from around 
 corners and even killing clusters of enemies who are in close proximity in rapid succession. All 
 in Next Gen graphics!
  
  And what's this I hear? It has a story, 50 missions and even a custom partner who plays along with 
 you in the story? Say no more. Maybe I should have known it would be too good to be true. It's 
 not like Tenchu has a track record of originality.
  
  You play a custom-designed ninja, male or female. Your partner goes the opposite sex. My first 
 disappointment was the apparent lack of options when it came to clothing. Of course I rationalised 
 it away with I'll get more as the game progresses. Your character is a 'silent protagonist' like 
 Ryu from the Breath of Fire games. Ayame is nowhere to be seen and Rikimaru is limited only to 
 handing out your missions. This was one of the departures I was looking forward to: All the previous 
 games from the second game onwards were boring clones with different stories (which, admittedly, 
 were fairly good) . With a clean character, it is truly possible for me to assume my role, and not 
 simply sit back and watch Rikimaru or Ayame follow a plot.
  
  Between missions, you are in the ninja 'village' (a village is two huts and a camp fire? Really?) 
 where you can either visit the hut which contains items, clothes and abilites to buy, or Rikimaru's 
 hut where you choose your mission. Once you actually get into the game, things start to go downhill.
 
  
  Each mission is revolves around a set of objectives; kill somone, kill everyone, collect something, 
 collect a bunch of things, meet someone. Fine. But what's wrong here is the setting of the missions. 
 You only get a total of about 10-12 different maps, if that. And you play them repeatedly during 
 the 50 missions. Some missions have the same objective, located in the same place and the only 
 difference being slightly changed guard positions and patrols. What the hell? By the time you get 
 to the big show down with the boss, you've already been to the very room in the very castle he 
 is in five or six times. The missions aren't even that nice-looking. The mission settings are also 
 dull and uninspiring. Bottomless pits sitting in the middle of a garden? Cesspools dotted in seemingly 
 random locations? To make matters worse, the missions are absolutely pathetic in terms of difficulty. 
 Seriously, if you died on anything below hard, you suck. Big time. I played the entire game on 
 hard and only died a few times on the end boss.
  
  But wait, what about the killing? that's the whole point! I hear you say. Well, I admit the killing 
 was fun for a while. You can grab guys from behind and do one of three things: toss them to the 
 floor and snap their neck, toss them against a wall and implae them against it, or just stand there 
 and impale them from behind. Not exactly a wealth of options, but there is tactical considerations 
 here: Tossing them to the floor makes you harder to see and can reduce the risk of being spotted 
 by other guards while dispatching your foe. You can, of course, just kill them the old-fashioned 
 way: approach them in a specific manner with your sword drawn and away you go.
  
  Of course, it would be more satisfying to kill them if they had a semblance of a brain. They're 
 stupid, predictable and require no effort whatsoever to escape from. The only reason you would 
 get into a fight with one is if you actually wanted to fight. They can't see you a foot away in 
 bushes with your head sticking out like a boil on a nose, but if you happen to have them on alert, 
 they will spot your toe a a mile away hidden in a haystack. Tenchu never has had anything but abysmal 
 AI, but come on! You've got the power of Next-Gen! You've had nearly 10 years to get it right! 
 Metal gear solid made an ungodly leap in AI behaviour in a single game and managed to outstrip 
 you only using the PS2! And you're still **** on us with this garbage!
  
  The sound is boring and nothing original. There's no real music except in certain cutscenes. I 
 do like the music played during the intro, but other than that, the sound has advanced very little 
 since the original games. All the voice acting is in Japanese as well, so I can't develop any interest 
 in what's happening.
  
  The graphics are garbage. In comparison to other games being brought out, I wouldn't have guessed 
 I was playing an 360 game.
  
  But what galls me most is the thing I was most anticipating: Customisation.
  
  I admit, there 
 was some good clothing. There was some awe-inspringly stupid clothing like a hot-dog sheath, massive 
 chibi lion heads and stupid looking cutesy fox tails and ears. Some of the accessories were just 
 plain idiotic. Why would your ninja walk around with a dirty great scroll stuck in their mouth? 
 Or a knife? Or pinwheel? Disregarding the truly idiotic clothing, there was in fact a very limited 
 selection of stuff available.
  
  Skill customisation was pretty useless too. The only reason you really need high health is in a 
 few select boss battles. All the rest can be playe through with agility set to max. You can't really 
 customise your fighting style since there are a set few combos that aren't really any different. 
 Your special skills are mostly useless. I don't remember ever actually needing to use 'wall running' 
 or 'eyes' (which allow you to zoom your vision in) or 'badger'. They're cool to use, I admit, especially 
 if you bounce from wal to wall, but that's all; you never actually need any of them.
  
  And I never even bothered checking the items except to take a look once in a while. Apart from 
 a few health powerups here and there, I never needed to use anything. I used a few items for the 
 fun of it a few times but I never really needed anything.
  
  The plot itself was utterly uninteresting. They didn't even try. Your partner is dull, says nothing 
 to pique your interest and is generally a substitute for your own character speaking. There was 
 the sterotypical Japanese 'dark and brooding' villain al la Sephiroth (Christ, they even had a 
 stares at you moodily through flame before turning round and walking away scene that came straight 
 from FF7!) who was the servant of a big, burly nutcase guy. Of course, mister moody turns out to 
 have an ulterior motive and... Oh what's the point? If you watch anime, it's the same recycled 
 stuff they put out in any given anime show.
  
  Why did they bother with a partner? Why bother with customisation? You only see them three or four 
 times. Finally, online was the same missions, only with additional human players. It makes the 
 game go from 'very easy' to 'you'd have to be a Creationist to cock this up'. Your enjoyment of 
 online games depends greatly on wether or not your teammates play along with stealth and assassination. 
 It does add an interesting element: more players = greater opportunity for mistakes and mayhem, 
 adding some unpredictability to the mix that is never there in the main game.
  
  
  I was tempted to put 'Disastrous' as the Classification, but that's too strong a word. It implies 
 a spectacular failing of some kind on the part of the game. But it changes virtually nothing from 
 the previous games. It learned nothing and tried to spice up the same old stuff with ultimately 
 meaningless gimmicks. It even took a step back by including a neutered story.
  
  Rent? Only if its free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the most pleasant gaming surprise for me in years. With mediocre or worse reviews 
 across the board, I thought I knew for sure I was wasting my $34.99 buying a used copy. Lucky for 
 me, I love ninjas.
  
  The graphics are pretty standard, nothing special, but not bad either. If anything it looks like 
 a really nice original Xbox game with some textures that wouldn't be possible previously. Unlike 
 many games of the current generation, I have experienced no technical problems whatsoever. That 
 means no frame rate stutters, reasonable load times, and no object pop in. As for the art design, 
 if you love Japan, or ninjas for that matter, you'll love the visual style of the game, although 
 the scenery does change quite a bit as the game progresses, but I won't ruin that for you.
  
  The sound is perfect for what the game needs. The sound effects work great, and I can't imagine 
 them needing to be any better. The soundtrack itself is very subtle, but can build up at times, 
 creating effective tension as you stalk through the shadows. 
  
  The controls are all responsive enough, and work just fine for taking down your enemies. The character 
 animations are very fluid, and its awesome to go from rooftop to rooftop. This is probably the 
 only ninja game I've ever played to actually use stealth, and trust me, if you don't want to die, 
 you'll use it. The stealth kills are especially awesome, and are always a pleasure to execute. The 
 gore is over the top, making it all the more satisfactory when you kill a target or guard. There's 
 a fair amount of character customization, but its mostly just in looks so it doesn't effect much, 
 and the only item I ever really bought from the shop other than new costumes is med kits. The rest 
 of the items really aren't all that useful.
  
  I have a few problems with this game. The main one being that the combat is pretty stale, and sometimes 
 even irritating when you aren't assassinating someone. My other complaint would be the graphics, 
 I know i said they were fine, but I would like them to be better than fine if you know what I mean.
 
  
  I enjoyed this game a great amount. Just another prime example of why you shouldn't pay that much 
 attention to one single review. I actually find user reviews to be the best indicator on if a game 
 was good or not, because they seem to focus more on if the game was fun, rather than nitpick at 
 technical problems, or if its not revolutionary. That why I wrote this review, I felt that Gamespot 
 wronged this game with a terrible score, and i want people to see another side of it. If you like 
 Japan, Ninjas, or stealth, please at least give this game a rent.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZhugeMarc
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 24, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  Ninjas are cool. This is an almost universally accepted fact of existence, one propagated by the 
 huge internet following the shadowy bringers of death have developed, from sites such as REAL Ultimate 
 Power to the incredibly popular YouTube series Ask A Ninja. So, technically, a game where you get 
 to play a badass ninja must be awesome, right?
  
  Unfortunately, no-one appears to have told this to the developers of the latest iteration of the 
 Tenchu franchise, Tenchu Z. While the opportunity to play as your own custom ninja and stealth 
 around assassinating warlords, smugglers and generally the baddest of the bad in feudal-era Japan 
 is certainly a draw, the gameplay simply doesn't pan out.
  
  The game begins with you utilising a fairly simple customisation tool to create your own ninja 
 and your partner. To begin with, there's very little to choose from, but the options do get larger 
 as the game progresses and you unlock or buy new clothes, accessories, etc. The partner, however, 
 is ultimately pointless, serving only as a small plot device that shows up only in a few sparse 
 cutscenes. Once you've created your dynamic duo, you're dropped into the training level where you'll 
 learn the basics of ninjafying. Basic movement, combat, weapons and abilities such as the stealth 
 kill are covered, and are all fairly easy to pick up. After running through the tutorial, you'll 
 jump to Ninja Village (that's really what it's called) , where you can further customise your character, 
 buy items such as shurikens, and select missions to go on provided by series stalwart Rikimaru.
 
  
  The missions themselves, unfortunately, are rather disappointing. While it may sound impressive 
 to say that the game has 50+ missions, if you're being honest, this really isn't the case. Most 
 missions are just variations on a theme, be it killing a certain someone, rescuing someone, stealing 
 something, or getting through enemy-held territory - all of which, except the first, merely involve 
 getting to a certain place in the level, at which point you'll complete the mission. Many of the 
 missions are also set in the same levels - making for one of the biggest disappointments of the 
 game, for the last level is a level you'll already have played, and the placement of enemies hasn't 
 really changed either. The game also lacks any kind of challenging enemies - most guards can be 
 killed with one and a half to two combos, and stealth kills allow you to do away with them in one 
 solid stab. Of course, it's a perfectly viable solution in most cases to run through the level 
 without stopping until you reach your target and stealth kill them. The only times you'll find 
 yourself up against a challenging enemy is during the boss fights, of which there are a pitiful 
 two - three if you count the last level's two named enemies. These aren't done very well, since 
 actual combat isn't handled with any degree of quality - thus the stealth kill being the much handier 
 way to dispose of enemies - and so the boss fights can tend to be frustrating.
  
  The customisation allows you to make your ninja look fairly cool, but there really isn't that much 
 variety, with a lot of the options simply being colour changes. As for items, while there's a lot 
 of them in the game, they're ultimately pointless, as the only times you might use them are during 
 the aforementioned boss fights. Buying extra skills and combos is also not needed - you can literally 
 get through the game with the basic starting combo. Basically, Tenchu Z feels, for lack of a better 
 term, half-assed. There's not nearly enough variety in missions, the extra abilities, skills and 
 items thrown in are almost complete nonentities, and character customisation is nowhere near as 
 in-depth as you'd like it to be. Add in a stringent plot about drug running and you get a disappointing 
 mess of a game. Spend your money on a copy of original Xbox classic Ninja Gaiden for your ninja 
 ass-kicking fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaos04
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 20, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Besides new and somewhat flashier ways to dispatch enemies, Tenchu Z doesn't really add anything 
 new to the series. For a next gen title, I found it to have more than it's fair share of glitches. 
 The AI in the game also left alot to be desired, and I think the developers could have spent a 
 little more time on map development instead of have you run through the same 7 or so maps multiple 
 times.
  
  The newer stealth kills did allow for some fun engagements but that alone was not enough to overshadow 
 this games many downfalls. Unless you're looking to pad your gamerscore I'd suggest renting this 
 game or borrowing ti from a friend. There are better things that $60 can be spent on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scuza2100
Rating: 1.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  At first, I had high hopes for Tenchu Z. At first, the bloody Stealth Kills were pretty sweet. 
 Then it took a turn for the worst. The number of Stealth Kills was few, and after seeing them a 
 few times each, got extremely boring. The graphics are absolutely dreadful, with very little inspiration. 
 The combat system is... Wait. What combat system? All it is is button-mashing, watching your character 
 do the same moves over and over again. The ranged part of the 'combat system' is ridiculously hard 
 to use, almost never hitting when you need it to. The AI has an I. Q. of about 3, giving up on finding 
 you as soon as you move away. But if they have spotted you, they conveniently look in your direction 
 and find you no matter where you are. The 'stealth' is limited to simple jumping from poorly rendered 
 rooftop, to poorly rendered rooftop, jumping down and killing a guy when he's not looking. Bottom 
 line is, if Tenchu Z was a ninja coming to assassinate you, it would walk up, introduce itself, 
 and ask for permission to do so. Whatever you do, stay away. Far, FAR away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil_P
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  I always like the Tenchu series because it was never about having the top graphics or the most 
 intense story line, it was more about jumping of a roof and sticking a sword somewhere very uncomfortable 
 for some guards, and although this newest addition keeps to that ethic, I was still pretty dissapointed 
 by it.
  
  First of all, the game is too long and repetative. With 50 missions and not as many settings, you 
 are basically doing the same missions over and over. Although the gurads do change thier routes, 
 you get used the levels and will eventually be able to breeze though them with no real thought 
 at all.
  
  Secondly there are far too many missions that have absolutely nothing to do with the storyline. 
 Although these can be good in some cases, such as the missions in which you need to kill everyone 
 on the level, it does make the storyline seem pretty disjointed. By the time your at a level with 
 a cutscene, you've forgotten what happened in the last one. I would also have like to have seen 
 a bit more of Rikimaru from the old games in here, but all he really does is send you on your missions 
 and turn up once or twice in cutscenes. Finally i did like the idea of the ninja customisation 
 option, but with it having no real effect on the game, the points gained from the missions are 
 much better spent on abilities, such as running along walls and dissapearing in puffs of smoke, 
 and the ninja items.
  
  All in all Tenchu Z was still a great fun game. With the usual dramatic and sometimes comical deaths 
 of your enemies, many of which involve them gushing blood about 6-feet into the air, Tenchu Z will 
 keep any long time Tenchu fan entertained. New players to the series however may be very dissapointed 
 by the many technical issued this games seems to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gently616
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu Z is just what Tenchu has always been. No great story line, great running around killing, 
 cheesy blood effects, and all. But the simple fact is that if you don't like ninja games or any 
 of the things above then you will not like this game. I myself love this game because it is so 
 cheesy. The gameplay in the game is a 7 out of 10
  
  The sound and effects i give a 9 out of 10
  
  Graphics i give a 6 out of 10
  
  Still throughout 
 all the killing and blood splattering on the walls and in your face, I'd suggest that you go and 
 pick this game up at a blockbuster before buying it. UNLESS YOUR INTO NINJAS!
  
  gamertag - splatt69 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finalrobo101
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The game does not use the full ability of the Xbox 360 first of all but that's about the worst 
 thing about the game, if any. So much customization and different things t do will keep you entertained 
 for hours. You can add accessories and items to you ninja to make them strong, faster and better. 
 You are under the leadership of you ninja leader who is the leader of the small town in which you 
 live. Over all the game is great and though the multiplayer may lag it is still a great game. I 
 highly recommend it to all my fellow Naruto fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu Z requires you to be the stealthy type of Ninja in a mission-based type of gameplay. You 
 begin by customizing your character and a partner. You can choose the gender, pick from several 
 faces, hair styles and clothing items and name them. The game begins by placing you in a tutorial, 
 so you can get acquainted with all the controls and moves. Sneaking, stealth kills, hiding in the 
 water, using the grappling hook, jumping and understanding how smells can attract enemies to your 
 presence are some of the topics covered in this stage. After the tutorial you can finally access 
 the missions and the items/skills store in the village.
  
  Items in the store become available as you progress or as you find them in the different missions. 
 Before going out on a mission, you can buy some and equip up to six items. You can also change 
 your clothes and accessories to your liking, more will be available for purchase as you complete 
 missions.
  
  You can't explore the village, which is a shame, since it would be nice to talk to people and obtain 
 some side quests, so it basically serves as a connection point between missions. Every time you 
 accept a mission, you are taken to the mission map. Here, you can choose the level of difficulty, 
 and you will also see that you won't have to do all the missions - only a few key ones - to complete 
 the game. However, you will be missing out on a lot of story and a lot of fun.
  
  I was surprised to have found the whole sneaking and assassinating process tons of fun. It really 
 isn't my kind of thing, but it was just cool to see my character drag enemies into the shadows, 
 knock them out or impale them with her sword. Ok, the blood gushing looks pretty cheesy, but my 
 ninja's movements were fun to watch. There's just something about jumping on someone's shoulders 
 with legs crossed around their neck, knocking them down and thrusting a sword through their chest.
 
  
  The missions don't vary much: go here, kill someone, go there, retrieve something. But it's how 
 you do it that makes them all unique. You can be detected by sight, sound and smell. Make too much 
 noise, and even though they can't see you, enemies will know you're there. Fall into a sewer or 
 get covered in blood, and the smell is bound to attract someone and even dogs. Walk in the shadows 
 for less chance of being discovered. You can climb walls, hop on roofs, wait for someone to pass, 
 jump down and kill them silently. You can crawl under certain places, wait for someone to pass 
 and turn around, come out, assassinate them and go back into hiding. You can hide underwater, breathing 
 through a little tube and wait until the danger is gone. And then you can use the grapple hook 
 to go up great heights or swing across certain spots, darts, arrows and shurikens to take down 
 enemies from a distance, smoke bombs, explosives and other cool things. Unfortunately, aiming properly 
 to use the ranged items is extremely annoying.
  
  There is also a special skill called Impersonation . Basically, you kill someone and take their 
 form temporarily, another cool way to blend in.
  
  Tenchu Z is a game of patience. You must observe and wait for the right moment to attack. You are 
 rewarded for being invisible and undetectable. Sure, you can storm an area and kill everyone in 
 your way, but you lose points. At the end of each mission there is an evaluation of your actions, 
 mostly based on how many stealth kills you've done and how many times you were detected. You're 
 given a score and gold for completing the mission, and back you go to the village for another one.
 
  
  And while the main adventure is for one player only, you can hop online and play co-op with up 
 to three other players via Xbox Live.
  
  I wasn't expecting to enjoy Tenchu Z as much as I did. Although I think the textures and overall 
 look isn't too spectacular for an Xbox 360 title, the gameplay kept me interested. And while some 
 may not enjoy the waiting game, I thought the observe-sneak-kill process was actually pretty fun. 
 Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=tenchuz 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZogTheIneffable
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  Before I start explaining all the things that are wrong with this game, let me make one point: 
 I have a job, mortgage, partner, and loads of other things that interfere with gaming, so while 
 I play games every day its usually for no more than an hour or two. So, when a game keeps me up 
 all night, playing eighteen hours solid and only realising how late it is when dawn breaks outside, 
 it has to be something a bit special. Tenchu Z was the first game to do this to me for 3 years.
 
  
  So, youre a ninja, you sneak around and kill people. (Occasionally you recover a package or follow 
 someone, but basically, you kill people.) The enemies are all pretty similar to each other (they 
 have different weapons and levels of perception, but theyre all much the same) ; the enemy AI is 
 clearly mathematical (meaning that they enemies have clearly predictable behaviours) rather than 
 realistic; there are probably only a dozen actual levels, though these are repeated with different 
 enemy placements to give 50 missions. On top of that, you have a character editor with the option 
 to dress up you male character in various ninja-like outfits, or your female character in lots 
 of less ninja-like but rather more interesting outfits; you have dozens of cool but actually unnecessary 
 ninja items like smoke bombs, blowguns, etc. (of the fifty missions, you only really need the items 
 on two of them, even on Hard difficulty) ; and you have the option to buy various combat moves and 
 special abilities (many of which are good fun, but most are fiddly to make work, and none seem 
 to have been considered when the levels were designed so that you get satisfaction but no real 
 use from them) .
  
  The thing that determines whether you will enjoy the game, is how you approach it. If you say I 
 have an objective, I will complete it as fast as possible and then go route-one through the level 
 to the end point, then youll be bored. Played this way, Tnchu is rubbish. Any way you look at 
 it, Tenchu Z does not have engaging linear gameplay. Simply if you want to win, dont bother 
 trying.
  
  However, if you want to play, to explore, to have fun, this game is absolutely fantastic: you can 
 really get into sneaking around the levels, hunting down your foes. The environments feel like 
 real places that youve entered, rather than abstract levels that have been made for you. The 
 audio does a great job in building up this illusion. And most importantly, all of the levels are 
 sandbox-like in design: at the very least there are multiple paths through each area, but almost 
 all are completely open-plan, so you can sneak about them in a way that makes paths or routes 
 meaningless.
  
  This gives you the freedom to play any level any way you want. Want to run around causing mayhem? 
 Want to be the ultimate invisible shadow who completes his missions without ever being spotted? 
 Want to experiment with the ranged weapons or traps? However you approach a level, it will work, 
 and you will have fun playing around with it.
  
  One final point on multiplayer. If you get a good group of players, who want to sneak around as 
 a team, this can be fun. Ideally, use the Hard setting, pick the tougher levels, and make sure 
 you have one or two less competent players with you  that way their mistakes will turn usually 
 predictable levels into wonderfully unpredictable romps. However, if youre playing with even one 
 person who just wants to rampage through as fast as possible, then they just end up making each 
 multiplayer level really short for everyone else. In summary, scoring this game is pretty well 
 impossible. Technically its nothing special, the multiplayer is easily broken by the attitude 
 of fellow players, there arent many levels, the special abilities arent made enough of, etc., 
 etc.  yet theres the option here to have vast amounts of fun. So, since it seems normal nowadays 
 to give tedious but accomplished games 7s and 8s, and this has the potential to be excellent fun, 
 this has to be 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trowa85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is very underrated, to play this game like and action adventure like Zelda is a sigh 
 that you have no idea how to judge games.
  This game is meant for you to immerse yourself in you very on ninja character that you get to build 
 from the ground up. You need to first get into the mind set of what this game is all about stealth 
 action. The one complaint I see over and over again is the enemy AI is to stupid or has a short 
 attention span, what are they suppose to do their not ninjas they cant just hop up and follow you 
 around they are hired goons that are just that lazy strong and stupid, their suppose to be the 
 muscle not the brains. Any way if you get into your roll as a ninja there is near endless fun to 
 be had the verity in stealth kills is impressive, there is nothing like hanging on a ceiling and 
 grabbing up and enemy hat pass under you to snatch them up and stab them through the heart and 
 then leave the lifeless corps on the ground as if he had been killed by a unseen ghost. Graphics- 
 Good not revolutionary but defiantly next gen quality building are well designed and filled with 
 all manner of nick-knacks not to much variation in enemy models but thats not such a terrible thing 
 . Sound- sound are done well sword clashing and swiping all sound realistic and are clear. The 
 voice acting isn't anything to write home about and its all done in Japanese so its hard to tell 
 if its good or not but it does its job well enough.
  
  Gameplay- Its just plain fun as much fun as i have had in any other stealth action game. There 
 is one difference there is allot more satisfaction in getting a kill in this game then in ones 
 that involve guns and i think it the intimate Violence if i can borrow that phrase from the GOW 
 guys there is more satisfaction in this game then in any other there is just a real sense of accomplishment 
 when you have taken out 5 elite guards in a row and no ones the wiser. The amount o extras is very 
 extensive , every thing from clothing to traps and other goodies that you can unleash on your unsuspecting 
 foes (my personal fav the angry bee bomb its sooo much fun ) . And the multi player while they should 
 have increased the number of enemies in the level, it is still allot of fun to play with a buddie.
 
  
  Overall this game is in one phrase just plain fun no other way to put it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty skeptical. I got roped into the promises of a good samurai warrior game with the Dynasty 
 and Samurai warrior titles. Those are so boring they must be the standard FPS for Japanese culture. 
 Tenchu Z has some of the repetitiveness those games are notorious for but the stealth , gore, clothing 
 and cool weapons make it fun and creative.
  
  I found the 4 player co-op via Xbox Live to be very fun. Working together in a stealthy way to 
 massacre samurai is fantastic. After making a few purchases on the name and cover I was surprised 
 of the quality and unique game play. I am a tough critic so it shows you how low my expectations 
 are for this genera. So give this game a try I think you'll be surprised. It's no Gears of War 
 but it has it's moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zHELLDOG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in tenchu z are okay, but you'd expect better from an xbox 360 game. The sound is 
 great and the voices aren't dubbed over. The gameplay is fun, and you can kill just about any enemy 
 in one blow. Which is called a stealth kill, by the way, and there are thirteen different stealth 
 kills that the player can do to the enemy, depending on many factors like if you are facing the 
 left, right, back, or in front of the enemy. You can also jump from a building and on contact with 
 an enemy you can do another stealth kill. The only bad thing about the game is the combat. It is 
 TERRIBLE. You attack so slow and the techinques you can get are extremely hard to use. Escape items 
 are useless, too. Just as are shuriken (ninja stars) . They are labeled in the game as deadly but 
 they are less lethal than a dirtclod. You can throw seven of them at an enemy and it will not die 
 (not even a guard dog!) . Another thing that ticks me off about this game is that there are some 
 skills that you can buy, but you need alot of points in the category of either health, strength, 
 or agility. In fact, you need more than the game will allow you to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbrendan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I want to start off by saying I seriously love this game. I love ninjas and everything having to 
 do with ninjas so im a little biased, but the point still stands, it kicks ass. The problem gamespot 
 had is that the game is higly reptetive. My arguement to that is: ninjas are assassins. they kill 
 people. Thats like saying the hitman series is repetative because he kills someone in every mission. 
 sure they have only a few diffrent maps, but the thing is each one of them is fun! so i have no 
 problem playing them all over again, and with little subtle changes it makes it even better. not 
 only that, but the ability to customize your ninja is just fantastic. Theres no way a game in which 
 you CUSTOMIZE A NINJA deserves anything less than an 8.5. Thats all i have to say. If you like ninjas, 
 you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentspawn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  The game begins with you creating your character. Honestly, most of the faces seem to have been 
 made as a joke, and they can definitely be used in that fashion. After a very simple process of 
 getting clothing and setting your attributes, you're on your way.
  
  There is a relatively short training session for you to go through before you are thrust into late-medieval 
 Japan, and it does a fair enough job of teaching you the basics required to be a ninja.
  
  I dug into the game and plowed through the fifty missions on normal, occasionally doing one on 
 hard. Some say that the AI is dumb. This is fairly true, but that doesn't mean that they don't 
 have senses. I found that playing on hard was fairly difficult, albeit still easy compared to other 
 games' hard settings.
  
  Although the graphics on the five or so maps wont blow you away, they are fairly decent. I wouldn't 
 say it looks like the XBox, like some have, since I own the XBox one, and it definitely looks worse 
 than Z. To me, the graphics don't make a game. They are just a nice addition.
  
  The control scheme can be a little awkward at first, but I picked it up in five minutes on the 
 demo with just glancing at the controls that pop up on the screen. I find them much easier to work 
 with than Z's predecessor, which seemed clunky. All of the basic controls are there from before, 
 and are very well integrated to work together. Only later when you start getting more complex skills 
 do the controls get a little difficult to work with.
  
  The sound in the game is fairly reserved. The music seems how traditional Japanese should sound. 
 Occasionally the music can be slightly annoying, but the game requires you to pay attention to 
 what's going on around you, not to be listening to a masterpiece of music. The general sounds for 
 everything you do seem to be roughly the same as all of the other Tenchus I've played, but a bit 
 nicer and newer.
  
  The animations for your ninja are very smooth and fluid. They are nice to look at and are very 
 well done. The animations for the thugs, however, don't seem as though there was nearly as much 
 work put into them.
  
  Some say that the story was random and disjointed. Well, probably... if you skip all of the dialogue. 
 I listened to the narrator on every mission and watched every cutscene fully. It was fairly interesting, 
 and it left the game's story nice and open for a sequel - if there is one.
  
  I'm am not a big fan of the older Tenchu games, but this one is my favorite. The small RPG element 
 to it in between the missions is one of the things that really did it for me. Character customization 
 is always a plus, in my book.
  
  The multiplayer, although only tried once, needs a lot of work. Lag is everywhere, and if anyone 
 else on your team gets seen, well... so are you. This is extremely annoying, especially when playing 
 with someone brand new to the game (like I was) .
  
  Oh, yeah, by the way: this game was built for the stealthy, ninja player in mind, and it plays 
 like it. If you run thought a level, you are not playing the game as it was meant to be played, 
 and thus not getting the full effect of being a ninja/assassin. What's the point of playing a stealth 
 game if you aren't going to be stealthy? It's like playing Splinter Cell and just running around 
 shooting (Although, the newer ones do let you do this.) .
  
  Bottom line. Ninja fans and hard-core stealth fans will like this game. People not big on spending 
 8-20 minutes trying to kill someone/everyone without being seen, probably wont like this. This 
 game has been tailored for a certain taste.
  
  So, even though the game has a few issues, and may not be the talk of the town, it still carries 
 it's own weight while being a fun stealth game (For people who can handle it.) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cashplaya_2009
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 22, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I mean really this game is just freaking terrible. When I originally heard about it many months 
 ago I thought that it had potential, unfortunately the only potential seen is its potential to 
 be voted worst game since Aqua Man, its so bad it rivals the mediocrity of Jaws: Unleashed. While 
 the stealth is at least average the combat is terrible and extremely broken. You will find yourself 
 mashing the attack button mindlessly if you blow a stealth kill. Seriously the Tenchu series has 
 met a new low, just let it rest in piece please... pull the plug on this series its lost all its 
 organs and will never live again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-evil
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Alright this review is going to point out all the bad like it or not, you know it's right there 
 in front of your eyes. To start this bad boy off, we'll talk about the killing perspective! The 
 'AI' are insanely stupid, you can throw them off just by running around the corner, another thing 
 that just drives a thorn right into my side is the fact that it has all the same attack patterns! 
 Not one unique feel to it and when going up against five guys and actually trying to fight it out 
 instead of run. It's almost impossible cause they all attack repeatedly in a motion that you can't 
 take your block off from! And our ninja moves we get set with are one hair shy of being virtually 
 useless. The graphics outside of the short and horrible movie clips, are dated back into the regular 
 xbox generation and even the ps2 generation. The create a ninja area is almost pointless to say 
 the least, as it drives the players away from it's horrible game play with it's pretty flashing 
 lights. (That's a figure of speech, don't send me hate mail talking about how there is no flashing 
 lights.) Sure running around sneaking in the dark is an average factor and being a ninja itself 
 is pretty cool, but if I wanted a great game that I could be a ninja in, I'd go and play something 
 like Ninja Gaiden, or perhaps Oblivion! But when I draw right back to the killing, It has a phase 
 of almost being so flawed, that you could say it was put together by a group of 17-18 year old 
 teenagers and chances are! That they would actually believe every word you said. Hiding along a 
 wall and doing a stealth kill when a guy comes near is nothing to brag about, for when you do a 
 flip move so that he's on the ground, your guy is technically sitting on the persons face and stabbing 
 his sword into the floor, which causes it to bleed! And when it comes down to the blood factor, 
 It's a bit overused and underdone really. You jab your sword up through a persons body and rip 
 it out the side and blood will go gushing out of a cut in his body that is non-exsistant. This 
 is the next gen era, I want to see a cut in the fabric and a gash in body where that blade went 
 through, also when it comes down to all the blood... Where is all of this blood going? None of 
 it's on your sword that's for sure, by the time you rip that sucker through more than ten bodies, 
 that sucker is still clean as a whistle. All the ninjas in the world couldn't make this game any 
 better! And when it comes to glitching, I've actually ran up to the corner of a wall and fell through 
 into the void of the Earth, I had to restart my system just to get out of the game. So when it 
 comes down to it, I really suggest you rent this game instead of buying it... Or don't even rent 
 it at all, and spend your money on a better game like say... The Darkness, or Gears of war? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegrimguy
Rating: 5.4
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I guess that the Tenchu series will just keep on going, but this time on the 360. WOW! that sounded 
 pretty cool, fancy ninja game on the 360, I thought to myself this game is gonna be kick-ass! Then 
 I played it, and it all went downhill from there.
  
  Right-away I realised that the next-gen sheen and polish that I had been expecting was lacking, 
 the graphics were nice but were really not up to the standards of current 360 titles.
  
  This game felt like a very low budget title and having to pay almost &pound;50 in stores!! the 
 developers must be havin a laugh, I like some of the cool ideas like the intrroduction fo smell 
 into the game. That was pretty awesome you can douse yourselves in water to remove odours, I thought 
 that that was pretty cool idea.
  
  I also liked the co-op option it was really fun but very easy to get seen with two guys sneaking 
 around. At least this was not as bad as tencu fatal shadows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak13
Rating: 2.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  this game has a ton of potential but it doesnt capitilize on it..................... the stealth 
 kills are somewhat cool but u can stealth kill one enemy in front of another and then go behind 
 a corner and come bak and the enemy is oblivious to you..............
  
  the ai is some of the worst ive ever seen and if for some reason you cant beat this idiots for 
 enemies you can just run through the level and face the boss....................
  
  i see how people think your some cool bad@55 ninja but u really arent your just some guy facing 
 mentally retarded enemies............... there is nothin ninja about that................
  
  the level diversity is well..................... there is non and the enemies get very familiar 
 since alot of them look the same over and over again...............
  
  i guess its just me but i dont like easy games that are repetitive............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oishio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  its an awesome game its just plain fun a very good improvement from return from darkness is especially 
 the graphics. and a very cool things is hiding in the bushes you cant be found. sure there is rediculious 
 amounts of blood but its to spray on your custom made character for extreme effects and graphics. 
 its cool to act just like a ninja to silently kill and stabbing people through doors, awesome jumps 
 like moonsaults it gona a long way from number one to this. take it from this reviewer the score 
 of 4.9 discusts me it should be so much more like a score of 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brmarlin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  This game, is actually quite good. Satisfying stealth kills, interesting level design - maps are 
 reused but feels different each level with the same map, Assassination missions are ridiculously 
 satisfying. The sound is pretty good, from arterial spray to traditional ambient Japanese music. 
 Disregard the hate, try it sometime. The achievements are interesting, although pretty easy to 
 obtain, and each level is quite small but still takes a while, due to the nature of the genre. 
 Contextual stealth kills are fun, but not as much as the ridiculous consecutive stealth kill, which 
 will leave multiple enemies pwned. And a lot of blood around them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkEmpress458
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  I thought that overall they did a very good job in the making of this game. I've played some of 
 the past Tenchu games and this game was a good step up from the originals. I liked that u could 
 create and customize your characters but the one thing that got me was that u had to play online 
 for it to be coop play... but thats only cause I can't play online... and I have a lil sis! Graphics 
 was also good so I gave it a 9 there is games I've seen that I would give a 10.. this game nearly 
 made it. I have always liked the stealth gameplay of the Tenchu series and they did an excellent 
 job in this game with it.. I mean excellent! so I defiantly gave it a 10! This game is a true stealth 
 one..... well actually if there is any other like it I haven't played them.. hmm.. but anywho! If 
 u like the Tenchu series this a defiant buy! This is my first review soo i'm sry if its not great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 9, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Tenchu Z for xbox 360 is one of those games you first look at and literally want to puke, But Like 
 me I have nothing else to rent so I pick it up thinking I made a mistake well, was I wrong It was 
 so fun Playing Online 4 player co-op, creating your ninja, unlocking Items and new cloths And doing 
 sweet Stealth Moves. The problem with this game is that the graphics throw off people and stay 
 them away from playing. But don't Worry Its all about the core gameplay, Like games should be focused 
 on. so if your into ninja or games set in japen then Tenchu z is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gekidami
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm writing this minutes after having finished the game for the 1st time on the normal difficulty 
 setting and played some missions on hard. I must say, this Tenchu is the best since the imfamous 
 Birth of the Stealth Assassins but only because the others were utter rubbish....
  
  One of the best things in this game is how you move around, not giving you the hassle of terrible 
 camera angles or unresponsive/slow movement, its simple from the beginning thanks to a nice trainning 
 mission, the secret arts you can equip to your character gives you new movements that the older 
 tenchu games were lacking to be that perfect ninja sim but the game play isnt all sugar and spice, 
 it has a darkside... Direct battle is annoying, slow, boring and the controls are just strange 
 (mainly thinking of blocking on the 360's FPS-ready pad) , i have to say that this game has some 
 of the worst sword fighting i have ever seen in a game and its understandable that you'd rather 
 run away intill the weak AI enemies forget about you so you can go back and 1 hit stealth kill 
 them (though its really not necessary, getting Ninja 5 is so easy you'll be amazed) , talking of 
 stealth kills; thats what the game is about, all the tenchu games are i hear you say but atleast 
 the others had boss fights at the end of each stage, Tenchu Z only has 3 for all 50 odd missions 
 something i found terrible. During these boss fights you will no longer beable to hide forcing 
 you to fight man to man... But like i said; sword fighting is so slow you'll find yourself flooding 
 your foes under a rain of objects... Which brings me to...
  
  Objects in the game are mainly classic stuff you'd have seen in the other Tenchu games, some are 
 fun, some just useless... Well, when i say some... Because the game is so easy objects are simply 
 not needed -why would you want to set a mine for a patrolling samurai alerting every other guard 
 in the area and NOT killing your victim when you can just one push stealth kill him? Because thats 
 what you'll be doing... Ok the game is about sneaking around and killing from behind but why use 
 objects in that case?
  
  Swiftly sneaking along i'd like to talk about the story, now the thing with the story is that there 
 isnt much to say... its odd, Tenchu 1 had nearly no story, it was a botch-job and only really made 
 it big because its game play was so unique. Then Tenchu 2 comes out, keeping the the same game 
 play, but adding more including a stunning, full story with different scenarios with all 3 playable 
 characters. So alot later comes out Tenchu 3 and oh dear, its went back to a mediocre, one scenario 
 story like the 1st Tenchu, though it adds some new features the devs decide to remove some of the 
 stuff that made the 2nd great, from there on the series has rolled down hill straight into a grave, 
 each other game being a nail in the coffin. Tenchu Z just makes it thanks to new features that 
 put abit of life back into the series and a really cool character customization system that puts 
 most MMO's to shame but thats going off topic...
  
  The story is about you, your a new ninja who just starts his career in ninja'ing straight out of 
 the the ninja academy, in this game you dont play as Rikimaru or Ayame like the others but a character 
 you name and make. With your female acolyte you pretty much do Gohda's dirty work in a massive 
 chain of over 50 missions, some part of a main plot that isnt really of much interest and ends 
 when it gets alittle interesting... Now, over 50 missions may sound good, but the game only has 
 round 5 different maps that you revisit over and over again to do the the same objectives, and 
 some missions are actually clones of others... One word: LAME.
  
  One last thing is the online part of the game, in all honesty i have yet to try this because i 
 dont see the point; from what i've gathered its just the campaign with co-op but the game is so 
 damn easy i dont see why i would want to team up others to do them...
  
  In the end Tenchu Z is ok, if your bored, go to a shop and see it for 2nd-hand and you already 
 have everything else get it. If like me your atleast a mild Tenchu fan then you'll need this 1 
 because its one of the best. I cant say i'm disappointed, as i say the Tenchu series has gone down 
 hill i wasnt expecting this 1 tobe so good considering that compared to other games out there its 
 crappy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkBlademaster
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, after seeing the abysmal score Gamespot gave this game, I was skeptical to play it 
 when a friend suggested it to me. Going into the game extremely biased and negative towards it, 
 I was surprised by how quickly my opinion was changed. First off, this is not the type of high-flying 
 sword slashing game you would come to expect from other ninja games such as Ninja Gaiden. Rather, 
 Tenchu Z focuses on the stealth aspect ( and more realisic) of being a ninja. Although most gamers 
 may find the games slow, and at times tedious, pace boring; fans of stealth games such as Splinter 
 Cell will find a decent amount of enjoyment in Tenchu. As mentioned Tenchu Z wants you to quickly 
 kill your opponents from the shadows as opposed to head-to-head open combat, so understandedly 
 the games swordplay is weak. Stealth kills are executed by sneaking up to an opponent and hitting 
 the 'X' button when an image appears. The type of stealth kills vary depending on a number of factors, 
 and this keeps everykill somewhat exciting. So basically, if you're actively swinging your sword 
 at an enemy, then chances are you're playing the game wrong. You start Tenchu Z off by creating 
 your ninja and partner ninja, who admitedly does pretty much nothing to help you, and as the game 
 progresses you unlock new clothing items which can be purchased with gold earned during missions. 
 There is a surprising number of items to unlock in Tenchu, and collecting these pieces becomes 
 strangely addicting. Along with clothing, you can also purchase ninja skills and items to help 
 to with your missions. In truth, most ot the skills and items are completely useless and the game 
 never really forces you to use certainitems or skills in a specific way; though this isn't exactly 
 a negative aspect seeing as it keeps the game open and allows its players to decide how to deal 
 with their foes. Gamespot's review mentioned how most of the games 50 missions can quickly be completed 
 by simply running to the objective, which is in esscence true; but once again if you are just running 
 to your target then you are no playin the game as it is ment to be played. Besides, couldn't that 
 same statement be made for most games? The point of the game isn't really the final assassination, 
 but rather killing off as many opponents on a level without being spotted and achieving a top rank. 
 The Xbox Live portion of Tenchu Z can be pretty fun if you have some friends to play with. During 
 the multiplayer you can do missions with up to three other ninjas in one party. I found it oddly 
 fun working with a partner taking down enemies . That said, there are some bugs in the multiplayer 
 that really hurt the over all experiece. While playing on live you can experience some serious 
 lag at times, and the Tenchu game channel is essentially broken. In the end, Tenchu Z does have 
 the graphics of an Original Xbox game, and the AI can be a bit passive at times; Tenchu Z is still 
 a great game. I suggest renting it first to see it it's your type of game, like I did, before you 
 pass judgement on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdValor
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I personally LOVED this game... Ive followed the Tenchu series missing about 2 of their titles and 
 this one is by far one of there best games. I love the customization of chars and the Co-op, its 
 just cool to have a bud and you go through and wipe out an entire village together. I do admit 
 when you play through 50 missions, they did make you do some of the same missions 2 or 3 times, 
 thus making the story lack a little. Graphics were pretty good. Fun factor is high. The sound of 
 your enemy's blood hitting the ground is strangely satisfying. Tenchu is an overall great game 
 in my mind ^.^ I hope they continue to make more games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastercheif93
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  this game is the **** it awesome the stealth kills i dont think any game could ripp of kill bill 
 this good all the blood any 1 who says this game sux its cuz they could not even pass the first 
 level ahah loser's sukers should not even have 360 yup this games only false is that u could just 
 run through most of the level **** besides that it rocks alot play it now!!! its worth running 
 naked through the streets to ur local game store yea!!!!!!!!!! and its probably the only ninja 
 game that is better than gaiden 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 23, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great customisation, 50 Missions, Good mission objective varieties, Online co-op, Cool 
 Stealth kills, some good ideas (such as being smelt) and cool items
  
  The Bad: Out dated graphics, Completing missions online doesnt count towards achievements, fighting 
 styles between the men and women are the same, pointless addition of a partner, maps repeat themselves, 
 AI is pretty poor (very short attention span and not extra alert after being detected) , fighting 
 straight up su. cks
  
  This is my first Tenchu game so i am unable tio compare it to the first games, but this game is 
 about you creating a ninja then taking out missions and gaining abilities and experience, whilst 
 unlocking extra clothing and items.
  
  One of the best things about this game is the customisation, theres a great amount of clothes and 
 accessories to put on your ninja and your able to change almost everything about them except their 
 weight and height. There is a whopping 50 missions in this game, some missions can be over quite 
 quickly and completed in about 5 minutes if you know the map, but the game has a decent length. 
 There is a good mission variety in the game, from assination, crossing checkpoints, stealing blueprints, 
 collecting bombs and tailing suspects, this adds to the gameplay and makes the game alot more fun 
 to play through.
  
  Another cool thing about the game is the online co-op, this is great fun with friends, it can be 
 lame with some people who just go ahead and complete the mission before you can have any fun, but 
 in general, its a great addition to the game, sadly however, you do not get achievements for completing 
 missions online, but you do get them for stealth kills which is cool.
  
  The stealth kills totally rule on this game, nothing feels better than jumping off a roof and driving 
 your sword through a guys spinal chord then watch the blood gush from his neck - awesome, however, 
 there are only a few different types of stealth kills (depending on how your standing and what 
 part of the enemy you are facing so they do start to repeat themselves, but they still cool, even 
 after 1000 stealth kills!
  
  There are a few good ideas for stealth games in this game, the main one is the smelling system, 
 sometimes this is blown out of proportion, for example, you walk through a bush and a guy half 
 way down the street can smell you, but generally this is a cool addition and if better developed 
 could be a great thing.
  
  There is a massive amount of items to use in this game, from hooks to cling to walls and ceilings, 
 to grenades and balls that explode into swarms of bee's, this really adds to the gameplay but sadly 
 it is very rare you need to use the items and its just more fun to stealth kill them.
  
  Sadly the graphics on this game are a letdown, they are better than xbox graphics but dont look 
 next gen which is a shame, but they do the job and theres very few animation glitches.
  
  The addition of a partner is kinda pointless, they only appear in cutscenes and you never play 
 as them, but they play a part in the storyline so their is some use to them.
  
  After a while the maps begin to repeat themselves, however, the objectives are different and/or 
 you approach the map at a different angle which actually does make it feel like a new map, so this 
 isnt a huge disadvantage but it would have been nice to see a couple more maps.
  
  The AI in this game is pretty poor, they are unpredictable (by this i mean you can do something 
 with out being seen one time, then the next they will full on spot and call for back-up) , whats 
 a real letdown is that after being detected they go back to normal, they arent more alert and its 
 as if nothing ever happened, which is a shame as it does take away the challenge.
  
  The worst thing about the game is the sword fights, you can buy upgarde special moves where you 
 do a spinning bomb on your enemy but it doesnt kill them and only damages them which takes away 
 the fun, its basically button bashing on the X button, most of the time its more fun just to run 
 away, hide then go for the kill again. The problem is that there are 3 boss fights in the game 
 and these fights are just plain annoying with the fighting system and not fun at all, because of 
 the poor combat this game has lost a point in my opinion.
  
  So in conclusion, it isnt the best stealth game out there, but anyone whose looking for a great 
 ninja game that can be played with friends and has a decent length story mode this is the game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luhrs9
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  First off i want to say, I think all the reviews websites are giving Tenchu z are off. Don't get 
 me wrong its not a 9 or 10, but also not a 4 or 5 (some sites as low as 2) . The up side is the 
 single player wil keep you busy, and the multiplayer is great fun ( I think) . Get some friends 
 together with Tenchu and play online its pretty cool. You can easily spend 20 plus hours on story 
 mode alone trying to get ninja 5 on every level, which will give you 80% of your achievments. The 
 down side is yah, there are 50 levels, but your basiclly doing the same things over, and over, 
 and over. Sneak around and kill him, Sneak around and Recover this. The game is VERY repeitive, with 
 minor changes and twists to each level. Ex: One level you'll have to kill some monk, 3 levels later 
 you have to kill another person, and the level is the same except your AI's position and your starting 
 point. Graphics are not up to par compared to many 360 titles, as well. Tenchu will keep you busy 
 while you are waiting for your upcoming 2007 realease, so try it out. You'll be suprised how it 
 will take up your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloaked_Shade
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Being almost born with a controller in my hand, from NES ( ness ) to 360, I believe that Ive grown 
 to be quite the gamer. Though I spend most of my time with work and school now, I still find time 
 to embrace in the videogames that intrigue. Sadly, I have fallen into the category of a casual 
 gamer.....
  
  Which is not to say that I dont have taste.
  
  For the past I dont know years, many games have also fallen short of being unique. Now dont hate 
 a playa but, Halo is one of those games.
  Yes I said it!
  
  If Halo didnt have such a tight control scheme along with a fantasitc story line, it would be your 
 average FPS. It is game where anyone and everyone can pick up and play. That can be good but also 
 bad as well. Now with that said......
  
  IMO complex players, like myself, require games to pull you into a totally different control scheme, 
 different enviorments, and different experiences. To my luck, Tenchu Z has done that and them some.
 
  
  Tenchu Z takes place in feudal Japan and you must take on your duties as a tool of war and defend 
 your country and leader against the opposite side.
  
  Lol well gamespot was right about the story line..... its lack there of makes this game slightly 
 on the cheasy side.
  
  Yet, this game wasnt made for its story.... so I wont discuss it.
  
  Now the control scheme is a blessing in disguise. Gamespot was also right by saying most players 
 in passing will definitely not like this game. But honestly, wouldnt it be most boring if you could 
 pick up this game and already know how to play?..... did someone say FPS?!?!?!?
  
  Anyway with its 360 degree camera turns, fluid movement and the touch of the Right Shoulder Button, 
 every player has the ability to create there own cinematic experience. My recommendation is to 
 go thru the ninja training and learn all the buttons. That is a stage in its own.
  
  Control Score: 9
  
  Tenchu Z's graphics are nothing really special...... IF you compare to games 
 like Gears of War. (are there any other games worth noting whereas graphics look almost real? I 
 think not)
  
  But if I compare it to games like crackdown or Fight Night, then I can safely say that FromSoftware 
 has done an exellent job in creating a visual eye splendor.
  
  Graphics Score: 8.5
  
  Now to one of my most favorite aspects of the game..... Sound
  
  Once again, if you are a complex 
 gamer and music enthusiast, then you will love every beating moment of this game. Every ambient 
 drum, woodbloock, and chime pulls you in so that you must play the game to its pacing. The musical 
 artist has done a great job in creating a very subtle, yet striking performance. If your casual 
 then you will definitely miss out on many musical productions.
  
  The other side to sound are the Voice, Attacks, grass brushes, etc....
  Like the music, you must 
 pay attention to all the subtle things .... for instance the sound of the Aerial Flip....... yessir!
 
  
  Sound Score: 8
  
  lol well im tired of typing so...... GAMESPOT.... you guys need to class up and get out of the norm. 
 Find the intracacies within this masterpiece. Dont be the player in passing.
  
  Overall Score (not avg) : 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanTnT
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay plays out as an OK stealth action game. Reason why it is OK, because if 
 you get caught all you have to do is wait around for them to forget about it, and then they act 
 as if they never found you. So, basically, you can run wild throughout the game, and do your objectives, 
 and beat the game without being stealthy. The only reason to get stealth kills is to improve your 
 Ninja rank. I think it would have been better to go by how stealthy you were and how you completed 
 your objective. For example, if your mission is to assassinate someone, it should be a Ninja 5 
 rank if you don't get detected, or kill anyone else, and then stealth kill your target, instead 
 of stealth killing everyone else and your target. If you enjoy stealth killing, which if I don't 
 think of why, I do, it is pretty fun. Gameplay = 7 / 10.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game would qualify for a good looking Xbox game, but on Xbox 360, 
 the graphics need a big improvement. The characters in the cut scenes look blurry, especially the 
 textures, and the blood looks unrealistic. The stealth kills look cool, but there are only a limited 
 amount of them. The graphics are by far the worst thing about this game. Graphics: 6 / 10.
  
  Sound: The gameplay music sounds Japanese and that's a good thing since this is a ninja game. 
 The enemies have a limited amount of alert sounds, maybe 3 at most, and are all in Japanese so 
 I can't understand them anyway. The swords sounds are what you expect, and walking sounds are decent. 
 Sound = 7 / 10.
  
  Value: The series has been around since the Playstation. Since Tenchu: Wrath of Heaven the games 
 were good, but slowly declining in quality. Since it is a long series, but slowly declining,. Value: 
 7 / 10.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I found this game fun, but repetitive. 50 mission, 30 of them are identical, but 
 if you have fun with one, you'll have fun with them all. Reviewer's Tilt: 8 / 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodhawk_DX
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Now, I've always been a hardcore Tenchu fan. From Tenchu: Stealth Assassins to Wrath of Heaven. 
 I rather enjoy the series, for those of you who seek the experience of sneaking up on someone and 
 slashing them down this is a decent game for the job. In this title you don't get to play as the 
 classic characters, Rikimaru and Ayame, and you don't get to see any of the classic villians such 
 as Lord Mao, or everyone's favorite, OniKage. On the plus side the game isn't exactly ugly, the 
 character models move smoothly, the graphics don't have many jagged edges or muddy textures. Character 
 models move fluently and have a sense of life about them rather than moving like robots. The environments 
 are pretty standard for fuedal Japan, you have your classic villages, battlefields, bars, ghettos 
 and a Pagoda style castle. You get the satisfaction of killing people from the shadows. Situational 
 stealth kills, grab and choke stealth kills and classic stealth kills. There is an abundance of 
 items, clothing and abilities you can buy using money you earn from completing missions. Which 
 gives you incentive to get higher ratings for more gold. The controls are very responsive (For 
 me anyway) I was able to quickly menouver and the character seemed to flow with my playing style, 
 making being very agile, very easy. I didn't run into any glitches within the game, and I was pleased 
 with that.
  
  On the down side. The game is VERY, very repetitive. You'll find yourself doing the same thing 
 over, and over through stages that repeat themselves several times. Which is assassinating someone 
 who's wronged Lord Goda somehow. Occasionally you'll run into a variable, such as collecting bombs, 
 eliminating all enemies, and in one missions tracking Echigoya without being seen. The AI is absolutely 
 awful, your enemies will see you but never really chase you making escaping nothing short of running 
 around the nearest obstacle. There is a large lack of boss fights because you can kill most of 
 the targets by stealth. There is a large variety of items, but you don't get very much use out 
 of them being that all you need is your sword and a few select abilities if you tune your character 
 correctly. The game felt very lazy, so much more could have been done stealth wise to make this 
 game take stealth action to the next level. All in all if you love tenchu, this is another title 
 for you to get your favorite old thrills out of. If you're new to the series you'll find this game 
 hard to swallow. For those of you who are looking for gamerpoints the achievements (most of them 
 anyway) are straight forward and easy to get so long as you have the patience to go through 50 
 missions on every difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  First, off I rented this game from Gamefly. So I didn't have the luxury of using an instruction 
 manual. All I had was a terrible training session that were vague in description and didn't care 
 if you pulled the move off or not. Specifically, a continuous stealth kill. Without knowing the 
 proper method to pull off such moves, made this game very less enjoyable. That's not the only move 
 either. I will explain in the rest of my review. Gameplay (3/10) - The levels are really repetitive. 
 You usually have to stealth kill numerous guards, which are usually put togther relatively close. 
 Which means that if you have little patience, you might try a stealth kill and the other guards 
 will spot you. Not only that, but I have a real problem with the crouching system. Your supposed 
 to hold RB to crouch, but your player constantly comes out of crouch, even while you keep the button 
 pressed. It's really frustrating. Especially when you have two more people to kill and your guy 
 pops up and alerts your presense. Everything else is real herky-jerky too, including the swordplay. 
 Also when when I purchased things like Eyes 3 to improve my sight distance, it never seemed to 
 change anything. I set the skill in the skill settings part of the shop, but I'd press the buttons 
 and everything would look the same before the purchase of the skill. You'd think they would have 
 made the skills more useful or easy to use
  
  Graphics (6/10) - Some things look really good, like the people. Other things, like the environment 
 are so-so. What really offsets the graphics is the blood effects and the cutscene animations. The 
 blood animations you just have to see for yourself, they are just hard to describe. The cutscene 
 animation lacks emotion, and sometime lack lip movement to go with the spoken words
  
  Sound (7/10) - Title music gets pumped, but everything after that is really bland. Sound effects 
 in the game seem ok , but words spoken sometimes don't match up with mouths speaking them. This 
 is a weak category to rate anyway, because this sound is usally the last reason a person decides 
 to play or purchase a game. Value (2/10) - If it wasn't for the herky-jerky controls, and repetitive 
 gameplay, the score would have been much higher. With little to no rewards for completing a mission, 
 you find little reason to continue playing. Especially, with weak cutscenes to help you understand 
 the story. I did not really care what happened next.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (3/10) - After two hours of playing this game, I had enough. I've played it for 
 maybe another 2-4 hours after reading some FAQs. It didn't help. This game is difficult to learn, 
 and even harder to master. The terrible controls just make it that much worse. I really love these 
 types of games, and was stoked about this game coming out. I was thoroughly disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: branbot100
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  i put Tenchu Z in for the first time. I snuck up behind my first guy and stabbed him with my sweet 
 ninja skills. That was about it for the fun. Thats really all there is to it. Stealth kills. I 
 would have enjoyed something like o don't no a little restriction at times, more bosses, and an 
 easier to follow storyline. For example there are only 10 maps for 50 missions!!!! A lot of the 
 items are useless especially when the game gives you more many for not using them. I would only 
 get this game if your into getting achievements, otherwise no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Rare are the occasions when I almost tottaly disagree with Gamespot (GS) review. This is one of 
 this occasions.
  The game succedes in the main department: playability. GS (and I must say, some other sites too) 
 say that one can breeze through the game, by passing by every enemy, reach the boss and kill it. 
 But why someone would play Tenchu like that ? That's absurd, tottaly out of place. It's even more 
 absurd coming from sites dedicate to gaming, witha reputation of years. From there on the review 
 was marked. Tip: next time ask a guy who understands Tenchu to do the review.
  Art-wise, the game isn't brilliant, not even close to beautiness that western games deliver. Howver, 
 somehow, the graphics have some sort of personality , that manages to evolve the player. Our foes, 
 for instance, have an irritating look (and sometimes giggles) that gives us a special pleasure 
 to obliterate them.
  Sound is a bit better, it manages to side-kick the action pretty well. However, it still has those 
 sounds that Japanese games can't seem to set them appart of - they're in PES; they're Dinasty Warriors 
 (and every Koei game) , I trully believe those are in every Asian game, like a subliminar message.
 
  Other aspect I can't understand at GS review is that they claim the player can play but some of 
 the missions the game has - and that way miss some important aspects of the plot. Once again, why 
 would anyone miss some missions? This is all too weird: one buys the game, runs through it just 
 to finish is as quick as one can, missing some parts - by choice, than complains ? Wow, GS shouldn't 
 endorse this kinda of gaming, this is not the way ludic software is supposed to be played.
  As I said before, playability is where the game real shines, and it shines bright! It is so very 
 rewarding to do those Ninja 5 ranks!, it really gives one the sense of steaththyness .
  I sometimes wonder if some comany would spawn from, for instance: From Software and Epic, it should 
 deliver some outstanding tittles.
  As it is I'll continue to pay close attention to these guys at From, they're delivering some pretty 
 clever titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Okay, I was not planning on getting this game at all, but one of my friends told me that he loved 
 it. With all the bad reviews, and he loved it... I thought he was crazy. But I tried out his copy 
 and sure enough it was fun. The graphics could use a step up for the 360, but for what it is they 
 are okay. They have some a few good ideas, but could have done so much more. It's neat to see blood 
 getting all over your clothes when facing other ninjas when head on fighting, but why not get any 
 on your clothes when you pull off a stealth kill with blood gushing all over you!? Oh well. Also 
 it would have been cool to see blood getting on your sword, but nope. Hey at least there is the 
 reflection of light on it. As for the character models, they are blah. Your character is detailed 
 with somewhat detail, but the enemies are repetitive in design and animation. To add to the list, 
 there is a lot of clipping. Now the gameplay is where the game shines. If you liked the past Tenchu 
 games, you'll like this one. Many of the past moves have returned along with some new ones. Even 
 the bad enemy A. I. has come back. Anyway, you now have the sheath/unsheath weapon button that mixes 
 up gameplay a bit. You do different stealth kills with depending on if your weapon is drawn and 
 the position/height of your position. This is what makes the gameplay shine. Old favorites return, 
 but you probably won't need them. The missions themselves are fun, but become rather repetitive 
 after the first 12. The online multiplayer is okay to say the least. Killing with your friends 
 is great, but once one of your teammates is spotted, your whole team is too. HOW IS THAT POSSIBLE!?!? 
 But whatever. Another aspect that was added was the customization of your ninja. But this nearly 
 cosmetic, and does not affect the gameplay itself in any way. The sound of Tenchu Z has only added 
 one sound into the game that is new, which the pulling out and putting away of your sword. Other 
 than that one very small aspect, it is the same. So if you hated the past sound effects of past 
 games, you will find nothing to change your mind here. Overall, the game has many flaws, but it 
 is still fun. But it still boils down to the past games. If you didn't like any of the other Tenchu 
 games, you won't find much here to change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashywashywoo
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of stealth-em-ups since their creation, and became a huge fan of tenchu since 
 the first PS1 game was released... Unfortunately, for some reason none of the sequels are much 
 of an improvement on the ps1 version, and after playing this latest game, all I can do is wonder 
 why certain games developers do not think long-term. It makes no sense at all to create games of 
 this exceptionally poor standard knowing that they will sell a few because there is already a fanbase 
 for the game before it comes out.. Certainly I bet they have made a bit of money off of it, but 
 now the next game will not sell as well because fans will be dubious to the quality of it. Luckily 
 I did not fall into this trap this time, I played the demo and the game round a friend's house 
 and will definitely NOT be spending any money on this game, and I would definitely not recommend 
 it to anyone as it puts the first tenchu game to shame.
  
  As for the review: I would totally agree with gamespot on this one, and for an accurate description 
 of the games multiple flaws in practically every aspect, I would recommend reading that. Imagine 
 how good this game could be if the developers had spent the time and effort on it like the creators 
 of games such as elder scrolls: Oblivion have done. &lt; /br&gt;
  &lt; /br&gt;
  This game could and should have been a two-player co-op stealth-em-up which actually requires the 
 player (s) to use stealth and intelligence to complete. The items could have been made to be worth 
 using - perhaps if you are seen the only easy way to escape quickly would be to use a smoke-bomb.. 
 not just jump to the other side of a wall! The music should drawn more from Japan's history like 
 the first tenchu and be used to create tension etc. The AI on other games has dramatically improved, 
 why not on tenchu? The enemies should be harder, which would make it much more rewarding to get 
 stealth kills. The combat system is barely adequate as it is, and could be improved to be more 
 flowing and less linear like most other games in this day and age. The missions could of had more 
 flavor too, perhaps requiring teamwork from both co-op players to complete, and a larger variety 
 of objectives with more plot direction..
  
  The only thing that this game isnt worse than all other tenchu games is the customisable costumes 
 and characters.. other than that, this game is a complete step backward from the games before it, 
 and definately does not deserve to be on a next-gen console like the 360, or even bear the Tenchu 
 name.
  
  It frustrates me when I see games like tenchu which have a lot of potential be abused in this way. 
 I could have been enjoying this game for months if it had been even a reasonable game to play. 
 I rarely write reviews, but I felt strongly enough about this to write one. A real thumbs-down 
 all round
  
  I love Tenchu, this game makes a mockery of it. Thus it recieves the lowest ever score ive given. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yugofangs2
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  Well I`ve seen alot of aspects of this game. Comparing it to others relative to the series. It 
 saw some minor improvement.... I just dislike English voice actors. It screws around with the Japanese 
 vocals. The graphics from a far look appealing but have made minor change. The consistent amount 
 of blood splatter was a little to much for a simple task.
  
  The gameplay still reserves the basic scheme of the Tenchu series. But I really enjoyed character 
 creation. Unfortunately the removal of the offline multiplayer brang much disappointment. I`ve 
 begun to realize the aspect of why the AI was so pitiful. They made them so idiotic so stealth 
 kills were extremely simple. Even if you were not that game oriented. Sadly this flaw made the 
 game so much easier.. I remain faithful as a tenchu fanboy... But if they dont create a more intricate 
 plot , intelligent AI (rip some ideas from assassins creed AI concept) , More variety of weapons 
 (including fist weapons) , Bring a full scale feudal japan building structure , Introduce a new 
 character, Allow online gameplay the option of shinobi battles, Use a Way Of The Samurai travel 
 concept. If these things are added this can greatly make the game worthy of purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: farrell2k
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  You have to be a Tenchu fan to appreciate this one. The game is fun, but it manages to wear itself 
 out after a few hours.
  
  Tehcnu fans are used to 10-15 level Tehcnu games with steady story progression. Unfortunately, 
 TehcnuZ does not follow that formula. Instead of 10 or 20 story-based missions one after another, 
 you're faced with about 10 with 40 pointless mission in between. Devs do this to try and beef up 
 the game. It failed this time.
  
  The gfx aren't the best, the Ai is still dumb, The control scheme is easy to get used to, and online 
 multiplayer coop is cool, but gets old, fast.
  
  If you're a Tehcnu fan, you'll enjoy it.
  
  Tehcnu fans.. buy it. Others, give it a rent first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroking420_666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 12, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  The game is good I really like it. I found the game fun and entertaining. One flaw is the sound 
 in the game can get annoying real quick out side of that I love the controls to the game they just 
 feel right for this type of game. Game Main Story its one that can get cheesy some times, but out 
 side of that its a real nice stealth game for the Xbox 360. The multi player really sells the game 
 for me at least it was fun going around with friends and stealth kill people. I suggest at least 
 rent the game if you still not sure about throwing $60 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign357
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Bad controls, lame story, and nothing but ninjas. The fighting is just a repeat of 3 attacks making 
 the same annoying sounds. People were excited about this game, but were very disappointed. I however 
 thought from the bat it wouldnt be good. I auctually made a bet with my friend that it would score 
 lower than a 6 on gamespot, and sure enough, it scored even below a 5. The game lost my interest 
 after 10 minutes, and it was just plain bad. They could have made it good if they only spent a 
 little more time with it and got other peoples perspectives about it. Blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimsknight
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  The Japanese history / folklore does record that at least one ninja clan / group would only take 
 on missions that were against wrongdoers and evil people and would help out those in trouble. With 
 this as inspiration many gamemakers have used it as a vehicle for ninja games. Tenchu being one 
 of the main ones. Yup ever since the funktastic, action extravaganza arcade game 'The Ninja Warriors.' 
 Was released in the mid-eighties ninjas have had plenty of time in the gaming field.
  
  Tenchu Z is very much like the Tenchu 1 and 2 that came before it on the PS1.
  The Japanese history 
 / folklore does record that at least one ninja clan / group would only take on missions that were 
 against wrongdoers and evil people and would help out those in trouble.
  The gameplay and style is faithful to these previous incarnations, but with a twist! :)
  Stealth 
 kills are back and with a vengeance.
  The moves are back, like the trendy and stylish moonsault plus some more that involve reed breathing, 
 wall stab, subdue civilians (rather than kill) and briliant use of natural camoflage. Being unseen 
 and deadly is key to victory in this game. Some folk have criticised Tenchu but these tend to be 
 folk who dislike sneak-em-ups and prefer to run through levels like mad-men and wonder why they 
 cannot win fights against overwhelming odds. The whole point the gamemakers of the Tenchu series 
 are making is that historically ninjas by their very nature were covert operatives and only rarely 
 revealed themselves openly.
  Now the game is good and purists to the old tenchus will give the faithful ranking system a thumbs 
 up for carrying across to this version. The difficulty levels are even-based and winnable (although 
 getting Ninja 5 ranking is a real 'ninja test' on the hardest level) .
  The only niggling critique I have is the opening narration for each of the missions is in Japanese 
 (Although English subtitles do a good translation) whereas in the PS1 version it was in english. 
 This is no great fault but listening to the english language for a mission would be a bonus as 
 it can convey greater drama and depth than merely reading text.
  The fifty missions give excellent replay value and the gadgets and nifty moves that you pick up 
 as the game progress are a nice touch.
  The boss fights are tricky though and demand a patient and sharp eye to exploit their weaknesses, 
 this is where your gadgets can come in handy though. Overall a great game that I'm giving a big 
 8.
  
  Go ninja warriors! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robarts
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 11, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Here is one game that could have been amazing. COULD'VE. Tenchu Z is one of those games that could've 
 blown us away, look at how good Wrath of Heaven was. I imagined that with next- gen technology they 
 would go all out. Instead, From Software and K2LLC give us a slightly better looking rehash with 
 a few new ideas to spice it up.
  
  Tenchu Z starts off like all the rest of the Tenchu games in the franchise, showing a fairly catchy 
 opening cut-scene, from there plummetting down into a more clumsy everything. You begin with a character 
 creation screen that is deep enough and then pick attributes and a partner. Your partner, however, 
 really does nothing. He/She just appears in cut-scenes and dissappears. This is the first dissappointment 
 in store, as you would start to think a partner could aid you in stealth kills and battles.
  
  After the character creation you get thrown into a tutorial which actually does an o. k job 
 of showing you the controls. Kill a few baddies, jump over a few ledges, and then comes the first 
 level. You pop out of a trap door in the ground with a greeting and rating from Rikimaru. Whom acts 
 soley as a teacher this time around.
  
  Once you get into the first level you'll realize that this is the best looking tenchu ever, but 
 that's not saying much considering it looks almost like the Xbox version Return From Darkness. Still 
 though it isn't too ugly. It also has 50 levels, but there are really only about twelve that just 
 repeat over and over with different looking enemies. The bosses are even most of the time in the 
 same place the last one was on these levels. Repetitve much.
  
  This is where the gameplay could've saved grace, but once again dissapointment looms right around 
 the corner. Stealth kills are still awesome, there just isn't enough variety in them. You really 
 would've thought it would have at least as many as a years old PS2 game. The combat is also clunky 
 and though you get to buy new skills and moves after every few missions they aren't really that 
 different from eachother and some of the strongest ones don't even do much damage. It also does'nt 
 help that the enemy A. I is'nt even as smart as past games, which was terrible to begin with. They 
 can lose track of you in seconds and will see dead bodies only to forget about them within seconds 
 as well.
  
  Xbox live is where those who do get this game will be. It gets you out of the horror of the astoundingly 
 dumb enemy A. I and lets you play with buddies. Sneaking up on enemies with a friend or two is extremely 
 satisfying. I just wish that when one was spotted it didn't keep all players from executing stealth 
 kills. Imagine how much better it would have been to have a buddy get spotted and then drop down 
 on his assailant running your katana through him. Too bad if they are seen so are you even if your 
 a mile away in a bush.
  
  Tenchu Z was full of promise and although it does some welcome things with the franchise, it really 
 needs an overhaul. Ragdoll physics, better story, complex combat, better A. I, and a full list of others. That 
 said if you are a fan of tenchu, this is the best one yet. These players will get the most fun out 
 of this game. Just don't expect a new experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chi-You-Man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who have not ever experienced the Tenchu games, they are a series of stealth/Action 
 games taking in the Heart of Feudal Japan. Traditionally you play as a number of characters such 
 as Rikimaru, however in Tenchu Z you create your own killing Machine., and Riki dishes out missions. 
 You start the game with a Training Mission, however i chose to skip this as it was actually quite 
 tedious, and i wanted some instant Tenchu Action. You start out in 'Ninja Village', which fooled 
 me into thinking it was a large village but instead it was a cabinet for items and skills and a 
 hut for missions, but this does not really spoil the game. Throughout the duration of the game 
 the missions usually take on one of three structures, Assassinations, collecting Items and reaching 
 target points, each with easy, medium and hard difficulties. Sometimes something more interesting 
 comes along like spying on somebody or rescuing some kidnapped innocents. This was an example of 
 laziness as i felt the missions could have been a bit more varied. Do not get me wrong however, 
 these missions can be quite entertaining, something quite fun about hopping across rooftops and 
 then cutting some poor soul a new spleen. But is there only so far that can go. The graphics are 
 quite sharp, but could have used a bit more of the 360s muscle. The character models are unfortunately 
 quite poor though. Sadly also the settings are all very alike, at first i thought that it must 
 just be because its 16th Century Japan, and theres limitations to how creative one can be. Also 
 i found that there was not really much music variety to the missions, and many tracks being repeated. 
 The game does have a loose story but it is not really tied together effectively. One place this 
 game does shine however is the online multiplayer. I found this hilarious to play with friends 
 and quite good for getting quick thrills out of this title. There are also little features to this 
 game that i liked, such as some comical outfits and a nice variety of weapons, such as mines and 
 wasps. There is also a cool series of special moves for you to unleash, but lets face it we have 
 seen it all before.
  All in all i found this title quite fun to play, and i woud recommend it, especially to people 
 who have not experienced Tenchu. I managed to pick up an early Asian copy so when i first played 
 it no reviews were out, and to be honest i though it would get a better reception. Gamespot were 
 to harsh. It is also worth mentioning that this title is slightly cheaper than other titles, so 
 it should be cut some slack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gauntlet2021
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 7, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The Tenchu universe has been around for quite a while now, making its debut on the PS1. Although 
 the idea of being a ninja assassin has been used alot, this series often managed to pull it off 
 (although generally it was a close call) . Tenchu Z is extremelly similar to the older versions, 
 but at the same time is very different. You still play as a ninja assassin, you're still given 
 sylish 'Stealth Kills' to eliminate enemies, and you still have access to most if not all the old 
 mechanics. However, this latest edition attempts to add what the makers probably thought was brilliant, 
 but is infact predictable and standard. The most obvious of the changes is the new Custom Character/RPG 
 element. At the beggining of the game, you get to build a character. This is pretty lacking, but 
 after finishing a tutorial level you suddenly get a load of more interesting pieces to make your 
 ninja all the more 'you'. While there are multiple colours of the sets of armour you can attach, 
 they are given fairly cryptic names like 'Mountain 2' or 'Mountain 5', forcing you to purchase 
 blindly for the matching piece. The second big change is the way the story is done. By which I 
 mean the makers clearly desired quantity over quality. They often bragged You ask and you recieve! 
 50 Levels of ninja action! . At first glance, this seems decently true, but after some playing 
 you'll find that many levels repeat themselves almost exactly. Punish the Evil Merchant , Punish 
 the Greedy Merchant among others have the same target model, same layout, same enemy paths, etc 
 etc etc. Even in total, the storyline is dissapointing. And finally, the gameplay. You'll be told 
 the gameplay is lackluster, but it has still evolved from the older games (thankfully) . Previously, 
 you'd find yourself tapping one button repeatedly while getting knocked backwards when in a swordfight. 
 Now, the combat is slightly more smooth and real. Naturally the focus is on the stealth. The AI 
 is pittiful, but it's always been that way (would have been nice to change, but it hasnt gotten 
 any worse) . It seems that the makers compensated for this by adding in new ways to be detected 
 (along with new ways to kill to avoid it) , which is a nice plus. Simple things like drawing your 
 sword yourself and flipping over the heads of enemies are the real improvement here. Things that 
 should have changed:
  
  -L-Trig + X is block? They should have made Y block and move the Y function to BACK. That would 
 have made both alot more usable.
  
  -A little panic would be nice if you're spotted. It would be harder, but give a much more real 
 feel.
  
  -Rename the costumes!
  
  -The majority of levels were TOO open. It's so easy to kill the boss alone that there doesnt seem 
 any structure to it.
  
  -A better storyline.
  
  -Nextgen graphics. Come on, this is late xbox stuff.
  
  This is worth a rent, or a try at a 
 gaming spot. It could be worth a purchase but its probably not what you expect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome if u play it with your friends and all but if u play it alone its kinda to 
 repetitive AI is to retarded and sometimes weird stuff happen its good to play it online but if 
 u play it alone let others play with u so when u get bored they can get the achievements for u 
 play it online so u can make it more exciting unless your friends don't got it but i don't recommend 
 this to other gamers unless you really like ninjas and stealth killing but its a great game just 
 kinda to boring if u love ninjas love stealth love anything that involves being sneaky I think 
 you'll like this game or if your a chaotic gamer that loves blasting doors kinda likes stealth 
 or is just one of the people that go AHH-HHH!!! when playing games with lot of action i don't think 
 u should buy this probably go rent it if u wanna see how its like but thats all its just my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedInuyasha-Kun
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu Z is based around not just some random main character, but your own character. With many, 
 MANY different ways to customize your ninja, your ninja will always be unique compared to other 
 people's ninjas. You can run through a level, but you will miss alot of what the game has to offer. 
 Sure, the AI can be stupid.. But not in large groups. The head on fighting isn't that bad, and the 
 stealth kills are amazing. This game obviously deserves a 10 in every aspect. Co-op is great but 
 voice lag could be let up, and I always play with my own friends and not random people, so I know 
 the game won't be ruined for me, so all in all, this game is worth the money it was on the shelf. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  the game wasnt the best ninja game but it wasnt the wrost its pretty fun sneakin up to some one 
 and just wooping their ass or using ur little weapons to kick their ass also the online is ok but 
 if like the guy knows the level already he finishes it wayyy to fast its pretty kool the little 
 power ups u get also from goin into the store overall its a pretty good game to woop ass in but 
 to some ppl it may be wayy different so if u can fist rent it and see if u like it the achievments 
 are pretty easy soo frist rent it and than see if u want to but it!! peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  I haven't really followed the Tenchu series but a few people on my friends list raved on about 
 the demo and if i ever get more than four or five people saying the game is 'ace' then i have to 
 check it out.
  
  My main issue with these kind of games, stealthy, do what you want kind of games is, is the mechanism 
 for doing so flawed and 99% of the time it is. Splinter Cell suffers as does Perfect Dark, the 
 Thief series and Deus Ex. The AI simply isnt good enough. Tenchu suffers much the same. After about 
 twenty minutes of trying to play the game properly i decided to run in like a mad mad and kill 
 everything quick and i got a better rating doing so than if i took thirty minutes over the mission. 
 That aside, if you do try to play the game as the developers intended you get a pretty satisfying 
 experience. The enemy have a set pattern in their movement and actions and offer you a chance to 
 play the game. The game offers the player the choice, which is mandatory on games such as this, 
 you have to feel that you are in control and know exactly what you are allowed to get away with.
 
  
  So, what are the flaws. The AI as always is a bit daft and their 'Active seek out' mode is quite 
 lame. Its a case of if you get seen, jump over a wall and in thirty seconds they will forget you 
 were ever there. Not good. I would expect the AI to go to pattern B, that is what they were doing 
 before is not the same, their alertness is upped and they move faster. This doesnt end until you 
 are dead. Thats what i would have done. Here, they just go mad for thirty secs and then go back 
 to normal, they do however make some effort to seek you out if they see you at all.
  
  Im not going to go on about the missions, its the same stuff over and over, the idea is that you 
 make your own game of it and try and complete the game to the highest rating. This however is not 
 that difficult even on the hardest setting.
  
  The pros. The killing system is quite good, basic, but good. There are a number of ways you can 
 kill and enemy but its like ive said all along here, you make the game your own and decide probably 
 before hand how you are going to kill the dudes.
  
  There is a skills shop in the game to add to your move list but in all fairness all you need is 
 a good eye, spot the chance sneak up and hit X. the game is that simple, just dont get seen. This 
 skills shop can offer some good skills however to make you choose different routes into areas that 
 look impossible to infiltrate
  
  The GS review is a little unfair to the game, its not a depth game but deserves more than 4.9. 
 Ive always felt that GS dont like the Xbox or Microsoft (this may be totally untrue its the vibe 
 i get off some reviews and articles ive read from them over the years) and when an edgy game comes 
 long they waste no time in video reviewing it and giving it a lower score than it really deserves. 
 Tenchu Z is defiantly a rent game but i dont think you would be totally disappointed if you bought 
 it out right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cash_Wolf
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu Z is the latest in the Tenchu series, in which you do missions, and buy items. For the first 
 few missions the game is fun, but after, it starts getting repeatitive and boring. Here is the 
 lowdown:
  
  Gameplay: The many ways to kill someone will a sneak attack is a fun concept, and the controls 
 are simple and easy to understand.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are decent, but compared to other 360 games, are not the best, or close 
 on that matter.
  
  Sound: Regular game music, and background noises, which is all you need for a ninja game.
  
 
  Value: I don't think after you beat the game and unlock everything that you will ever want to 
 play this game again.
  
  That is just my opinion. But whatever you think, is what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuXoIs114
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Everyone has been complaining that this game is not like the original. True it isn't, but is it 
 really suppose to be? Sometimes most games want to move away from the repetitive nature and I believe 
 Tenchu Z is trying to do that. The ninja creator is a good concept and yes it's true they could 
 have done better but it still is interesting to see what they were going for here. The graphics 
 could have been better I agree but still not a bad job. You have the dark feel of the game as if 
 you were actually a ninja. Now I believe Gamespot was a little brutal on this game in their review. 
 Sure there are flaws and glitches but what game doesn't have flaws and glitches when it first comes 
 out. Gameplay wise is actually what you would expect from a ninja game. What more would you expect? 
 You're going stealthy thru a mission to get to your objective, now why do people find this wrong? 
 That's the main point of the game. Any ninja game you play, you have an objective to get to. On 
 this game, you can do it anyway you please but it still kills the fun out of the game if you decide 
 to run straight to the end. Gamespot said you could pretty much run thru the game and go straight 
 to objective. True you can do that but then what is the point of playing? Just to get to the end 
 of the game in a few minutes? Yes the AI is very dumb, it's true but in most of the Tenchu games, 
 the AI has always been pretty dumb. If you remember in the older Tenchu games, you would get seen 
 then run away and hide. Suddenly they would stop looking for you and go back like nothing happen. 
 So why do you suddenly expect it to be any different? The multiplayer is a lot of fun to play with 
 some friends. Though at times it is laggy when playing up to 4 people, when it actually plays smooth 
 it is really fun. Think about it this way when you're playing online, it's a race for each of you 
 to see who can kill the most guys in the mission before getting to the end. That's how I look at 
 it every time I play online. Now you can hate this game because Gamespot told you to or you can 
 actually play it for what it is, aside from the flaws and glitches. You can still make this game 
 fun if you play more into it like you actually should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  SO IVE BEEN PLAYING TENCHU FOR WELL SINCE IT FIRST CAM OUT AND THEY WERE AWESOM THEN THEY WHEN 
 TO OK AND THIS IS NOT OK.... so i don't like to be harsh but the gamplay well it was good back then 
 i mean i gess going around stelth killing someone is prety fun but it gets old after a whil you 
 have missions wher you will have to follow somone our go wack somone and thats all you do. So whats 
 kinda cool is you get to create your own charecter wich is cool until you play. with bad sound 
 and gamplay that was good 9 years ago so finial thoughts ''tenchu z is a game you should rent for 
 the achivements and with gameplay thats dated'' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nbkwolverine
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  This game has had a variety of mixed reviews, for the hardcore tenchu fan, like myself, this new 
 addition contains the original fun of the first score of tenchu games, but with new moves and funny 
 pre wrote scenes, like one guy banging on the door the the bathroom and hopping on each foot needing 
 to pee, running in and sighing with relief..... just before i sneak up and slit his throat.
  Graphically, its very simular to the last one, maybe a bit more polished, but not amazing, and 
 the blood is not very realistic.... But to be honest... if i was to want a game with great graphics 
 and realistic blood.... i'd buy Gears of War. This game is about tatics, stealth and patience. 
 you'll find yourself needing to hide bodies a lot more, wash regularly as blood smells! and sitting 
 for minutes waiting for some guy to walk off so you can dispatch with his buddy.
  Again, if i wanted senseless violence without worrying about stealth, id buy GoW.
  
  i love 
 Tenchu, it has always taken a niche that cant be filled. there are other stealth games like splinter 
 cell, but these are so different, you cannot compare games like that.... it'd be like comparing 
 Call of Duty with Half life, they are different and diverse in their own rights.
  
  i'd give this game 8/10, basically because, yes, it isnt original, its old school!!!, but it still 
 reigns highly in my regard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DerekKwok1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  This game looked cool, so I went to EB Games and bought it. When I played it, I was partially impressed 
 and partially not. The controls are mapped to the right buttons for easiness of gameplay, but the 
 sword fights are simple and boring in this reviewers point of view. However, the stealth kills 
 and online play are very well thought out. The stealth kills have cool animations that make you 
 feel like you are a ninja. I believe it is fun to jump around the roofs of buildings only to jump 
 down next to an opponent and put a sword through his head. It is oddly refreshing! Online has co-op 
 and ranked matches which I think are both well done. The co-op requires strategies even though 
 you may think 2-4 ninjas ganging on one guy are unstoppable. You need someone to lure the guards' 
 attention, someone to flank, and someone to throw a shuriken. This is the way the game is. You 
 can always play it a different way. You may have had other ideas than what I mentioned, so the 
 acts and moves you do represent your playing style. The AI is probably the worst thing about the 
 game with the graphics following by a close second. The AI will see you and when you leave for 
 two minutes will totally forget about you. When you are about to kill them, they do this wierd 
 dance and start running all over the place. This would feel more like a stealth game if the guy 
 staring straight at the roof in broad daylight can actually see you. The AI would be better if 
 they could use your shadow on the ground to know what was coming. The graphics are better than 
 PS2 and Xbox 1, but don't quite make it to the 360's standards. The single player campeign consists 
 of around 50 missions where you assassinate someone, follow someone without being detected, or 
 rescuing another ninja. These could get repetitive, but hey, ninjas always use the same tactics 
 anyways, so who cares. The stealth kills and online play more than make up for the graphics. If 
 you are looking for a stealth game where you can do more than one stealth style kill and feel like 
 an actual ninja assassin, this is for you. If you do not mind the graphics and think of the AI 
 as giving you an advantage, you will enjoy this game and will thank Japanese people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game very much and so far I can't help but feel that Tenchu Z is 
 not very challenging.
  The AI is very retarded at times. It's often to easy to predict where the enemy is going to go 
 when they spot you. So you end up hiding out in an area where they may not find you, and the minute 
 they turn around to walk away, you use your stealth to kill them. However, this is typical for 
 a Tenchu game and for some reason this flaw hasn't even been fixed yet. The controls sometimes 
 seem unresponsive at random moments, and this minor flaw was easy to get over. The worst thing 
 about the gameplay was the lack of maps. After you play ten missions or so, you start to notice 
 that you play the same maps over and over again with the same scenarios. For what the Xbox 360 
 is supposed to be capable of, the lack of maps is simply unacceptable.
  Graphics were not very sharp at all. For some reason i think more effort was put into the graphics 
 for the PS2 Tenchu games. The player models, the ground, the buildings and fences all looked the 
 same as previous Tenchu games with little improvement.
  Sound was simply mediocre at best. That's all I will say.
  There isn't really much value to this 
 game at all. The Tenchu series is losing it's appeal very quickly with the lack of effort put into 
 their recent games (Nintendo DS anyone?) . The price of this game should simply drop after a couple 
 more weeks. It's not all it's cracked up to be.
  Die Hard tenchu fans should enjoy this game. People who want a better challenge from a Ninja stealth 
 game should look to previous efforts in the Tenchu series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaybird209
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  It's a really good game if you like ninjas and all the abilities and clothing that you can customize 
 is really cool too. Some missions may seem repetetive and people wine about how you can just run 
 right through em, but why would you want to run right through the missions. The fun is in how to 
 kill your enemy, not the quickest way to beat the game. This is probably the best game I've played 
 for the series and if you like how fun it is take your time on it, if not, get the achievements 
 you wanted or brag about how you got all the clothing and shut up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infidelcastro
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I love ninjas like that next man. Historically, this game is not even anywhere near what Ninjas 
 really are about. They don't go out in broad daylight and engage in fights. Ninjas are known to 
 be night spies who go out with stealth and kill if necessary. Killing is not always necessary. 
 With that said, the game itself is a big contradiction. Not only historically, but gameplay wise. 
 The AI is retarded. If you played this game, you know what that means. But at the same time, they 
 got spidey sense . They know where you're at! And you're suppose to be a ninja. Huh! Oh yeah, the 
 moves, wow. Apparently the ninja only knows a couple set of moves. Hack here and there and stealth 
 kill. Ninjas are supposed to be trained killers! They should know more moves than that! Well, the 
 graphics are alright for 360. Aside from gameplay, online is fun, but where are all the people?! 
 The game could get very repetitive, but to each his own. Anyways, I warn you people, even as much 
 as you like ninjas, rent this first before you buy. Don't support games that are subpar for your 
 hard earned money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlock151
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Everybody likes ninjas. Who can deny the feeling of a good ol' stealth kill? If you liked the other 
 tenchu games you will probably like this one. I'll admit that this game could be amazing if more 
 time was spent on it .
  
  The controls are a little sloppy.
  
  It really sucks that this game series seems to be going downhill because I feel it has the potential 
 to be great. Tenchu wrath of heaven was a lot better, probably the best in the series. This game 
 seems to be like the original psone game with jacked up graphics and some added extras, which is 
 almost good enough for me. Maybe they were going more for the strategy thing, but it's hard to 
 tell.
  
  If you have some imagination and really put yourself in the role of a ninja, you will have fun 
 playing this game, I know I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coachz
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu Z is one of those games that they could have made a lot better. There are certain key elements 
 that they forgot to add. I think one of those keys is better game play. Now, Im not saying that 
 sticking a sword through a guys chest isnt fun, but doing the same kill over and over again gets 
 boring. Also make the stealth kills easier to do, so you dont have to be inches from your face 
 to stealth kill him. Also the controls are more touch then I would have liked to have. The slightest 
 pebble can block your path. Online play is not bad, but talk about lag, OMG. Tenchu Z is one of 
 those games that you rent first. Its not a game for everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaluaj
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Its Obvious the Gamespot reviewers only played the demo and have no love for the original Tenchu 
 games. While the game could have polished some area's, It does hold the value of a next-gen game. 
 The graphics will not blow your mind but are good looking. The movement of the character is good 
 but the controls do take some practice to get a hold of. The fact that you can customize the look 
 of your ninja is sweet. The sound effects are ok, nothing that will move you. If you play the game 
 with the mindset of a ninja this game could take you a long time to beat and unlock all the achievements. 
 If your the type that is just trying to race through and not collect or unlock content than this 
 game is not for you. If you were to play through each level and score perfect every time, your 
 playing the game how it was ment to be played. If your disregarding the idea of being stealth and 
 sneaking around, you may as well play the demo over and over again. If you do choose to play this 
 game, be warned that later level's are freaken hard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheXboxgamer73
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Ever since its debut on the Playstation, Tenchu has undoubtedly grown into a fantastic and underappreciated 
 series. The original was a mix of stealth, action, and a giant dose of Japanese culture. It's sequel 
 (or prequel technically) gave gamers more of the same great ninja action and threw in a level editor 
 to boost the amount of time people spent getting their inner ninja on. The leap to Playtstation 
 2 with Fatal Shadows and Wrath of Heaven also proved to be great additions to the series even if 
 the formula was beginning to feel all too familiar. Now, we are presented with the disasterous 
 Tenchu Z. In an attempt to conform to modern gamers, Tenchu Z completely strips away the series's 
 originality into something bare, boring, and uninspired.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GAMEPLAY: At first glance, Tenchu Z looks like everything you could hope for and more, but before 
 you even begin the tutorial, things already turn sour. At the start of the game, you realize that 
 you can no longer play as Rikimaru or Ayame, but instead must create your own lifeless character 
 from a nearly unacceptable shortage of options. Why the developer felt that following the paths 
 of Rikimaru and Ayame was no longer neccessary is beyond my comprehension, but the decision leaves 
 you with a boring character devoid of identity, background, or interest. Ok, so things can't get 
 worse than losing the chance to control the badass Rikimaru... right? WRONG! After throwing together 
 your ninja, you are thrust into the game only to realize that Tenchu Z, unlike its predecessors, 
 does not offer 10 to 12 well developed levels. Instead, you are forced to sit through 50 of the 
 most generic and repetitive levels I have ever seen in gaming history. Most missions are exact 
 duplicates of one another, the only difference being the character model that you must kill to 
 end the mission. Basically, it feels like you are playing the same 4 levels in the same 4 locations 
 over and over and over again... with hardly any story, cutscenes, or catchy dialogue to keep you 
 interested. Its a shame too, since the actual gameplay, aside from the clunky combat, is exceptionally 
 smooth and satisfying.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The Tenchu series has never been famous for amazing graphics, and this entry is no exception. This 
 is not a bad thing however. Tenchu Z looks like it could have easily been done on the original 
 Xbox, but it is still a fairly decent looking game. The biggest problem is that the blood looks 
 like spiky fireworks as opposed to.. well.. blood. The draw distance is also very short, but there 
 are very few, if any, times when looking across an entire level is actually neccessary. Overall, 
 the graphics, whether they had been better or worse, wouldn't change the generic and boring experience 
 that is Tenchu Z. Shiny graphics are good, but superb gameplay is better.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  SOUND:
  
  If you have ever played another Japanese inspired game or another Tenchu, you know what to expect 
 here. All of the dialogue is in Japanese with english subtitles. The music is fairly limited, but 
 the chings and chimes set the mood well and get the job done without distaracting you from what 
 is going on.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  VALUE:
  
  Tenchu Z is a ripoff for $60. If you can manage to sit through all 50 missions, you will have had 
 more than your fair share of Tenchu Z to throw back on the shelf or sell it to your local game 
 store. Besides the 50 missions, there is nothing else to do in Tenchu Z besides unlock achievements 
 (most of which you will aquire in one play through) . The other achievements are obtained through 
 completing all 50 missions on each difficulty setting. This means, to get your 1000, you must play 
 a total of 150 missions, and earn Ninja 5 ranks on every single one. Getting the Ninja 5 ranks 
 is easy, staying awake is not. Tenchu Z also offers online multiplayer. It takes an eternity to 
 search for a small handfull of games, and when you actually connect to one, you'll realize that 
 all you have the ability to do is play the same boring missions with other people. Fun? Not really.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  TILT:
  
  Tenchu Z is the worst Tenchu game in the series. Having dropped its originality in place of generic 
 missions, lack of story, and a horrible character creation system, Tenchu Z is an embarassment 
 to the series that should, and probabaly wil soon be forgotten by gamers everywhere. It has fun 
 moments, and no one can deny that playing as a ninja is awesome, but if that is your desire, look 
 elsewhere. Casual gamers should avoid Tenchu Z, while Tenchu fans might want a rent just to say 
 they played it.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  FINAL OVERVIEW:
  
  The Good:
  - Gameplay is smooth and satisfying
  - Stealth kills are fun and awesome
  - You play as a ninja
  
  The Bad:
  - Missions are 
 boring and repetitive
  - Character creation system is horrible
  - Graphics are so-so
  - You cannot play as Rikimaru or Ayame
  - Virtually no story
  - Corny dialogue
  - Multiplayer 
 is laggy and uninspired 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonmasico
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  It's not the best Tenchu game ever but it is one hell of a game. In the PS2 version of Tenchu you 
 can create your own mission, they should have made the same thing for the 360 version because when 
 you made it trough the entire game there's not a lot of things left to do.
  
  The graphics are not too good for what the Xbox 360 can really do but it's not that bad. The sounds 
 are good but sometimes I have difficulty with my chinese.
  
  The missions are highly repetitive and there's many bugs to fix for the xbox live co-op missions.
 
  
  Finally, it could have been better and I can't wait for another tenchu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eyedrazorback
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  After reading all the bad reviews and comparing them to the good reviews (albeit the die-hard Tenchu 
 fans) , I decided to get the game and try it out. I'm a little fan of Tenchu, but the last game 
 I played was Wrath of Heaven, so I'm a little behind I suppose. Anyway, the review.
  
  Starting off in a training level just to get the basics down is a nice starting point. It gets 
 you used to the new controls and stuff and you get acquainted quite nicely. Between missions, you 
 go to a sort of thing that's called a Ninja Village, where you can stock up on all your items to 
 use in the field, your clothes that you can equip and purchase, and abilities that you can obtain 
 and purchase. Pretty neat little cottage where that is stored. The other place in the village is 
 where you talk to Rikimaru for missions. He doesn't really say anything in the game except for 
 at the beginning when he's training you, so don't expect him to be a major character if you didn't 
 already know. The character customization is pretty detailed up until a point. There's a few faces 
 to choose from, light or dark... your preference... personally, I chose dark to be more stealthy 
 and more Ninja-like! (By all means, not a racial comment!!!!) You have a pretty good variety of 
 clothing, but it's mainly just color differences. You can purchase all the other good clothing 
 further on in the game. Sword fights are a little repetitive, but that's a given. The stealth kills 
 are a little repetitive... but there's just something so satisfying about sticking your sword through 
 that unsuspecting guard that makes you want to do it over and over regardless of it looking the 
 same!
  
  The Good: Good fun if you get into the portrayal of the Ninja life and how he must go about. In 
 depth if you make it that way.
  
  The Bad: Graphics are a little sub-par but I can make do.
  
  The WT*?!: The opening cut-scenes 
 of some missions where the guy you must assassinate is sipping... whatever he's sipping.
  
  Overall... I give it a 7.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Although Metal Gear Solid for the original Playstation is often sited as the first game to feature 
 3D stealth action on a home console, that honor actually belongs to Tenchu: Stealth Assassins, 
 released in 1998 just 2 months before Solid Snake showed his polygonal face. Although the Tenchu 
 franchise has never been as popular as stealth genre staples like Metal Gear or Splinter Cell, 
 the game has maintained a loyal cult following throughout the past decade due to its authentic 
 representation of ninjutsu, the art of remaining unperceived.
  
  Probably the main reason the Tenchu series doesnt resonate with the majority of gamers is the 
 fact that unlike most ninja games, it basically discourages sword fighting altogether. While there 
 are upgradeable combo moves one can fall back on in dire situations, these moves feel underpowered 
 and clunky compared to the more sophisticated, stealthier components of the game. This emphasis 
 on stealth is historically accurate, as ninjas were no match for skilled samurai warriors in open 
 confrontations, relying instead on patience and timing to strike isolated enemies down with a single, 
 deadly blow. Despite its authenticity, Tenchu Zs representation of ninjas has a polarizing effect 
 on action game fans; players expecting another action intensive outing in the spirit of Ninja Gaiden 
 will almost certainly be disappointed, but fans of stealth action will find much to enjoy as they 
 learn to master Tenchu Zs sneaking system and sublime stealth kill mechanics..
  
  Unlike other games in the Tenchu series, Rikimaru and Ayame and not the stars of Tenchu Z. Instead, 
 you will create a male or female ninja and assign points to their agility, strength, and health. 
 You will then create a sidekick, whose gender is the opposite of your own character, but he or 
 she will only appear in cut scenes and is never playable. Seasoned ninja veteran Rikimaru will 
 be your mentor who doles out your assignments and rewards you according to your performance. These 
 50 missions all involve making your way from one end of the map to the other, usually to kill a 
 villain, deliver a message, or collect some items. Although you are not tasked with a wide variety 
 of assignments, the level design and placement of guards are fairly diverse. Once again the story 
 revolves around the putting a stop to the nefarious Echigoya clan, who are now trafficking a drug 
 called Shishi with the help of their militaristic Ogawara allies. Although the story is serviceable, 
 it isnt terribly compelling and lacks coherence. The only thing you really need to know when playing 
 through any given level of Tenchu Z is that there is a town full of bad guys with swords, and you 
 have to go kill all of them. Silently. Although there is no Metal Gear style radar to help detect 
 enemy positions, players will rely on the ki meter which indicates if there are any enemies close 
 to you, their proximity, and weather or not they can perceive you. Sound and light meters further 
 assist players in remaining invisible.
  
  As mentioned earlier, the basic combat engine in Tenchu Z is basic and underwhelming, but then 
 again it was never intended to be a sword fighting game. (In the entire game, there are only 3 
 mandatory face to face battles.) Its as though From Software consciously created a gimped fighting 
 system as a means of discouraging head on encounters. Players are further discouraged from engaging 
 alerted enemies via a new game play element: odor. Anytime an alerted enemy is wounded or killed 
 in melee combat, his body produces blood stains on your clothing. Nearby enemies can smell these 
 stains, and will seek out the source of the aroma. This makes it difficult to advance through levels 
 unseen and will likely bring down a swarm of samurai as your ki meter flashes orange. Although 
 this problem can be remedied by taking a dip in a nearby body of water or by using a special cleansing 
 item which removes the bloody scent, it is far better to avoid head on swordfights whenever possible, 
 as a ninja surrounded by angry guys with katanas has little chance of survival. Stealth kills, 
 on the other hand, produce no such stains, and players who favor these silent takedowns will be 
 rewarded with more gold and a higher ranking at the end of the level. This gold can be used to 
 customize the character as they buy skills and abilities, purchase new equipment, and change their 
 appearance, while high ratings unlock secret levels that give players access to even more special 
 abilities. But stealth kills take a bit of doing, as guards are typically placed in clusters. Kill 
 a samurai willy-nilly and his buddies will come over and make short work of you. It takes patience 
 and timing to kill dense bunches of guards while remaining unseen. Some of the items you can purchase 
 or find will help the player in these situations, and so does the new chain kill mechanic, which 
 requires expert timing but effectively takes out an entire room full of samurai. Probably the most 
 compelling reason to be stealthy, though, is that stealth kills just look really, really cool 
 arterial flow sprays out like a crimson fountain, and players are treated to one of Tenchu Zs 
 16 different fatality animations which vary depending on the players position relative to their 
 prey. It can be a lot of fun (and challenging) to try and trigger a favorite stealth kill animation 
 in a particular situation. Without a doubt, the satisfying stealth kill mechanics are the meat 
 and potatoes of Tenchu Z.
  
  It is worth mentioning that Tenchu Z has a hefty learning curve. While trying the demo, I had no 
 idea what I was doing, and this clueless feeling carried over to the first hour and a half I spent 
 with the retail version. This is largely due to the fact that the manual and tutorial mission both 
 lack a surprising amount of information. In fact, I was totally unaware of many of the more useful 
 moves and abilities until I read about them on community forums. (i. e. You can peek through paper 
 doors by clicking the right stick, and choked enemies can be pushed up against a wall or on the 
 ground with the A button or right trigger, respectively.) Furthermore, the system for assigning 
 purchased abilities to the controller is never explained, and takes some experimentation to figure 
 out how to use your new skills. Its as though the person in charge of localizing the manual had 
 only a cursory understanding of Tenchu Zs game mechanics, and this is inexcusable especially 
 for a game published by Microsoft. It wouldnt surprise me if a lot of players become discouraged 
 and abandoned the game early on. And thats a real shame, because once the learning curve is crested 
 Tenchu Z makes players feel like total bad-asses. At the very least, the controls are remappable, 
 which is always nice. Tecnhu Z fixes many of the problems which have plagued earlier games in the 
 Tenchu series. For example, the improved draw distance allows players to look out over an entire 
 map and see enemies well before they are a threat, significantly improving ones ability to remain 
 hidden. In addition, the frustrating camera controls found in previous Tenchu games have been completely 
 fixed and are finally on par with other third person action games. And instead of just relying 
 on the tiny stealth kill lamp to assist players with timing their stealth kills, Tenchu Z adds 
 the Seal of Nine, a circular meter that appears in the center of the screen when an enemy is near. 
 When the ring turns from orange to red the controller vibrates, and players can execute a perfect 
 kill, earning them more money and improving their level completion rank. Tenchu Z also features 
 some cool new moves which are extremely helpful in particular situations. Players can now easily 
 stab an approaching guard from around a corner, and enemies located atop watchtowers can be pulled 
 down and killed away from prying eyes with the press of a button. In order to subdue innocents 
 (who are identifiable only by their lack of weaponry,) players can now choke their targets from 
 behind and knock them out. This also helps when fighting hostiles, as players can grab guards located 
 in high-traffic areas and drag them into the shadows for a stealthy execution or knockout. And 
 although the sword fighting isnt terribly compelling, the new upgradeable combo system does add 
 some degree of depth. Finally, Tenchu Z has included the ability to kill victims on the other side 
 of paper doors, allowing stealth-minded assassins to bypass the majority of boss fights. Tenchu 
 Zs graphics are clean, but not stunning. All of the models and effects look fairly decent, and 
 the numerous animations flow together in a fluid, realistic manner that effectively convey the 
 cat-like grace of being a ninja. Levels are consistently well designed and dynamic, offering numerous 
 routes to your target and providing the game with an open ended feel. Unfortunately Tenchu Z is 
 not without its graphical shortcomings. Textures appear slightly muddy at times, diminishing the 
 impact of the high definition visuals. And for game in which shadows play a major role, Tenchu 
 Zs lighting is not executed nearly as well as it is other games in the stealth genre like Splinter 
 Cell: Double Agent. As a result, players attempting to discern how well hidden they are will find 
 themselves looking to their light meter rather than simply glancing at their character and the 
 surrounding environment. Sound design in Tenchu Z is both realistic and immersive. Ambient sounds 
 help convey a sense of tension as you try to skulk around quietly in the shadows listening for 
 enemies, and the sound effects are appropriate and crisp. The period Japanese music is used minimally, 
 but is well implemented in that it never prevents players from listening to important environmental 
 cues. All of the dialogue is in Japanese with English subtitles, which is new to the series. Although 
 this authentic dialogue does help immerse players in the feudal Japanese locale and helps avoid 
 localization problems, the typically amusing comments made by wandering NPCs are now lamentably 
 incomprehensible to Western ears. Last, and unfortunately least, we come to Tenchu Zs online component, 
 which supports up to four players for cooperative play. Sadly, there is so much lag when playing 
 online that any more than two ninjas on a server render the game almost completely unplayable. 
 There is some fun to be had playing with one (and only one) of your friends, though. While there 
 is some lag in a two player game, its not impossible to have a bit of stealthy fun. However, join 
 a match with two or three other players, and you will all encounter problems with animations, clipping, 
 and hit detection to such a degree that any thrill of teaming up with others to tackle a mission 
 is entirely negated. At the time of this writing its unknown if From Software is going to ever 
 release a patch for Tenchu Z to address this problem, but if the net code could be cleaned up and 
 the game could be made to run smoothly, it would be an absolute blast. As is, Tenchu Z online feels 
 like a missed opportunity that could have been a major selling point if it had been done right. 
 Despite some of the aforementioned issues, if youre a fan of stealth games or any of the previous 
 iterations in the Tenchu franchise, Tenchu Z is a must buy. Not only is it the best game in the 
 series, no other game simulates the stealth oriented experience of being a ninja so effectively. 
 The character customization adds a personal flair that is both fresh and addictive, and the gameplay 
 has never been better. However, Tenchu Z is most certainly a niche title that will not appeal to 
 everyone, so if you hate stealth, Tenchu Z isnt going to change your mind. Although it takes commitment 
 (and access to the internet!) to learn how to control your character and master the art of the 
 silent kill, Tenchu Z offers patient Xbox 360 owners some of the most satisfying stealth action 
 available on the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GXR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  This isnt a detailed Review or any thing, just a small note for some of you considering getting 
 this game.
  
  Yes the game got a horrible score and I guess for good reason.
  But what it lacks in Graphics, controll scheme, Story, animations and varied gameplay is evened 
 out by som of most fun I have had in a coop game.
  yeah, I know it doesnt quite make up for all the bugs in the game. But it deserves more credit 
 for the amount of fun this game whips up (coop) .
  
  For this reason alone I, GXR/NFX give you Tenchu Z a score of no less than
  7.5 &sect;!&amp;
 
  
  -Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - It's really simplistic , if you sneak up behind an enemy you kill them in one hit and 
 it's pretty smooth. If you attack them from the front it's a messy crappy fighting system and you 
 can just kill them in a very repetetive way. The boss fights are even worse than killing the guards 
 because it uses the front attacking system. Also , no matter how high you set the difficulty this 
 game has the worst A. I ever in a videogame.
  
  Graphics - Nothing to brag about , mostly crappy.
  
  Sound - in a stealth game sound is usually 
 something that should be important , but this game manages to throw that mechanic out the window.
 
  
  Value - the online co-op is extremly laggy with only 1 person , with more than that it is unplayable
 
  
  bad tilt - is in widescreen ratio only 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  There are two sides to this game.
  
  The one side is the sneaking thief like game which i love and cherish. sneak up on behind and take 
 out the opposition. This in itself is done remkarkably well. There are however a list of minor faults, 
 or better stated those parts lacking into the game making this from what is accceptable, to what 
 makes this game legendary.
  
  1. In the initial PSX1 game some routes of guards changed making it essential to be on your toes 
 at ALL times. This was lacking here.
  2. Rank is gained by killing EVERYONE. this is deadly wrong. a good example is meeting a messenger. 
 to become Ninja 5 is to slaughter everyone. and against the rule of Ninjitsu. being undetected 
 and not slaying anyone should be rewarded higher.
  3. The difficulty between low and high is too low. replaying the levels three times is often done 
 in the same way, offering nothing additional. Only level two turned out to be a decent challenge 
 (the restaurant meeting) .
  4. It is nice to offer 50 missions, however there were almost no decent challenges. In this regard 
 this game is falling short.
  
  Some moves like eyes and ears do not seem to work, or do not reveal it's function. adding unlocked 
 options to the training mission could have added great playability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F-Rott
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it. Tenchu doesn't appeal to everyone, but to those of us that it does appeal to, it's 
 a bordeline crack addiction. Tenchu Z is a lot of things to a lot of fans, no matter what your 
 favorite entry in the series happens to be.
  
  Did you like the first Tenchu? Well, then you'll be happy to know that the linear-ish gameplay 
 of the last few titles is gone. Now you're back to wide-open levels and choose-your-own-path type 
 gameplay.
  
  Did you like Tenchu 2? The music in Tenchu Z will remind you of a few Level Editor songs, and you'll 
 be glad to know that water is once again your friend. You can also drag bodies, and there's multiple 
 Stealth Kills.
  
  Did you like Wrath of Heaven? Some of the newer Ninja Items return from this era, as well as the 
 dual analog stick controls.
  
  Fatal Shadows? The direction K2 was taking in this game to differentiate themselves from previous 
 developer Acquire continues, only on a slightly larger scale. You can tell they're testing the 
 waters with Tenchu Z. I sense big things ahead as far as revamped gameplay mechanics.
  
  CONTROLS:
  
  The new control scheme can be a little tricky at first, but once you get used 
 to it, you won't want to change them back. If all else fails, you can always change them to however 
 you'd like. Every button is customizable to do whatever you want. Pretty good freedom in this department. 
 The only bad thing is that once the **** hits the fan, you might find yourself reverting back to 
 previous Tenchu control schemes without realizing it, maybe ending in your death.
  
  8/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  It's as if someone took the restrictions off. Now you can do so much 
 more than before. There are so many different variations to disperse your enemies that you could 
 finish every opponent in a level with a different tactic or Kill. Pretty good stuff! There are 
 many different types of missions, but it basically comes down to you killing everyone else on the 
 map, then killing off the final enemy or retrieving the package, or both. Good thing that never 
 gets boring! This score gets a little lower because of the sparse variety.
  
  7/10
  
  MUSIC:
  
  Most reminiscent of Tenchu 2. Very atmospheric. I bought the Soundtrack and gave 
 it a lot of listening. Nothing horrible, but nothing too rememberable either. Fits right in to 
 the game and really helps push the vibe they're trying to give the player, so I guess it's a job 
 well done. Nothing will ever beat the first game's soundtrack, even though Wrath of Heaven came 
 close.
  
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcwise
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This game really is just for hardcore Tenchu fans; unless you're in that small category don't even 
 bother to rent it. It's really sad though because I remember really liking the first Tenchu. It 
 was first great 3d stealth game (a month ahead of MG: S) , had a refreshing simplicity and innovation 
 and great controls for the time. Unfortunately since then they've only ever given the game a facelift 
 and completely cut out any real updates and innovation.
  
  The graphics aren't bad, but they're more along the lines of a good Xbox game instead of being 
 next gen. Your character doesn't even speak at the cut scenes at the end of a mission. I also can't 
 figure out why there are such problems with shadows. If I'm underneath the floor boards I shouldn't 
 be able to see someones' shadow or if I'm on top of a roof the shadow I cast shouldn't be floating 
 feet above the buildings and twice as dark. The controls are clunky and non intuitive. The sound 
 is unimaginative, which isn't a big complaint as this is a stealth game it's nice to be able to 
 hear your surroundings, but there is often a lack of ambient noises when you're not near other 
 characters. While it's nice that you create your own character and you pick up skills, stats, and 
 items as the game progresses this is definitely an old fashioned take on the approach. I'd say 
 actually customizing your looks is like WWE SmackDown! Vs. Raw on the PS2 from 2004 but it lacks 
 even that level of sophistication. It really doesn't add anything to the game play, which brings 
 us to the real problem. It's exactly the same thing as the rest of the series, which exactly the 
 same as the first one in '98. You sneak through a mission, try not to be seen. While you can stealth 
 kill people you can sneak past (and those can be pretty cool) you run the risk of being seen... 
 not to mention that you apparently don't need to hide bodies anymore, and there's one simple task 
 such as an assassination or whatever and then it's off to another disjointed mission. All in all 
 this is a disappointment as I was hoping for a game that would've made this series viable again. 
 Thankfully though I only rented the # (@! thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WikkedLilGrrrl
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Despite the bad reviews this game has suffered from, I actually enjoyed Tenchu Z a lot. Granted, 
 I've never played the series, but being a stealth action game whore that I am and have played the 
 demo before buying it, I was hooked.
  
  The only complaints I have are pretty much the repetitive maps, objectives, and the dumb AI's. 
 The AI's remind me of those in the Splinter Cell franchise;  while 
 walking in their patterns. With 50 missions, the developers should have at least designed more 
 maps. Graphics aren't an eyesore, but for a 360 title, you would expect it to be above average.
 
  
  Overall, I thought it was pretty solid and addictive. This is a TRUE stealth game at its very best. 
 I especially loved being able to customize the main character any way my little heart desires! 
 If you love stealth action game, it's worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  There are alot of set backs with the new Tenchu - but also alot of great things to it. You will 
 be able to make your own character, but buying his upgrades, skills, even clothes. With that said 
 - you are not able to review clothes before buying them so its hit or miss as to it being something 
 you like or not. The items are well put together and fun to use - alot of people tend to stay away 
 from them, but I enjoy using them, the cost is abit high as compaired to the amount of income you 
 get from missions. Easy to hard settings for the AI is ok, it seems as though their vision is the 
 only thing that improves on hard - they spot you faster, and react faster, other then that it still 
 seems like its easy. Their paths are repeative, so you can always wait for them to return if you 
 miss them the first time - which is great for the gamer and all, but bad for AI - I want more AI 
 socialization, they talk, but rarely. As for the online play - when you sit down for a random quick 
 game you're going to find a team of under-aged brats that want to just run in and kill everything 
 and just waste your time at being stealthy. There are afew that hunt quietly with you as well, 
 but at a cost - its more a less a race unless its a friend you're playing with to kill the bad 
 guys. The bosses are ok - and the end mission is fun. I over all like the game and enjoy the game 
 play. The combat is not bad in opinion, but from engaged in face to face combat you loose points 
 - which I hate. Once you teach your character more powerful attack moves and blocks, combat becomes 
 fun and fast pace... lovely when your facing more then one fella at once. No one on my friends 
 list has it - and it seems like a dead title... which is abit sad, you'll invest around 7-10 hours 
 on medium difficulty if you play ALL the missions... but as the gamespot review said - it does 
 become abit repeative, they needed to look for more ways to spice the game up abit.
  
  Perhaps if they didn't force you to be a ninja, maybe a samuri warrior class instead... or take 
 the Splinter Cell approach and make it so you can also be a guard and protect the VIP as well. 
 The game takes a minute or two to learn the controls and become decent with them, there are 3 different 
 ways to perform jumps alone... then ontop of that you've got to hold the right bumper before landing 
 or it will be a loud one... simple things like this put this game up in score for me, they just 
 became focused on afew wrong things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Since 1998, wanna-be couch ninjas rejoiced in the stealthy action of the Tenchu series ok, they 
 possibly rejoiced every now and then. Sometimes, they wanted to have a katana to end certain Tenchu 
 versions misery. Now that the next generation consoles are out and about, Im sure those eager 
 to don the ninja gear once again wondered when Tenchu would grace their new systems. Well, the 
 wait is over, Azuma clan recruits! Unfortunately, you may not be as impressed as you would like 
 to be.
  
  Tenchu Z is actually an ambitious attempt at bringing something fresh to the series, but alas, 
 it wasnt enough to keep this ninja occupied. You start out by creating your own character which 
 is an aspect of gaming that I fully support if character creation is done properly. (Like, the 
 EA GameFace in Tiger Woods 06, or World of Warcraft or Star Wars: Galaxies character creation.) 
 Tenchu Z has semi-character creation. (By the way, NEVER trust what your Blockbuster employees 
 tell you about a game they dont know what theyre talking about. When I rented this game, the 
 guy said that the character creation was BETTER than the EA GameFace. Uh sorry dude, but this 
 isnt even close cant even touch EAs GameFace.) Tenchu Z character creation consists of choosing 
 different aspects of a character model to kind of make it unique, but really its more like playing 
 with a Mr. Potato Head. You have heads you can choose from, which for females is about 7 or 8 total 
 (although itll say either 14 or 16 but each head has 2 different skin tones, so you really 
 only have half of the total number available to choose from you just get to choose whether you 
 want a pasty-pale skin tone, or a somewhat tan skin tone) , and males have 11, I think. However, 
 you will only want to use about 2-3 of each genders heads because the rest are just butt ugly. 
 (This game has some of the manly-ist looking women Ive ever seen.) Then you get to choose the 
 hair, clothes well, thats pretty much it when just starting out. Then you get to select your 
 skill ratio (Strength, Health, Agility) , which you can change to have more of one skill than another. 
 Finally, you get the honor of doing one of many pointless aspects of the game: choosing the appearance 
 and name of your companion character. (The only time your companion appears is at the cut-scene 
 at the end of certain stages thanks for the help, buddy) Once you get into the game, you can 
 purchase different types of clothes at the shack near where you accept your next mission in solo 
 mode (outerwear  your top tunic whatever, Hakama  your britches, Arms  different styles 
 of arm d&eacute; cor, Legs  same as Arms except for your legs and feet, Hair, etc.) , but again, 
 its really just a handful of items for each category, just in about 5 or 6 different colors/styles. 
 It would have been better if you could purchase a certain style of a category, then adjust its 
 color, designs, etc to fit your tastes, but I guess ninjas have no use for fashion sense.
  
  Now that youve been highly disappointed with the character creation, its time to move on to 
 the actual game and gameplay. (Expect more disappointment) If you have played any of the previous 
 versions of Tenchu, then theres no real surprises or anything relatively new to speak of. Hide 
 attack hide attack rinse repeat. If this is your first Tenchu experience, see the previous 
 sentence for a preview of things to come. Most of your time is spent sneaking around in the shadows 
 or on rooftops, waiting for the right moment to dispatch your enemies, who have the AI of a brain-dead 
 chimp. No running around, hacking and slashing as you would in Ninja Gaiden. No way action is 
 not the true style of the ninja. Adversely, it also means that the game can get old really quick, 
 and make you wish you were playing Ninja Gaiden. The stealthy gameplay of this game is what makes 
 it unique, but its SUCH a mandatory aspect of the game that it ruins it for those who prefer more 
 fast-paced gameplay.
  
  When you do get to eliminate your foes, you have several ways to go about doing this. One, which 
 is the most recommended and scores you the most points, is the stealth kill. Unfortunately, they 
 dont impress you with different animations for the stealth kill you get about 5, depending on 
 how you approach the enemy. (Dropping down on them, sneaking from behind, up against a wall, while 
 hanging from a ledge, and consecutive SKs when multiple enemies are close together.) You can also 
 use the sub-par 3 or 4-hit combos, but thats usually only if the enemy has detected you. You also 
 have some special moves you can acquire as you progress through the game or unlock achievements, 
 but most of them are quite useless. Speaking of useless things, about 95% of the items you get 
 in the game are useless. If you cant kill these simpleton enemies with just your sword, then you 
 should just hang up your sheath and take up underwater basket-weaving. (Besides, you get bonus 
 points for completing a level without using any items and your grappling hook does NOT count as 
 an item, so you can use it as much as you like.) Some of the innate skills you can purchase are 
 actually decent. (Feet, Lurk, Blade, and Energy are some youll definitely want to have.) Even 
 so, youll tromp through 50 levels of same ol, same ol so it could get monotonous very quickly.
 
  
  Graphically, this game could have easily been handled by the original XBOX. Ugly character models, 
 so-so levels/environments nothing to make it stand out as a next-gen game. Sounds are well, 
 they are there. Nothing special, but not really bad either. No real music to speak of. The storyline 
 is somewhat awkward and can be confusing at times. Previous versions of Tenchu had more coherent 
 plots to them. For those who like online play, you can play co-op on XBOX Live, but I havent had 
 the urge to try it out yet.
  
  For all you aspiring ninjas out there, I suggest renting this mediocre ninja experience first before 
 flushing your cash down the bamboo chute. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blu-dolfun
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Most may say that TZ is a lackluster game with little to offer. Compared to most next gen games 
 I will have to agree that it has very few innovative mechanics that would allow from software (creators 
 of game) to gain respect from fellow companies and consumers. Good: How many games let you wield 
 swords these days? Not many. Everybody is too busy reloading their guns. This is what most attracted 
 to the game. It is a good break from the many fps's on the 360. The stealth system in the game 
 can be used rather quickly as well as slowly. It just depends on how you want to kill the enemy. 
 For example, I can choose to drag an enemy into a dark corner, throw him to the ground and break 
 his neck, or I can simply slit his throat with the simple push of the X button. There are many 
 different variations in stealth kills as well as combos that you can purchased. The clothing design 
 can get really deep. There is a large variety of items to choose from as well. There are an astonishing 
 50 missions to complete in the game.
  
  Bad: Lets be Realistic. The game does have his moments of fun, but there are a large number of 
 errors that could have been fixed long before its release. The number one thing being the AI. Once 
 you are spotted in the game an enemy has little motivation to run after you. If you get far enough 
 they will eventually stop chasing you. You can simply jump to the top of a building and they will 
 run 5 feet, look left and right, then move back to their original post. Another thing is that the 
 graphics are far from next gen. The funniest part is that in most of the fmv sequences the character 
 lips don't move. Bumping up the graphics probably would have greatly improved this game. At some 
 points I feel like im playing the original Tenchu! Also, before purchasing things are never allowed 
 to see what you are buying until it is purchased. This makes buying items or abilities a little 
 bit of a gamble. All you can read is bandage 1 or mask . You can come up with money rather quickly 
 though, so you eventually just purchase the whole inventory. The gameplay is extremely repetitive! 
 I do not find this to be a problem, but I can see others getting tired of it really fast. Overall: 
 An amusing game If you are not looking for much next gen material.
  RENT IT FIRST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienspider1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Most of my friends (and by most, I mean a few) think this is the worst game for the 360. I strongly 
 disagree. Sure, the story is repetitive and the AI is so stupid, you could run 5 feet in front 
 of them and not get noticed, but what other non-PS2 game lets you sneak around on rooftops and 
 stab, slash, and mercilessly gore people like nobody's business? Not Sonic the Hedgehog, that's 
 for sure! But seriously, folks, this game isn't all that bad, even though it's not the best either. 
 I personally think it's pretty fun, actually. The multiplayer is good if you can get 4 people that 
 have adequate communication skills. Tenchu Z might not be worth $60, but I think it's at least 
 worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DouglasBuffone
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  After many entries of the ninja based Tenchu series on other platforms from the past two generations, 
 K2 brings an exclusive title to the Xbox 360 with Tenchu Z. While many other prominent game franchises 
 promote the art of ninjutsu, a widespread entity in the Japanese feudal society, the Tenchu series 
 was the first to implement the important aspect of stealth. Despite this historically important 
 implementation into the series, the franchise is notorious for shallow gameplay, little story, 
 and even less replay value. Although critics believed that the initial installments of the series 
 on the Playstation were adequate, the developer has not amended the games to keep up with the important 
 changes in action games. Tenchu Z is the first game in this decade-long series which includes features 
 that are expected to be standard, but features that the developer believes differentiates the series 
 from the competition. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  One of these new features creates a needed change in the increasingly bland storyline of the series 
 and one that the developer hoped would freshen up the gameplay. The original premise of the Tenchu 
 games was the journey of two different ninjas, Rikimaru and Ayame, who worked for Lord Gohda in 
 routing out corruption and other potential threats within his province. In Tenchu Z the player 
 will create their own ninja who will go on missions given by Rikimaru and thus serve as a prot&eacute; g&eacute; 
 of sorts. The customization process is one of the strongest features of the game. Before starting 
 the main storyline, the player has the option of creating either a male or female ninja and will 
 be able to both clothe and equip their character with many different outfits and items. It is another 
 nice feature that the player has the ability to customize the sidekick ninja who will appear in 
 the game's cutscenes but it is a disappointment that he or she will never be a playable character. 
 As the player progresses through the game they will receive gold and unlock more options in the 
 store to further customize their ninja. However, there is one aspect of the store that is very 
 questionable. For some reason, the game does not allow the player to view the different clothes 
 before they are purchased from the store. Thus, many times the player will have to just buy an 
 item from a general category, such as armored in the legs section. Despite this, there is great 
 variety which allows the player to create ninjas that are more traditional and ones which are quite 
 the opposite. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The game includes a leveling system that was put in for no real gameplay purpose because it fails 
 to add more depth. At the beginning of the game the player can choose to spread points between 
 life, strength and agility. However it makes little difference on the overall gameplay experience, 
 as it seems to have little or no effect on ninja's effectiveness. It seems as though this aspect 
 could have been better created to allow a more rich and varied gameplay experience. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  With the created ninja ready to enter a story that is an interesting time period, it would seem 
 to become a great one. However the basic premise of the story is very similar to the previous installments. 
 The created hero will have to protect the specific region from threats, which in this case come 
 through an illegal drug operation and a rival's plan to take over the province. The developer included 
 great detail within the story, including specific aspects of Japanese mythology, however the way 
 the game goes about telling the story is completely convoluted and thus confusing. The game's story 
 is told through brief cutscenes shown to the player both before and after each mission. The player 
 will soon find that they will never fully comprehend all of the specifics of the story, as they 
 will most likely not see every cutscene because one is not required to beat every mission in order 
 to beat the game. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The main storyline is comprised of over 50 missions. At first glance, the sheer number of missions 
 is enough to hook many consumers. This is misleading because, just like in other previous Tenchu 
 games, the missions quickly become extremely repetitive. There are four different types of missions, 
 but they are all very similar. The first mission variant is the one that is most commonly used-assassination. 
 The goal here is to make your way through a heavily guarded camp or castle to kill a corrupt official 
 or another person of significant threat to the province. The other variants include finding a secret 
 document, finding ten bombs, killing all enemies, and following a person of interest. The other 
 mission types are repetitive and do not really correlate with the story fluently, while the following 
 mission is flat out terrible. The one following mission, the 16th mission in the game, is technically 
 flawed and is near impossible to achieve the highest rank. The goal in this type of mission is 
 to follow a person without being seen or arousing too much suspicion. In order to get the highest 
 rank, a Ninja five rank, the player must achieve stealth kills, not be detected, and continue to 
 follow the person of interest. If the character falls to far behind a timer will go down, and if 
 it reaches zero the mission is failed. However, the one aspect of this mission that is clearly 
 technically flawed is that the radius around the person is about twenty feet but if you are outside 
 that zone you can many times still see the person, but the timer continues to go down. If you try 
 to get in the twenty-foot radius many times the person you are following will be alerted to your 
 presence. It is rather curious that there is only one following mission in the game, and it leaves 
 you to wonder whether the developer realized that the mission was broken but decided to leave it 
 in the finished game. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The missions included in the game become increasingly uninteresting as there is also very little 
 variation in setting. The game seems to go on a cycle of sorts in which almost all of the castle 
 missions take place at the same castle and many times the enemies are in the same positions. The 
 only slight change, if there is any included, is the starting point of the player's ninja. Towards 
 the end of the game, the mission level will have more enemies and the boundaries are slightly bigger, 
 but this addition to the experience on a player already weary with the lack of change is too little 
 too late. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The gameplay is based upon moving silently through shadows and greenery and quickly killing enemies 
 in order to complete the task at hand. Like a true ninja, the player will have to stay unseen and 
 unheard in order to not make the guards become suspicious. There is a meter on the interface that 
 changes colors to tell the player how close enemies are and whether enemies' suspicions are being 
 aroused by sound, sight, or smell. The different senses that alert the guards are quite unbalanced 
 and smell seems to be a very small and seemingly pointless addition from previous games. Smell 
 comes into play when the ninja falls into dirty water, walks through blood, or is near enemy animals. 
 Toward the later stages of the game, the player will be constantly found for smelling. Many times 
 it is quite hard to figure out how the player got the smell, as it is common to see blood on the 
 battlefield. The only way that the player can get rid of the smell is to got into water, which 
 many times will alert enemies and does not always seem to work properly. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  When controlling the ninja, the player will find that they are constantly holding down the right 
 bumper, which puts the ninja into a ninja crouch. In this ninja crouch, the player can roll to 
 move quickly and make little or no sound to alert the enemies. If the player does not go into the 
 ninja crouch, the noise of their movement will alert the enemies to the ninja's presence. It really 
 makes little sense that the guards will be alerted if a player is walking, but they will not even 
 check if a player is rolling right behind them. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The purpose of getting right behind the enemy is so that the player can get a stealth kill which 
 is a silent, efficient way to kill the enemies (and also work towards getting the stealth achievements) . 
 As the player approaches an enemy, a ring of Japanese characters will appear and allow the player 
 to press the X button to take the enemy out. There are several nice looking animations when a player 
 is completing a stealth kill which range from tackling the enemy to the ground and breaking their 
 neck to jumping on their back and slashing their throat. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The other way of killing enemies is by employing a special move. The way that a player can use 
 a special move is by jumping from a rooftop on top of an enemy (and then pressing the X button 
 when the same Japanese characters appears) which will cause the character to slice through the 
 enemy's body. These animations are also nice but come at a cost, as the special moves cause the 
 player to go into a longer animation and thus become more susceptible to the suspicions of nearby 
 enemies. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  In addition to the enemies with weapons in some missions there are civilians who can cause the 
 player trouble. If the civilian sees the player's ninja they will immediately go into the alert 
 mode that will cause all guards in the vicinity to come with their weapons drawn. The player can 
 kill the civilians but at the end of the mission they will get a points penalty that can cause 
 a drop in rank. The best way to deal with civilians is to keep your sword sheathed, sneak up behind 
 them, and put them in a headlock. The player can then drag them into an area that is concealed 
 and knock them out by pressing the B button. This can also be used against armed enemies, but does 
 not make much sense to use because the player needs stealth kills for both a higher rank and achievements. 
 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  This is the same reason that the player will not find a need to use normal combat to kill enemies, 
 as the point total is not as high. The player can fight another enemy in regular combat, but it 
 makes no sense from a time or points standpoint. If the enemy is engaged this way, it will take 
 much longer to kill the enemy and it will also alert other enemies. If the player does make the 
 choice of playing more aggressively there are specific combos and specials that can be purchased 
 at the store that will allow enemies to be subdued faster. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  One of the worst aspects about the game is the tacked on boss battles. Although they only occur 
 twice in the game, they cause most players to play in a way that is completely different than the 
 one that they used throughout the course of the game. The specific missions that include boss battles 
 are ones that the player is going to have to take healing items as the bosses can take a long time 
 to kill and employ very explosive combos. The store comes back into play at this point of the game 
 because most players will find it easier to buy more effective combos to take the bosses down in 
 a shorter time. The combos are mostly easily to pull off and they are rather lackluster both in 
 presentation and effect. There is also the option of picking up more ranged weapons, such as a 
 blow dart or ninjas stars, that allow the player to stay out of range of the bosses' combos. It 
 would seem as though the gameplay elements outlined so far would allow for a enthralling gameplay 
 experience, however, enemy artificial intelligence is so atrocious that the game becomes very slow 
 and the player is really never forced to get into a normal fight with enemies besides a boss. Most 
 of the time if a player alerts a guard the enemy will loose interest within a matter of seconds, 
 many times not even following a retreating ninja. The only time that the enemies seem to always 
 sense danger is when a ninja is on the other side of the wall. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Whereas in other more successful stealth games the enemies have multiple paths and different behaviors, 
 the enemies in Tenchu Z are all on tracks. If a player is patient enough, the enemy will turn, 
 yawn, or walk away. It is a commonality to see the enemies turn and face a wall, allowing the player 
 to get a very easy kill. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The artificial intelligence really takes away from the difficulty of the game. The game is very 
 easy as enemies do not pose any challenge on any of the three difficulty levels. The only way that 
 a player will truly die during the game is in a boss battle mistakenly falling down a hole. This 
 lack of challenge makes the game very easy to beat and thus extenuates its repetitive nature. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The lackluster gameplay is not supported by good graphical appearance. The game could have easily 
 been produced on an Xbox as the character models, textures, and animations are not up to the quality 
 most consumers are used to seeing on the Xbox 360. Although the game's framerate holds up nicely, 
 there are several areas in which animations can become completely broken and even result in a random 
 death of the player. These cases specifically occur when the player is completely an animation 
 close to a wall or when the animation comes into contact with a large object. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The shadows in the game are also quite wacky as it is common to see your shadow and the shadow 
 of enemies on the opposite sides of walls. Couple that with a very disappointing draw-distance 
 (with enemies sometimes randomly disappearing) and you are looking at a game with some real graphical 
 problems. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The game has a lot of blood as the ninja is usually killing enemies with very violent close range 
 attacks with a katana. The blood looks absolutely terrible. Many times it will start coming out 
 of the body before the player has actually stabbed the enemy and when it does come out properly 
 it seems to look like a two-dimensional pattern. Many of the pieces of greenery are also two-dimensional 
 sprites that do not move in the wind or even when they come into contact. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Even in the cutscenes, which are mainly produced by CGI, the graphics look less realistic than 
 some of the in game graphics of the higher quality Xbox 360 titles. In the cutscenes the speaking 
 characters will not move their lips and they look very awkward when they are running, stopping, 
 and bending over. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The audio in the game does not make up for any of the graphical shortcomings. Although there is 
 voice acting, it is not very well done, even in Japanese. The voice acting often sounds very uninspired 
 and there is an absence of any sort of voice acting in many of the different cutscenes. The in 
 game sound is even poorer than the ones in the cutscenes. The game does not really have any sort 
 of soundtrack and it often seems that a ten second sound clip is looped throughout the entire mission. 
 There is a faster paced piece of music that plays when the enemies are alerted to the ninja's presence 
 but this also seems to be on a short loop. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Enemies in the game do make noise and talk to each other, which is a nice part of the game's otherwise 
 horrendous audio. However, not much other good can be said about it other than its presence as 
 the in game voices are few and far between. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Another one of the new features to this installment in the Tenchu series is the addition of co-op 
 support over Xbox Live or system link. The gameplay does seem to get better and less repetitive 
 (but not much) when the player is playing with another person as they can do combination stealth 
 kills, such as one ninja holding an enemy and the other driving the sword into their body. However 
 it is very difficult to find someone to play with co-op as the online infrastructure for the particular 
 title does not seem up to par. It would have been nice to have also seen some co-op achievements 
 in the game and it is downright disappointing that the player cannot attain any achievements while 
 playing in co-op. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Tenchu Z is a full price game that is really not worth purchasing. This is a game that had many 
 elements, such as leveling and a historical setting that could have created a very deep and enthralling 
 gameplay experience but were not fleshed out with an more impressive looking and sounding game. 
 The game has technical flaws, such as a broken enemy artificial intelligence, and a lack of variation 
 among the stretched 50 missions that create an incredibly boring gaming experience. The Tenchu 
 series has seen a lot of changes in this particular installment of the series and it is good to 
 see some of this much needed change, but it is not a complete package and thus should not be a 
 part of your Xbox 360 library.
  
  
  -Douglas Buffone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusbish
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Tenchu Z in my opinion was rated a little unfairly. Is the game super easy? Yes. Is the game pretty 
 monotonous? Yes. Are the graffics next gen? No, not really. Are the load times long? Yes. Even 
 with all these problems is the game still fun? YES, ABSOLUTELY!!! Don't get me wrong, Tenchu won't 
 win any awards, but even if levels tend to resemble themselves after a while, sneaking up &amp; 
 killing bad guys never gets old. Over a summer when nothing really of substance is being released 
 &amp; we're all hungry for Halo, GTA, Mercenaries, Orange Box, Bioshock (etc. etc.) this is just 
 a fun throw away title to help pass the time 'til the big guns arrive later in the fall. Don't 
 pick this up expecting awesomeness &amp; you'll probably enjoy yourself. While the $60 price tag 
 is a bit much, you'll still get plenty of enjoyment outta this title. DL the demo on XBL &amp; 
 try it 1st. If you enjoy it, there are about 49 more levels more to enjoy in buying the game. I'm 
 currently around level 20 have been playing it daily, &amp; in no way am I bored yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougw56
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  This is one of the few games my wife actually stopped and watched me play. It requires something 
 apparently many of today's gamers have little of: PATIENCE.
  
  Try popping the AZUMI movie dvd in (available at most Blockbusters) and then play this and if you 
 still think this sucks, we need to check you for a pulse. There is something about sneaking up 
 with the katana... or killing from afar with other ninja weapons, that is fun to this old hoot.
 
  
  I would have liked to seen a little more depth to character customization. Also, abilites and skills 
 upgrade purchases are not adequately explained, so you just do the best you can to guess what is 
 a good/must upgrade and what is garbage.
  
  Good Gameplay = fun, a must have
  Good Graphics = nice to have, not a deal breaker (IMO) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JalSheyII
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  After seeing the low result this game got, I decided to get the game and see for myself, and I 
 have to say, that in my opinion, it deserves more than a 4.9. It is overall a good game thats worth 
 some time. The action might be repetitive, like just going in and killing, but its also cool. There 
 is a variety of missions and you can customize your look. To me the game is worth it. Most of the 
 games I get bore me, but not this one :)
  
  And its the first game of Tenchu to get to the xbox360, so hopefully, the next one will be even 
 greater ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Tenchu Z is the first I've played in the Tenchu series, and it seems like a great game 
 at first, but really it's just the same thing over and over again. You have two basic routes of 
 going about a level: head-on in which you charge in sight of enemies and just keep mashing the 
 X button all over again (which I never do, it really destroys the game and takes too long) , or 
 use stealth kills by attacking an enemy out of sight in which you'll do a fancy but unnecessary 
 move and kill the enemy in one hit. That's all there is. Before you take on a mission you'll be 
 located in a ninja den of sorts in which you can shop (buy items which are useless, skills which 
 are also useless, and clothing, which adds customizability) or take on the previously stated missions. 
 The mission variety is slim, despite consisting of over 50 missions, it's usually assassinate the 
 target, reach a target point, disarm bombs, or meet with the target, and gets old by mission 15. 
 Also to be pointed out is the fast that there are really only about 10 levels, but you're placed 
 in different points throughout the levels and missions, to make it feel like you're really somewhere 
 else. Despite the placement, the traps never move so you feel they really did a bad job of polishing 
 this game, adding variety, and trying to do anything really innovative (I mean I've stealth killed 
 before, it's nothing new) . As far as multiplayer goes, it's more of the same, but you share the 
 repetitive experience with a friend which makes it a lot more fun, but boils down to killing.
 
  
  Graphics: Graphics aren't all that great, a lot of the items in the game are symmetrical (bushes 
 are always oval, lamps are always square, doors are always sliders as well as squares) and add 
 nothing extraordinary. The characters always have the same faces and robes, you'll see repeated 
 amounts of stuff in this game, and the blood spurts are okay but far from great. Lastly, the levels 
 are very linear and don't look all too good, and the shadows aren't always portrayed correctly. 
 Overall it has the graphics of a great Xbox game, but a sub-par 360 one.
  
  Sound: The sound is probably the only good point of the game, all the speaking is in Japanese and 
 there is subtle music in the background that picks up when battles are confronted. As far as weapon 
 sounds and etc. go, they're okay, but the music makes it feel like a real ninja game.
  
  Value: You'll get tired of this game fairly fast, there's not much variety, the graphics are sub-par, 
 the stealth kills are always the same, but there's co-op, so maybe just maybe you'll enjoy it for 
 longer than a rental. The achievements make you go through the game at least 3 times (that's 50 
 missions per run, so 150 missions total, so 150 missions times probably 20 kills per level, sound 
 like a lot of variety?) .
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I rented it, and I advise you do to, as far as the demo on the marketplace goes, 
 that's all you'll see in this game, so if you feel you don't like the demo then don't try the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBlastmaster
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  My initial reaction to this game was, well, the same as it has been to the other Tenchu games. 
 (That i have briefly played only to cast them to the side as rubbish.) Being as the tutorial is 
 really bad, i had no idea what i was doing and tried to run in and swashbuckle my way to victory. 
 And when i did this i failed miserably and passed the game off as crap, bad graphics dumb game 
 play and i was through.
  
  But after observing a co-worker (i work at a GameCrazy) playing it (as it was meant to be played, 
 (like a ninja) i decided to give it another try, and am i glad i did! this game is actually really 
 really fun! Sure the enemy AI isn't the best, but it is vary good for how the game is meant to 
 be played. I also like how the enemy AI cant see through bushes that are opaque. That may be a 
 first for any stealth action game i have played recently.
  
  Coop is great fun, with 2 people. Team ninja-ing is great but with 4 people and an average of 20 
 enemies per map, you end up with really fast anti-climactic missions. The only major game play 
 issue that i have noticed is the online lag, its terrible! System link is great and fun but the 
 online is just really really laggy to the point of unplayability.
  
  Sound is good, but there seem to be many sounds that i recognize from Samurai Showdown, and sound 
 respectively flat. But besides that the effects seem to be well done and over/underplayed to just 
 the right amount.
  
  Graphics aren't very impressive and id probably have to say that this is the least graphically 
 impressive 360 game i have seen, static models (no blinking/mouth movements) flat textures (and those 
 that are bump-mapped are overdone to the point that the wooden floor looks like it has a 3 inch 
 deep coat of resin over the top of it.
  
  But just like all the PS2&gt; XBOX fanbois used to say its about game play not graphics and this 
 game is proof. First impressions aside this game delivers fun and was worth a purchase for me, 
 (and i get free rentals) so thats a pretty good recommendation. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergrakk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  lets start with the worst and go to the best. First of all the graphics are probably the worst 
 part of the game, not that I hate them or anything, but they aren't even close to some other 360 
 games, although I do like the ninja models. Next the sound, while not the greatest things I've 
 ever heard I do enjoy the sounds well enough. the gameplay is great, I am a stealth game fan so 
 I'm slightly biased, but the gameplay is simple enough, with great game mechanics and tons of features, 
 the online coop is a nice touch. Now the value is the greatest thing about the game, there is so 
 much to do, not only is there 50 missions to play in single player, but an extra 30 missions in 
 coop, plus theres tons of items, clothing, and skills to unlock. all in all I would call tenchu 
 a great game, if not for the graphics a near perfect game. If you're a stealth game fan, a ninja 
 fan, or a Tenchu fan this is a great game to rent or buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brent330
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Tenchu z not expecting very much from the game considering the demo I played but after 
 playing the game I must say I'm very pleased with the outcome. First off let me talk about the 
 graphics. Honestly they are fairly average and nothing special, the draw distance is pretty bad 
 even after you upgrade your vision, and some of the textures (as many have said) look to have came 
 straight from the Xbox. This is where the gameplay comes in. I had a great time playing this game 
 honestly I can never get tired of clinging to a ceiling then shooting my claw into the guy to pull 
 him up to me and cut his throat. The game has 50 missions and about 16 maps so you play each one 
 3 times but it a different setting such as day/night, enemys in different locations, and different 
 mission objectives. The mission objectives range from saving someone, to finding bombs, to just 
 following someone without being seen. Some of the things I like about the game:
  
  -Being able to make a custom ninja and take him online to play with your friends, I have yet to 
 come across two ninja that look the same. -Some pretty awesome stealth kills
  
  -Upgrading skills
  
  Now the things I didnt like:
  
  -The boss battles where boring and 
 not really challenging at all. They seemed to interrupt the flow of the game.
  
  -There is really no story to the game.
  
  -The AI seems to be a bit stupid adn will fall for 
 the same things over and over again.
  
  Yet all in all people if you like stealth games I'd say this is a buy or at least a rent.
  
 
  Have fun everyone and game on ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  First off, a 4.9 score is ridicules. Even Pirates of The Caribbean 3 got a higher score and that 
 game was crap. Trust my word my fellow shadows, and believe me when I say that this game is great 
 and well worth your time. And if you played the horrible demo, don't let that demo turn you away 
 as it almost did me. I have been a huge fan of the Tenchu series ever since the very first one 
 back in '98 and currently have all of them aside from the mediocre Deadly Shadows ( the last Tenchu) . 
 The demo does no justice for the game however, but if you play the full retail game you will see 
 where I am coming from. The game is not focused around Rikimaru or Ayane this time (though Rikimaru 
 is indeed in the game) , but rather focuses on your own custom ninja. You create a ninja from scratch 
 and customize him/her during the course of the game. The game is loaded with 50 missions, and is 
 also packed with some badass multiplayer. Online play is addicting as hell, and is completely co-op. 
 With up to 4 players (including yourself) , each using your own custom ninjas from the single player, 
 you will be able to tackle any of the 50 missions as a team. Grab a guy and put him in a chokehold 
 and have one of you partners come up in front and stab him. Its all about working as a team (unless 
 you play a ranked game which is focused around who finishes first) and trust me, it is damn addicting. 
 Lots of the usual items return along with a slew of newbies and your a also blessed with new moves. 
 The only true flaw with the game itself is the enemy AI. True, they did fix the camera but what 
 bout that AI? If an enemy spots you all you really need to do is jump on the roof or hide behind 
 the wall till they forget (put the game on hard, it makes the AI just a tad smarter) . And the graphics, 
 while not bad by any means is also not great compared to other 360 titles. Aside from that though 
 the stealth kills are ever so sweet, and the game is addicting. Even just to customize your ninja 
 with new gear is addicting. If your a fan of the series such as I, then you will indeed love it. 
 If your new to the series, give it a try. Many people I know who are new to the series love the 
 game. But Tenchu Z is great addiciting fun, and is more focused around stealth like a true ninja 
 game should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biztone
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Like many I have to say Game Spot were review the game as it was the next messiah for Next -Gen 
 Consles let alone just for the 360. The whole point of the game is to be a stealth assassin... You 
 shouldn't need a sign or a freakin objective to say don't be seen kill silently... your a freakin 
 ninja!! You are a mere shadow to the world your death falls on deaf ears meaning you are stealth 
 and stealth is you... did we not watch the trailer geez.... Now I may be among the fan base hence 
 the 10.0 rating but only 3.5 comes from the fan base I was expecting a bit more. I have to agree 
 with the THEY SAY rating 6.5. Although the customization isn't as flush out as other titles out 
 there, give From Software a break their trying something new to an old franchise. That never comes 
 out like it should the first time. The most in joyable factors of the game are the SK and Online 
 co-op... Combine the two of one Kick A$$ helping of ninja goodness. Also people lets not be linear 
 why not think outside the box and try some imagination for a change. A friend of my and I trying 
 collecting all the bad guys in a one spot to perform mass 15 multi kill.
  So is it worth 60.00 no.... but not many games are I mean come on Raw vs Smackdown is 50.00 for 
 the PSP is that justified? But if you want a stealth game the this is what your wanting.. plain 
 and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dancing-Bear
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep it short and simple. This game is very immersing and addictive. It definitely has its 
 own style, though this is more of a polished remake of the series than a sequel. The graphics are 
 certainly up to the 360's standards and the animation is also sharp. Their are plenty of customizable 
 options to get out your creative side, and the online mode is very entertaining.
  
  If you like putting swords down people's throats then this is the game for you. Everyone will enjoy 
 this game although it's certainly more of a thinker than many of the other games on the market. 
 Maybe if the reviewers spent some more time unlocking the intricacies of the title you wouldn't 
 see so many people defending it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidussnakem
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Okay the gameplay was good the story was good and if you ever played Tenchu games before, you should 
 realize that their is a lot of twists to it. I was disappointed by what gamespot rated this game 
 a 4.9 it could have at least got a 7.5. There is nothing wrong with this game besides the fact 
 that the bosses looked the same, and this isn't easy achievments for everyone cause I'm playing 
 on hard now and I'm struggling a little bit. The sense of the enemies is cool it relys on you to 
 be smarter about how you kill and whom you decide to kill.
  
  The music in Tenchu Z is perfect, it really gets your heart pumping after killing dozens of enemies, 
 and it was also nerve wracking too because getting surrounded lead to a lot of problems. The final 
 boss was a lot more challenging than the other Tenchu's and plus if you needed to run to revise 
 your stragety then that was perfectly fine. To all my fellow Tenchu players please don't believe 
 everything that gamespot puts on this website, because all game critics don't know what their talking 
 about.
  
  Not to mention the fact that not everyone liked these types of games, but it is well worth what 
 you pay for. A lot of friends on my friends list asked me about it to and they all liked it after 
 playing, so don't be afraid to spend $60 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DjColombia
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is unique and gives off a vibe to people that want to expand there secert ability 
 as a true ninja . The Character creation is not as exicting as I thought it would be, niether are 
 the accessories (small throwing blade thingys) . Its story is direct and the objectives get boring 
 until your master ninja ways are put to the test in doing what you have to do. But what I guranntee 
 will catch your eyes is the overall tactics and vast ways to get by your enemy or into a battle 
 with them. You'll be surprised to see to what Tenchu Z can do that ps of 2 couldn't do. If you 
 like tactical sneaky games that has little bit of stealth/icu, mixed with some deep back in the 
 day dynasty fighting. Then Tenchu Z is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbad_manx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  After reading the player reviews that have been posted, and watching the video review as well, 
 I would be lying if I told you I wasnt shocked by what I am hearing. This game is everything it 
 should be, a little rough around the edges I admit, but none the less a piece of stealthy goodness. 
 Ive read a lot of complaints about how the game doesnt force the player to go through the levels 
 like a ninja . Well it wouldnt be much of a ninja game if it did! If you have the patience and 
 imagination of a gold fish, and decide to abuse and bastardize this game, then of course your going 
 to come away with a crummy experience. However, if you are of slightly greater mental capacity, 
 and go into each level (not SKIPPING LEVELS) as a ninja would, with a mindset that you are indeed 
 a ninja in feudal japan and there are armed guards waiting to kill you... then the game is MUCH 
 more enjoyable. If your not going to play like a ninja THEN DONT BY NINJA GAMES! Aside from that 
 arguement, I have also read complaints about the way this game looks. I will grant this point to 
 the oposition, Tenchu Z is not a beautiufl looking game when compared to Oblivion or Chaos Theory 
 or Hitman Bloodmoney, but even so, when looking at the amazing difference between the 360 version 
 and say the original XBOX version of Tenchu Wrath of Heaven, the improvements are obvious. Gamers 
 have gotten spoiled, myself included, when it comes to how games look. If you lack the imagination 
 to suppliment your gaming experience, then woe indeed to you. The bottom line is this, Tenchu Z 
 is a ninja game for ninja gamers, if you cant handle that, go play with you Wii, and leave us to 
 our shadows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odd_Job_99
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  OMFG!!! Kaboom yo! This game is awesome! One of the best X-Box 360 games out so far. The game play 
 may be kind of slow because its a stealth game but it still is better the a lot of the other games 
 and it deffinatly beats Splinter Cell DA. The online is also really cool - but it could be better 
 if they added more levels. Im running out of descriptive words so Ill just make explosion sounds 
 with my mouth - or in this case, my fingers. BOOOM! KaPOOOOOOOW! KAZAMMMM! 
 
  
  Ok - getting bored of non-sound effects cause you cant hear them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoman19
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I think gamespot was very mean with this rating. It deffiatly isn't a 4.9, but it isn't the greatest 
 of games. I think it has great and unique gameply, I myself love stealth games and i think they 
 made this game the best they could. Who wouldn't want to cut people up with a nice shiny katana. 
 The controls aren't challenging but it takes awhile to get used to. The campaign is very fun, and 
 there is a lot to do. The learning curve for the game isn't bad but it does take a while to get 
 used to. If you don't like games where it strategic and you have to think about what your going 
 to do next, then the game isn't for you
  
  all in all i reccomend this game , atleast rent it! plus easy achivements! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unclet08
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was a lot better than the score Gamespot gave it. It has decent graphics and 
 the gameplay is a lot of fun. It's a ninja style game, so there's a lot of sneaking around involved. 
 It takes an hour or so to fully understand all the controls, but once understood the game flows 
 very well.
  There are dozens of missions, so there is a good amount of single player missions. Though many 
 of them use the same map (but with different enemies and items each time) , so it can get a little 
 monotonous.
  Overall, it's very enjoyable and the solo play offers hours of entertainment. I would buy it again 
 if I had a choice! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunchbox1991
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  WTF will not show how dissappointing this game is. I was really looking foward to this game, Ninjas, 
 custom stuff, online co-op. But i didnt pay attention to the other stuff.... i should have...
  
  The combat is the most horrible system i have ever experienced. It reminds me of something 
 from a Playstation 1 Game. Never in my life has grabbing someone and killing them be so boring 
 and repetitive. You grab a guy and have like 3 moves to kill him, sure its pretty with the blood 
 splatter and all but come on! this is **** Next-gen! There should be hundreds of moves to kill 
 this guy with! But on that occasion when the A. I. isnt being completely retarded and finds you, 
 you do practically the same god damn combo over and over again.
  
  The graphics look like something from a Last-Gen game. Horrible to say the least. And a game that 
 is coming out for the 360, a next-gen console, and has early playstation 2 graphics deserves to 
 die a quick death. The only good aspects in this game was the Co-op, which playing with my ninja 
 friends added some entertainment. But it still lacked in alot of content.
  
  Overall this game was really not worth the time, and i thank god that i only rented this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  tenchu z is not a perfect game. they did some really goofy things with some of the control aspects, 
 and even veterans will need a numbers of plays thru the training level to get it right. but once 
 u do it seems more like a close friend of tenchu rather than the stealth franchise itself.
  
  the graphics are nicer, and i find it funny that i can see the a. i. s shadow thru the floor 
 onto the ground below them, while my shadow goes right across their path in the full moon and they 
 don't bat an eyelash.
  
  but the same tenchu fun and strategy is back in over 50 missions!! and yeah u create ur own ninja. 
 the partner the game makes you create is dumb, as u never play as them. the save options are lame 
 as well because you can't create multiple saves to make bunches of different ninja since it will 
 autosave over whatever came before rather than use a 2nd save. that's intolerably bad programming....
 
  
  but! the new stealth kills, the new outfits, abilities and skills all make the tedium seem worth 
 it. is it worth 60$ ? probably not, but if you can find it used it is definitely worth ur time. 
 particularly the enemies ability to hear u based on ur method of approach is particularly cool. 
 the smelly ninja thing is lame. whoever thought of that should be canned.
  
  all in all tho the game is worth trying out for anyone who's interested. diehard tenchu fans will 
 find bunches of stuff to love and they will suffer for their passion. but i think it's justified. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokenmachine00
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  I so wanted this game to be the next best stealth action game. There are some beautful elements 
 and really intuitive new ideas, but the entire offering seems unfinshed. It feels like if they 
 had just spent a few more months on it, or maybe put some more funds into the project, and it would 
 have been the game we ninja/stealth kill fans have been waiting for. But alas, this is not so, 
 and we are left with a potentially kick-ass game that falls short with TONS of clipping and AI 
 issues and many other minor flaws.
  
  So if you are a huge tenchu fan, if you can get past the quirks, you'll still spend hours killing, 
 and killing, and killing, and loving it. I still do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentFireX
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  In the past, I really haven't cared for the Tench games much at all, but this one surprised me. 
 This one really got me, because of all the character customization in it. There are plenty of options 
 to choose from to help make your character look unique. Now, the graphics aren't the greatest out 
 there on the 360, but doesn't have the worst either. There have been many complaints about the 
 simplicity of the AI, but if you want more of a challenge you can easily put the difficulty up 
 to Hard and play the game from there. The levels and missions are entertaining and fun to mess 
 around with. Overall, I thought it was a pretty good game. (I wouldn't pay any attention to GameSpot's 
 review of Tench Z) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamekingpin
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Here is the deal, I can, to some point, see why gamespot gave these game a low rating. There are 
 some technical issues that of course they would take points off for because they are professionals 
 an their job is to break down every aspect of the game. Looking from a player standpoint I still 
 think this game will be very enjoyable to both Tenchu fans, people who like ninja, and someone 
 looking for a cool stealth action game.
  
  As far as saying it is hard to tell whether an enemy is dead and that you will spend a lot of time 
 moving the camera around during battle is not really true. If you use the lock-on system and use 
 the A button to move and jump around defensively the camera does move into place. As for knowing 
 if the enemy is dead, not only do they cry out when the killing blow lands but the reading on the 
 enemy meter will disappear. Now, this system is not perfect during battle but it is not as horrible 
 as depicted, in my opinion. Also you have to remember, this game is designed to be played a certain 
 way (Stealth Kills) . Why anyone would play it any differently I don't know. Yes you can just run 
 past everyone on some levels and just get the the objective, but if you ask me that is a very realistic 
 attribute. You are in a small village, you are there to kill only one person, so it only makes 
 since that you would be able to cut right to the chase if you so choose. Of course, by doing so 
 you will not earn a lot of gold to but new clothes, skills, and items (you made never need to use 
 items but hey they give you the freedom to be creative!)
  
  As for the graphics, no they are not the best on the 360 but it works for the game, you customized 
 ninja will look great, changing up outfits all the time is a plus, and it also gets you more into 
 your character. Also these are old towns, not modern, they are suppose to look a little similar 
 and a bit run down. We don't need shiny glossy graphics for this game. It is suppose to look like 
 and old kung fu flick, which by the way always have somewhat confusing storylines, therefore it 
 is the action you look forward to.
  
  I am having a lot of fun playing this game. Once I complete a level I go back with a new fit and 
 try again with more flair. If you play this game like it is intended you are going to have fun. 
 The key is to get quick and creative, don just creep up to an enemy and kill them, flip off of 
 a roof top and and land with you kitana in their back. The best part is that you can do multiple 
 stealth kills at once. You get two or more enemies with their backs turned close by, slash, slash, 
 slash, and they are all dead in one swift motion. This is something that has never been done before 
 so you have to love that. Again if you break it down yes this game has its flaws but there is a 
 lot of fun to be had if you play the game like it should be. Don't sleep on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicious66
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  For the past few days ive been playing this game and I instantly fell in love with it, the game 
 play is awesome and the graphics are beatiful but they could of done a better job with them, the 
 new ki system works great and is kind of more realistic.
  
  The controls for the game are kind of wierd at first but if you're not retarded then you should 
 be able to pick them up in a 10-15 minutes, the gamespot person who reviewed this doesnt know what 
 hes talking about, it's easy to keep track of your enemies in combat all you have to do to lock 
 on is hold the right trigger and your character will focus on the enemy. as for it being dificult 
 to tell when your enemies are dead their bodies go limp and fall over, and there's a skill to tell 
 you how much health the enemies have left, also its pretty clear to see when you've got an opening 
 and when your attack has hit so either the guy who wrote this review is blind or just didn't pay 
 attention to his attacks.
  
  as for the graphics, i think there beautifuly done, sure there is a little bit to be desired but 
 for the most part there amazing. i may just be nit picking but i think the bushes and plants should 
 move when you or and enemy walk through them.
  
  The ai is kind of stupid at times but does present a challenge, sure the enemies seem to have a 
 short attention span when chasing you but they also did in the other tenchu's the ai has improved 
 a little bit because the enemies do look up this time, and can smell you when you've got blood 
 all over you or have fallen into a cess pool. their eye sight isnt the best and the way they act 
 when they've heard you is kindo of un-realistic, one would expect them to venture out and try to 
 find the source of the sound you made.
  
  for the most part the story is a bit lacking then again it also is in the other tenchu games, just 
 this story is a bit more lacking, the fact that ayame and rikimaru arent playable characters in 
 the story is a bit disapointing but the fact that you can create your own ninja is awesome, though 
 i think the partner ninja creation is pointless and doesnt server any purpose to the game as you 
 can never use them in a missions and are only seen in the cutscenes and later they get killed off 
 so that option is kind of stupid...
  
  the character custimization is awesome, though at the begining there isnt much you can do with 
 your character, there is later on in the game, the skills you can choose from and the items and 
 clothes provide a wide selection of what you want to do with your character.
  
  the missions are a bit reptative but with 50 missions what do you expect. most of the areas are 
 the same but the enemy paths are alaways different. and if you want a good mission rank you cant 
 just run through the map straight to your target (though there is that option but why would you 
 want to do that) you have to kill some enemies and not be detected while doing so, so remain stealthy 
 and kill to your hearts content. there is a penelty for being detected as usual but the penelty 
 isnt staggering but it's also nothing to shrug off. and as you prgress through the game the missions 
 get harder each time.
  
  But overall it's a good game to get into. gamespot really under-rated this game and the person 
 who rated it doesnt seem like a tenchu fan, i think the game is a good add on for the series and 
 it's good for stealthy ninja play.
  so if you want to try this game but aren't a big fan of stealth then i wouldn't suggest buying 
 the game without playing it first. so for the average gamer i would highly suggest this game, but 
 if you're the kind of person that doesnt play stealth or just sits around and plays videogames 
 all day then i dont recomend it. good games like this don't need a bad rep for jerk-offs that couldnt 
 get into it. so to every one out there i suggest trying it if you want and not to be mislead by 
 the reviews, after all there just an opion of what someone thought of the game so i hope you have 
 a good experience with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 17, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  X, X, X, X, X still hitting the X button, X X X This Game Is one of the most boring games ever, I didnt 
 expect a thing from it. I will seriously say that the best thing in this game is being able to 
 look up the girl ninjas skirts, enough said. If you like button mashing... wait if you like button 
 mashing for 50 levels.... No if you like button mashing for about 50 hours, THIS IS THE GAME FOR 
 YOU!
  You dont Have to button mash, but the game never gives you the option to play stealthy, this may 
 be because of the terrible AI. Why Hide on rooftops and kill all the gaurds when you can run right 
 through the mentally retarded soldiers?
  This game is at best So bad its funny, This game is torture, I cannot figure out how the developers 
 could think this game has the slightest sense of entertainment. I guess the stealthy kills are 
 pretty good, but guess what button your pressing to do so? The X button.
  Do not rent this game, you are wasting your money.
  I also cannot understand why this game is 
 getting great reviews, they are either hardcore fans or messed up in the head, this is one of my 
 most unserious reviews I have ever written, The thing is, dont touch this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex33x
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 17, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  If you liked the original tenchu, I would give Tenchu Z a good look. Theres lots of ways to customize 
 your ninja, clothing all the way to skills, whle at the beginning you may be just a regular ninja, 
 you can end up being godly, once you start upgrading your skills.
  
  While it may be be as depth as many stealth games today, Tenchu Z manages pretty well. The left 
 the core gameplay untouched and it feels a lot like playing wrath of heaven all over again. Tenchu 
 fans will like that.
  
  If you are not a Tenchu fan you might want to give it a rent, but otherwise I would try it out, 
 The gamespot reviewers didnt really give this game a chance, goes to show why they took out the 
 other sites and other publications reviews from the tenchy section.
  
  I guess they dont like it when people contradict them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  The Good : Lots, lots of different ways to kill. Tons of item, extremely well done customisation 
 system with lots of options.
  
  The Bad : Mission objectives are just a reason to kill some dudes and dudettes. Repetitive in its 
 own right. Somewhat stiff animations.
  
  Tenchu isn't a game that offers itself on a silver plate to you. You won't be able to enjoy it 
 unless you know what you're getting into, and is ready to work for it. But if you played the first 
 games and enjoyed the formula of forgiving AI and free styled kills, you'll definitly love this 
 little gem.
  
  Gameplay : Tenchu's gameplay is simple, but extremely deep. You have to stalk and kill. The AI 
 is extremely forgiving, for if you are discovered, just hide for a couple of seconds to retry your 
 goal. More realistic behavior are also part of the AI, where you can pop out of no-where and stealth 
 kill a guy in his face during the second of surprise he'll take to realise you're attacking him. 
 You can hack and slash your way in, but chances are you won't, for the sheer joy of being Ninja-esque. 
 There is ton's of cool ways to your get to your objectives, tons of items from blinding powder 
 to poisonous rice balls , shurikens and blowing darts, etc, etc. You have some pretty nifty skills, 
 like hanging from the ceilling and lifting an unaware enemy up to you to stab him against it. Yeah, 
 you heard right.
  
  There's also too many items in this game. Too many items in this game might sound bad, but in a 
 sense it is not. In the begining you'll find them quite useful, until you can get the ability hide 
 yourself with a piece of chameleon cloth, or drag yourself to the ceilling. Then you'll be able 
 to equip other items that will provide some other ways to sneak yourself in.
  
  Graphics : Tenchu's graphics aren' t the best ones on the system, but to say they're old gen, it 
 is meaning you don't have the eye for detail. The game deals with textures pretty well, the scenary 
 of the level is great, you'll notice tons of details there and there, the faces looks convincing 
 althought lips doesn't move in cutscenes , for its best they don't happen too often. Sound : The 
 music fits the japanese era pretty well, everything is in japanese dubbed to english, wish gets 
 a couple of hours to get used to , but once it's done, you'll be satisfied with it. There's a lot 
 of cool '' woosh'' and '' cling '' sound effects.
  
  Features : The game has ton of stuff in it. You'll unlock tons of gear parts, items, skills, combat 
 moves and such during your progress. The harder the difficulty is, the faster you'll unlock stuff. 
 Even after 15hours clocked in the game, you'll still have plenty of things to unlock to keep the 
 game fresh.
  
  Value : The game is extremely long, but also repetitive. Although if repetitiveness of this game 
 doesn't tire you ( killing, killing and killing ) , you'll find here a good 15 hours of gameplay 
 if you manage to beat all the missions on one difficulty level and around 30 to 40 if you decide 
 to play them again with different guard layers ( when you crank up the difficulty, guards are placed 
 differently and react faster ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I will start by agreeing with many that this game is indeed under-rated. A score below 5 is absolutely 
 abysmal, with no redeeming qualities whatsoever.
  
  I think Tenchu deserves a score in the 7's for this reason: it's not trying to be something it's 
 not. Tenchu is a stealth ninja game, with over-the-top kills n' thrills. It's not trying to reinvent 
 the sneaker genre, which has been well advanced by titles like Thief, Hitman, and Metal Gear. Rather, 
 think of Tenchu Z as a lighter, arcade version of the titles I just mentioned. It's not TRYING 
 to be the killer app for the sneaker genre, so stop criticizing it for not being that. Stop comparing 
 it to Gears of War. It has NOTHING to do with Gears. Comparing Tenchu to Gears is comparing apples 
 to oranges, period.
  
  The final straw is this: Tenchu Z is going to appeal, quite strongly, to a niche market. If you 
 like the Japanese angle on theatrics, found in a lot of action-based anime, with cool character 
 angles and poses, and if you like the idea of being a ninja and using stealth to kill IN A SATISFYING, 
 arcade-like way, this game is worth looking at. A major lament is about the game's graphics, and 
 I'm going to agree 100% that the DEMO level somehow feeled wrong. I bought the game and can say 
 the richer levels really do a good job of making you believe you're in feudal Japan, and there's 
 very subtle, atmospheric touches that add to that - look closely at the ground when the clouds 
 move overhead on an overcast night... there's a subtle twinkle to the ground that's enhanced when 
 you cast your shadow over it. All these add to the atmosphere of sneaking around, and being a ninja... For 
 comparison's sake, Tenchu Z's visuals are at the level of Ninja Gaiden for the XBox, which is not 
 poor. But it's not Gears. And FromSoftware is fine with that. And I'm fine with that.
  
  Tenchu Z is a game that is comfortable with itself. It's comfortable not trying to top Gears of 
 War's production values. It's comfortable not trying to create an AI system that can trump a Snake 
 or a Sam Fisher. From Software stuck to its roots in making an enjoyable,  
 game, and you know what? It's fun to play. I'm entertained by it.
  
  I think the burning question is whether this title is worth the $60 + tax price tag, and I'm going 
 to say here that I don't believe it is. I happened to have about 5 or 6 old PS2 games lying around 
 to bring the net cost of Tenchu Z for me to around $30, which I feel is about right for this game. 
 After playing it for a bit now, I think I could comfortably pay $40 upward of $45. Do try to rent 
 it or get it at reduced price from eBay - if you fall into the niche described above, you're gonna 
 love the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewasupkid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  In the game Tenchu Z you play as a ninja hired as a shadow of goda, a kind of old school special 
 ops unit of feudal japan. Its your job to kill, rescues, recover secret documens ect. The meat of 
 the game is assanation missions were you kill greedy aholes, and foriengers. This is really fun 
 especially with four player online co-op. As gamespot has stated there is no reason to use stealth 
 except for if you do that YOU CAN NOT GET ANYTHING NEW, NO MONEY NOTHING YOU FAIL THE GAME, did 
 they even play this game (ps. fire who ever reviewed it.) seriously if you want to get any were 
 in the game you HAVE to be stealthie. The only real flaw is that theres a little lag online some 
 times, and it takes a while to really get your ninja on. There are tons of stealth skills, like 
 hanging to ceilings, but you have to work hard for them, but there is no greater feeling then pinning 
 someone to the ceiling with your sword and break dancing around their corpse while hanging upside 
 down. As for replay value there is a ton try unlocking all the secret costumes and, getting all 
 rank fives; or beat the game with a friend. The secret costumes are really a treat
  once you get them, you will also will make all your friends green with envy showing off your new 
 wears. A couple things I would like to see in a future update is more items, and the ability to 
 share money with friends, also a few more levels would not hurt. Overall I have had a lot of fun 
 with this game and if you will execuse me I think I will you play it some more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pelifriikki
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jun 16, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  The game seriously Sucks.
  
  The controls still suck. Ninjaish sounds are even worse than before, and before they were already 
 seriously bad. Need to say more?
  
  Story is ok
  
  Graphics are ok
  
  AI is devastating (as always btw)
  
  Repetitive missions are cool ! kill kill kill kill escape 
 runrunrun kill kill kill
  
  hmmm ahem...
  here goes for the 100 words...
  aaaa aaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaa aaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaa 
 aaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaa 
 aaaaa aaa aaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa 
 aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaa
  aaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaa
  aaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Def_Jef88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  The next installment of the Tenchu series has come to the Xbox 360, and not without some mixed 
 reactions. The critics say its a poor game, the fanboys say its superb. So, what exactly should 
 you expect from this game? Well, the graphics are mediocre at best, there are plenty of glitches, 
 horrible lag online, and repetitive and uninspired missions, but if you can get past that, it can 
 be a blast to play.
  
  First, lets start with the gameplay. Its your standard Tenchu. Run around sneaking up on enemies 
 and stealth killing them. Theres a few mission types including assasination, item recovery, rescue, 
 kill all enemies. Most of the time though, youre gonna be SKing enemies and getting to your target. 
 The AI on earlier difficulties is just plain stupid while on higher difficulties, go insane at 
 the sound of a jump. The scoring system is pretty lineant, making it easy to get Ninja 5s on most 
 missions. There are 50 missions, but they all are split between only 12 maps and a handful of objectives.
 
  
  The Graphics are, as stated, mediocre. They arent bad, just less than what should be expected from 
 a next-gen title. The collision on character models is horrible. Every item on your character sticks 
 through each other as though they have no substance at all. In fact, there is only one animation 
 for eating food. Regardless of if its food or drink. The devs just seemed, well, lazy.
  
  The sound is really where this game excells. The music gives the world a real oriental feel to 
 them and seems to fit perfect with the game itself.
  
  The game does have some replayibility, mainly in the achievements. To get all of them you need 
 to complete at least 150 missions. Other than that, theres plenty of clothes and skills to unlock 
 and upgrade. These skills range from a quick sprint to a invisibility cloak. Most of these skills 
 have very limited use, with only a handfull of truly nice ones. The same can be said for the items. 
 There are wuite a few, all with unique uses, but most of them lack any real practical use. All 
 in all, its a fun game if you can get past the flaws, but for your average gamer it might be very 
 hard to. I say rent it and if you enjoy, then get it. If not, oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2ndWonder
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  So after a few years of waiting, tenchu fans can now rejoice. With this installment of tenchu you 
 have the benfits of making your own character, male or female. Now most fans would be disapointed 
 that ayame and rikumaru isnt in the game as playable characters, but i think this is a good step 
 for the series. You now have the power to create your own ninja give them stats and customize them 
 the way you want.
  
  So now you have your ninja and your ready to take on those 50 missions. I know your expecting so 
 varation in the missions and thats were tenchu also lacks, your usually doing the same mission 
 over and over but with different bosses at the end and on different stages. That is some what of 
 a variety but, it can get boring real fast if you know where things are. but to make up for it, 
 the enemies are in different postions so you have to do different things to take them out each 
 time and this revolves in being patient and watching the patterns the enemies take. sometimes it 
 can be difficult taking down a enemy if mulitiple enemies are in the area. Stealth is the key to 
 this game and you'll mostly be on the rooftops/ bushes or hiding in the darkness. Another thing 
 to point out, you need to pay close attention to the meter. this tells you whats going on in your 
 surroundings, it tells you how far the enemy is, how close he is and, it tells you if your hidden 
 well enough or not.
  
  Now i know every game isnt perfect and tenchu shows that, but the current promblems the game has, 
 has been in the past few games and hasnt been corrected. Example the enemy A. I. is stupid, but 
 if your just facing one guy then its no problem. but if you give the A. I. the slightest bit of 
 time they usually attempt to call for another enemy which is smart. but if you leave the immediate 
 area the enemy acts if nothing happened and imo the developer should have made the enemies be more 
 alert, because of your presence. Another flaw worthy of mentioning is the enemy being able to see 
 you through a wall, *note* this doesnt happen often, but it shouldnt be overlooked and it can lead 
 to frustration. The major disappointment is the lack of item use, you dont nessarly need them for 
 any of the missions. but i'm quite sure that the fans make good use of all the items.
  
  Graphics- the graphics are pretty nice, and alittle bit impressive for a next gen title
  
  
 Gameplay- if this doesnt draw you in, then i'm hoping the story does. Sound- its how it should 
 be
  
  overall- I see a big misconcept on GS's review this game clearly deserves better than a 4.9. Yeah 
 you can run straight through the entire mission, but can you get a perfect score, no. So overall 
 , this game is worthy of a pick up for anyone who enjoys ninja games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opeth13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  I saw previews of this game a little while ago, and I new the gamespot review was going to kick 
 this game in the nuts. However, I was still enticed. I remember the feeling I got when playing 
 the original Stealth Assassins for PS1, and watching footage of this game brought back that feeling. 
 When I finally saw the gamespot review, then looked at some more videos, I knew I would love this 
 game.
  
  The other reviewer on here that said this is for Tenchu fans hit the nail on the head. I had been 
 waiting for Forza 2 to drop, and I've been dying to get my hands on DiRT, and Bioshock looks nutty 
 and I could have instead reserved that game, but moments after seeing this review and this game 
 I went and bought it. It was sold out at almost every Gamestop I checked, and I found one that 
 had a few copies left and made it there 2 minutes before they closed.
  
  I have only played the game for 36 minutes, but its been 36 minutes of pure gaming joy, of pure 
 gaming goodness. The production values of this game are pretty high and very slick, the intro, 
 the music, the various screens and menus, just the overall style, very very cool. Did I mention 
 the music? This game oozes character, fuedal japan ninja style. I only played the training mission 
 and I'm sold, this game is going to be a huge time sink. I was sold at the title screen.
  
  The fact is, the gamespot reviewer said you can bypass the entire level and all of the enemies 
 and kill the main objective, but thats missing the point of the game. Its a joy to kill the enemies 
 in this game. There are so many different ways to dispose of enemies, that you'll be stalking and 
 taking them out one by one like you're a junky and they're crack. Ok, thats a bit of a vulgar description, 
 but thats my take on it.
  
  This game is for true ninjas. You will want to be the true Tenchu master and will hone your skills 
 until you believe you're actually a ninja. Its a great feeling. The first time I took my sword 
 to the back of a guys skull as I pitched him forward made my *&amp;^% twitch. Plain and simple:
 
  
  Facts:
  
  1. Ninjas are mammals.
  2. Ninjas fight ALL the time.
  3. The purpose of the ninja is to flip out and kill people.
  
  Word.
  
  p. s. The graphics 
 are tostitos. I have and play Sega Saturn games, Dreamcast games, Gamecube games, Gameboy Advance 
 games, and a bunch of other old school games. To me good graphics are more of a total package, 
 an overall feel and art direction that makes a game great. This is one of those games. Oh yeah, 
 and the controls kick booty, very slick as well. An overall super slick, tight package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tao_Jones
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 16, 2007 12:58 am PT
Review:  This is the first, and probably only, review I've written or will write, but I had to throw in 
 my $0.02 to this hot topic. I'll make it brief.
  
  The GS score is one person's opinion. This is also one.
  
  At first it seems a tad bit weak, 
 mostly because the game does a less than stellar job of familiarizing you with your ninja's abilities. 
 I mean beyond the tutorial. There's a large amount of skills you'll be using not too far into the 
 game that you had no idea were coming, such as the 1-3 second rush, wall running, crawling along 
 the ceiling, mimic-ing the voice of other guards and so on. So the initial impression for most 
 people tends to be There's only a single, 3-hit combo?! THIS GAME SUCKS! 4.9! A. There ends up 
 being around a dozen combos, 5 of these combos you map to the keys after purchasing them. B. If 
 you're worried about playing this game like Ninja Gaiden with button mashing intensive combos, 
 maybe you should go play that instead (which is also awesome, but I digress.) Repetitive? Sure 
 it can be. But I tend to play for fun, not to see how many corners I can cut to finish the level 
 in 30 seconds by simply running by everyone. That... really makes no sense to me as to why you 
 would do that when the levels in the game clearly present you with a whole buffet of victims to 
 stalk... unless you find selling yourself short more fun for some strange reason. But hey... to 
 each their own I suppose. I'm also not sure what else Aaron Thomas would have you be doing if not 
 assassinating people. Driving buses perhaps? I was actually glad that I didn't get stuck with some 
 absurd Protect X while being chased by Y and killing eleventeen million zombie demons mission. 
 You're a ninja, you assassinate people. Constantly. And the A. I. is pretty much on par for stealth 
 games, in that if they see you, they give chase, may call for help, look around while you evade 
 them and then go back to their post. This is nothing new.
  
  The graphics are definitely lacking. The developers clearly didn't take much initiative in harnessing 
 the 360's capabilities and it looks more akin to the original Xbox than a next gen title. Sound 
 could have also been implemented better, though I really didn't mind at all that all the dialoge 
 was in Japanese, and if it wasn't I would hope there would be a way to switch it to such. I don't 
 want to hear Ninjas in feudal Japan speaking English. The problem mostly arises in the lack of 
 variety in victim's voices, as most of them sound the same. On the positive side I found the music 
 to be just right. There's no swelling, surging scores or epicness here, save for the intro. It's 
 all very subdued, traditional Min'yo and tends to set the mood for stalking very well.
  
  Overall, if you have patience and you feel like slipping into the role of a ninja as a STEALTH... 
 ASSASSIN... key words that people seem to be forgetting about with this game.... with light role-playing 
 elements then give it a shot. If you're looking for  
 action then avoid at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamst3r
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  this game really laughabley sucks baddddddddd too omg the ai is the worst ive seen in any game 
 i could cry basicly one of the worst games ever k so its pretty fun using stealth and sneakin around 
 but omg thats ruined too i mean this game is seriously awful that is the onlly word i can possibley 
 think of man it sucks baddddddddddddddddddddddddd bad abd bad bad bad bad please
  dont get this it will make you cry lol almost but you know and also the ai sucks did i mention 
 the ai sucksssssssssssssss  horribley abd and 
 im serious dont beleive some other reviews its awful!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  As a long time Tenchu fan, this was just a dream come true with some extras. This time you get 
 to pick/make your own ninja (shinobi) that you'll be using and you'll get the chance to up grade 
 (and your look) your ninja as you go through the game. You also get a partner but the only use 
 for him/her so far was to be in the cut scenes (I've played twenty five levels , so Im not sure 
 if the partner will play a bigger role or not) .
  
  If I had sum up this game to someone who's never played/heard of a Tenchu game, I'd call it Splinter 
 Cell with Ninjas . Hide in the shadows, make stealth kills, complete the mission at all costs . 
 There are over fifty missions ranging from assassination, saving hostages and locating items. Now 
 fifty missions sounds like a lot, but the stages are not that big and will repeat a lot. There 
 will be some new stages, but mostly it'll be the stages you played in the first ten levels. The 
 game tries to mix it up a little by starting you out in different parts of the map, so maybe you'll 
 see something new.
  
  Graphics are nice, lots better than last gen but not fully next gen yet. Still it's a nice game, 
 graphics are not more important than game play which is what I'm going to talk about now. Control 
 is tight, every button works the way it should, so if you fail a mission it's your own fault not 
 the controls. The enemy AI acts like it should, not that tough and not that easy to fool. If you 
 do a stealth kill and leave the body out in the open someone might know your in the area. It's 
 might be a good idea to hide that body or try to see how many guards are in the area you want to 
 go, learn their patrol paths and kill them one at a time ( youll score more points for stealth 
 kills so try and get as many as you can) . If you don't do a stealth kill, you will have a fight 
 on your hands, but also in danger of others hearing and helping him/her.
  
  Music is the traditional Japanese music with the flute and Biwa. It's nice the music keeps the 
 theme (Some games set in feudal Japan put rock music type in the game cough Samurai Warriors cough 
 which doesn't fit) . Also unlike some other Japanese games that come to the USA, they kept the Japanese 
 voice overs and put English subtitles, that's always a great touch. I really felt like a Ninja 
 in feudal Japan, the music and Japanese voice overs bring this world to life and doesn't feel rushed 
 or cheap ( if they had laughable English voice overs) . The co-op over Xbox LIVE is a nice addition 
 to the Tenchu series, you and three other friends get to enjoy this game for many nights to come. 
 If you loved the Tenchu games in the past, there is no reason you'll not love this game. Maybe 
 you never played a Tenchu game?, Tenchu Z is a great game to start out with. Tenchu Z is great 
 for single or multi player, how could you go wrong? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antiderivativex
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I will start by agreeing with many that this game is indeed under-rated. A score below 5 is absolutely 
 abysmal, with no redeeming qualities whatsoever.
  
  I think Tenchu deserves a score in the 7's for this reason: it's not trying to be something it's 
 not. Tenchu is a stealth ninja game, with over-the-top kills n' thrills. It's not trying to reinvent 
 the sneaker genre, which has been well advanced by titles like Thief, Hitman, and Metal Gear. Rather, 
 think of Tenchu Z as a lighter, arcade version of the titles I just mentioned. It's not TRYING 
 to be the killer app for the sneaker genre, so stop criticizing it for not being that. Stop comparing 
 it to Gears of War. It has NOTHING to do with Gears. Comparing Tenchu to Gears is comparing apples 
 to oranges, period.
  
  The final straw is this: Tenchu Z is going to appeal, quite strongly, to a niche market. If you 
 like the Japanese angle on theatrics, found in a lot of action-based anime, with cool character 
 angles and poses, and if you like the idea of being a ninja and using stealth to kill IN A SATISFYING, 
 arcade-like way, this game is worth looking at. A major lament is about the game's graphics, and 
 I'm going to agree 100% that the DEMO level somehow feeled wrong. I bought the game and can say 
 the richer levels really do a good job of making you believe you're in feudal Japan, and there's 
 very subtle, atmospheric touches that add to that - look closely at the ground when the clouds 
 move overhead on an overcast night... there's a subtle twinkle to the ground that's enhanced when 
 you cast your shadow over it. All these add to the atmosphere of sneaking around, and being a ninja... For 
 comparison's sake, Tenchu Z's visuals are at the level of Ninja Gaiden for the XBox, which is not 
 poor. But it's not Gears. And FromSoftware is fine with that. And I'm fine with that.
  
  Tenchu Z is a game that is comfortable with itself. It's comfortable not trying to top Gears of 
 War's production values. It's comfortable not trying to create an AI system that can trump a Snake 
 or a Sam Fisher. From Software stuck to its roots in making an enjoyable,  
 game, and you know what? It's fun to play. I'm entertained by it.
  
  I think the burning question is whether this title is worth the $60 + tax price tag, and I'm going 
 to say here that I don't believe it is. I happened to have about 5 or 6 old PS2 games lying around 
 to bring the net cost of Tenchu Z for me to around $30, which I feel is about right for this game. 
 After playing it for a bit now, I think I could comfortably pay $40 upward of $45. Do try to rent 
 it or get it at reduced price from eBay - if you fall into the niche described above, you're gonna 
 love the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilmerk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is stealth ninja game not ment to go on head to head to everyone enemy. This game is 
 will NEVER be like Ninja Gaiden (Its action rpg ninja game) at all. Remember what I said its a 
 STEALTH ninja game. So you must find ways to sneak to your enemy and kill them without being noticed. 
 I played the game and demo. It's great game if you played the other Tenchu games and liked it.
 
  
  So what dose this Tenchu did good or bad in ? + Many ways to kill your enemy by sneak up + Easy 
 to do spacial moves + Tons of custom characterization + Lots of ways to kill your enemy not just 
 sneak or 1 vs 1 combat - They could work on the 1 vs 1 combat - Do same killing over and over again
 
  
  Well thats all I can think of. If you played tenchu demo/other their games you might just like 
 this one also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IGDetail
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  I'm going to write this review as if I had never played a Tenchu game before (albeit that I've 
 played each and every one) . Game mechanics are fair and controls never seem to fight what I want 
 to do. In fact, sometimes my ninja does great things even when I think I'm dead-meat. There seems 
 to be quite a bit of customizable options for those wanting to make their own unique character. 
 AI is somewhat questionable, but let's be reasonable here. These guys are just guards from a period 
 where quality education just wasn't available. We're not dealing with military-trained professionals 
 here, just hungry town-folk who took a day job guarding some guy who pays them in riceballs. But, 
 alas... here comes a ninja who thinks (like me) that he has to kill everyone in town to get to 
 his target. If spotted, a guard will try to protect himself, but will give up and go back to duty 
 when the threat is over (and God help him if something happens to his post if he were gone) . There 
 are a generous amount of missions, even when one looks beyond the fact that some seem very similar 
 or take place in the exact location. Still, 50 missions (150 given difficulty ratings) adds to 
 the overall value of this title. Character graphics aren't great, but the map does seem to go on 
 forever in the distance. There are even some nice little details in the surroundings such as bubbling 
 brooks and enchanting little gardens that make waiting on rooftops somewhat pleasurable. The question 
 is, does online play take away from the depth of the graphics? I did get a little lag from playing 
 offline with a few friends, but we still got along pretty well. Any more detailed and I don't think 
 the online portion would have worked. So, is this option worth the trouble? There does need to 
 be a bit more variety with online play, because with a good group missions can last about five 
 minutes tops. Eventually, It would be nice to see this option expanded in the future with this 
 game to make it worth the trade-off. Now for the part from a seasoned Tenchu player. For the patient 
 ninja looking to perfect his abilities, this game ultimately won't let you down. Eventually, you'll 
 come to appreciate the size and details of the maps and the fact that From Software didn't stray 
 too far from what made the first Tenchu great. For everyone else, definitely rent the game first 
 to see if it fits your style, because Tenchu isn't for everyone. The next message goes to all those 
 people who didn't like Tenchu before and are complaining about this title. The basic game mechanics 
 are never going to change, so please stop buying Tenchu games. You're not doing the people who 
 like it any favors by giving this title a low score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwish1969
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Yes there is clipping going on in the graphics and the AI is not very smart but there is just a 
 coolness factor to jumping off a roof and ramming your sword through an enemy and watching the 
 blood spray every where. I have had allot of fun with this game. It is not in the same category 
 as a splinter cell but it is just all out fun. I think that if you go into the game and give it 
 an honest 30min you will be hooked, it is just that fun. The graphics are about Xbox level, defiantly 
 not as bad as PS2 and, the biggest complaint I have about the AI is the fact that they can walk 
 right by a dead body and not be alerted that something is wrong. I dont have a problem that once 
 they chase you away they go back to doing what they were doing. Do yourself a favor and dont let 
 the bad press reviews cause you to avoid this little gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryandc
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I love Microsoft but writing a review is an other thing and my love has not affect my review ok.
 
  I dont want this game is one of the best games but it is a good game .Microsoft wants to get 
 respect and exercise for making ninja game and they makes it well but not very well the wanted 
 to learn ho the can make a ninja gaiden killer and they did well for first step and you saw the 
 players mark and their mark and game spots mark it means meaning my sentence dont look at game 
 spot score.
  the missions of this game are good but sometime may become boring but look at sometimes i said 
 sometime didnt said every time ok
  but if you look at somemovement it makes you shoked in the quality of microsoft mind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MurderB
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jun 15, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I thought this game was gonna be the best game ever, but it turns out it was not.
  
  The Good: Offline. Fun to go around and kill people. Good moves and clothes.
  
  The Bad: Online. 
 When I got Tenchu i was soo exicted about the online. The fact you can have 4 ninjas being stealthy 
 going through missions sounded way fun. But that wasn't the case.... First when I logged on I quickly 
 went to rank match because I wanted to get my rank up (as would anyone) . Turns out, no one was 
 playing ranked match. What it is about online is, no one plays ranked match. The reason is because 
 ranked match lags soo bad it's disgusting. Everything you do theres like a 5 second delay, which 
 sucks. So I thought, ok, I'll just play player match. So I go in player match and join a game. 
 It all seems good, no lag or anything. Then the host starts the game. Once the game started, everyone 
 ran ALL over the place and alerted everyone. So then I'm like, guys let's be more stealthy. They 
 get all pissed off and told me to shut up just because I wanted to be stealthy in a stealth-based 
 game. I swear, people online are very stupid. They make the game soo un-fun. So now I don't even 
 play Tenchu Z anymore. Overall: This game has a great offline, but online is horrible. Unless you 
 find people that play stealthy (which is rare) it's not fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GyspyDevil
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Listen, this game is not for everyone, that much is true. All I can say is I bought it and I've 
 had a lot of fun and I'm not done with it yet. People are giving this game 2's, 3's, and 4, s and 
 it's not on that level. To be frank it's probably a 7.5. I had to give it a 10 in order to even 
 out the scores being given by by people who like halo and halo only. I love the customization of 
 not only the look but the playability of your ninja. You can make a lightning fast stealth killer, 
 a fighting juggernaught, or a master of tricks. The fighting system is not the greatest, but it's 
 a mile better than all of the other tenchu games. You have throws, guard breaks, air juggles, unblockables 
 and if you actually use these with your acrobatics you'll find it's very interesting.
  
  The graphics aren't bad, as much as they do not take full advantage of the 360. While they don't 
 take advantage of bump mapping or bloom or particle effects, the character design is good, the 
 enviorments look make you feel like your in a medieval japan, and there is a good use of sub ground 
 level, ground level, and roof top design.
  
  I guess what I'm trying to say is that it would be nice if tenchu z used the unreal 3 engine, but 
 at the same time I don't notice it when I'm playing. This game is not revolutionary and does not 
 bring any major inovation to the table. What this game is, is fun. If you like tenchu games, way 
 of the samurai, bushido blade, you'll love this game. If you hated all those games, you'll probably 
 hate this too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisdmcatee
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  This game, was definately the best tenchu game that has been in the series. Definately worth getting, 
 if you are the kind of gamer who likes, to get in to a game, and play it like its meant to be played, 
 and really immerse yourself into the role of your character. This game is NOT, for people who just 
 want to sword fight and stomp through a level and beat it fast. This is a game that puts you in 
 the role of a ninja in a clan back in China's Feudal era. This game is a great game to play, if 
 you like ninjas. Just take your time and play the part as a ninja! Don't act like a knight... your 
 a ninja different era, different way of dealing with situations... Ninjas dont run through a level 
 like a moron swinging a heavy sword. Ninja's are trained for stealth and killing with a single 
 blow, they are unseen, unheard, and untouchable. Play the part, or dont play at all. I think the 
 graphics are pretty good. As far as gameplay goes though, its not really realistic in terms of 
 some of your abilities... but then again its not supposed to be, ninjas are fiction, their not supposed 
 to do realistic things. Really the only complaint i have about this game, is that the voice overs 
 are japanese.... but subtitles are readable. I would just rather the characters talk in english. 
 I really think, gamespot is slacking on scoring games... I have not only spotted the unjust scoring 
 on this game, but in other games, too, i used to always check gamespot for reviews before i bought 
 a game, but now it isn't quite as reliable. I think this game deserves way better. It is great. 
 You just have to play the role, and not rush things. 8.9 EASY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I'm serious. I'm having fun with this game. It does what it is meant to do very well. It's a stealth 
 action game. YOu're a ninja man sneaking around and performing assasinations on the enemy. With 
 about 50 missions you have plenty to keep you busy in single player. You have good custimization 
 options. You can upgrade your character between missions by buying new skills, weapons, clothing, 
 etc. I played the demo so I knew kind of what I was in for but with the demo you miss ALOT because 
 you have no instructions to tell you how deep the game really is. The gameplay is alot deeper than 
 you may think at first. You can even perform combination stealth kills. Silently killing a slew 
 of enemies. I'm a couple of hours deep into the game so far and like I said, I'm having fun. In 
 fact, i'm going to play now. My buddy has been playing the multiplayer and he seems to like it. 
 Admittedly , I haven't tried the multiplayer yet, but when 's the last time you heard of a ninja 
 game even having multiplayer, so that says alot!!!
  
  I love the 360 cause there's such a variety of games and types of games. This is another example 
 of a cool game that is pretty different. Hey a game about Ninjas can't be all bad right!!!
  
  I just realized that those old Ninja games on the PS2 were TENCHU  
 know.... I tried playing one of those once and it was so slow and boring I couldn't get into it. 
 I'm telling you, this is nothing like that. It is tons more fun. Great next gen improvement.
  
  Check it out. Download the demo first to see if it's something you can get into. I did and 
 am glad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ludubbz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that I am a fan of the Tenchu series. I've always liked the idea of 
 sneaking around rooftops, waiting for your opportunity to drop down and silently execute your enemies. 
 The best part of the Tenchu games for me, was always discovering all of the various stealth kill 
 animations, and some of them were really cool, especially in Tenchu: Wrath of Heaven. The graphics, 
 combat engine, and A. I. have always been somewhat weak. They're not what the game is all about, 
 in my opinion. This time around, the story is pretty much the same. The graphics are weak for a 
 360 game, but they're by far the best for the series. The A. I. is still extremely dumb, but that's 
 to be expected. If enemies kept looking for you forever every time they spotted you, it would take 
 a lot of the fun out of the game. Even the Metal Gear series will have guards return to their original 
 patrols after searching for awhile, although they also do things such as call in for extra support, 
 but you get my point I hope. The combat engine is also still behind the times, although they did 
 add some pretty nifty combos, however stealth kills are still the best way of dispensing the vast 
 majority of enemies in the game. They also kept the ranking system for each mission, based on how 
 many stealth and regular kills you got, as well as how many times you were spotted and a few other 
 things. Performing better in missions, and thus receiving higher rankings, will net you money for 
 items, skills/abilites, and clothes. I like the fact that you can customize the look of our ninja, 
 although I wish they had more tatoos to choose from.
  The bottom line here, is that performing stealth kills is still extremely satisfying. It's what 
 made the early games in the series great, and it's what is most fun about Tenchu Z, and why I'm 
 glad I bought it. Using the grappling hook to pull yourself up to the rooftops is still the best 
 strategy most of the time, and it's still really addictive. I love crouching down, trying to figure 
 out my route of attack based upon the various guards patrol routes, then dropping down and silently 
 murdering them all. The mission rankings give you an extra incentive for remaining unseen as much 
 as possible, as well as racking up as many stealth kills as you can. In addition to the money for 
 items, moves, and clothing, you can also unlock achievements this way, which I admit, I'm addicted 
 to. I still have much of this game to go, and I haven't even tried the multi-player yet, but I 
 wanted to write this review quickly, when I saw the horrible review Gamespot gave it. If you're 
 a fan of the series, you will love this game, I guarantee it. If you're not, I would recommend 
 renting it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  the stealth kills at frist are cool but only so many times you can do that and it gets old. the 
 missions in the game the main thing you run around trying not to be spotted and stealth kill the 
 bad guys find the main dude you are after some other missions are diffrent but it runs on this 
 and after a few hrs of this you are at yawnville, the game itself looks dark not the best looking 
 game you will see. to me its a game like was done like in 2005 are somthing, its not up to todays 
 standers, its just a ok game a good weekend rent are a 19.99 game. 65 bucks no way, so save your 
 money. good rent weekend at best and lets move on to a new game, to bad this could of been a great 
 game with some work its a shame. they put out a so so rush game sad very sad thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddso1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  if you have never played a tenchu game then get this its fun and addictive you can also make any 
 ninja you want like if your a anime kid go ahead and make a naruto guy the edit system is really 
 good or watever its a cool game and worth checking out. so go ahead and buy it it will last you 
 a good amount of time i just bought call of jerez and i play tenchu more.
  
  the graphics are pretty deciant and the enviornment rock the online play is solid and more addictive 
 than story mode.
  
  the gameplay is solid but it can get a little repetitive so you might want a break every hour.
 
  
  this is a game that you want to play when your not playing it . so it worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snax13
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  For those who play just fun, this game is a waste. For those who like to get into games, this is 
 a rental. Tenchu Z is has many aches and pains in it. It seems like the developers rushed the game 
 a little to fast. There are some cool features like customizable characters, cool sleath kills, 
 and......... Yea. Other than that, it's a big flop. If you like ninjas then this will seem alright. 
 The missions are easy as hell... Jump up on a rooftop and kill the 'Boss'. THAT'S IT! But like I 
 said, if you like ninjas then you will play it out more than just running to the end. The 'Sleath' 
 killing system is a bit boring after you do all the moves, with one button. X. Yea... chop, chop.... X, 
 X, X, X.... Great combo buttons!!! With all the flaws in this game its hard to like if your a laid 
 back gamer, but if you can get into it and look past the flaws, it's not so bad. Maybe the developers 
 made this Tenchu not so great so they can get to work on the next one making it the best ninja 
 game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmedWolf001
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu Z is not all as bad as people make it seem to be. Don't fully judge this game on the demo 
 alone, because the demo has preselected character customizations, doesn't allow you to advance 
 in skills and abilities, and only has one generic mission.
  
  Yes, Tenchu Z does have a few obvious flaws that may seem tedious, but through it all, it's really 
 not that bad of a game. Although, if you're looking for fancy cut senses, you won't find it here. 
 The assassinations in this game are very rewarding. There's many different ways to approach your 
 enemies, all having there own unique visuals, forever ending they're pitiful lives. There are many 
 skills and abilities you'll unlock while playing. These skills and abilities all tune the way you 
 fight, adding new opportunities and combos while fighting, which means you don't have to press 
 the X button over and over. Although this game is about assassinating your enemies and removing 
 all obvious traces of your presence, so you shouldn't be getting into too many fights, unless of 
 course you are oblivious to the ways of the Ninja.
  
  The missions in Tenchu Z reward you of course, giving you reason to do your job as a Ninja or Kunoichi. 
 There are a few common objectives you will run into in missions. One of course being a simple assassination 
 mission, where you assassinate a specific individual. Another being based on reaching a specific 
 destination, person or object for whatever reason. There is a total of 50 missions, and you have 
 a choice of three different difficulties.
  
  The co-op multiplayer is very fun. Me and a local friend of mine have been making loads of cash 
 for abilities and whatnot just having a blast in co-op missions. I think anyone who has played 
 this game agrees that it could have been so much better, but it can definitely be fun if you just 
 keep an opened-mind and look past the few obvious flaws in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterOfSprites
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  I have had enough with people like the game spot reviewer, scoring this any thing below a 7. This 
 is a, good, solid game with hours of content. It is the second day of release and I don't think 
 that most of these other reviewers know the game like I have known it. First off every one on the 
 online community loves the game; I am surprised there arent more good reviews. I get the feeling 
 some times that every one wants to kiss game spots ass. Well I am disagreeing with them. I played 
 the game for around 8 hours. THERE is no possible way the game spot reviewer was able to demo every 
 thing and do a review THE DAY OF RELEASE. I played for 8 hours and only got done with 10% of the 
 game.
  
  The single player is fun has hell with LOADS of missions. The roof-top jumping is so very freaking 
 fun. Sure a lot is done with the x-button but believe me when I say when you get all your abilities, 
 learning how to use them is hard enough.
  
  Has for melee combat, there is a lot more then the simple combos displayed by the game spot reviewer. 
 There are great abilities. The assassinations of the game are MASSIVELY fun, and really addicting.
 
  
  Hell I saw a GS score of 8.9 over at IGN. This is a great game, which if you love ninjas you will 
 love this game. I don't know about the hardcore Tenchu Z fans, but this is a good game if you are 
 new to the series and if you are looking for a little change. This is a stealth game so remember 
 dont count on being able to run in and melee every one. The stealth kills and learning all 12, 
 I think thats the number, are really fun. When you look at other stealth games there is usually 
 only one was to kill some one up-close, this one has many, very innovative and great game play.
 
  
  Has for the people who bash the graphics. The graphics are Tenchu Z, anime-like, graphics. NOT 
 EVERY THING IS SUPPOSED TO LOOK Like GEARS OF WAR. Gears of War is a great game btw, I am not bashing 
 it.
  
  The story line is pretty good, there could be more, but this is the first time the Tenchu series 
 has experimented with this type of role-play, give them a break can't you use a little imagination? 
 Back in the old days people used their minds for most of the game play. Hell it should be easy 
 for you to give your character more depth on your own, they give you every thing else.
  
  The customizations are really good. The only thing I don't like about it is you can't change the 
 color of your clothes. Don't worry though you can change the color of your hair. It is still a 
 good character design. You won't see a lot at the beginning of the game, later on you WILL you 
 will see great items. Play for around 8 hours and then you start to see some really cool looking 
 shirts and things like that.
  
  All in all, the content and game play is great! People need to stop stereotyping the game with 
 every other game, just because it didn't have this or that doesnt make it a bad game. Lighten 
 up dudes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edzea
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is, in my opinion, is great! the variety in missions, the character customization, they 
 are good! the graphics arent amazing, but they arent horrible! i think gamers are too spoiled into 
 thinking graphics are everything, no offense! but anyways i was weary at first, but ive been enjoying 
 the single player, i havent even tried the multi player! cant wait! why is everyone so concerned 
 with how it looks? gears of war graphics these arent, but the gameplay is outstanding, doing the 
 missions you own way in the order you want. i think FROM did a good job sacrificing outstanding 
 graphics for original gameplay, never have i felt like im playing as a real NINJA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyuaNesha
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, if you play it right. If you are thinking of buying this game you may have 
 seen low rated reviews, that is because the game is meant to be played stealthily, think splinter 
 cell, you do have the ability to run around and shoot people with your guns but it is meant to 
 be played by sneaking around in the shadows and popping up behind the enemy to grab them and finish 
 them off, there arnt any restrictions to make you play that way, similar to splinter cell.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is fine, it has you as an asassin of goda, a small country. You are running 
 around doing tasks, with there being about 50 missions on a couple maps. There are many stealth 
 kills to do such as dual sk, and stabbing a sword down their throat and twisting. A nice addition 
 to this game is you want to hide in a dumpster? Not a good idea, the enemy can smell you, same 
 with hiding in a bush. If you hide in a bush some people with allergies may be alergic to what 
 was in the bush, it may give you away.
  
  Graphics:
  Many people complain about the graphics, they are not bad, there is nothing wrong with them, they 
 are not great but looking at them there really isnt any way to improve them, its just the style.
 
  
  Sound: Sound is good, music blends in good and is good background music, its not distracting or 
 irritating. The sounds people make are good too.
  
  Value: Game is 60$ (average) and it meets the standards of a 360 game
  
  Tilt:
  I like the 
 game....
  
  Multiplayer:
  Same as single player, just with up to 4 people.
  Pro: It is fun to plan out who does what and have 4 on one battles. It can be more fun with more 
 people
  Con: as of the release date, the servers suck. The Npcs lag and sometimes, voices are broken up 
 by lag.
  
  Difficulty:
  just right because you can change it.
  
  Time Spent:
  somewhere around 10
  
  Learning curve....... erm 0-30, easy to get the hang of 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgt_Quagmire
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  An overall great game that allows stealth and fluent controls provides tons of fun and repeatability, 
 can't base a game off it's graphics, as long as the experience is a good one. Mass amounts of coop 
 fun that brings you and your friends together . The game has improved from its previous titles, 
 the controls have become more user-friendly . I'm not saying the game is perfect, the first person 
 camera is still choppy and sometimes hard to use. Sure the game isn't no gears of wear or splinter 
 cell, but it's not suppose to be that's what makes it so great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HoangTuBaTu
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  n&oacute; i MGS c&ograve; n thua xa Splinter cell l&agrave; &amp;#273;&uacute; ng &amp;#273;&amp;#7845; y 
 ch&amp;#7913; , v&igrave; c&aacute; i SP n&oacute; mang phong c&aacute; ch stealth action h&amp;#417; n 
 nhi&amp;#7873; u : &amp;#7849; n l&amp;#7845; p trong b&oacute; ng t&amp;#7889; i v&agrave; di chuy&amp;#7875; n 
 nh&amp;#7865; nh&agrave; ng , h&agrave; nh &amp;#273;&amp;#7897; ng k&iacute; n &amp;#273;&aacute; o 
 , tho&amp;#7855; t &amp;#7849; n - tho&amp;#7855; t hi&amp;#7879; n ch&amp;#7913; ko nh&amp;#432; c&aacute; i 
 MGS ch&amp;#7881; mang t&iacute; nh ch&amp;#7845; t v&amp;#7873; t&iacute; nh nh&acirc; n v&amp;#259; n 
 , t&igrave; nh &amp;#273;&amp;#7891; ng &amp;#273;&amp;#7897; i , m&agrave; khi th&amp;#7857; ng snake 
 n&oacute; h&agrave; nh &amp;#273;&amp;#7897; ng tr&ocirc; ng nh&amp;#432; th&amp;#7857; ng &amp;#259; n 
 tr&amp;#7897; m m&amp;#7899; i v&agrave; o ngh&amp;#7873; , ch&amp;#7841; y th&igrave; k&ecirc; u c&amp;#7891; m 
 c&amp;#7897; p ch&amp;#7859; ng ra d&aacute; ng &amp;#273; i&amp;#7879; p vi&ecirc; n g&igrave; c&amp;#7843; 
 , &iacute; t c&amp;#361; ng ph&amp;#7843; i d&amp;#7841; ng ng&amp;#7891; i x&amp;#7893; m nh&amp;#432; 
 Sam &amp;#273;&amp;#7845; y ch&amp;#7913;, l&amp;#7841; i c&ograve; n &amp;#273;&amp;#7883; a b&agrave; n 
 h&agrave; nh &amp;#273;&amp;#7897; ng th&igrave; to&agrave; n l&agrave; ngo&agrave; i tr&amp;#7901; i...
 
  C&aacute; i TENCHU Z th&igrave; kh&amp;#7887; i ph&amp;#7843; i so s&aacute; nh v&amp;#7899; i 2 c&aacute; i 
 tr&ecirc; n l&agrave; m g&igrave; , c&oacute; mu&amp;#7889; n th&amp;#7917; c&amp;#361; ng &amp;#273;&atilde; 
 mu&amp;#7897; n 4.9 &amp;#273;&atilde; n&oacute; i l&ecirc; n t&amp;#7845; t c&amp;#7843; , c&ograve; n 
 ai d&aacute; m th&amp;#7917; ho&amp;#7863; c mua game n&agrave; y v&amp;#7873; v&amp;#7899; i con s&amp;#7889; 
 &amp;#273;&oacute; ko ? gamespot em th&amp;#7845; y t&amp;#7909; i n&oacute; ch&amp;#7845; m &amp;#273; i&amp;#7875; m 
 r&amp;#7845; t ch&iacute; nh x&aacute; c v&agrave; c&ocirc; ng b&amp;#7857; ng &amp;#273;&ocirc; i l&uacute; c 
 c&amp;#361; ng c&oacute; h&amp;#417; i kh&amp;#7855; t khe 1 ch&uacute; t nh&amp;#432; ng trong tr&amp;#432;&amp;#7901; ng 
 h&amp;#7907; p n&agrave; y c&oacute; n&acirc; ng l&ecirc; n c&amp;#361; ng ko &amp;#273;&aacute; ng &amp;#273;&amp;#7875; 
 ch&amp;#417; i n&amp;#7919; a , nh&igrave; n  m&amp;#7895; i c&aacute; i 
 &amp;#273;&amp;#7891; h&amp;#7885; a l&agrave; t&agrave; m t&amp;#7841; m, &amp;#273;&amp;#7889; i 
 v&amp;#7899; i d&amp;#7841; ng n&agrave; y m&agrave; &acirc; m thanh ho&agrave; nh tr&aacute; ng , hay 
 h&ugrave; ng h&amp;#7891; n th&igrave; ch&amp;#7855; c l&uacute; c h&agrave; nh &amp;#273;&amp;#7897; ng 
 trong con tim ng&amp;#432;&amp;#7901; i &amp;#273; i&amp;#7873; u khi&amp;#7875; n c&amp;#361; ng c&amp;#7843; m 
 th&amp;#7845; y s&amp;#7907; v&igrave; &acirc; m thanh kinh qu&aacute; s&amp;#7907; b&amp;#7883; 
 ph&aacute; t hi&amp;#7879; n :) ) , gameplay th&igrave; c&ograve; n kh&ocirc; ng b&amp;#7857; ng c&aacute; c 
 phi&ecirc; n b&amp;#7843; n tr&amp;#432;&amp;#7899; c &amp;#7903; XBOX v&agrave; PS2 n&amp;#7919; a 
 ( ch&amp;#417; i &amp;#273; i r&amp;#7891; i bi&amp;#7871; t :) ) ) ai b&amp;#7843; o hay c&amp;#361; ng 
 ch&amp;#7859; ng qua l&agrave; fan &amp;#273; i&ecirc; n cu&amp;#7891; ng ho&amp;#7863; c l&agrave; 
 m&amp;#7899; i t&igrave; m  1 c&aacute; i g&igrave; &amp;#273;&oacute; 
 n&amp;#7893; i tr&amp;#7897; i nh&amp;#7845; t trong &amp;#273;&aacute; m &amp;#273;&ocirc; ng bug :) ) 
 , v&amp;#7899; i t&amp;#7845; t c&amp;#7843; nh&amp;#7919; ng &amp;#273; i&amp;#7873; u tr&ecirc; n khi 
 ai &amp;#273;&atilde; ho&agrave; n th&agrave; nh  game n&agrave; y 
 th&igrave; gi&aacute; tr&amp;#7883; ch&amp;#417; i l&amp;#7841; i l&agrave; g&amp;#7847; n nh&amp;#432; 
 kh&ocirc; ng c&ograve; n , n&amp;#7871; u c&ograve; n c&amp;#361; ng ch&amp;#7859; ng qua l&agrave; ko 
 c&ograve; n game n&agrave; o c&ugrave; ng th&amp;#7875; lo&amp;#7841; i trong mua h&egrave; khan c&amp;#7893; 
 n&agrave; y c&amp;#7843; , c&amp;#361; ng th&amp;#7871; v&amp;#7899; i t&amp;#7845; t c&amp;#7843; 
 nh&amp;#7919; ng g&igrave; &amp;#273;&atilde; th&amp;#7875; hi&amp;#7879; n th&igrave; c&amp;#7843; m 
 nh&amp;#7853; n ri&ecirc; ng v&amp;#7873; n&oacute; c&amp;#361; ng ch&amp;#7881; l&agrave; 1 game 
 v&amp;#7851; n &amp;#273;&amp;#7895; i 2 ch&amp;#7919; b&igrave; nh th&amp;#432;&amp;#7901; ng k&amp;#7875; 
 v&agrave; l&agrave; next-gen nh&eacute; , v&amp;#7851; n &amp;#273;&amp;#7895; i l&agrave; Thi&ecirc; n 
 Thu :) )
  Gameplay 5
  Graphics 7 Sound 5 Value 5 Tilt 5 TOTAL : 5.3 mediocre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu was a cool idea back in the days of PS1. Poisoned rice bowls companied with cool Ninja executions 
 made for a promising game. Though never a fan of this game since games like MGS and such made easy 
 work of this 1/2 hearted attempt at a Ninja stealth game. Sitting here thinking hmm... a new Tenchu 
 but they all look the same, play the same, and seem to be doing the very same stuff they were doing 
 years ago with the same clippy choppy graphics that make the game look old, boring, and cheap.
 
  
  Downloading the demo of this game I tried to give it a thumbs up... I tried to tell myself I liked 
 it... but within 1 minute of actual gameplay I was sick to my stomach. It looks like trash, the 
 gameplay and AI are so uninspired its rediculous. This game has gone NOWHERE since PS1, every sequal 
 is a joke as if to milk more money out of an old idea that could have been fun with some thought 
 and effort. How they have the nerve to keep pumping this junk out and calling it a new game for 
 full price I have no idea... the developers should be ashamed and fired... perhaps pulled out in 
 a dark alley and fed some poisoned rice while they are getting what they have coming to them.
 
  
  Terrible game... this game has gone nowhere and if you spend 60 bucks on this game your going to 
 be upset... unless you just would have to have this game for some unknown reason. Maybe you sleep 
 in a ninja mask and have the entire Tenchu game library in Poster form on your bedroom walls but 
 other than that you need to avoid this game like the plague. The only redeeming factor of this 
 game is you are a Ninja (SWEET) , and you get to sneek up and kill people in a bloody fashion (NOT 
 HOW IT SHOULD BE) . Instead you run up so bored you dont care if you get seen, you manage to still 
 get the kill animation and its terrible... the blood effects are miserable and the clipping of the 
 characters looks so horribly cheap im just shocked this game is approved by Microsoft because its 
 crap plain and simple.
  
  The AI act like a bunch of identical looking morons that have no innovation whatsoever... a confrontation 
 of a sword battle is about as WHACK-A-MOLE as it gets... just I cant say it enough... avoid this 
 game.
  
  Forget this franchise it died with the PS1... wait for a good Ninja title like Ninja Gaiden because 
 this is NOT the place to find Ninja fun.
  
  QUIT MAKING THIS FRANCHISE... ITS OVER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sloaf
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  They removed the interesting mini-cut-scenes during stealth kills, made the blood look fake, and 
 didn't bother to add a variety of interesting stealth kill animations, not to mention that half 
 the time the kill sequences are glitched. Speaking on cut-scenes, the many that you do come across 
 are filled with characters whos mouths don't move while they talk (I thought that era was over, 
 perhaps lazy designers) . The challenge from the game is far gone. Being caught by a guard is just 
 a 10 second setback and then all is well. The customization had me very excited but not even an 
 interesting feature such as that can save this slaughter of one of my favorite series. Better luck 
 next time ninja fans. The series will be in my prayers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GohanSSJZ
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game is definetly bad, there is no doubt about it. I'm not sure what kind of people give this 
 game high ratings, i wonder if they ever played any good games, but i have.
  
  This game is slow, it's boring, doesn't look good, and just doesn't give you anything to hang on 
 to, there is nothing that i can say that was done well.
  
  The fighting is pretty bad, it's slow and doesn't have anything that makes it interesting to fight. 
 To walk on the roofs and jump to other rooftops sounds fun, but it isn't, you can't jump very far, 
 and all the movements are again pretty slow, the graphics are also nothing to write home about.
 
  
  Basicly they just put a cheap game together and hope to cash in on it purely based on it's box 
 artwork and some screenshots on the back that doesn't show how bad it is.
  
  So don't bother with the game, and if you still have doubts, then play then demo, but keep your 
 money to get a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wryze
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  This game has an almost realistic quality to it, I've played the demo and enjoyed it tremendously 
 but......
  
  The A. I. could of been better, the graphics, when compared to my other games that I have on the 
 360 don't come in as well. I'd guess that Microsoft rushed this one out the door which is sad, 
 because this game has so much potential.
  
  I would recommend buying this game, but not at full price if you could wait for a price break for 
 it. The graphics are good, everythings detailed, but when coming out on a system with the potential 
 that the 360 has, it is my belief that gamers will expect more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: labatbleu
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is a total RIP OFF ... even if i only rent the game it was the worst 5$ i spent this 
 month . Seriously !! this game is bad. Every level look and feel the same . You don't even need 
 to crounch or walk slowly... you can just stand still and run to your enemy and perform a silent 
 kill . THE IA ARE JUST STUPID !!
  i guess they are deaf ninja! Graphic are bad , gameplay are bad
  
  THE CAMERA ARE JUST THE 
 MOST ANOYING THING ON THE WOLRD !!!!
  D@MN!! this game is so bad! plus your ninja run so weird ! .. anyway..
  
  i don't understand 
 people rating this game like 9.8 ... how its possible ?? only the graphic dont deserve a 7 . how 
 can this game get 9.8 ?? they are just biaised....
  
  i can t tell you STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaliburF71
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Pretty Tight Kind of Like Way of a Samurai And Ninja Gaiden! But You Got ninja Skills! 
 And also the Gameplay is Mutiplayer Online with 50Missions and cool fighting styles Graphics: Badass 
 Graphics With the Createing Your own Character with cool clothes Thats Tight Big time!
  
  Sound: Sounds Alright Pretty Cool when the people u try to kill yell for help... lol
  
  Value: 
 Its Alright!
  
  Xbox360 Online: The Online is tight Createing your Characters Lots of clothes! cool swords Skills 
 Fighting style everything!
  
  Games it Reminds me of: Way of the Samurai 1 &amp; 2 Ninja Gaiden Red Ninja and Samurai Western.
 
  
  I, ll Give it a 9.2 SuperB Because The Online is so Cool about this Game!
  and the Gameplay!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziabatsu
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  This is my first time playing Tenchu so try to keep this in mind. I can't relate to any of the 
 past titles, so this is a review from a new player.
  
  Before I actually purchased the game, I downloaded the demo from XBOX live, it consisted of 1 level 
 only, and limited character customization. I ended up clocking about 10 hours on the demo alone. 
 I guess I just like killing un-suspecting npc's?
  
  Game play: The game play is pretty solid. The controls are easy enough to get use to, and once 
 you do, you probably wont have much trouble running around the city jumping from rooftop to rooftop. 
 Though there are two things that kind of annoy me about the game play. The first thing is that 
 when I get a stealth kill, if I'm not right up on them, it's as if I teleport them a step or two 
 before I stab them, giving it a choppy feeling. The second thing that bothers me is the fact you 
 can drown NPC's, but you don't really have a way to throw them into the water (at least from what 
 I can tell) . I usually have to end up grabbing them and knocking them unconscious, then walking 
 my character into them to nudge the NPC into the water.
  
  Graphics: I only rated this as a Seven. I am really kind of disappointed here. The graphics arent 
 necessarily bad, but they really arent the best the 360 can do either. On a positive note, the 
 architecture and character models seems accurate to how I would imagine the setting, so they get 
 quite a few points back there.
  
  Sound: The sound is one of my favorite aspects of this game. I like the music a lot, I also like 
 how NPCs will kind of talk to themselves or whistle as they walk around the city, it gives them 
 a bit more character. The SFX seem pretty accurate too, ie. ninja stars (shuriken) etc.
  
  Value: Well, there are roughly 50 missions to accomplish, and it has online co-op and a form of 
 death-match/ versus mode? (Havent tested these yet) . So for the single player mode, I imagine 
 once you beat the game, your first thoughts wont be to do it again several times over. The multiplayer 
 features I think will add a lot of value to the game in general. But from what I have played so 
 far, I think anyone who is interested in stealth type games should like this one, I dont thin 
 its quite as in depth as say, Splinter Cell, but it really does accomplish what it set out to 
 do.
  
  Thanks for reading my review for Tenchu Z on XBOX360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Tenchu Z just doesn't cut the mustard. First off lets talk about presentation. The graphics are 
 dull. They just don't compare to other 360 titles. I would expect that if this was a port going 
 to all consoles, but this is an exclusive. Enemies look a lot a like. Animation is poor, lighting 
 and shadowing is non-existant. The graphics definatley feel last generation when the 360 pushes 
 it's self as a graphic machine. Everyone looks pretty much the same. Even the ninja you create. 
 The controls are all right. They are responsive. and pretty standard to the rest of the action 
 adventure games on the market. However the AI has a serious curve to it. The henchmen are so easy 
 to dispatch it ridiculous, but a boss. Forget about it. Jumping from roof top to roof top can be 
 fun, at first, but poor level design and consistant beating of the same theme gets boring fast. 
 The music is pretty cool, in the begining, then it become non-exsistant. The sounds are always 
 the same Japanese dialect when you are spoted, and then it switches to english during one of the 
 lame excuses of a cinema scene. The voice acting really isn't that great to boot. There are some 
 good things about Tenchu. I like that you can create your own ninja, although you can't actually 
 create one that looks too much like another Japanese guy. This isn't a bad thing if your Japanese, 
 but if your of any other creed you can forget it. Part of what makes a game engrossing now is a 
 deep create a player like in Elder Scrolls, Fight Night, Mortal Kombat, and Madden. This just feels 
 tacked on. Basically the story is about the same as any other ninja movie/game on the market. Your 
 hired to assasinate people. Fight people and get information. The plot line is rather dull. Everyone 
 seems to be a metro sexual just like in Final Fantasy. Overall I wasn't impressed by this game 
 and feel let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxxi444
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo when it came out and I must say I was appalled. The graphics for this game are 
 unexcusable. The animation is as cheap as it gets. Tenchu Z looks like an xbox game (really) . The 
 only plus is the new co-op option and that's it. This should have been a budget title. How can 
 they justify paying $60 dollars for this game. I have played tenchu before
  and what used to be a good game has progresively gotten worse with tenchu z as the final abomination. 
 Don't listen to any good previews for this game as they have been written by die-hard fans who 
 would just as soon stomach a terrible game such as tenchu z than admit that like the new sonic 
 games, it's time to put this series to rest. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
