-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Test Drive Unlimited
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/testdriveunlimited/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Being able to encounter other online drivers at any given time is extremely cool.
 Single-player and multiplayer components are blended nicely into one cohesive package.
 A huge, picturesque island with seemingly endless roads.
 Lots of available races and missions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Limitations of the free ride mode's online component make it tough to hook up with friends.
 Mission designs are quite repetitive.
 No real thread to tie together any of what you're doing on the island.
 Some ugly issues diminish the overall graphical quality.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  7, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.2, 86 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 4,109 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Eden Studios
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Sep 5, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not as unlimited as its subtitle suggests, and it has a pervasively aimless feel, but Test 
 Drive Unlimited still creates a fun, leisurely world to drive in. 

  If you're the sort of racing game fan who's become bored with the hard lines that have been drawn 
 over the years between single- and multiplayer gameplay, Test Drive Unlimited might just be what 
 you're looking for. Take the picturesque Hawaiian island of Oahu, lots of licensed vehicles of 
 varying pedigrees, and a game design that attempts to blend a persistent online world with the 
 typical single-player experience, and what you get is an interesting take on what one might try 
 to describe as a massively multiplayer online racer. Of course, that wouldn't be quite correct. 
 As huge as the island of Oahu is, the online component of the game simply doesn't feel that massive, 
 because the game limits how many online players can come in contact with you. There's also no hook, 
 no overarching point to the game to tie together its string of races and missions, which might 
 leave you wondering why you're even bothering with any of it. But despite these issues, you still 
 find yourself sucked into Unlimited's sprawling world simply because it's such a cool concept, 
 and though it doesn't deliver on every aspect of it, it gets enough right to be fun.  

          It's not the best racer for the Xbox 360, but Test Drive Unlimited is certainly a unique 
 change of pace.     

  You start by picking a basic character model to represent yourself, and you're whisked away to 
 fabulous Hawaii to buy a car and a house, do a lot of random racing, and drive hitchhikers and 
 models around the island for some reason. That's about all there is to the premise. While it's 
 not shocking that a racing game wouldn't have a major, in-depth storyline, the way the game introduces 
 itself and the open-ended nature of the game world give you the impression that there might be 
 some kind of plot to tie everything you do together. There isn't. The lack of a cohesive thread 
 to the missions and races does make Test Drive seem a bit pointless, but after a while, you cease 
 to care and find yourself oddly engaged by this scattershot series of objectives. It helps that 
 there is quite a lot to do on the island. The objectives themselves don't extend beyond races, 
 time trials, speed challenges, and some basic delivery missions, but there are enough of them to 
 keep you going as you explore the massive island of Oahu.  

  The way the game forces you to explore is clever. You start out with only a few available mission 
 icons on the huge world map, but as time goes on, you'll see more and more begin to pop up across 
 the entire stretch of the island. If you happen to have driven through a road where an objective 
 resides, you can simply click on that icon on the map and be instantly transported there. But if 
 an icon appears on a road you've never driven on before, you have to drive there to access it. 
 What this does is force you to cruise through just about every nook and cranny of Oahu without 
 being overly pushy about it. There's often more than enough races and missions available at any 
 given time, so if you don't feel like driving halfway across the island to see something new, you 
 won't necessarily be hurting for things to do right where you already are.  

  It's just too bad there's not more variety to what you end up doing. Races are fairly typical street 
 races, with up to seven opponent drivers and a number of checkpoints scattered throughout a course. 
 There's a huge roster of them to take part in on various roads that range from hairpin-filled hill 
 climbs to straight-and-narrow city races. There's also the time trials, as well as the speed challenges, 
 which task you either with driving a set speed past a number of speed traps laid about a course, 
 or simply reaching a designated speed within a set amount of time. The missions are more repetitive, 
 which come in only a few set categories. You'll either find yourself delivering illicit packages 
 for seedy individuals, delivering some of the game's more expensive rides to dealerships and mechanics, 
 delivering hitchhikers to their desired destinations, or delivering high-strung models to their 
 homes after a long day of shopping. Basically, you're a delivery service no matter how you look 
 at it, and the only variances are in what you're delivering, and occasionally what kind of car 
 you're driving. Fortunately, the various races and challenges are quite a bit more compelling than 
 these missions. However, you don't earn nearly as much cash just sticking to the races, so you'll 
 likely be inspired to put up with the monotony of the missions.  

  Why? Because without cash, you can't buy any of the game's numerous cars, houses, clothes, or upgrades. 
 Obviously, the big draw is the cars, and there are over 90 licensed cars and motorcycles available 
 in the game. From basic rides like Volkswagens, Chryslers, and Chevys to more exotic models of 
 Lamborghinis, Ferraris, and Aston Martins, there are plenty of available cars, and you can likely 
 expect even more to be made available via the Xbox Live Marketplace at some point. Paying more 
 for new cars isn't the most ideal scenario, but at a less-than-full-retail-price $40 price tag 
 for the game, it's a little bit easier to swallow.  

  Building up a car collection is key, as you'll need at least one car from each of the available 
 A-through-G car classes, since at one point or another, you'll encounter races that require cars 
 from these specific classes. Some races also require very specific cars, but if you don't want 
 to buy them, there are rental agencies that will give you access to those cars for 10 to 20 minutes 
 at a time. To house all your rides, you'll find yourself buying real estate throughout the island. 
 Each house has its own look, but more importantly includes at least a four-car garage, if not higher. 
 The houses don't have a ton of purpose beyond acting as basic hub levels and as a storage area 
 for cars, but they're a nice touch all the same. You can also spend credits you earn from the hitchhiker 
 and model missions on clothes for your character. Though it's not as if you stare at your character 
 much while you're driving, there are enough cutscenes in the game to where it sort of makes sense 
 to be able to dress up your driver in some new threads.  

  All of the different missions, races, car collections and other buyable items play into the game's 
 achievements, which in turn, play into your driver level. As you level up through the game, you 
 get access to more and more races and missions, and you level up specifically by getting achievements. 
 The achievements themselves are nicely tied into the main game structure, so by completing all 
 the races and missions, and collecting hefty amounts of cars, real estate and clothing along the 
 way, you'll gain the vast majority of the game's 1,000 points. Of course there are a few that require 
 you going a bit out of your way, like covering 5,000 miles of road, for instance, but you should 
 still have plenty of points once you've seen and done all the main objectives the game has to offer. 

          There's a ton of races and missions in the game, though the variety of objectives is smaller 
 than you might prefer.     

  Other ways to earn money involve the online component of the game. You can tap into the online 
 audience by creating your own custom race challenges for them to take part in, or by selling your 
 cars via the online trading market. Buying and selling cars is exceptionally simple; all you have 
 to do is jump into the trade menu when you're in one of your houses, and buy and sell accordingly. 
 You can set prices however you like, though you'll likely want to judge the market for your particular 
 brand of car before trying to price gouge people with that Volkswagen Golf you have no use for. 
 Creating challenges is a bit more involved a process. With this feature, you can map out a course 
 of just about any length using all the available roads on the island. You can set all sorts of 
 arbitrary rules, like time limits, whether or not the driver is relegated to the cockpit camera 
 view, and whatnot, and you can also set entry fees and awards. Of course, the trick is that the 
 awards are taken from your bank account, so you'll want to be careful with how much cash you're 
 dishing out. Fortunately, there's also a time limit for how long a custom challenge can sit on 
 the servers, so you're not destined to get gouged by people forever. You will, however, be able 
 to access your custom challenges within your own game for however long you like.  

  The online driving audience is obviously a big draw of Test Drive Unlimited, since so much of the 
 multiplayer functionality has just been built into the basic gameworld. There is no quick-and-dirty 
 multiplayer menu to jump into to find a match. Every designated multiplayer race appears as an 
 icon on the map just like the offline races, and at each race you'll find the option to jump into 
 a player match or a ranked match with any other players hanging out at that race. It's a little 
 bit more convoluted than a standard menu system, since you might have to scan the various online 
 race icons on the map, trying to find a race to get into, but in our testing, we found a decent 
 number of competitors at just about every race hub, though mostly for player matches. Ranked matches 
 have been decidedly fewer in quantity. It's probably also worth mentioning that Test Drive Unlimited 
 doesn't offer any kind of single-console multiplayer, so if you want to play against friends, it'll 
 have to be online.     

  If you prefer simply driving the open roads to sticking to predetermined courses, you also have 
 the option of tracking down other players free riding around the city. This is where the whole 
 MMO comparison comes in (or as the game refers to it, MOOR, or massively open online racing) , as 
 players driving around the city are very visible to you while you're not engaged in a race or mission, 
 and if you happen upon any rival online drivers, you can challenge them to a quick race for cash 
 and ranking points. All you have to do is flash your headlights at them, and they can choose to 
 accept or decline the challenge; if they accept, you just pick a finish line somewhere away from 
 where you're currently situated, and race to the end.  

          How much Ecko gear does one need? The answer: Hella.     

  The whole system of being 
 able to find other, random players while simply driving around the island sounds brilliant on paper, 
 but it doesn't offer quite as much freedom as you might hope for. For one thing, you can't just 
 run into every single driver that happens to be in your vicinity. Though you'll certainly find 
 plenty of other players driving around, there seems to be a limit on exactly how many can appear 
 to you while you're in a specific zone of the island, and getting specific players into your zone 
 seems more complex than it ought to be. For instance, we tried to hook up with someone on our friends 
 list to engage in a quick challenge race within the free ride mode, but despite both of us being 
 in the exact same area, we simply couldn't find each other on either the list of nearby players 
 or within any kind of visual range. Essentially, it appeared as if we were in different server 
 instances, and couldn't easily get into the same one. There's no quick way to target someone from 
 your friends list, either, unless you happen to be in a club (the game's equivalent of a clan) 
 with that player. It's easy enough to invite someone to one of the standard multiplayer races, 
 but if you're just free riding, it seems hit or miss as to whether you'll actually be able to connect 
 with someone specific. It's not a bad system in theory, since it does prevent the streets from 
 getting overcrowded with rival racers, and to its credit, the switches between instances as you 
 drive around are completely seamless, but if you want to find someone specific that isn't automatically 
 appearing on your list, it's a rather clunky process.  

  Still, caveats aside, the multiplayer is where it's at, both because of the variety of ways to 
 compete and because the online competition is just better than the offline. When you're racing 
 offline, the opponent artificial intelligence is, in a word, limited. Opponents wreck and end up 
 in the dirt more than you will, and the only advantage they'll ever have is if they have a markedly 
 faster ride than you do. You'll also notice that if you end up having to redo races a few times, 
 the opponents will follow the exact same AI routines every time, braking at the same points, veering 
 around other drivers at the same times, and things like that. The only thing that can seem to throw 
 them off this is you wrecking into them, but after a while, the routine resumes.  

  That's about the worst thing you can say for the in-car action, however; the core driving mechanics 
 are quite solid. The handling of the various cars can take some getting used to, as almost every 
 car is a bit squirrelly and prone to random spinouts. But once you get a handle on things, you 
 can pretty easily master the controls and take to the roads with minimal issue. Of course, you'll 
 still have to navigate around AI-controlled traffic and, occasionally, cops. But it's more the 
 random traffic that poses an issue than the cops. Whereas AI cars will sometimes veer into you 
 at random or bunch up at intersections, cops rarely seem to care terribly much what you do. Scraping 
 or crashing into other cars alerts them, but you have to do it a bunch of times in a short period 
 before they'll really start coming after you. Typically, all you have to do is avoid wrecking for 
 around 10 seconds after alerting them, and your alert level will just drop right back to nothing. 

  Obviously, the lack of cop interaction prevents them from getting in the way of your enjoyment 
 of driving around the island. In fact, with the exception of the AI traffic and largely immovable 
 scenery, everything about Test Drive's design seems built with the expressed purpose of making 
 Oahu as leisurely a place to drive around as humanly possible. Sure, the racing can get intense 
 at times, and there are few things more frustrating than taking on a timed car-delivery mission 
 and inadvertently wrecking into another car while trying to take a blind corner as quickly as possible, 
 but for the most part, driving around Oahu is a relaxing experience. The game's mileage counts 
 for each point-to-point drive are completely accurate, and unlike most games that tell you that 
 you'll be going 15 miles to your destination, you  feel  like you're driving a realistic 15 miles. 
 For some, the pacing of the island's travels might feel kind of sluggish, but for those who just 
 like the idea of driving a hot car against a striking backdrop, Test Drive provides precisely that. 

  And it is quite a striking backdrop. Oahu is rendered with a high level of detail, and it looks 
 extremely pretty as you're driving from place to place. Of course, most of the island's highways 
 stick to the shorelines and heavily populated areas, but there's plenty of windy mountain roads 
 and backcountry areas to explore, too. If you've got an HDTV, you're certainly going to see the 
 benefit with crisper in-game visuals, but in SD, the game still looks quite nice. It doesn't look 
 perfect, mind you. When you aren't speeding along, some of the more obvious texture seams and lower-resolution 
 set pieces tend to stick out, and the fact that there's absolutely no people at all wandering around 
 a bustling beach community is altogether weird; but at high speeds, the environments look great, 
 especially with the attractive motion-blur effect the game uses. Unfortunately, high speeds also 
 sometimes cause some problems for the game. Specifically, texture pop-in and frame rate hiccups 
 tend to occur at frequent rates. The actual frame rate never seems to drop below 30, but you'll 
 see these quick hitches from time to time that can be a little off-putting. Also, it is feasibly 
 possible to outrun the game's environmental streaming. We drove ourselves out of the world at one 
 point simply by turning onto a road that had not fully loaded yet. Fortunately, the game just resets 
 you back on the road when that happens, but it's pretty ugly.  

  The cars in the game are modeled beautifully, looking like pristine, out-of-the-factory renditions 
 of their real-life counterparts. There's no damage modeling to any of the licensed vehicles, though 
 you can damage the generic AI traffic. Collisions look strange, though, as the physics of you smashing 
 into another car at a 150 miles per hour just don't look right. It's also bizarre when you go head-on 
 into a lamppost or fence or something equally unassuming, and get stopped on a dime by it. There's 
 also no car-customization element to speak of. There are some basic performance upgrades you can 
 buy that sometimes do involve some visual upgrades, but there's no way to trick out your ride to 
 make it look like  your ride  beyond basic paint jobs and some rim upgrades you can grab at the 
 time you purchase a car. It's just strange that a racing game involving such a community-driven 
 design would go to the trouble of letting you play dress-up with your character that is barely 
 visible outside of cutscenes (and also doesn't look particularly good, dressed-up or not) , but 
 wouldn't let you give your various cars more unique identities. Each car also has its own unique 
 cockpit view that's accurate to the real car; a feature sure to please the kinds of car fanatics 
 that love this level of detail.  

          Don't worry, you can drive this baby as fast as you like along a shoreline highway, and 
 you won't have to worry about totaling it.     

  The in-game audio is reasonably enjoyable though not nearly as in-depth as many of the other racers 
 on the 360. The game has good car sound effects but a fairly forgettable soundtrack consisting 
 largely of songs from relatively unkown bands. There are a few notable tracks by artists like Queens 
 of the Stone Age, Metric, and the James Gang, but you're more likely to want to get your custom 
 soundtrack on while playing this one. There's not a hefty amount of voice acting in the game, save 
 for a few awkward lines during mission set-ups, but what's there is serviceable.  

  While Test Drive Unlimited blurs the line between single-player and multiplayer racing better than 
 anything that's ever tried it before, it's not quite a slam dunk. The game's open-ended mission 
 design belies its purposeless nature, and the whole massively open online racing thing isn't quite 
 as massive as one might be led to believe. But even with its limitations, Test Drive Unlimited's 
 concept is executed well enough to make it an addictive and interesting racing experience. There's 
 nothing else quite like it on the market right now, and though you're undoubtedly going to take 
 issue with a few of the game's peculiarities, there's enough here to make it a racer worth checking 
 out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (265 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: metabolic1
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Game: Test Drive Unlimited
  Platform: Xbox360
  Reviewer: Ian 'Sictard'
  Date: 19/03/09
  
  The test drive series has been around for many years now and the latest in this series, test 
 drive unlimited, marks the series' first outing on the next generation console market.
  
  The basics of the game are fairly unchanged from the previous generation titles with the typical 
 aim of the game being to complete a number of races and challenges which range from car delivery 
 missions to down-to-basics racing. Winning races or completing certain challenges earns you money 
 to spend on new cars or houses (garages to keep the cars in, each house has a set amount of space 
 for cars so you'll need to buy enough houses to keep all those cars in) . Other challenges, or missions, 
 earn you tokens which you can spend on clothing and accessories  this allows you a mild amount 
 of customization for your character which isn't really needed for the game but it's a good marketing 
 tool for the clothing brands involved.
  
  Set on the idyllic island of Oahu your given (relatively) free run of literally thousands of miles 
 of roads where you can drive around as fast as you like with virtually no boundaries. However, 
 if you do decide to slow down and do some 'Sunday Driving' you'll be able to admire the view of 
 the island, the developers have clearly made a good effort to make the environment appealing for 
 games, although it's not a hugely beautiful game to look at as the likes of Forza or Grid but this 
 is a fairly early game after-all. There are a few frame rate issues that don't ruin the game play 
 but they do let it down and will cause some nasty breaks in the graphics for brief periods, having 
 said that, these are very few and far between.
  
  Car enthusiasts are well altered for here with a vast selection of vehicles to choose from (around 
 90 for the initial retail release) , all of which are rated by 'class' with 'G' being the worst 
 and 'A' being the best, this is based on the performance statistics or, to quote a certain Jeremy 
 Clarkson "POWER" of the vehicles. Each car (and bike of course) is very detailed, switch between 
 the various camera views available and you'll be able to get a close up view on the vehicle, here 
 you can admire the smallest details right down to the badges on the cars, although not photo-realistic 
 they are still very appealing. Switch your camera view to the 'head-cam', the now common place 
 view for every driving/racing game and you'll be able to view the interior of each car, you're 
 even able to move your head around a slight amount to take a further peak at the passenger seat 
 and the interior of the doors. Although many of the interiors don't look very 'polished' or well 
 finished there are subtle touches that will make you smile such as the dashboard dials actually 
 keeping real-time speed & revs or even the character of the game actually moving this right arm 
 to change gear within the car, although not new to the genera it's surprising how few games actually 
 include these small touches. This detail is also followed down to the bikes that are included within 
 the game and you can even change the colors of your bike leathers and crash helmet by spending 
 your hard earned tokens in clothing stores.
  
  Although the cars you can buy, rent or test drive are fairly well designed from a graphical point 
 of view the AI cars are the complete opposite and are a letdown in the game, they look a lot like 
 the box like cars you'll find yourself staring at in a 32-bit game  this seems to be a typical 
 oversight for game developers who ignore these small details, some would argue it's not how a game 
 looks but how a game plays though.
  
  That brings me onto the game play. Each car has specific handling characteristics with the American 
 muscle cars feeling chunky and heavy to drive and the smaller, lightweight cars feeling much more 
 agile and looser to drive. The vehicles in Test Drive Unlimited handle as you'd expect them to 
 but your left wanting a little more realism at times. Take a Ferrari Enzo around a corner too quickly 
 and you'd expect to find yourself spinning out of control and slapping yourself on the forehead 
 for even assuming you could have made it yet you'll simply leave the road and hit a building or 
 one of the AI cars, no 360 degree spin, no squealing of the tires, nothing that you'd really expect.
 
  
  Something that should be raised as a fault in the game is the AI of the cars that act as the general 
 public, the AI is quite dim-witted at the best of times. Part of the game consists of delivery 
 missions where-by the object of the mission is to deliver a car from point a to point b without 
 going off the road or hitting anything along the way, granted there is no time limit to this but 
 the AI cars have a habit of turning into junctions as your driving past them or switching lanes 
 so that they hit you which causes you to lose money for that mission as the game sees it as you 
 hitting something. Fair enough you can just hit restart and start again but that's very frustrating 
 when it's the third time on the mission that takes around 3-5mins at a time, it just makes the 
 game frustrating and is something that spoils the realism the developers were aiming for. The AI 
 acts typically selfish within races, trying to push you off the road, slam into you or spin you, 
 which is fine, it's a typical way of making a game cheat to make it harder for the player to win 
 but it is such a bias game in this respect that the frustration continues to mount as the AI cars 
 are like 10ton weights against your feather like car.
  
  Regardless of this the racing element of the game is fairly good but it's also very tiresome and 
 the whole concept seems a bit thin. There are a lot of races within the game that span the majority 
 of the island but there is no real change from one race to the next except the route you take. 
 The side missions will probably keep you ammused more than the racing, one such mission involves 
 giving supermodels lifts from one part of the island to another, if you get there within the time 
 limit and without hitting anything you'll earn yourselves tokens to spend on clothes (Atari being 
 ironic?) . Yes it's an open world driving/racing game but it's lacking that 'WOW' factor.
  
  The online play for the game has a lot to be desired though. There is the option to form your own 
 club (or join an already active club) which allows you to invite friends along to join and use 
 as a gaming lobby fro setting up races etc.. otherwise you can head to the online diners which 
 allows you to enter time-trial like events where you can attempt to take on other players best 
 times for set courses around Oahu. The final way of taking part in some online racing is by flashing 
 your headlights at fellow online players but with the strange way the online servers work it is 
 sometimes impossible to find another online competitor and really lets down, what could have been, 
 a good way of meeting like minded people within the game.
  
  Test Drive Unlimited is certainly worth picking up and playing but it hasn't really got the long 
 term appeal of other racing games avaliable  having said that it will keep you hooked, if only 
 to afford that dream car of yours!
  
  Overall - 7/10
  Graphics - 7/10
  Game Play - 8/10
  Online - 6/10
  
  * The above review is based on the honest opinion of the 
 author only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cj-semp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  One of my favourite games of all time! So good infact, I bought it twice! I loved the PS2 version 
 so much I bought it for X360 when I upgraded... and the X360 version is a hundred times better!
 
  
  The free roam is awesome, especially online. Going for cruises with random people around the islands 
 hundreds of miles of road is good fun.
  
  The variety of cars is unbelievable, I have trouble picking my favourite ones out there's so many 
 to pick from! And even Ferraris, oh joy! They've finally stopped being so snobbish and agreed to 
 have their cars in a computer game! Although you have to paint it the colours they want rather 
 than just any colour... The character customization is also a cool feature (even though everyone 
 looks pretty similar lol) .
  
  But the best thing about this game is the realism. Everything about it is immensely detailed, from 
 the interior of the cars to the way they go around corners.
  
  This game is definately a must if you like racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LL3R-SH0T
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  When I first got the game, I was impressed. At first I bought it as a rental just to try it out, 
 but I was sucked into the game-play so I had to buy the game.
  
  Too get the most out of this game, you need to put the camera inside of the car. It creates an 
 amazing atmosphere as your whizzing through the vast beaches and the lush country side.
  
  Motorcycles come later in the game, and are at a much harder difficulty while racing. Unless you 
 have downloaded the Burnout Paradise - Bike Expansion Kit, this will be one hell of an experience 
 as you perform wheelies and ride around with your friends. 
  
  The island itself is a reasonable size, sometimes it can feel abit too big, but the island is great 
 when your racing around.
  
  This is a must get game, and at such a low price of 12 ($19 - $24?) it is a must buy game. 
 
  
  Merry Christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toolparabola
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I was never a fan of test drive or racing games until i picked up test druve unlimited. It truely 
 is a amazing racer but not perfect.
  
  Unlike other racing games, unlimited has all types of cars instead of just those really insane 
 fast and strong cars. It has cars from just an average ford mustange to a pagani. It has a bunch 
 of cars and a very wide area to drive around. To get from one end of the island to the other it 
 will take over 7 mins driving a straight path. But if you dont want to drive for long periods of 
 time once you go to a road you can warp to it quickly by going to your map and selecting that road.
 
  
  Online you free roam with 7 other people and you can challenge them if you want and it always tells 
 you how far you are from them. you see different people when you go to different areas. You can 
 make your own races and upload them online. the in the car view is very awesome.
  
  The downside is there is no weather affects even though it gets cloudy like its gonna rain but 
 doesnt. There is no damage at all. traffic can get very annoying. you cant customize your cars 
 it has packages you can buy that will increase performance and change the look of a few cars.
 
  
  Overall this is a amazing and fun racing game. Im a huge shooter and horror fan but i love this 
 game, i recommend it to everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CliX098
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  This game has an almost unlimited amount of cars. They have almost every single one you can name 
 that have the year 2000 or above. Great landscape of Hawaii. Every part on the island is actually 
 there which takes a lot of time to find. The houses are beautiful and they are fun to buy. There 
 are gigantic houses to little condos. Excellent detail on the houses and cars and island. Messin 
 with what your character is wearing can suggest if he or she is rich, a pretty boy, or an old lady. 
 I personally suggest the rich look. You can become a millionaire and get all the cars and all of 
 the houses there are to offer. If you have Xbox Live you can buy clubs so that you can chat with 
 people. Awesome muti- player action and the achievements are cool. Cop chases shouldn't be in this 
 game bcuz they are LAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c0lddayinthesun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  I started playing Test Drive Unlimited (TDU) in October of 2006. Today, over 2 years later I still 
 find myself going back the oldie, but goodie. TDU has stayed on the top of my list for so many 
 years because of how unique it is. No other driving game of offers the in depth online experience 
 that keeps me coming back for more. 
  When the game launched it had over 75 vehicles for you to utilize. The way TDU had you unlock the 
 vehicles seemed so real to me. You had to find the dealerships on the island and save up enough 
 money to purchase your dream car. You could do this by saving money from winning races or selling 
 other vehicles that you had in your garages. Another big perk was the way TDU implemented the Live 
 Marketplace, you where able to download monthly car packages. Or just single cars that you wanted 
 to use in the game, and every car in the game looked great.
  The graphics in the game where crisp. Some of the cars had slight flaws, but during a race you 
 never noticed them. The interiors of the vehicles were also great, each car having it's own particular 
 style. Also the ability to change the color of your interior was a great feature. The character 
 models seemed a bit low on detail, and most had the same facial features. The other thing about 
 the game that could have been improved on was the variety of vehicles on the road, that were controlled 
 by the computer. Most of them were either sedans or blue SUV'S. It would be nice to see a more 
 diverse line up of vehicles while driving along the interstate. 
  While playing the game at first I never gave the radio much attention. In the last couple of months 
 though I have been listening to the games soundtrack, and it's better than I have ever expected. 
 There is a huge variety of music, but the downside is the number of songs on each station. If you 
 play the game for longer than 45 minutes you will hear the same song more than once. If you do 
 find the radio boring you are able to upload your own personal soundtrack to the game and the great 
 thing is you u can see what song is being played on the radio, and instead of using the guide to 
 change songs you can do it in game. 
  Finally the most intuitive part of the game, the implementation of continuous online play. If you 
 are connected to Live you are able to play online, and the great thing is there is no waiting to 
 get into a room. Everyone who is playing the game you may encounter depending on where you are 
 on the map. The game will generate 3-8 players who are closest to you, and you can decide if you 
 want to challenge them to a race. You are also able to filter who you want to play with. If you 
 only want friends to be shown on your map you can set the game to filter everyone but your friend, 
 same goes with skill level and type of car. 
  Overall Test Drive Unlimited is a great experience. I was never a fan of the racing genre, but 
 TDU change my perspective on things. I feel TDU is a game everyone should at least rent. Although 
 there are some minor flaws in the game the overall originality of the game will keep you coming 
 back for more. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  In test drive unlimited it is better than the one on ps2 because the one on 360 has better graphics 
 more races and more vehicles to drive with. In test drive unlimited the have motorcycles that PS2 
 dont have. the motorcycles they have are fast. The other cars test drive have is a farrari. class 
 A's and class B's are the fastest in the game becuse they always go over 200 mph very easily on 
 the straight. most of there races PS2 dont have either xbox 360 has every race and you get alot 
 more money and better vehicles to drives the houses you buy look better. In test drive unlimted 
 ther are some races that take long to finish like the race name coastal dreamm that is over 100 
 miles and takes lamost an hour to finish but they pay alot if you do easy its 250,000 if you medium 
 its 500,000 if you do hard its 1,000,000 but you need a fast car if you want to finish the race 
 a couple of minites ealier and after you complete all of the races u get all of the houses on honolulu. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmullen666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Everything in TDU is polished. A lot of attention to detail in the litttle things. Great job over 
 all, once you know the big pieces that would put this game well beyond any racing game. Damage, 
 Car Tuning both performance, suspension, etc and visual and it would be incredible.
  
  Using a wheel is less then perfect though. The controls expect a right thumbstick to setup courses 
 in challenges and since the all the racing steering wheels on the market now have no right thumbstick, 
 you can't create a course! Also if someone challenges you, you can't shift until you hit B. Driving 
 an automatic probably not an issue, but for someone with the assists turned off, using a steering 
 wheel and aiming for the best simulation driving on the 360 so far, it falls short.
  
  Not beign able to save replays is another big screw up.
  
  But the driving and physics are 
 very good with all assists off and a wheel. With word that car packs will be coming every month 
 it's even better
  
  If damage were present folks would learn to be much more cautious drivers. Maybe a patch will bring 
 some car tuning aspects and soem form of damage even if not visual but to a cars performance and 
 suspension alignment. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon807
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:54 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited for the Xbox 360 reviewed by Matt.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Audio: 8.5/10
  +Each car has its own unique and realistic sound.
  -Cop dispatcher gets repetitive 
 and annoying fast.
  
  Music: 7/10
  +Lots of variety on the half dozen radio stations there are.
  -Only a few songs are good; most 
 are below average or downright terrible.
  
  Visual: 9/10
  +The environment looks fantastic.
  +Cars are near photorealistic.
  -People, especially faces, 
 look unfinished and very ugly.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  +The island of Oahu is gigantic, beautiful, and recreated almost perfectly.
  +It's a blast to 
 simply drive around aimlessly.
  +Hundreds of races are available to take part in.
  +Dozens of houses and cars are available to buy and upgrade. 
  -Character customization is very 
 limited.
  -Races can get repetitive and somewhat boring.
  
  Multiplayer: 8.5/10
  +The game has an MMO feeling to it, which is tons of fun if you have a group of friends to play 
 with.
  +Friends can create racing guilds and even buy a club.
  -Trying to remain in the same server as your friends is a bit tedious, as you disconnect from your 
 current group every time you pause or check the map.
  
  Story: N/A
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohfrontline
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  I'll admit this: I picked this game up at a gamestop, not knowing anything about it. It was cheap, 
 so I bought it. Turns out I got a very good deal.
  
  Test Drive Unlimited takes place on the Hawaiian island of Oahu. You are a person who flies there, 
 buys a house and begins racing other drivers. There really isn't any storyline to speak of, just 
 race and buy new cars.
  
  Speaking of new cars, there's about 90 different models of cars and motorcycles available in this 
 game. And they all pretty much look identical to their real life counterparts. If you like the 
 in-game car, you're gonna like it in real life.
  
  The driving itself is similar to need for speed, kind of arcadey, and if you crash your vehicle 
 takes no damage. But the driving mechanics are good with all that being said.
  
  As for the graphics, well they score an 8/10. Not bad at high speeds, in fact they look pretty 
 damn good when you're going 180 down a stretch of freeway, but at a standstill, you can see little 
 quirks here and there. But what do you expect, the island is about 1000 square miles big.
  
  Oahu is huge; much bigger than oblivions world, and if the GPS tells you to drive 20 miles, 
 it will actually FEEL like you drove 20 miles in real life. Yet another excellent job by the developers 
 here.
  
  The multiplayer is great, its kinda like a MMO racing style. You can encounter other people driving 
 on the island wherever you go. You can talk to them or even challenge them to a quick race. Don't 
 forget you can also enter a standard race and race others conventionally if you don't like the 
 MMO idea very much.
  
  All in all, a great racing game with much to offer. With a huge open ended world, Test Drive Unlimited 
 is sure to keep you occupied for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko_hodgson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  I got this game when i first got the 360, and i looked this game up and read about it and thought 
 'Hey this looks like a decent game'.
  It has still lived up to that expectation, however it took me a while to fully accept that this 
 is a good game. Long story short, when i played this for the first time, i wasnt too impressed 
 so i stopped playing it. But one day i was bored so decided to start on it again and find myself 
 loving it.
  The people in the game arent that realistic, and the scenery is sometimes glitchy, on the other 
 hand the cars look amazing, theres an amazing amount of choice for cars and houses to buy, plus 
 dressing up your character is a nice touch.
  It's a shame that no damage can be made to your car, not even a scratch! And its not realistic 
 when you go into water.
  But with all the missions and races you can do in order to build up your money which can be a challenge, 
 pays off when you finally buy that dream car/house.
  It seems to be a lot of the little things that make this a great game.
  
  So the final thing 
 i have to say is dont rent this game! Because you wont have enough time to get into it. Buy it 
 because it will be cheap now so will be worth the money!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Test drive unlimited starts out with you picking a character to play as throughout the game. Though 
 you cannot acually customize the characters facial or body features you can customize his/her shirts, 
 pants, shoes, sunglasses, and even gloves!
  
  The acual enviormental graphics are mediocre but the graphics on the acual cars are Superb! The 
 games framerates stay pretty consistant.
  
  The car controls are pretty solid but the motorcycles can be pretty clumsy at times. All the vehicles 
 sound fantastic and you never feel guilty mashing the throttle!
  
  What makes this game really shine is the in-car view which is pretty awsome, it really does feel 
 like your driving.
  
  The missions are easy, its pretty much racing and delivering stuff/people
  
  To sum up everything, 
 this is a great game for a cheap price.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohanctc24
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing I mean what other game lets you go around Hawaii, buy houses, rent cars, and 
 custimize them Like NFS. I only played this game for 2 hours (because my friend rented it) and 
 fell in love with it. You start out with picking a character out of eight people includeing girls. 
 Trying to get to Hawaii and make a living. When you arrive you rent a car to get to a relastate 
 agent to buy a house. When you buy your first house you get to custimize you character however 
 you want ( like the Sims) . THen you go to you first car dealer and buy a car (you get 200k at the 
 start) . When you start the GPS tells you to go places dont be mad its only temperary until your 
 first race. After all that you can go around Hawaii and enjoy the senery or race. The only bad 
 part (I think) you cant go around your house. You can pick over 125 vehicles includeing motorcycles!! 
 You can buy houses with more room to store your cars. I am trying to buy this game right now so 
 I can play this game again. This is a real buyout game and is the best racing game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasondm4
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 18, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  i found this game to be addicting and fun but it did not have the best graphics in my opinion they 
 were kinda bad to me. To much reflections on buildings got kind of annoying to me but it wasn't 
 as bad as LA rush or anything. I love the variety of cars the game has the are you can drive around 
 in is huge and thats what i really liked about this game. They usually gave you just enough time 
 to complete a task so no problem with that. The cops are kind of a joke they hardly ever keep up 
 with you an are very easy to get away from. The GPS needed to be able to get you you to your destination 
 allot quicker i found just turning the opposite way of what it says can get you to places much 
 faster. The music is kinda weird for my tastes but it was better than nothing overall its an enjoyable 
 fun game. average 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zetona
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  The most unfortunate thing about TDU is that no one has made a game even remotely like it since. 
 This game combines solid driving mechanics with hundreds of miles of open roads that are simply 
 a blast to explore. Exploring the island of Oahu is great fun, and there are lots of things to 
 do on the island. However, the game has some big flaws. While the cars are very detailed, the rest 
 of the world is rather bland, with repetitive scenery that lacks fine details. The missions in 
 the game are rather repetitive, and the AI in races is rather poor. Police chases can be fun, but 
 they are poorly balanced so that one can escape from low-profile chases fairly easily, while making 
 it almost impossible to escape from high-level ones. 
  
  Overall, this is a solid racing game and a good start to a series that should be made, but has 
 not to this point. If you can find this game, it is definitely worth trying out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kjharn
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  In a world filled with mediocre, uncreative racing titles, it is always nice to see a creative, 
 fun game. Test Drive Unlimited is such a game. The work that Atari has obviously put into this 
 game is evident everywhere that you look at it.
  
  Graphically, the game looks pretty darn good. When being played on a HDTV, it looks fantastic. 
 But on a SDTV, it simply looks alright (not the games fault) . The surrounding area in particular 
 looks very good, the details stand out well. One of my biggest complaints about the graphics happens 
 to be the draw distance. You can't see very far in the distance at all. The game also suffers from 
 a pop-up problem. When you reach high speeds, you will consistently find trees, buildings, and 
 traffic suddenly popping into your view, which makes it kind of difficult to make it through heavy 
 traffic at high speeds.
  
  Game play wise, the game is really fun. Although the career mode basically has no story at all, 
 it is fun regardless. You start out in the airport and you simply choose one of several fairly 
 bland looking characters, and you fly to Hawaii You then rent a car, then go buy a house and car. 
 It's a simple concept, and eventually you will most likely find yourself bored. The races are sometimes 
 very slow paced, and it takes forever until you can actually use the high end cars and motorcycles 
 in races I actually stopped playing on my first run through, because I didn't want to drive slow 
 cars again after I got the high end cars. It was just too boring.
  
  One of the best parts about this game is the online multiplayer (when it actually works) . One of 
 the selling points about this game is the fact that it is massively multiplayer. When the first 
 game came out, there were tons of people racing around the island. You can engage in "duels", which 
 allows you to create a custom race track, then race around that course. You can even bet money 
 on the outcome of the race. You can also do online multiplayer races, which, when completed, give 
 you credits to use in career mode. Multiplayer sounds great on paper, however many times that I 
 have been playing the game, the TDU servers are offline. If a game like WoW had its servers down 
 this consistently, not many people would play it.
  
  Nowadays, when the servers are working, there aren't too many people playing it at any given time. 
 The game is great fun, but eventually you have simply done everything there is to do, and you don't 
 want to do it again. If you are a fan of racing games at all, I highly suggest you either pick 
 up a copy of this game from your local store, or rent a copy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: titchster
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Right, where to start, this game is brilliant.
  
  Graphics - Its got amazing graphics, especially when making use of the 360's HD capabilities, meaning 
 you can soak up the sun, and admire the cars, and scenery. You get a good range of views, meaning 
 whatever takes your fancy, you got it, chase view, bumper view, and one thats a fav with quite 
 a few people, in car view, where its literally, in the driver's seat, complete with animated arms.
 
  
  Sound - The cars sound great, especially if you sit in the showroom revving one that you don't 
 actually own, hehe. Not only that, but they sound great when you're out cruising the streets, or 
 in a race, the cars each keep their distinct tones.
  
  Online - Wow, is the only way to describe it, players online at all times, always willing for a 
 bit of fun, and maybe a chat. And what makes it so great is, that you dont have to go and enter 
 races together, you can just cruise round, in a convoy.
  
  Racing - The A. I. seems pretty smart, however, could also be improved, as i've seen it on numerous 
 occasions, make the same mistake in a corner, meaning it careers off the road. However, opponent 
 cars regularly seem matched well to your own car, making for a good race each time.
  
  Choice of vehicle - Unfortunately, this is one of the areas im not so keen on, agreed, there's 
 a great range of exotic machines, Audis to Mercedes's, to Aston Martin, to Saleen. Howecer, personally, 
 I prefer a range of vehicles, including the tuners etc, so that if I fancy a change, I can choose 
 a different car, and take a break from the norm.
  
  Overall - A great game, with stunning visuals and sounds, exciting racing (its what the game's 
 about after all) , a great online community, and a great choice of exotic vehicles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1sane
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  I've seen a lot of unrealistic things in my games but what have YOU learned from it? I wanted to 
 get a total of 100 of facts about what unrealistic things you have learned from the game!
  
  Let me start with the first one.
  
  1. Every car has high gravity.
  
  2. bikes can go 
 backward.
  
  Also I don't like about it that you can NOT tune that much - like bumpers, sideskerts and the all 
 great and mighty SPOILERs. Now to tell you the truth I like redline racing more (I rote about it 
 in a nother review) .
  
  I like the game but I don't play it anymore I guess i should stick to halo 3 and the need for speed 
 seriese. To be honest with you I have played this game for a LONG time and i am a chapion and i 
 got the most expensive house and all the best cars but really if you play as much as me you will 
 get bored soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Positive Opinion :Being able to encounter other online drivers at any given time is extremely cool 
 Single-player and multiplayer components are blended nicely into one cohesive package A huge, picturesque 
 island with seemingly endless roads Lots of available races and missions. 
  
  
  Negative Opinion : Limitations of the free ride mode's online component make it tough to hook up 
 with friends. Mission designs are quite repetitive. No real thread to tie together any of what 
 you're doing on the island. Some ugly issues diminish the overall graphical quality. 
  
  
  Gameplay 82 % You start by picking a basic character model to represent yourself, and you're 
 whisked away to fabulous Hawaii to buy a car and a house, do a lot of random racing, and drive 
 hitchhikers and models around the island for some reason. That's about all there is to the premise. 
 While it's not shocking that a racing game wouldn't have a major, in-depth storyline, the way the 
 game introduces itself and the open-ended nature of the game world give you the impression that 
 there might be some kind of plot to tie everything you do together. There isn't. The lack of a 
 cohesive thread to the missions and races does make Test Drive seem a bit pointless, but after 
 a while, you cease to care and find yourself oddly engaged by this scattershot series of objectives. 
 It helps that there is quite a lot to do on the island. The objectives themselves don't extend 
 beyond races, time trials, speed challenges, and some basic delivery missions, but there are enough 
 of them to keep you going as you explore the massive island of Oahu. 
  
  
  
  Graphics 84 % The Graphics are good I think all the cars looks shiny and the details in the map 
 looks pretty realistic.
  
  
  Sound 80 % The Music is good and the sound of the cars are realistic example if you drive a mustang 
 it really sounds like the real car. 
  
  
  
  Online 85 % The online driving audience is obviously a big draw of Test Drive Unlimited, since 
 so much of the multiplayer functionality has just been built into the basic gameworld. There is 
 no quick-and-dirty multiplayer menu to jump into to find a match. Every designated multiplayer 
 race appears as an icon on the map just like the offline races, and at each race you'll find the 
 option to jump into a player match or a ranked match with any other players hanging out at that 
 race. It's a little bit more convoluted than a standard menu system, since you might have to scan 
 the various online race icons on the map, trying to find a race to get into, but in our testing, 
 we found a decent number of competitors at just about every race hub, though mostly for player 
 matches. Ranked matches have been decidedly fewer in quantity. It's probably also worth mentioning 
 that Test Drive Unlimited doesn't offer any kind of single-console multiplayer, so if you want 
 to play against friends, it'll have to be online. 
  
  
  
  For the in-car action, however; the core driving mechanics are quite solid. The handling of the 
 various cars can take some getting used to, as almost every car is a bit squirrelly and prone to 
 random spinouts. But once you get a handle on things, you can pretty easily master the controls 
 and take to the roads with minimal issue. Of course, you'll still have to navigate around AI-controlled 
 traffic and, occasionally, cops. But it's more the random traffic that poses an issue than the 
 cops. Whereas AI cars will sometimes veer into you at random or bunch up at intersections, cops 
 rarely seem to care terribly much what you do. Scraping or crashing into other cars alerts them, 
 but you have to do it a bunch of times in a short period before they'll really start coming after 
 you. Typically, all you have to do is avoid wrecking for around 10 seconds after alerting them, 
 and your alert level will just drop right back to nothing. 
  
  
  Value : Test Drive Unlimited blurs the line between single-player and multiplayer racing better 
 than anything that's ever tried it before, it's not quite a slam dunk. The game's open-ended mission 
 design belies its purposeless nature, and the whole massively open online racing thing isn't quite 
 as massive as one might be led to believe. But even with its limitations, Test Drive Unlimited's 
 concept is executed well enough to make it an addictive and interesting racing experience. There's 
 nothing else quite like it on the market right now, and though you're undoubtedly going to take 
 issue with a few of the game's peculiarities, there's enough here to make it a racer worth checking 
 out. 
  
  8.0 out of 10.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsaneBasura
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  The game isn't perfect (there's a fair amount of technical issues and currently I'm annoyed by 
 the fact that there's no quick car select screen) but regardless, the concept is pure awesome and 
 it's executed well enough that I was positively surprised by the whole thing. It's just a really 
 chill and emergent game. For me it's not so much about completing missions, that's just a means 
 to an end, it's about cruising around in pretty cars, occasionally really fast across the highways 
 of Oahu while listening to soft music and swerving between traffic. 
  
  I've caught myself wanting to buy a car not because it's an upgrade in terms of handling or speed, 
 but simply because I want to own it for the sake of it appealing to me. Which is kind of weird 
 really. Think that's what Polyphony has been trying to do for all these years, but at least to 
 me, this is the first game to have gotten it right. It's about the experience, and Eden Studios 
 has done a pretty good job at emulating it. But the one thing I do wish they would've done a better 
 job with is the engine noises, the cars generally don't sound as impressive as they ought to.
 
  
  One type of mission that deserves to be mentioned though, is the "Car Transport". Some bloke wants 
 to have his ridiculously expensive and fast car driven to a certain location and you get payed 
 for doing so. There's no time limit, so what's the catch? Scratch it and the supposed repair costs 
 are deducted from your check. The trip is long and you are in a really fast sportscar, so you just 
 kind of eventually end up going faster than perhaps you should, and so you risk crashing the car. 
 It's rather ingenious.
  
  If you're connected to Xbox Live the game is constantly online.... and offline. There's no distinction 
 really. Once you're online the world is automatically populated by nearby players. So you're free 
 to proceed with whatever event you feel like, multi or single. Or no event at all. Every now and 
 then you'll come across another player and you can have sort of an improvised race or something, 
 just driving along the ridiculously large game world. Or you can set up a point-to-point race. 
 One time when trying out my Lotus Esprit's top speed I was nearly clipped in an intersection by 
 another guy who was doing the same to his car. Just woooshAMAGAD, is coo.
  
  Test Drive Unlimited is coo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inevitable8
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  At first when i bought it i thought that the open world would intensify its funness, but instead 
 all it did was take away the racing genre of the game. Pretty soon after exploring the hawwian 
 island you realize that everything starts to look the same. It is also very annoying when you are 
 getting cased by the cops because it is very arduous to get away from them. They would even follow 
 you off-road sometimes. The racing part of the game is really easy. There are also other missions 
 such as delivering a car to some distant place or giving someone a ride. You also get a house and 
 a choice of clothes but I don't think they play any role in the game and are sort of usless.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 8
  Tilt: 9
  Sound: 3 ( you only have a choice of about 10 songs 
 and half of them are
  classical music)
  Value: 6
  
  Overall: 6.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pvt_DaFt_PuNk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 4:10 am PT
Review:  This game is great ! you get to drive over 50 cars and bikes wow! the game is set on a Haiwan island 
 which has over 1000 miles of road for you to explore and unlock challenges, car and bike dealerships 
 , pick up models and hitch hikers , deliver cars and more! The cars and bikes are highly detaliad 
 and have interiors exactly the same as the real things! the enviroments and roads on what you drive 
 are a bit less detailed but most of the time youll be going so fast that itll all just be a blurr. 
 Races are pretty average and are just simple time trials and 8 car races. You can also pick up 
 models and hitch hikers and take them to were they want to go to get tokens to purchase clothes 
 and acsecories , amazing! the games veichles all sound a bit arcadey but test drive was originally 
 an arcade game. 
  
  overall this game is perfect for a true fan of all cars and bikes and will keep anyone busy for 
 hours!. buy it! cya on TDU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited takes the entire big island of Hawaii and supposedly lays out all the roads 
 and highways for you to explore. There's a lot of fun to be had exploring the island and it's many 
 offerings. Challenges are varied from street races against AI opponents, to delivering cars, taking 
 supermodels to malls, delivering dubious packages, and attempting to reach the highest speed to 
 be captured by photo radar. You can take on other human players in a couple of different race types 
 online as well. There are quite of bit of cars and motorcycles to purchase, and you do have to 
 purchase homes as well with garage space available to store your new vehicles. A big downside is 
 that upgrade options on your vehicles are extremely limited and not available right off the bat.
 
  The graphics are definitely not the best there is on the platform, there's some pop-up and skipped 
 frames once in a while. Test Drive Unlimited is not the most polished racing game out there but 
 for some reason I found exploring the island's many roads and different locales to be extremely 
 addicting. There's lot's to do, unlock, and uncover in this game and it's definitely worth the 
 look who's interested in an easy to pick up street racer with a moderate degree of depth. Those 
 who love full customization options and enjoy tuning their cars to perfection will not find a lot 
 of that here and need to look elsewhere to scratch that itch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosse119
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 20, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I am a massive fan of the Test Drive series, they have never been without 
 flaws but they were always quick and easy to get into. The AI wasn't very good and the graphics 
 were never groundbreaking, in fact far from it, but they didn't need to be because it was a nice 
 arcadey game to waste five minutes on.
  
  I was overjoyed when I heard Test Drive was coming out on the XBOX 360, to the point were one of 
 my first games for it was Test Drive. I started the game with old memories of the classics. My 
 bubble was soon burst however when I saw what they had done. Technically it is amazing they recreated 
 a whole island of Hawaii and the graphics are really nice but this were it all starts to go downhill. 
 
  
  You begin the game and it looks really sweet, you choose your driver which even though pretty unneeded 
 in Test Drive is still a nice touch, you can then edit the appearance of your driver. Well after 
 that's all over you pick a car to rent to drive to the estate agents, erm what the Oki so you 
 buy a house then with a garage, so after all that you finally get to buy a car hooray.
  
  By now you'll notice that the handling is a cross between arcade and simulation, yes that's right 
 simulation in a Test Drive game but why? Oki so after I got used to the strange handling I though 
 I'll try a race. The AI surprisingly is unchanged from the PSONE games which is a big disappointment, 
 the cars are on rails and when you try to pass they try to knock you off the road all the time 
 which can get very frustrating.
  
  I decided that the Racing isn't this games strong point and that I would try something else like 
 crashing! The original Test Drive games were full of massive crashes and jumps, the new one isn't, 
 there is no way to roll your car, and as with the jump to simulation there isn't that many jumps 
 either. 
  You could never damage your car in the originals but you could also not visually damage the traffic 
 cars either. The new Test Drive lets you visually damage other cars and yet you're totally unscathed 
 which doesn't really make sense. During my crashing spree I found a police car had given chase, 
 unfortunately the police can lay roadblocks and if you hit these there isn't anyway you will get 
 through them. Another annoying feature is if you don't have the money to pay the stupidly high 
 fine you get given they put you in jail, this means you have to watch the jail building for 30 
 seconds. 
  
  Onto the Plus points the online is very well executed and the sense of speed is amazing too, fastest 
 game I have seen on the 360 I would say. The in car view is very crisp and gives a great sensation 
 of speed with the amplified engine and road sounds, all the dials move as well making you feel 
 pretty immersed in the game. Taking pictures of your car is brilliant and also the choice of cars 
 is fantastic and very detailed, 
  
  This game does lots of this right but the poor A1, unmoveable roadblocks and strange handling lets 
 it down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Test Drive is a great series. I seen this for 360 and I was all ready to buy it but figured I'd 
 rent first to be safe. What a good idea that was. They totally killed the game.
  
  First what its about. Obviously racing. You are on a Hawaiian island and its ALL open. You can 
 go anywhere. Online or off. You don't even have to race, like most games. Which is pretty cool 
 since the game is really great looking. You can do races offline. You start as with most games 
 by picking out yourself (guy/girl) , a cheap car and a cheap place to live. And then you go around 
 the island doing things from races to oddly enough driving around strangers.... creepy. All this 
 earns money so you can buy new cars and houses and stuff like that. Which is important. Houses 
 means you can hold more cars and obviously cars means you go faster.
  
  Theres alot to do but it gets boring quick. Within the first hour I felt like I had done the same 
 things over and over. How many strange people need rides on this island anyways? In some missions 
 you have to drive cars to specific areas without damaging them to much. Which sounds easy until 
 you try driving in this game (more later on this) . There are lots of cars to choose from which 
 I did like, especially motorcycles, to bad they are crap to drive with.
  
  So when you not picking up the thousands of stranded strangers or racing randomly. You can go be 
 online where everyone basically freely moves about the island and usually try ramming you. Fun. 
 If you choose to race someone else (I think by flashing your headlights) you can d many things. 
 Such as choosing where you want to race, by highlighting the road sections. But to me the online 
 was a mess. Since most people had better cars it wasn't fun. 
  
  So besides a few things I mentioned what else is wrong? Well maybe I just suck at the game but 
 your cars are like driving on ice. And its worse for motor cycles. When online its evident most 
 people couldn't get the driving down, everyone would go around the corner and use walls as their 
 brakes. And spinouts seem all top common. You better off all driving like little old men.
  
  The are cops in the game but they are intelligent as the AI is. The AI must be on suicide missions 
 because the first thing I would do when I see someone driving at 100MPH down the road is drive 
 ACROSS the line into them or if I am in the lane with them drive into the opposite lane as they 
 do. Its nice when this happens. Because you either wreck or you quickly turn and fly off a cliff. 
 This AI needs some tweaks. Or they really drive like this on they island.
  
  With all that aside heres the general review.
  
  Gameplay. Well I think you got that above.
 
  
  Graphics. Amazing. Once again I am a sucked for Island/Jungle games. I think this is the only reason 
 I kept playing the game, I just enjoyed driving around enjoying the scenery.
  
  The music was halfway decent. Same with the sound. Nothing to rave about.
  
  The controls were 
 kind of tricky to get use to at first. But should be easy enough after an hour or so.
  
  Overall I'd recommend you rent this game first and see what you think. Its beauty may fool you 
 but its the games control that you'll either hate or love when it comes down to it. Either way 
 its not worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  I bought this game the first day it went on shelves and was extremly excited to check out the Hawian 
 island, first-person perspective, and all of the awesome cars I would soon be a able to drive! 
 Well I got the Hawian island, but I didn't get the awesome cars nor really anything else. There 
 are some Ferrari's and Lamborghinis, but literaly that's it. The other car dealers are not very 
 impressive, like Cadalac, who wants to drive a Caddy around Hawaii unless your retired and actullay 
 live there. The motorcycles in the game are fun, but deffiently almost turn against you while you 
 are riding, and foret about first-person on any bike, it's almost like the developers saidWhen 
 you put the first-person perspective on lets make it ohh..10 to 20 times harder, okay?" There are 
 some but suddel great things in the game like driving around a beautiful enviroment, and the first-person 
 view in cars is okay. Even if you buy the game and are impressed for a while and then start getting 
 bored fast trade it in and buy Forza or PGR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percy6744
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  TDU was the first game I bought for the 360, and to be honest when I first got it I thought it 
 sucked. (Maybe thats just cause I was horrible at it) I got bored really easily and put it down 
 for months until one day I thought I'd give it a chance. I picked it back up and played it for 
 weeks. I got bored cause I had no idea what to do. But then I figured out how to get the new dealerships. 
 So I spent a whole day driving around unlocking the dealerships. From there I raced, and raced, 
 and raced until finally I got Champion status. Finally I could go into Oahu Raceway freely. For 
 people who like to race, or just go for a drive around a huge environment with their friends, Test 
 Drive Unlimited delivers. There's tons of cars and 1000 miles od actual Oahu GPS to travel around 
 on and explore. The enironment are particularly well done. I definately recomment that you buy 
 this game if youre into the genre.
  
  -Percy- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaseoRacer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this game is very pleasing to the eye, but it doesn't compare with some of 
 the newer Race Sims out there. I have to say that the constant adding of vehicles and the fact 
 that you always deal with Real Life People and their issues makes this game very addicting. There 
 is nothing like cruising over to the strip (You know what stretch of road I'm talking about) and 
 you blasting down the road with 8 other real people. If this game gave you an option to change 
 vehicle settings, or offered trucks to explore all the off-road areas, it would be a near perfect 
 gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylineboy33
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Test Srive Unlimited completely changes the racing experience for any console. So many cars to 
 choose from. Over 1000 miles of open road to drive freely or just take up a race. Other games like 
 Need For Speed Carbon/Most Wanted was not nearly as big as this. The feature that allows players' 
 to change their appearance is really good. Many good features as well like opening and closing 
 windows changing radio channels while racing and many more. The car prices are also quite reasonable 
 altough some of the speed and acceleration of the cars are a bit off like the corvette C6 is as 
 powerful as the Jaguar XJ. The jaguar is considerably faster than the C6. Just one particular point 
 i'm not so happy about is the cops. All you have to do is merely touch and I really mean touch 
 the car and the cops will be warning you and when we crash into a road block, instantly you will 
 get arrested. They should make it a bit more realistic. Otherwise the game is superb. The driving 
 the racing the GPS system. ~Don't dream it... Live it...~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjsharks112
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was Incredible the graphics were out of this world, The amount of cars was 
 great, The Island size was just plain crazy, and the amount of races was great I loved the cockpit 
 veiw it was very realistic and one of my favorite parts was that you could roll down the window 
 i found that cool. The only problem i had with this game was that the replay value was decent but 
 i wouldnt play this game for months and months and the lack of customization is what made me rate 
 this game lower than i would have if it was more like Midnight Club 3 but the houses and clothing 
 made up for that a little all and all
  
  Pros: Cool Cars, Graphics, INSANE Amount of roads, Free Roam, Lots of Racing, Good difficulty, Amount 
 of things to do
  
  Cons: 50-50 Replay Value, No Damage
  
  If i had Xbox Live i would rate this a 10 but unfortunatly i only get to go online at my uncles 
 house 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbag
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Atari had some big boots to fill when it released Test Drive Unlimited. After all, the racing genre 
 has seen many spectacular games released in the past year or so alone (Forza 2 being one of them) 
 and there are many others. But, although Gamespot has only given the game a rather mediocre 7.8 
 i feel that Test Drive Unlimited deserves slightly more. The thought of another racing game being 
 released is no big deal anymore, but Test Drive Unlimited creates a whole new concept to the words 
 racing game . You no longer go through a career mode against AI opponents and then race online 
 if u feel like it, u do both simultaneously.
  
  TDU puts you into a hawaii island, a tropical paradise with over 100 square miles of road. It then 
 gives u a car and a house. After that its up to u. This MMORG (massive multiplayer online racing 
 game) is World of Warcraft with cars. If u want to race somebody else u flash ur headlights at 
 them for an instant challenge, u can join a car club or create ur own, u can do one of the many 
 single player challenges and missions, u can compete in organised multiplayer races.... the list 
 is truly endless.
  
  Now, with this quantity of game u would prbably expect there to be a downfall somewhere. TDU is 
 a very viscerally pleasing game, with excellent car models and scenery, also the blur that happens 
 as u accelerate is very realisitc. The cars sound very realistic as well and the song choice would 
 suit most musical tastes. Th car handling is very realistic and every bump is felt through the 
 controller, immersing u into the lively hawaiian island known as honolulu. This realism only has 
 one downfall, it takes a while to learn how the controls and the first few challenges that u undertake 
 may become frustrating but dont give up, once u get the hang of it u'll b glad u didnt. Also, u 
 dont get this realism unless u turn off the driving aids (which is wot makes the cars feel like 
 shopping carts) which I wud suggest u do, because it opens up a whole new challenge.
  
  However, I am not saying that TDU is without its problems. It suffers from a large amount of pop-up, 
 whether it is cars disappearing or appearing. The scenery just pops into view as well when u get 
 close to it rather than fading into focus. Also, during speech the characters mouths move without 
 them speaking, making it look like a very badly dubbed movie. Also, the game does have an aimless 
 feel (as do the achievements) and this can hamper ur experience as I found a lot of the driving 
 around between races rather boring. However, these are a few minor problems that shouldn't dampen 
 the thrills that the racing has to offer.
  
  Normally, I would now give u a rough estimate of the completion time, but TDU ends when u want 
 it to, there are no ends. 100% completion takes around 40 - 50 hours but after that u can do what 
 u want, there are no restrictions or rules (after all, it is a game) , the island of honolulu is 
 ur oyster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actionnerd
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  With the driving aids left on in options, yes, the cars all feel like shopping carts. Turn off 
 all driving aids, and use a manual transmission. You'll be amazed at how distinct each car feels, 
 and how easy it is to do all that fancy drifting.
  
  I can spend hours with this game, from car shopping to real estate to modifying my rides to just 
 sitting in each vehicle looking around the interior. Just don't burn out the electric window motors. 
 Plus there's the ability to drive over every inch of the island (who needs roads?) looking for 
 cool places to set-up photo shoots (an Astin-Martin flying off the top of a secluded waterfall 
 near Aeia is one of my favorite shots) . Don't get caught by your Mom when you're photographing 
 your female character riding her Ducati in those little tight surfer shorts you bought her at the 
 Echo store down in Waikiki.
  
  And that's just the silly stuff you can do exploring by your self. The racing really is where it's 
 at, as long as you've (once again) removed all driving aids and set manual transmission. Many early 
 races are like cherry-picking; easy to win, easy money, but cheesy accomplishment. However, most 
 are real challenges especially the circumnavigate-Oahu types. If you like driving recklessly in 
 traffic on a beautiful tropical setting, you'll relish the races in Test Drive Unl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsinn1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Okay, this game is amazing playing career, for about 5 hours playing missions and stuff but after 
 that it starts to get boringBUT then you start playing online with your friends and it is amazing 
 again. Online you can go on cruises wherever you want with up to 8 friends I believe, possibly 
 more. The cool thing about it is on your cruises, you can go anywhere on the whole island. After 
 you start playing with friends doing drag races, getting loads of air off streets and doing instant 
 challenges you will probably find out that the best way to make money is to be a champion level. 
 Because there is a race which takes me about 15 seconds to do you get $70,000. Then you start doing 
 career again. Like I said its an amazing game that I would pay a maximum amount of $40 on it, 
 like I did. There is one bad thing about this game, which is the radio, is really annoying in my 
 opinion. But you can turn it off thankfully. Thanks for reading my review and have yourself a great 
 day. Oh ya I almost forgot, for those damage-to-car-fans, there is no visible damage to your cars 
 in this game sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccstrauss94
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  When test drive Unlimited first came out for 360 i wondered will this game be as bad as the other 
 ones for ps2. well i was wrong I was actually pleased to see how well the graphice were also the 
 online gameplay which I liked very much. I also like how you manage money in the game I fined it 
 very fun how you are able to but homes cares and your very one club so your online friends can 
 join if i were i rate this game i would hive it a big fat A a 9.6 and i look forward on playing 
 test drive unlimited for a long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winduck07
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 28, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Ive bought this game, picked out my character and started. Race and being a someones errand-boi 
 are determined by letter car classes or just simply open for any class. I kind of like this game, 
 the jungle and such, but I dont like it at the same time. Car handling is the top of my list, 
 I started out with an Audi, it handled okay I suppose. In real life an Audi feels very responsive 
 but the game Audi felt like I was driving some old Dodge pickup pulling a long bed trailer. Large 
 turns that skidded my clumsy Audi into signs and other things. After winning and replaying low 
 level races, I saved up to buy a Ferrari, it handles the same as the Audi, if I were to attempt 
 to pass a car on the game highway, the car would swerve here and there, weaving all over the road, 
 this happen in low speed as well high speed and I friggin know a Ferrari doesnt handle like this.
 
  I bought other cars and they all handle the same. Bald tires, large turns, cannot hold a single 
 straight line on a straight highway.
  
  There are driving games that have a marked difference in cars. Forza 2, Most Wanted Need for Speed 
 360, whether you use a steering wheel or hand controller, you can actually feel better handling 
 when playing better cars. This is a satisfaction of wow, gotta get me one of these when playing. 
 Not so with Driving Unlimited. All cars suck. Steering Wheel or Hand Controller makes no difference. 
 Its the ingame handling that sucks. Other problems I found annoying, not fun were the Police Heat 
 levels and police chases. So Im doing over 150 miles an hour and some cop car pulls in front of 
 me and its automatic, Ive lost. Hell, the game developers should have made police into floating 
 people with fairy wings carrying magic stop wands.
  
  Okay. Its okay.
  Sure, its good looking game, to me its not a serious game about racing. Despite my misgivings, 
 I kind of like it but its the handling that sucks. What I do like is its an open ended world, 
 I can drive the whole island plus I can get busted by the cops and have no money the get put in 
 jail yet still drive, over and over again. Im GTA fan but this game is far from GTA. Just the 
 open-ended roaming, which is good. My suggestion, if you can buy this game under twenty dollars, 
 Id get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a cool free roaming racing simulator with some MMO aspects.
  
  There is not much of a story in this game, you choose the look of you character (which you can 
 change later) , fly to hawaii and try to become a street racer.
  
  This is a freeroaming game, all you need to do is choose one of the racers available to you until 
 you have worked your way though them all. There is over 100 cars to choose from and over 15 motorbikes 
 all with different handleing styles. The mmo features a talked about earlier is that you are set 
 in a city with arounf 20 other real people if you are on live and if you wish to race those people 
 all you do is drive up to them and flash your headlights, i think this is a good idea but i feel 
 it need to go a little deeper. The sat nav can be a little annoying as it gives some of the turns 
 a little too late. And with that and the hard controls, mainly the stiff turning make this game 
 not that much fun. The controls are similar to many other driving games.
  
  This is an OK looking game but doesn't look as good as PGR3, the framerate seems to be low in places 
 but is hardly recognisable, sometimes cars and objects appear out of thin air which can be annoying. 
 There is no ingame music i think because they want you to listen to the Sat-nav.
  
  This is a solid game with good gameplay, good premis for a story but there is none which is a little 
 bit of a let down. A big minus is the handleing of the cars as the turning is a little stiff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofanatic333
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  TDU is a fun game that is highly addictive. To me its the best driving game, excluding burnout, 
 ever. The free drive is cool. And all the CARS! Fords, Saleens, Muscles, Lambos, etc. You own house/apmartments. 
 And about everymonth a new car pack is release via xblm. The island of Oahu is huge and you can 
 challenge friendss, and did i mention motorcycles? There is a huge amount of in-game ads but meh 
 its getting you achievements! The races are cool, time, laps, speed, car delieverys make big $$$$ 
 if done perfectly. The game may not unlimited but its damn close! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: money_maka231
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is the best racing game ever. From the good graphics to the in-game racing, 
 this game has it all. The cars and the racing in the game makes Test Drive Unlimited the best racing 
 game ever. When I first played this game, it kept me playing this game for hours. This game did 
 not bored me to death, instead this game was very interesting. Gameplay was amazing, the game had 
 good graphics and the sound effects were incredible. One thing I liked about this game was that 
 it had alot of racing action that took place in Hawaii. Overall Test Drive Unlimited is the best 
 racing game in the Test Drive series and this game is a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trickyadd
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  this game is simply amazing, the amount of work that has gone into the gameplay, graphics, and 
 depth is greatly appreciated when played. this game continues to impress even after 50 hours of 
 playing time. i recommend this game to all car game fans and for people who want a good value game 
 that will last.
  
  GOOD POINTS:
  
  1. online mode is great
  
  2. a huge selection of cars
  
  3. great, crisp looking island of 1000miles of road
  
  BAD 
 POINTS:
  
  1. repetitive races
  
  2. same scenery
  
  3. no weather changes
  
  other than the points stated above i love this game and urge all of the people reading this to 
 try it out...... see you on the island! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cofisher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  when i first saw the test drive previews i was interested in this moor genre. now i completed the 
 game and had well over 200 hours of gameplay behind me i think i can form a pretty good oppinion 
 about this game.
  
  the game lets you start on the island oahu thats part of the hawaii group islands. you first start 
 in a rental car and go of to buy a house, afther you have done this you will be able to buy yourself 
 a brand new (or secondhand car from the community) car and start racing.
  there are 3 types of races
  checkpoint
  time trail
  achieving the highest (average) speed
 
  
  you can also do sidemissions like picking up top models and delivering packages for the local maffia. 
 this gives the game dept and also breaks the chain of racing racing racing.
  
  this game lets you drive in top of the line cars from the beginning because you get a pretty nice 
 stack of money fairly early. the cars should suit every car fanatic because there are classics 
 included suchs as the mercedes gullwing and american musscle cars, also you will be able to drive 
 your own car such as a ford and nissan, but ofcourse a race game would not be a race game withoud 
 the lamborghini's and ferrari's, but there are also some more exotic supercars such as spyker's 
 and koeningsegg's.
  
  the lifespan of this game is pretty big because you will probably not play this game out in one 
 strike and it is more a game that you will pick up occasionally and enjoy the hawaii sun in your 
 convertible corvette.
  
  but the biggest chance in this game is the MOOR feature, MOOR means massive online open racing, 
 wich means that there is one big world where all the online players are in and can race and show 
 off against each other.
  
  i would pick this game up and just give it a chance you will get hooked pretty easily.
  
  greetings, 
 cofisher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8summit
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Pros: Huge island to drive across; large amount of exotic cars to choose from; options to select 
 everything from rims to interior colors; inside car views; seamless online to offline play; casual 
 game play anyone can pick up
  
  Cons: although there are many races, they start to feel repetitive; clothing ticket idea is stupid 
 (you win tickets for clothing instead of purchasing them with money) ; although there are always 
 people online with you, there never seems to be people that actually want to race with you; car 
 handling can feel a bit floaty
  
  Graphics:
  Pros: cars have nice detail; interior views are very nicely made; lush island surroundings; very 
 enticing water effects
  
  Cons: the lighting effect bloom a bit too much; the cars seem brighter than they should be; at 
 high speeds things pop into view
  
  Sounds:
  Pros: high speed sounds are good (other cars whooshing past, wind etc) ; the engine sounds are different 
 for each car; variety of different songs on the soundtrack
  
  Cons: there arent very many songs on the soundtrack; no option to mute those annoying people in 
 the world with you
  
  Value:
  Real Price (at time of print) : 39.99 Value Price (price you should buy it at) : 29.99
  
  Rent, 
 Buy, or Dont Bother:
  Only pick this game up if you can find it at the value price. There are other better racing games 
 out there like Forza 2 right now so TDU isnt really worth it unless you can get it for a good 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Many games suffer from bad development, others are few and far inbetween with flawless execution. 
 Is it safe to say that Test Drive Unlimited, is one of those few great games? Oh YES! No doubt, 
 the game has its flaws in certain areas, but for any fan of racing games or the once mighty franchise 
 that has been around since ATARI, this game stands as a true testament as to how a good game should 
 be created from the start screen to ending credits.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Give me a car, plenty of open road, and you have TDU at its core. Good racing games have slowly, 
 in my opinion, been in decline due to big names like NFS force feeding gamers import action. As 
 much as any person who enjoys going fast without any scientific nonsense, I can't argue with certain 
 cars having the actual ability to go 200+ mph. For racers like myself, who are tired of import 
 cars mostly from the east, TDU offers tons of vehicles from around the world. You basically create 
 a player from scratch with a decent customization feature, take your one car from the airport and 
 become a world class collector and winner of races on the Oahu island. Sounds simple because it 
 is, and you might actually find yourself having oodles of fun with the leisurely laid back rank 
 system that allows you to race however you like.
  
  VISUALS
  Test Drive has always been about driving fast and looking good while doing so. Past selections 
 of cars in previous games were always of the American breed. Now that you have access to tons of 
 licensed vehicles, ranging from common to exotic, and a few crotch rocket motorcycles, the garage 
 roster is as varried as the actual player. And with so many awesome ways to transport, you have 
 the distinct privilege of enjoying every vehicle in numerous camera views that suit well for driving 
 styles and deep appreciation for rides most will never be able to afford. As for the Oahu island 
 itself, if you never been to that part of the globe, this is pretty much your best ticket for the 
 price of a videogame. One thing that is strange, it seems like night fall is never a big thing 
 in Oahu, so no midnight spint race kids.
  
  AUDIO
  It may sound like a worn out tune by now, but having the privilege to play music off your 360 HD 
 or a portable music player while enjoying the game is a mighty nice perk indeed. During scenes 
 of talking or information the music simply cuts out, which is not entirely bad nor good. After 
 racing around the island once or twice, there is a good chance you've heard every sound the game 
 has to offer. Public ambience is minimal, cops and dispatch say about the same thing, and vehicles 
 have a decent variety in distinct engine sounds. Unless you have the massive surround sound setup, 
 you might miss the occasional bird chirping. Other than that, you can rest assure that all you 
 need to hear is whats in front of you and the car. Did I mention the lady who introduces you to 
 all the new locations and controls sounds pretty hot?
  
  EXTRAS
  What does every hardcore racer want from a game that has competition and tires? Great competition!! 
 TDU has a multiplayer that is worth mentioning, simply because its done in a very tasteful fashion 
 that allows for even the most wreckless drivers to buck up. Not saying that will entirely cure 
 them from plaguing every other race, but you can rest at ease knowing that unless you plan on racing 
 with idiots who only mix in class A cars and want nothing but easy non-traffic, straight away courses. 
 They will usually leave you be. Sadly, there isn't the longest list of achievements in this game 
 compared to other multiplayer endeavors. You share a few race types, trade some cars, join a club, 
 and thats about it. As for the remainder of the game, you can easily play single player from start 
 to finish and recieve just about everything TDU has to offer.
  
  OVERALL
  So you traveled around the island a few dozen times, completed some odd number of races and side 
 missions, and collected cars and homes that you could only dream of being the owner of. TDU might 
 seem like a shallow game once you put it under the microscope at this point, but you have to recall 
 that for a genre that is usually lack luster after a few hours, this racer offers a nice package 
 for a mere 40 bucks! Having friends who are equally as passionate about racing and enjoy the collection 
 game extends the value and life of TDU by reasonable margin. If you bore easily of games that have 
 too much realism and simulation and not enough free roaming fun, this is a game worth checking 
 out for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlayerz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 3:51 am PT
Review:  Test Srive Unlimited completely changes the racing experience for any console. So many cars to 
 choose from. Over 1000 miles of open road to drive freely or just take up a race. Other games like 
 Need For Speed Carbon/Most Wanted was not nearly as big as this. The feature that allows players' 
 to change their appearance is really good. Many good features as well like opening and closing 
 windows changing radio channels while racing and many more. The car prices are also quite reasonable 
 altough some of the speed and acceleration of the cars are a bit off like the corvette C6 is as 
 powerful as the Jaguar XJ. The jaguar is considerably faster than the C6. Just one particular point 
 i'm not so happy about is the cops. All you have to do is merely touch and I really mean touch 
 the car and the cops will be warning you and when we crash into a road block, instantly you will 
 get arrested. They should make it a bit more realistic. Otherwise the game is superb. The driving 
 the racing the GPS system. DO NOT RENT IT.
  
  BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyripper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Well there are hundreds of different types of races on single player for a start. you can street 
 race. time trail. speed trap. super model. hitchhiker. parcel drop. and Tes driving. All of which 
 are very fun. There is a huge range of photo realistic cars from hundreds of different manufacturers. 
 also there are bikes from Triumph, Kawasaki and Ducati. You can custom paint and tune uip each 
 car/bike. Also you buy houses to keep your cars at. Online multiplayer is exelent and is never 
 ending fun. Just drive up to someone and flash your headlights. I would definately recomend buying 
 this game but only if you like driving games. Also the sensitivity has to be turned right up as 
 it doesnt control very well with low sensitivity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mykyg18
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  Without a doubt this game is in its own element. It is a really difficult to play at the start, 
 as its not self-explanatory enough but once you get the idea, this game is probably the best game 
 on xbox live, if you friends are also playing it increases the fun this game provides. with a 120 
 races plus the extra delivery missions, there's a whole lot of game to be playing.
  
  Few people actually understand this game from the start, i believe this is why the rating is not 
 as high as it should be, also with a standard car list of around 100 with an addition 24+ to download 
 this game has a lot of life. The downsides to this game are that you can't get out of your car 
 which a lot of people seem to complain about, i personally think you should be able to at least 
 walk around your houses. If you could walk around the streets it would take a lot from the game 
 as it would be compared to the grand theft auto series, and this game is about beautiful cars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak13
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  TDU is a fantastic game. If you want to just cruise around in the beautifully constructed Oahu, 
 you can. Want to hang out in your million dollar mansion? You can do that too. Not only does this 
 game offer and relaxing casual experience, it also offers a challenging online mode and race mode.
 
  
  The online and offline are built seamlessly into each other.
  
  The DLC is great.
  
  Graphics are excellent. The view from the top of a mountain, or the city is beautiful.
  
 
  The sound quality is great, the cars sound powerful.
  
  Great selection of cars.
  
  TDU is one of my all time favorite games, and I continue to play it. It never gets old for me. 
 It's relaxing to just cruise around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliasnaruto
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  When I started playing Test Drive Unlimited, the first thing I was amazed by was the excellent 
 graphics it had&amp;#8230;. When driving at high speed (over 100 miles/hour) and look through the 
 side camera that lets you see the car by side, you&amp;#8217; ll get amazed by the animation of 
 the trees, houses and other cars passing by you&amp;#8230;
  Also another surprising feature the game had is the affluence of cars and bikes&amp;#8230;. You 
 could find everywhere you looked at the map a place to buy a car suited to you&amp;#8230;.
  Ending, the last but not least feature the game had was the variety of races and the really, really 
 huge number of races that you unlocked through the game&amp;#8230;. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  When you start this game you feel a little confused. You start of with a lot of cash and the choice 
 to rent a car. Basically you have to go and buy the nearest affordable car and then a house to 
 store it in. Not like your typical racer as there are no quick race options but the graphics are 
 insane and the island of Hawaii is huge it took me several hours just to drive around the coast 
 of it trying to find all the car dealerships. The interior of the cars is much more detaild than 
 PGR3 and the sense of car ownership is a nice touch. Also when you buy your car you even have dealer 
 options such as colour of the leather and what rims you would like. There are a few things I don't 
 liek about this game such as the stupid police chases not quite like the ones in NFS most wanted 
 and carbon they seem more of a nuisance on this game than any real fun and the cars are a little 
 hard to handle but you will find yourseld easily immersed in this game once you start winning races 
 and buying new cars and clothes for your character but there is no real story to it other than 
 you like to race and drop off models and hitchikers to their destination in a timed run. Only buy 
 this if you want an in depth game or massive racing mmo but if your after an arcade style racer 
 without having to drive around an island and be chased by the police then buy PGR 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade110
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive unlimited is a awesome singleplayer / multi-player game, whereby you basically drive 
 cars..
  
  Don't let that first sentence make you think this game is boring though, because it's not, not 
 by a long-shot.
  
  When you start a new career you get to choose from a line of people from Male &amp; Female, Black 
 &amp; White. Next up is buying your first car, now like most racing games you don't get to buy 
 the best car, i starting with the Audi TT (Nice or what!) , and then you buy your first house to 
 store your first set of cars.
  
  Now there are two parts of the game you can enroll in, first is that you either starts straight 
 away completing races to earn money for your better car, or you can just drive around a HUGE island, 
 exploring, racing with other on-line people or what ever all you feel like. There are many different 
 things about the game which makes it like no other racing game. The first thing is the most obvious 
 which is the fact you can drive around a massive island with other people, the let down though, 
 is that it's hard to find your friends on busy servers. Now the racing in the game is really good, 
 you get to choose from 3 different camera lengths in 3rd person, first person (in the seat) , bonnet 
 view or just full screen on the road. What ever mode you are in you can always move the camera 
 around while driving, which is a really good feature because you get to see all the beautifulness 
 of your car when your going at high speeds!
  
  The graphics are really good on this game too, whether your playing it on a non HD TV or on a HD 
 TV the graphics are still awesome, and makes you feel apart of the community (Especially when in 
 first person) .
  
  Personally the best part of the game for me is taking one of my cars and just racing around the 
 island looking for people to take money from in races.
  
  If you have never been a big fan of driving games (Like me) i really do suggest you buy Test Drive 
 because it really does offer a lot more than any other racing game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 27, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  While receiving a lot of criticism Atari and Eden studios should be praised for creating an huge 
 open world environment, which never feels repetitive or uninteresting. The environment-The Island 
 looks great and has a diverse array of landscapes, beaches, mountains, the city of Honolulu and 
 even a crater. The roads don't quite look right when you look close, and the graphics aren't on 
 par with some of the more hardcore racing sims but these aren't bad either.
  
  The cars- There is a healthy selection of cars here from the usual bunch (Ferraris and Lamborghinis) 
 as well as a few more unusual ones ( Ascari and Noble) it also has a few cars you wouldn't associate 
 with fast paced racing games like Audi and ford (excluding the Gt of course) . For good measure they've 
 thrown in some motorcycles from brands like Ducati and Kawasaki. Also included are several concept 
 cars which are unlocked through the game (most are tied to achievements)
  
  Racing- You can dress it up however you want but a racing game without good races is very poor. 
 Luckily Test drive unlimited has some great race modes. From bog standard race race and time trials 
 there's also eliminator races, speed trap races and courier races. Theres 220 races in all in the 
 game and they start easy and as you complete them and rise up the four difficulty settings the 
 races get harder with restraints on the amount of damage you can take, although there's no damage 
 modeling. One interesting twist is police presence, if you crash into two cars in quick succession 
 police will come after you. There's three levels of police activity and each one brings more cars (and 
 roadblocks at level three) . While they only come after you it's a good diversion. Other races include 
 delivering someone else's car to a mechanic and the amount of money you receive decreases as the 
 car gets damaged. Misc.- Cars can be upgraded with one of three different packs at their respective 
 tuners. Some of these change the appearance of your car but other than that the only field of your 
 cars appearance that you can change is the colour. The factory presets for colour are generally 
 good but for a extra fee you can custom paint them with a colour chart which has either matte or 
 metallic paint options. Theres also an highlight paint. If you like your car theres a good photo 
 mode which has a decent variety of options in it. There is a house system, complete with estate 
 agents, where you store your cars and access info about the achievments as well as your wardrobe. 
 You can Change your characters face and head size as well as purchase a variety of different clothes 
 and costumes for your character. One odd feature is that you have to drive somewhere before you 
 can fast travel there via the games map. The achievements are a great mix off easy and hard to 
 get and each one has a suitable points reward Bad points- It's only ever day on Oahu, the Hawaiian 
 island the game is set on, and after a while it gets a bit repetitive. Until you get a good car 
 the game is not much fun, although the game has a good tutorial. The traffic system has a tendency 
 to crash but it's hard to tell if that's intentional or not. On the same thread the traffic has 
 an incredibly irritating habit off swerving into your car. Conclusion- This is a fantastic game 
 although I advise you rent it first as the open play style is not to everyone's tastes and it does 
 take a while to really get warmed up. However if you persevere through the shaky start you be rewarded 
 with one of the greatest video games you've ever played. I have fun palying this game I hope you 
 to :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOFFERN342
Rating: 7
Date: May 23, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best racing game ever to come out in history. I am pretty sure I could sit in 
 my chair forever and play this game if I could. With the Microsofts Racing wheel and the hardcore 
 update from Xbox-live, you can really feel how realistic this game is. I will never ever let this 
 game down... until Halo 3 ofc! I have only played it for about 20-40 hours, but this is more than 
 enough to make me get addicted to it. The feeling is so beautiful and the graphics are really good 
 too. The sound of the car's motor roaring when you drive is just so cool, when you put it in gear 
 and you start driving, you can hear the motor push itself to the limit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulcashdavis
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  This is a brilliant racing game with the advantage that you can just cruise around. The graphics 
 are amazing and sound of the cars is great although the music selection has something to be desired. 
 There is only one major problem with this game and its the handling of the bikes its really bad 
 you don't really get any sense that you are in control it needs to be a little more fluid. Over 
 looking that though with the extra down-loadable content like the hardcore mode and the extra cars 
 they more than makes up for the lapses in bike handling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 8
Date: May 19, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive: Unlimited is a very fun game overall and it definitely has plenty of races and other 
 activities to keep you busy for a while. It certainly holds a huge domain for driving, but it's 
 not necessarily unlimited . There aren't many brands of cars though it seems like there are at 
 first. Companies such as BMW, Porsche, Toyota, Acura, and others do not exist in the game so that's 
 kind of disappointing. Another downside is the fact that you can't really soup up your cars too 
 much, you can get a custom paint job with some cars and you can only tune up your cars three times 
 but not in a custom manner. I think though this game has a few downsides, it can still definitely 
 present a fun time. There isn't same screen multiplayer, but the online is kind of cool because 
 you can join clubs and race each other when ever you please. The cars that are in the game are 
 pretty sweet and fun to drive such as the different Ferrari's and McLaren's that provide for a 
 joyous ride. I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys racing games in general or just wants 
 a game to last them a very long time with all of the missions that are in this game as you progress 
 levels.
  
  Thanks for reading... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demondeano
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 17, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  i bought this game, was ok... single player isnt that great, you will get bored easily, well i did 
 anyway so i hooked her up to xbox live and was really impressed, its just a totally difrent game 
 online, racing other players, cruising round the island and its just plain fun! if you enjoy your 
 exotics then this is a game for you, i bought this game purely because it had muscle cars on it! 
 was hoping you can modify them enough to make a 10 second camaro and blast all the lambos and that 
 in a drag, found out that you cant, was pissed of quite a bit but i got over it, but that doesnt 
 stop the gamer from been a good game! graphics are a bit out of place in some places but great 
 in others, i played the ps2 version other week and realised how much there is a diffrence soo im 
 not complaining, sounds good for exotics, sounds crap on muscle cars, handling is a bit wobbly, 
 characters is ugly, challenges can be boring but overall i would reccomend it for driving fans! 
 if you havent got xbox live rent it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaznobread
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 14, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I've played the Test Drive series for some time and after skipping the last few for the PC I picked 
 this up for the 360.. At first I rented it, but there's just not enough time to do everything in 
 that short of time. First off the game is massive, as you know, the whole island is modeled and 
 you are free to roam. This is both good and bad in that unless you have actually been there, it 
 looks like just any other driving game . The physics take some getting used to, some crashes send 
 you spinning 50 feet in the air and some just bounce you around. The graphics are not quite as 
 sharp as the Need for Speed games but it's a trade off in that there's such a variety of terrain. 
 The game has some level of customization in that you can soup up the performance of your car but 
 not it's looks except for the paint.. You can also dress your character with coupons you get from 
 hitchers. I'm not big on shopping for clothes for myself so I could care less about shopping for 
 a nifty shirt for my driver. The most innovative part of the game is having other drivers online 
 with you that you can race at any time. You can choose to ignore them or race. It's up to you. 
 If you are driving around between races you may pass a few online racers as well. My gripes with 
 the game is the cops. A minor fender bender can lead to a police chase. I can go out and do that 
 in real life so cut me some slack here. I'm not a big fan of games where you run from the cops 
 so I like when they are taken out entirely along with pedestrians (I'm looking at you Midnight 
 Club) But I guess we need to have consequences. But you can still pass a police car doing 200 and 
 he won't do any thing, just don't tap him.. Bottom line, pick it up as a solid racing game especially 
 now as the price has dropped.. It's got some faults but the online strong points you won't find 
 anywhere else.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate99924
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 7, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  TDU is supposed to be UNLIMITED but it is kinda limited. Lets start with the graphics. They are amazing 
 everything is so well done. but the game uses live loading so trees will pop up when you get close 
 to them. Now how fun is it?, well if you LOVE driving it might fun. All you do in this game is drive 
 around THAT IS IT. there is no point!!!!! Now how is the sound???? its is OK there is only about 10 
 engine sounds thet they reuse in different cars so sound is GAY .How is the multiplayer?. well is 
 says M. O. O. R all over but you can only have 8 peeps racing with you at once! it stinks. Driving 
 with buddys in a big pack is fun but the game will put you on different servers so you will be 
 seperated. Conneting with a buddy is LAME ,You have to be lucky to find your buddy so multiplayer 
 is O. K. Overall this game is a good concept but it is REALY BORING!!!!! so it is a rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 3, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The point of this game is pretty much to compete in different races/challenges and earn money, 
 so you can purchase more vehicles. And there's a lot of them, all licensed vehicles. If you don't 
 feel like racing you can just cruise around on the massive island of Oahu, and if you got Xbox 
 Live Gold, you'll even see other players driving around. But online multiplayer has some severe 
 flaws. For instance, you have to enter one single mutliplayer track and check if there's anyone 
 there. Why couldn't they just've thrown in a matchmaking game that generates a random track? It's 
 nearly impossible to find an online game! The driving itself feels pretty satisfactory, and you 
 can tell that a lot of effort was put into making the racing experience awesome.
  
  Graphics:
  Stunning graphics, if it weren't for some minor graphical glitches it would've been 
 a straight 10.
  
  Sound:
  The sound effects are just like all the other racing games out there, but the music is quite lacking. 
 Every single of the few radiostations in the game has terrible and very little music. Fortunately, 
 you can fix this by connecting to your own playlist on your PC. There's nothing like listening 
 to your own music while you're cruising around Oahu.
  
  Value:
  There achievements are well placed in this game, although there's one of them that remains elusive. 
 The Mission Completor. You actually have to find every single mission (not races, time trials or 
 challenges, mind you) on the map. There are no pointers whatsoever to where you should head to 
 find the next mission. And with like 120 of them, I'm not interested enough to find them all. A 
 split-screen feature would definitively add to the value of this game, and so would a more accessible 
 online interface. But as pure single-player racer Test Drive Unlimited is unmatched, due to it's 
 vast repertoire of races.
  
  Tilt:
  Whoever made this game obviously put a lot of effort into this game, it's just a shame that it 
 could've been so much better with just a few additions like:
  1) Split-Screen races
  2) A much more accessible online racing system
  3) An easier way to find those DAMN missions.
 
  
  But all in all, I enjoyed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mixindave
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  this is one driving game that doesnt bore me with the same stuff that a regular driving game has. 
 u start out choosing your first home then car purchase, it is then upto you to drive around and 
 check your gps for missions and races around the island. while doing this you will come across 
 other online players u can also challenge these to one on one races chosing a route and bet amoint 
 of your choice. there are also tons of set multiplayer races for upto 8 players (i think) at once. 
 missions in the game include talking people to destinations, courier, hitchhiker and car delivery. 
 there is tons more id like to talk about but i cant be bothered typing more. check out all the 
 other reviews aswell. i guess gamespot didnt really give the game a try PROPERLY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marklarmer
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  I dont understand why this game isnt that popular, I think it offers a more unique way of racing 
 than other traditional racing games. The range of cars available is pretty good as well as having 
 the twist of being able to race bikes against cars.
  I think the aspect of this game that gives it the edge over other racers is the HUGE variation 
 in the type of roads that can be raced over. I like how you can find yourself racing through a 
 city onto a motorway and then around very twisty and demanding roads on a mountain range all in 
 one race. I particularly like how off-camber some of the twisty roads can be and encourage you 
 not to just floor it once youve turned in.
  Also the photo feature allowing those special moments to be captured is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_bruschy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  This is definitly a great game... However you could expect a bit more from a 360 game...
  
  First of all I'd like to say that if you like racing games then this is defintly a must-buy for 
 you. It has a realistic driving sytem, loads of cars to choose from, and a great big island on 
 where to race them.
  
  During the game you will be able to drive arround hundred vehicles ( a bit more if you use XBox 
 Live) including deluxe sport cars as Ferraris, Lamborghinis and Aston Martins , you can also feel 
 the power of muscle cars, race arround in bikes and even some saloon cars.
  Each vehicle is perfectly conceived capting all the shadows and lighting of the surrounding enviroment. 
 The sound of the engines working and the tires drifting is also perfectly recorded.
  
  The game itself has a really big variety of thing to do, from beat the clock races to hitchiking, 
 some being a bit boring but most being plain fun.
  
  Your racing stage will be a beautifull Hawaain island filled bathed by a realistic sea and filled 
 with mountains, a big city and most important full of roads on where to race (1000 miles of them 
 actualy) . If you actualy want to finish all achievments wich include a cover 1000 miles and a discover 
 all roads then expect some large hours spent in the game.
  
  About the sound I reely cant say mutch cause I just hear what's on the HD, I can howvwe say that 
 the sound caused by the cars racing is definitly a +.
  
  All in all its just another good game ;) Not perfect but quite good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'll get down to the point on this game. Although it is extremely fun to play, it just let 
 me feeling a little let down. It felt sort of, you know, 'bare'. Yes, I'm competing in a race and 
 winning money, but it really doesn't have much of a sense of direction. Gameplay- Very easy to 
 master, no big problems here. While cruising along, you can turn on the radio, listen to some tunes, 
 or completer various missions. Some of which include taking chicks to shopping stores, taking people's 
 cars to get repaired, or racing in a good 'ol race.
  
  Graphics- Nothing amazing, but good, considering the huge scope of the game. TD: Unlimited takes 
 place on a Hawaiin island, and there are literately millions of miles of road to drive on. To drive 
 from one side of the island to the other proabably takes close to two hours in real time.
  
  Sound- A large variety of music stations to listen to, but all the people say pretty much the 
 same things over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreamtale666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Well well... when this first came out i was speculative to say the least,, knowing atari's array 
 of games i wasnt too hopeful about a racing game from them,,, but when (one day when bored) i decided 
 to buy this game, how suprised i was... its simply amazing,,, ok, ok it could be better, but that 
 could be said for any game. You really can do a shed-load of things in this game, theres over a 
 1000 accurate, realistic niles to drive for christ sake with hidden shops and missions along the 
 way... any way let me sum this up.
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - Well yer its gotta be said for a company that dosent as a rule DO racing games, 
 its fantastic, each car handles differently, for instance, you buy your brand spanking new enzo 
 ferrari, you take it cautiously for a drive at a steady 50mph and hey its responsive... you soon 
 grow tired and floor it past 200mph... you mite not want to turn the steering wheel.... under any 
 circumstance, yer you get the point.
  
  Graphics 8/10 - Yer its pretty, cars look like theyre real counterparts, lighting is great, the 
 car interiors are a beautiful touch and theres miles and miles of glorius scenery... unfortunatley 
 they are let down by game lagging.
  
  Sound 9/10 - Hard to find any bad points to this, cars with turbos whistle, ferrari's roar, from 
 what i can tell the cars are accurate to their realistsic counterparts, and hey... inside car view, 
 wind down the windows... well you see if you can hear the difference.
  
  Value 9/10 - Well worth its slowly decresing price tag, i payed &pound;27.99 preowned for this 
 baby, maybe i payed over the odds but i dont give a damn, its the best &pound;27.99 ive spent :)
 
  
  Tilt 10/10 - Hey if you like racing games that aint just about getting in a car and driving around 
 the same tracs over and over you'll love this, and theres a ton of stuff to keep you occupied, 
 as mentioned, over a 1000 miles if realistsic road to drive, countless manufacturers to visit, 
 hundreds of challenges and all this before you even start dabbling into the world of TDU's bikes.
 
  
  Well put quite simply if you like racing games like project gotham, you mite not like this, i myself 
 love project gotham, but i can see how people could find this tedious or boring if your used to 
 PGR, but hey, what am i saying, dont be reading this, get out and buy it, you wont be dissappointed. 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: human_sim
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Ever wondered what it's like to be a character in a Bret Easton Ellis novel? Neither have we. But 
 if American Psycho's Patrick Bateman were on the proper meds (we're talking a cocktail of anti-psychotics 
 that would put an elephant into a coma) he'd fit into the world of Test Drive Unlimited perfectly. 
 That's not to say that Atari's massively multiplayer racing game is some kind of serial killer 
 simulator. It's nothing of the sort. The game is the ultimate virtual playground for car lovers 
  a sprawling world that lets players plot their own course as they collect exotic automobiles 
 and hone their driving skills.
  
  Auto Erotica
  
  Players start the game as a handsome yuppie with a rental car and a pile of money burning a hole 
 in their pocket. After the initial shopping spree for a first car and a house to store it in, the 
 game is the player's to plot. There's no story in Test Drive Unlimited. Just lots of options. There 
 are races to run, cars to deliver and, on the Ted Bundy tip, hitchhikers to pick up. All of these 
 tasks earn money, which feed the player's consumer hunger. Cars, real estate and haute couture 
 are expensive. And in the world of Test Drive Unlimited, the McLaren F1 is the equivalent of an 
 epic mount  pricey, but well worth the coin.
  
  Bright Lights, Big Island
  
  This treadmill of acquisition would be fairly dull if it wasn't for Test Drive Unlimited's unique 
 venue. When played connected to Xbox Live, the game's enormous setting (a scale reproduction of 
 the entire island of Oahu) is populated with hundreds of other players. The Hawaiian streets are 
 abuzz with life. It's not uncommon to witness a player-led high speed chase or fabulous collision 
 while going about one's business in Honolulu. And the cool thing is, these other guys aren't just 
 there for show. At any time players call pull up alongside one another, flash their headlights 
 and improvise a race. All this is done under the semi-watchful eye of the fuzz, who will chase 
 you down, toss you in jail and eventually impound your car if you're not careful. But who cares 
 about Johnny Law when you're rich, invulnerable and slightly anti-social?
  
  Hardcore and Casual
  
  Races, whether created on the fly, or selected from the game's enormous 
 selection of pre-fabricated trials, are played offline, safely away from the shenanigans of other 
 players. And they're as diverse as fans of racing games are. Test Drive Unlimited does the admiral 
 job of catering to both the hardcore and the casual. Those who enjoy the punishing difficulty of 
 Gran Turismo, will find plenty of precision-oriented runs. Fans of arcade-style action like Burnout 
 can just climb into their coupe and race in balls-out contests that don't punish the driver for 
 collisions or straying off the asphalt. The coolest races are those that take unique advantage 
 of Test Drive Unlimited's massive map. One unfurls across the island, stretching for over a hundred 
 miles. The marathon run takes just under an hour at law-breaking speeds. This over-the-top rally 
 isn't for everyone, but the fact that such excess is possible, somehow makes the game that much 
 more appealing.
  
  That New Car Smell
  
  Test Drive Unlimited is a triumph in packaging. It wraps a familiar suite of racing objectives 
 in a appealing shared space and gives players the tools to socialize in this enormous setting. 
 Not all is perfect in this motorama. The game's labyrinthine system of menus and displays can be 
 a trial to operate. Tons of additional cars will have to be purchased via micro-transactions on 
 Xbox Live Marketplace. And it's frequently difficult to find opponents in the game's location-based 
 online races. But these speedbumps do little to slow down Test Drive Unlimited's momentum. With 
 so much to do and so many ways to do it, there are few audiences that the game won't lure. After 
 all, who doesn't like to get a little car crazy every now and then? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon0007
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  omg dont think about the rating at all. think about how much fun u would have if u were riding an 
 exotic car down the roads of hawaii. a ferrari perhaps? yes. mclaren? yes. a lambo? yes. u can buy houses, do 
 missions like helping ladies get from one place 2 another, shopping 4 clothes, or just havin fun 
 wit ur buds with its excellent online feature. there are alot of races 2 participate. there are some 
 very challenging ones 2, like, a 120 mile race (wow) . there are a bunch of camera views wile u are 
 driving. and if u are wondering, yes there r cops in the game. this is a racing game i highly recommend 
 2 any racing fan. dont miss out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vietxboi18
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  jeez u just cannot beat how great the details, community, and map system this game has! almost 
 everything is customizable and u can also take pics and upload them to the internet!! Amazing!! 
 This game is soo great i have spent many of my xbox 360 gaming hours on this right here! Wow! I 
 have always hated the test drive series until now! i needed a drivin game to play, and i just barely 
 heard of test drive unlimited's awesome online world... i fell in love instantly. It's got ferraris, 
 lambroginis, audis, mercedes, u name it! Sure, some people might be a bit of a jerk, but i'm sorry 
 to say that online games have many. But u can always suddenly find some nice dude to randomly talk 
 to: Where ya headed? somebody asks me.. I say off for a new outfit. U? They say I've been savin 
 money for a sweet limited-supply ferrari! A couple seconds later.... he appears on my friends list. 
 A very good game to make friends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wergfwefwef
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is the latest test drive out for the current generation of games (xbox360, ps3, etc.) . 
 For me, I wanted something that I could just get some decent fun out of, and because I wanted something 
 to play when I couldnt get on xbox live. This game was perfect for that. There is tons you can 
 do, and you will be occupied with what your trying to get in the game for a long time. The game 
 takes place as your character living on an island in hawaii. You do races, earn money, and buy 
 more cars, houses, and such. There are time races, speed challenges, and opponent races. Also, 
 there are extra missions such as courier, top model, and transport missions. There are plenty of 
 things to do, and once you complete all of a certain type of mission or race, you recieve something 
 only obtainble that way which cannot be bought. Also, the island is absolutly HUGE. While doing 
 the millionares challenge or tour of the island race which both go AROUND the whole island, both 
 take around an hour in the fastest cars or motorcycles. Ive had the game for 4 months now, ive 
 completed most of the challenges but I still have plenty to do. Even if that, I love getting into 
 any one of my cars (because each car is very unique and attributed to how they are in real life) 
 and just driving as fast as I can or swerving around cars and such. In general, TDU is very fun 
 and is great for its value (only 40 dollars brand new) and wont get boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djrmc
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  If I were to tell you the best racing game for the xbox 360 it would be need for speed carbon. 
 Test Drive Unlimited is just to bland and repetative with the missions that it has and buying houses 
 and getting new threads sounds cool but not fun to actually do. The coolest thing on this game 
 is the amount of cars that it has. You can actually rack up miles on your car which is a first 
 for me to see on a racing game. If you have xbox live you can actually buy cars or trade your car 
 to someone online which I think is a pretty cool feature. The racing enviroment is open ended pretty 
 much. The area of honolulu pretty much looks the same everywhere you go though. If you have any 
 questions about the game just email me at djrmc24@sbcglobal. net and I can tell you futhermore. 
 If you can find a good price for this game used like I did at blockbuster for 24.99 then get it 
 but don't pay full price for a game that you will get bored of after you finish all of the acheivements 
 lol (btw: there are 46 acheivements) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBZCLKGTR
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  OK, I love racing games and, honestly, I was really excited about this game and I pre-ordered. 
 I am not saying I regret buying the game, I just wished I had rented it first. When I first started 
 playing the game, it was awesome and like nothing else I'd ever seen before, I felt that it was 
 worth the wait, and it was for a while.
  
  But after a while, it all started to feel kind of repetitive, and not just in one area either, 
 in just about every aspect of the game. The cars were awesome in terms of selection and detail, 
 but after you bought them, you tuned them if you wanted, raced them, then eventually you bought 
 another one... there was no feeling of ownership, no pride when you won races, it was just boring. 
 The house concept was really cool and new, but annoyingly repetitive in that there are maybe 5-6 
 different models of houses each copied about ten times and spread throughout the island... there 
 was nothing unque about them. And the races were, more or less, what kept the game up as they are 
 your main source of money... until you fall into a state of financial security and youre forced 
 to race, not for money, but to try and save yourself from boredom.
  
  My advice: I would say to rent it first, but be warned, if youre one of the people (like me) who 
 prefer a game that has some form of a motivation to it, this isnt it and the general weekly rental 
 time is not enough for anyone new too the game to feel anything but excitement unless you progress 
 really fast.
  
  Dont get me wrong, I loved this game for a while, but it just happened to let me down in the long 
 run.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Xeauz_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Where do I start? The irony of the fact Project Gotham Racing got a way higher score is annoying, 
 if you havent played test drive unlimited you havent played a racing game, if I were to compare 
 this to other standard racing games it would clearly have a place above them all, the fact that 
 you can drive round a thousand mile city and buy houses, cloths, and cars of course changes the 
 way your ever play a driving game. I played it for a few days and thought hmm, this is pretty 
 good which turned into MUST GET ON TEST DRIVE I used to play this game for about 1 and a half 
 hours a day? But that turned into 7 hours a day and yes Im serious (I honestly dont even like 
 racing games, but this ones so much more) , when you go through the 1st 5 hours of this game you 
 begin to see yourself getting sucked in, theres always something to do and somewhere to go. Ok 
 yeah the NPCs placed around the map have bad acting along with their stories, but at the end of 
 the day its all about the driving and getting that person from point A to point B. You can also 
 customize your cars and sell them on an on-line market for a higher price, and even challenge to 
 race on-line players which are littered around the vast motorways and lively cities by flashing 
 your headlights. This truly is a revolutionary game and will surprise any motor-head. I think one 
 of the reasons why people under-rate it is because of a driving aid option, if you leave it on 
 the steering is unrealistic and un challenging but I cant stress the importance of taking it off 
 to see what this game can really do! It becomes as realistic as GT 4 if not more, players can even 
 fish tale and it feels so real, especially with the view behind the driver seat which will immerse 
 the player (this can be altered if preferred) . Also each car has a unique feel to it, you may be 
 stuck with a Audi TT until you save up more money (poor car compared to others in the game) but 
 your learn to adapt with the speed, brakes and overall handling. Then when you buy another car 
 your see it will handle completely differently and will have to learn how to drive it (e. g. the 
 Sal een S7 Twin turbo cant just be accelerated from stationary otherwise it will skid out of control, 
 instead you need to squeeze the trigger more slowly) . There are also classic cars accompanying 
 all the other types of cars which you would expect making a nice addition. All in all I recommend 
 this game strongly to anyone whether you like driving games or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertipopp
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  While receiving a lot of criticism Atari and Eden studios should be praised for creating an huge 
 open world environment, which never feels repetitive or uninteresting. The environment-The Island 
 looks great and has a diverse array of landscapes, beaches, mountains, the city of Honolulu and 
 even a crater. The roads don't quite look right when you look close, and the graphics aren't on 
 par with some of the more hardcore racing sims but these aren't bad either.
  
  The cars- There is a healthy selection of cars here from the usual bunch (Ferraris and Lamborghinis) 
 as well as a few more unusual ones ( Ascari and Noble) it also has a few cars you wouldn't associate 
 with fast paced racing games like Audi and ford (excluding the Gt of course) . For good measure they've 
 thrown in some motorcycles from brands like Ducati and Kawasaki. Also included are several concept 
 cars which are unlocked through the game (most are tied to achievements)
  
  Racing- You can dress it up however you want but a racing game without good races is very poor. 
 Luckily Test drive unlimited has some great race modes. From bog standard race race and time trials 
 there's also eliminator races, speed trap races and courier races. Theres 220 races in all in the 
 game and they start easy and as you complete them and rise up the four difficulty settings the 
 races get harder with restraints on the amount of damage you can take, although there's no damage 
 modeling. One interesting twist is police presence, if you crash into two cars in quick succession 
 police will come after you. There's three levels of police activity and each one brings more cars (and 
 roadblocks at level three) . While they only come after you it's a good diversion. Other races include 
 delivering someone else's car to a mechanic and the amount of money you receive decreases as the 
 car gets damaged. Misc.- Cars can be upgraded with one of three different packs at their respective 
 tuners. Some of these change the appearance of your car but other than that the only field of your 
 cars appearance that you can change is the colour. The factory presets for colour are generally 
 good but for a extra fee you can custom paint them with a colour chart which has either matte or 
 metallic paint options. Theres also an highlight paint. If you like your car theres a good photo 
 mode which has a decent variety of options in it. There is a house system, complete with estate 
 agents, where you store your cars and access info about the achievments as well as your wardrobe. 
 You can Change your characters face and head size as well as purchase a variety of different clothes 
 and costumes for your character. One odd feature is that you have to drive somewhere before you 
 can fast travel there via the games map. The achievements are a great mix off easy and hard to 
 get and each one has a suitable points reward Bad points- It's only ever day on Oahu, the Hawaiian 
 island the game is set on, and after a while it gets a bit repetitive. Until you get a good car 
 the game is not much fun, although the game has a good tutorial. The traffic system has a tendency 
 to crash but it's hard to tell if that's intentional or not. On the same thread the traffic has 
 an incredibly irritating habit off swerving into your car. Conclusion- This is a fantastic game 
 although I advise you rent it first as the open play style is not to everyone's tastes and it does 
 take a while to really get warmed up. However if you persevere through the shaky start you be rewarded 
 with one of the greatest video games you've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallboy13
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited may sound like a strange title but don't let that put you off. This is a revolutionary 
 game in the world of driving games. It brings a whole new level to racing. With the largest range 
 of cars beating any other driving/racing game, you are spoilt for choice on what cars you want 
 to race or cruise with. Races include Speed, where you must record the fastest times through cameras 
 (a bit like Need for Speed's Speedtrap race) , Race (it's in the name) , Time; which is a time countdown 
 race and Extras. The extras include escorting models to destinations for coupons, picking up hitch-hikers, 
 delivering packages or the highest paying of all, Car Delivery. All of these pay differently, models 
 and hitch-hikers give coupons for clothes but Courier and Car Delivery pay big money for perfects. 
 You could recieve $135,000 for delivering a car without living the road or touching another car!!!!! 
 Also you can customise your character by buying clothes with coupons and also you can buy houses 
 to store your cars too. Car showrooms are littered round the Hawaiian island along with tuner shops, 
 paint shops and estate agents.
  
  Overall - 8 out of ten. A very good game but Hawaii looks the same round every corner.
  
  Thanks 
 - tallboy13 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itsme185
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  One of favourite games for 360, im getting a 360 just for this game.
  
  personally i love this game, the physics are fun, not unrealistic but not to realistic that you 
 dont wona play, theres motorbikes which are awesome, download the demo to see what i mean. Great 
 game all up, the sound is great as well, jump on a motorbike and listen the revs, amasing!, i like 
 the in car (dash) view, very realistic, Theres not alot more i can say, just buy this game you 
 wont be disapointed!!! I havent played this in HD (high def) but i beilev it has support for 1080i 
 which wil be amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green-Day1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Where do i start? its an rpg with cars! completely new! gameplay is amazing and the graphics are 
 great aswell. you just live your life as a guy who gets rich and buys amazing cars and houses, over 
 a hundred cars to choose from and many more houses and races. the xbox live part of then game is 
 very well worked and a lot of fun, if you want a great game, buy this! kept me busy for a long time, i 
 loved it, now i'm just finishing trying to fill in more words so i can get to the minimum of 100. 
 da da da da da da da da da da da da da da 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm8000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  I have to say it's a long game which I like but there is one thing I need to know if anyone can 
 help me out. The thing that i'm stuck with is the 'Club House'? I can't enter why? please let me 
 know what I have to do to start a club. Do I think it's better then Need 4 Speed Carbon??? Yes 
 oh and that's a big call I have found a game that has everything that I always wanted in a Racer 
 game but Need 4 Speed Carbon is awsome I have to say.
  
  So you will see me soon on Xbox 360 Live until then have fun and don't speed lol... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimwheeler
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I bought this and before long found myself knowing some of teh roads in Hawaii! Strange considering 
 i live in London!
  
  I found that www. tduforum. co. uk is a good forum for TDU
  
  I bought this and before long found myself knowing some of teh roads in Hawaii!
  
  Strange 
 considering i live in London!
  
  I found that www. tduforum. co. uk is a good forum for TDU
  I bought this and before long found myself knowing some of teh roads in Hawaii!
  
  Strange 
 considering i live in London!
  
  I found that www. tduforum. co. uk is a good forum for TDU
  I bought this and before long found myself knowing some of teh roads in Hawaii!
  
  Strange 
 considering i live in London!
  
  I found that www. tduforum. co. uk is a good forum for TDU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullondon
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 16, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I love racing games, i have lots of them, they are my favourite genre. But I don`t know why, i 
 really can not get into this game. The graphics are good and the car physics are ok once you get 
 used to them. Also, the multiplayer and single player mode can be considered passable. For me this 
 is where the problem lies. Everything is just passable. Although TDU is not bad it is really disjointed. 
 There is never a point in doing anything you are required to do. I accept a lot of people like 
 this game and i am not saying they are wrong, however, for me i just find TDU really dull, uninspired 
 and boring. If i had to choose a word to describe TDU that word would be POINTLESS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadita
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I think this games is good but somthing miss, I like the way you can drive along hawi but maybe 
 a little more realistic drving needs, but if you want it you better rent it and then you can decide 
 better it's good for live an along but there are better games out there, like Proget gotham racing 
 3 or something, the most beautiful car in the game is enzo and I hope developeres add more cars 
 in live for download because miss bmw that is a great brand to drive and enjoy, well this is my 
 first review and I from mexico sorry for bad speling jejejejejejejeje 
::::::

::::::
UserName: druggyjoe3000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  the ultimate racing game out thier indeed even if you are not intrested in cars you will like this 
 game and if you love cars then this is the game for you to. the gameplay is really long and you 
 will enjoy the game alot . thier are monthly car downloads and you can make your own club. the 
 sound is very realsitic. it beats all car games out their and you can get it for thirty bucks as 
 of march 12 2007. their is online multiplayer and voice chat and all of the 360 features in it 
 that is why it deserves a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeskates5
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 4, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Test drive unlimited... has 100's of factory cars that you can customize on performence and other 
 things. The game is based in Hawaii and has 1000's of miles the game is very fun and addicting. 
 When you start this game you won't want to stop. You can drive motor cycles, exotics, sports cars, 
 and alot more. The miles on this game are like real life miles its crazy how realistic this game 
 is it is very cool and I would suggest this game to anyone especially if you like cars. This is 
 one of the best car games I have ever played. The game has online but it is kind of hard to find 
 your friends but it is very fun passing by other online players and seeing their rides! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegas_rules
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  It is an awesome game, a game that you can go on when you are bored, you could have played the 
 game for say a week after you have bought and you would get bored it is the same for all games 
 like this one, but going on it in about another week or two and get back into it and start to really 
 enjoy it again. It is a game that gets boring but you will still want to play on it after you get 
 a break from it. It is game where you will spend time trying to save enough money to buy certain 
 cars to add to your collection and a game which you can customize your character and you can buy 
 clothes for him/her to. Overall I think that this is a game that you should rent to see if you 
 like it but personally I think it is worth playing. Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmoothBabyface
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  i'm not the biggest race game fan that walks around, but this game you just gotta have man. it's 
 beautifull and spectacular en it's not always the same. you can even drive motor cycles
  it is a great game a real most haver!!!
  first i tought it is just an other race game, but when 
 i bought it wa sblown away of the graphics gamplay en the amount of vehicles: Cars AND BIKES!!!
 
  if someone says this game is great you! you better believe him.
  i didn't believe my friend that it was a great game but i was wrong it is one of th greatest game's 
 ever made 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0thr4
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 15, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  The biggest problem is with the gameplay. The various challenges in single-player mode are very 
 uneven. For example the challenge Passion for speed is an Amateur challenge with a reward of $10,000, 
 yet the challenge Lucky Day is far easier, despite being an Expert level (that's two levels above 
 Amateur) and giving a reward of $40,000. There are numerous examples of this throughout the game, 
 which simply encourage you to give up early on some challenges and concetrate only on those that 
 make you money.
  
  The graphics are both wonderful and horrible at the same time. The idea is great - have a huge 
 island you can drive around and a 'Google Earth-style' map screen that you can zoom in and out 
 of. Unfortunately, it's a little too much like Google Earth, as textures struggle to load in as 
 you move around the island or zoom in for a closer look. Google Earth has the excuse that it's 
 streaming satellite images from their database; TDU has no such excuse as all of the texture information 
 is surely on the game DVD. While you're driving, the scenery graphics look okay... until you drive 
 over 70mph, when they all start to fall apart. At 100mph, you can be driving up a hill that appears 
 to end in nothing, until the game draws the scenery in, a few hundred feet in front of you. If 
 you're on the missions where you're not supposed to get a scratch on your car, this is particularly 
 frustrating. Not only is the scenery drawn in late, but also the traffic. On a long straight road 
 where you can see to the horizon, you can think it's safe to pull out and overtake, only to find 
 a car coming in the opposite direction that only faded into view 500 yards ahead.
  
  The sound is also extremely disappointing. It seems that Eden went to great trouble making sure 
 the sound would change appropriately when you raise or lower the side windows, or change from interior 
 to exterior views. But this counts for nothing as none of the cars in TDU sound remotely like their 
 real life counterparts. They nearly all sound different - they just don't sound like the cars they're 
 supposed to be.
  
  Finally, the interface is extremely irritating. What's the point of the house you buy exactly? 
 I have never used it, yet when I start the game, I'm dropped in there, sitting on a sofa, watching 
 TV. I'm sorry, but I'm doing that in real life right now, waiting to play a driving game... get 
 me in the car!!! Switching between cars also requires that you go back to the house, enter the 
 garage and select a car. Buying a car requires that you visit a dealer and choose from a small 
 selections of models on offer. But there's no easy way to compare cars from different dealers before 
 you buy them so, if you want to know what the best car in category F is, you have to visit every 
 dealer, look for category F cars, write down the specs.... wait a minute, why am I doing all that 
 work when the game could just list the cars somewhere like they do in PGR3? There's also an email 
 messaging system the pops up a little icon in the bottom right of the screen, telling you 'you've 
 got mail'. this isn't mentioned anywhere in the instruction manual, and finding where to delete 
 these useless messages (you have to delete them manually) is really obscure. You have to go to 
 your house, select 'news' and then press A which takes you to a list of emails. Worse, these messages 
 don't contain any useful information whatsoever... they simply tell you things you already know, 
 like 'you've just moved up to Expert Level', or you've just completed X achievement. Yeah I know, 
 I can see it says expert at the top of my screen and I already know how to view my Xbox Live achievements.
 
  
  The game is just a mess. It has a great concept, and you really want to enjoy it, but the design 
 is horrible and simply frutrates me every time I play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuelpukMM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. but, also different. it bends the rules a bit. see, the focus of this game 
 is not to race and put yourself up high, but to mess around. the races are there purely for money 
 and if you get a bit bored. The main focus of this game is to mess around. have fun. GO onlione, 
 drie around, crash alot, and most importantly buy new cars. all the cars are different in this 
 game. For racing purests, sure, theres something in here as to get some achievements you have to 
 finish all the races, but this game is best played with a mate, online, in two cars painflly saved 
 up for, larking around. A perfect partner for this is PGR3, but dont let this game get shadowed. 
 in its own way, its the best driving game in a long time. Yet not a racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodkilla75
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Pros: The Game play and over all story is quite good. And the control over the cars is comfortable. 
 The Racing and side tasks are fun but not always easy. It dosn't take very long to learn to play 
 Test Drive maybe a good 20 min tops.
  
  Cons:
  The graphics were disappointing. I do find controlling the bikes difficult. So many clothing shops 
 was not needed. Some of the longer races just seem to never end (which makes me want to just quit 
 the race) . Over all: I do love the game and enjoy playing it. It is one of my personal favorite 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakeEater187
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Italian cars Ferraris, Lamborghinis, Aston Martins, Masserattis so much to choose. Test Drive Unlimited 
 is a very Classy Racing Game that is worth while and a Very fun racing game that is realistic. 
 Unlike Need for Speed when you crash into something when your going at a very high speed your engine 
 stops and Motors when its cold down which makes the game REALISTIC, but when ever you crash your 
 car stays in perfect condition that sucks. Another put down is the Cops, when every you stop while 
 the cops chase you and they are right behind you, you get Caught. But overall it is an Awesome 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  This is, by far, one of the, if not the, best driving game I have ever played. First of all, this 
 game is great for its real life simulator feel. You buy cars from dealership and buy houses from 
 real estates. You make money buy racing (duh) then you buy a nice crib. The houses are nice but 
 they're mainly in the game for car rrom. The houses, depending on how expensive, fit a number of 
 cars in it's garage. This is an awsome mechanic in the game. There are also missions which you 
 do to get coupons which are used for buying clothes. The online is fun too. People playing who 
 having Xbox Live are in Hawaii doing there own thing. While roaming in this massive place (bigger 
 than many mmo's and rpg's) , you pass and see other players. This game is great and Ibelieve is 
 underapreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Efwarrior
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 5, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive, seeming like a long series like one of the ones that needs to learn to stop making 
 games, actually came out with something that is impressive. Don't judge this game on the demo because 
 the game itself is much better. The list of cars is amazing, the custumization is no need for speed, 
 but hell, the cars on this list can blow any of those pimped up crap boxes any day of the week. 
 The car interiors are great and are almost on par with project gotham. The environment graphics 
 are good considering that there are hundreds of miles of land the drive on. This game is a must 
 by if you like cars and drving them.... fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooper182
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo i liked it and gave it a go on the released game. It is fun to play for 
 thye most part but at the end it will leave you frustrated. For people buying the game now for 
 the first time it will be twice as hard since most people have the best cars. On the subject of 
 cars there arent that many of them in the game and with the game makers promising new downloadable 
 cars that was not the case. The game promised a online car trading mode for online players, it 
 took them almost six months to fix the server for the feature before it was working. By the time 
 it was working every one had all of the cars and it was a bit pointless. The unlockables cars are 
 as exciting as a trip on a bus. They are slw and cannot be tuned. Overal this game is good on the 
 most part but overal is let down with the lack of cars boring courses and glitchs that make batttle 
 feild 2 look like a glitch free game. Thanks for reading. Cooper182 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davefleet
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is definitely the best Test Drive game I've played on any platform to date, 
 but it still leaves a little 'so what' in your mouth at the end.
  
  I'd heard a lot of hype (not least from Gamespot) about this game before it came out, so it was 
 only a matter of time before I picked it up. Having done so, I was immediately impressed with the 
 graphics - the cars look amazing, and the landscape is, at times, awe inspiring. Unfortunately, 
 while the races are fun, there doesn't seem to be any point to this game. There's no apparent end-point, 
 even to aim for. After a few hours of playing, my only motivation to continue was to rack up more 
 achievement points. This is very disappointing, as the graphical edge to this game gave it a lot 
 of potential.
  
  The multiplayer aspect, however, is very cool. The almost seamless integration of online play into 
 the regular game means you can run into other people at any almost point. Unfortunately, the game 
 seems to limit how many people you can see, which means that a lot of the time there isn't anyone 
 in a lot of the races to actually run against. You'd think they'd have tweaked this a bit in testing.
 
  
  Anyhow, overall TDU is a lot of fun. It's not as arcade-y as the Need for Speed games, which can 
 be a plus or minus depending on preference. Still, it's a good way to pass the time, and the looong 
 endurance races are a hoot.
  
  Not too bad, but definitely room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blake935
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 26, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  In this game your main goal is to earn money to buy different cars, well, of course the only way 
 to get money is to race. The game's strongest point is its graphics, the graphics are astounding; 
 the game play on the other hand is horrible. The sound was also great for you could clearly hear 
 the engine roar as you hit the throttle. There is a large number of registered cars in this game, 
 such as Ferraris and Mercedes Benzs. There are also many great views when you play the game, for 
 example, the game feature a standard or classic view in which you are able to see the rear of the 
 car. My favorite view is first person, where you can see through the wind shield of the car and 
 watch your character steer and shift the car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuafonsecais
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  At first the whole idea of a free roam racing game sounded kind of weird and questionable. There 
 are a lot of racing games out there today for the 360 but this brings a whole new meaning to realistic 
 raceing. Not only does the game let you go around the island of Oahu but it also provides real 
 names of places in the general locations of where they are. I live on Oahu and i could actualy 
 find my town I live in. On the other hand there is the fact that the places are real but look nothing 
 like how it really is. My guess that they want to keep the idea of Hawaii as a Paradice with green 
 trees and grass but if they wanted to make it more realistic they should have added the big areas 
 of dried out land and dead trees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prodigy_au
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  I won't go into great depth about the game play and such, you can find all that info in the various 
 reviews on this site.
  
  I will tell you that this game is an **** magnet. The MMO feel is a good and bad thing. Good in 
 that the world is very immersing. Racing the streets with others is a unique way of exploring the 
 island.
  
  The bad part comes when you decide to reject another player's instant challenge. You'll get verbally 
 abused, if you even have your headset on to listen to the mindless **** that your fellow racers 
 are spewing. You'll get rammed... not metaphorically. They'll actually hit you with their cars 
 over and over for no apparent reason. Then, if you question why the offending dip**** is doing 
 this to you, you'll be avoided by that player and your rep will drop.
  
  So, in summary: Good game, but disconnect network cable before playing for an enjoyable experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  For a dicsounted price at the time of this review ($40) , this games value makes it a must buy. 
 If you are one of these people, you should really consider it: 1) just into driving around a giant 
 island and picking people up and doing errands or 2) If you want to race the clock to earn more 
 cars or challenge other races in a sandbox style MMO-style system. This game is kinda revolutionary 
 and alot of future racers will copy it. At $40, I highly recommend it given its very high replay 
 value and broad appeal.
  
  The real problems come from the random servers. You will be put in with many other drivers on one 
 island on any given server. So if your friend is online, there is no guarentee that you will be 
 able to play with him. Invites to races are more or less handled in-game. Which is not bad but 
 that lack of friends list support is a definite problem. Another big thing is lack of a decent 
 damage system. You'll see some fragments come off the car in a wreck but no damage. Perhaps with 
 the need to repair your car they though they would scare off casual racers. So no damage system. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithlordadam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  Like Cars? Like Hawaii? Love Test Drive unlimited. From the moment you set foot on the vast sprawling 
 island that is Oahu to the minute you buy your umpteenth house this game oozes quality. Right from 
 the off it sets the graphical stakes high. The landscapes are gorgeous, the cars awesome and the 
 player characters err adequate and somewhat a dissapointment compared to the level of detail in 
 the cars and landscape. The main part of the game is spent cruising around the streets of Oahu 
 looking for various races or missions in order to build up cash and your level (integral in unlocking 
 those all improtant achievements) . The more cash you have the better the car (or motorbike) you 
 can buy is. The cars in this game are just beautiful. Crafted in loving detail both externally 
 and internally. Every spec of detail has been added to the Car models. It really looks like a labour 
 of love for the programmers
  
  The island itself is absolutely huge. Hours upon hours can be spent just driving and taking in 
 the scenery (indeed several achievements can be unlocked simply by driving the island although 
 they will take some time to get) . At times though areas can seem very samey and it does occasionally 
 get a little tedious having to drive miles to earn a few quid.
  
  The mission themselves are as varied as driving missions can be i. e. not very. There are the standard 
 races in the game but also delivery mission, model mission and hitchhiker missions. The Delivery 
 missions are where the big money is earnt. It involves taking a supercar from one location to another 
 however if the car is delivered in perfect condition then a huge bonus is awarded. These missions 
 can easilly reward a careful driver with well okver 100K in the game which is all improtant for 
 buying those cars! The model and hitchhiker missions are basically the same. Transport the passenger 
 to their location within the set time limit although why a hitchhiker would give you a time limit 
 is beyond me. Surely you are doing them the favour so why would they be demanding??? These missions 
 offer tokens rather than money which can be exchanged in the various boutiques for new outfits
 
  
  Online is where this game really comes into its own. It offers an online second hand car showroom 
 where anyone with an Xbox live gold account can buy or sell their cars. It also offers the ability 
 to set up race clubs within the game for your friends to hang out at. Online Races are numerous 
 and varied and are the real meat of the game. Whilst connected to xbox live you will see several 
 other players driving around the island. Any of these can be challenged to an impromptu race and 
 cash can be gambled on these. This is a good way to boost funds howeve ryou will have to be pretty 
 confident on the race layout or on your way around the island in order to benefit from this.
  
  At times though test drive can seem like a chore. Until you have explored all of the island 
 you do not have the ability to warp to other locations which cuts down on some of the more tedious 
 moments of the game but this is only a minor niggle.
  
  All in all this is easilly the best driving game on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesterchestnut
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  While the graphics aren't as good as PGR3, the gameplay story, range of vehicles, and real-world 
 road feel provide for much more in-depth entertainment experience than most of the other racers 
 out there.
  
  There is a lot of potential to spend quite a bit of time in this game. Only after significant gameplay 
 did the driving around the streets to get someplace new become repetitive. The google earth like 
 map and GPS is enjoyable, and the option to warp to places is key. The variety of racing events 
 and types is good, and forces you to build up a car collection to compete in the various class/vehicle 
 specific events. I like the money system and that you have to work a bit to get enough to buy good 
 cars - unlike PGR3 where you could pretty much buy any car with the winnings after a few races. 
 The only stupid quest aspect in this game is the clothing store coupons - I have no idea why this 
 is in the game. I wish there were more dedicated road tracks in the game, as dealing with traffic 
 gets a little old after a while and I would like to just drive some wide open laps in the high-powered 
 cars that are available. I also wish the tuning upgrades enabled more custom settings of the vehicle 
 setup to suit someones' particular driving style. That they are making available new cars every 
 month via Live is a great feature of this game, although I don't like that some cars are limited 
 in quantity and thus cannot be gotten by the general user base. The in car view is excellent, although 
 you'll probably have to move the camera position up and forward to see the road better. Overall 
 the garage mode, being able to open the doors and windows (and how the latter affects the in car 
 sound of the road is great) , and the look around feature all add up to really give you a feel like 
 you are truly Test Driving the worlds greatest automobiles. The menu and options are good, and 
 I liked being able to de-tune the steering sensitivity slightly. Good load times also. No major 
 sprite or graphics issues. Although the lack of damage is pretty weak. In general - a very immersive, 
 and fun game, that will last for a number of hours before you get that you've done this before 
 feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I picked this up the weekend I bought the 360. Out of the three racing games I have, this is the 
 most fun and the most I have played. The variety of cars are great, each with their own uniqueness. 
 Eden spent a lot of time in the detail of the cars. There is a lot to do, and the island is BIG. 
 There are some fun challenges and you have to work your way up to accomplish some of them. The 
 xbox live aspect is great -- you can enter challenges with people you see driving around and join 
 clubs with other players. I am addicted to this game... it's definitely worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjserkland
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I was pretty excited to drive like a maniac around Oahu. Let 
 down i was not. Test Drive Unlimited brings a wonderful driving play-pen to Xbox live subscribers, 
 and there is so much to do, so many different modes of play and racing events, I found myself having 
 difficulty staying on task. A good problem to have in gaming. In that way Test Drive is Like Oblivion. 
 In a nut shell this game is a lot of fun and an excellent way to meet new friends. The game isn't 
 perfect though. There are some glaring omissions to the game that would have put it over the top, 
 and should be addressed in the next Test Drive. One is the inability to move around the island 
 on foot. It would be nice to move your avatar outside of any vehicle. Maybe go for a hike or walk 
 on the beach or... or not. But it would be nice to move around at the racing clubs and your houses 
 and garages. I mean if your spending so much time and money on cars, houses, and clothes, lets 
 be able to see them. I also have a nitpick with the graphics, they could be a handful better. All 
 around this is a great game with enormous value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is a good racing game. Good graphics, good playing, good times. 'Good' is 
 the perfect adjective for it. When you start the game you get to select one of several characters 
 at an airport who is visiting Oahu Island. After you have selected your character you have to rent 
 a car, get to a house witht he car you rented, and then buy a car and return the car you rented.
 
  With that done, you are free to explore the island. While exploring you will find challenges, 
 missions, car showrooms, car tuners, house retail and clothing shops. Now to earn money to buy 
 vehicles or houses you need to do challenges: time attacks, speed challenges, or races. There are 
 6 different levels of challenges and each new one is unlocked depending on how much achievements 
 points you have earned in the game so far.
  To earn these points you can get some quickies such as buying two cars, two houses, buying clothes 
 with coupons (which I will explain later) and drive around and get some miles. Some other easy 
 points is buying three of a certain brand of car (ie: Ferrari or Lamborghini) .
  Now on to the missions. There are four kinds of missions: hitchhiker, model, vehicle transport, 
 and courrier. The basic objective of any of these missions? Get from point A to B while trying 
 to not damage your car or drive off the road. If you comple a vehicle transport mission you will 
 be rewarded with monetary value. If you complete any of the others you get coupons, with with you 
 can customize your character by buying new clothing at the shops. Buy 10 clothing items from *ecko 
 and Ben Sherman's and get 20 points (seperatly) .
  This game is fairly straightforward. Beat some challenges. Buy new cars or different brand of cars 
 to beat other missions or challenges, make more money and buy more houses and cars.
  On X-Box Live you can make up your own challenges for others to beat or try to beat other challenges 
 that others made. Of course you can race or do some speed challenges. You can also join a club 
 and do some club races which can earn you some achievement points.
  Overally, Test Drive Unlimited is a fun racing sim and any racing fan should at least try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fuzzy_duck
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited has the potential to be the next Need for Speed, only with better sandbox 
 elements. Unlike in NFS Most Wanted and Carbon, you aren't limited to a fictional city. Instead, 
 this racing game takes place on the entire island of Oahu. (for those of you who didn't pass 4th 
 grade history, that is located on Hawaii) What makes TDU so enjoyable is that you can go to Hawaiian 
 landmarks in-game; one example is the beach that the TV show Lost was filmed at. This adds a tremendous 
 amount of replay value, as unlocking all the roads on the island takes an understandably long time. 
 In addition to the brilliant setting, the graphics are similarly outstanding. There are better 
 looking racers of course, (NFS Carbon, Motorstorm) but what must be taken into consideration is 
 the fact that they had to animate and texturize a 1000 square-mile spot of land, and it still looks 
 sweet. The hood reflections are realistic, the character models are nice, and an insane amount 
 of detail was put into the car models. They describe it themselves as Its accurate enough that 
 if you like the car in-game, you will probably like it in real life. To put it bluntly, this game 
 has simply the best in car view in a racer. Dashboards are detailed very accurately, review mirror 
 reflections are realistic, and the texturing on the exterior is mind blowing for a game of this 
 scape. Graphics can't hold a game on their own, so to compliment the great looks TDU comes with 
 an outstanding controls scheme. After maybe a half an hour of learning, you could feel at home 
 with the most experienced. Of course, practice makes perfect, so honing your skills is important, 
 but the game doesn't make you play for half a day before you understand the basics. Alas, nothing 
 is perfect, and this game is no exception. There aren't any major problems, but that in itself 
 is the problem. By having lots of tiny little bitty bugs, the game makes you think about what you 
 want from a sequel after only a day, and its hard to enjoy something when you're thinking about 
 its oncoming younger brother the whole time. Little things like police not arresting you for speeding, 
 no dynamic night cycles, and the worst cop AI I have seen in a game to date make you hope for a 
 follow-up that will probably not come for at least two years. However, the pros far out way the 
 cons, so Test Drive Unlimited comes highly recommended. If you are a racing/car fan with a 360 
 don't hesitate to pick this up. Even if the low price makes you apprehensive, this is A-class all 
 the way. -the Duck has spoken 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeyandreous
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  So, TDU is.... how do i put this all into one word..... Amazing. Its got good graphics and realistic 
 driving. There is so much to do even when you think you have the best car on the game, you really 
 havent. There is always something better than you out there in hawaii. The island is huge and beautiful. 
 The soundtracks are awsome and the features are exelent. You have your own house, garage and a 
 choice of Car or Motorbike or both. The multiplayer is great, you can trade, sell, race and communicate 
 with others and even join their group. This is a truly amazing game and is worth every penny....
 
  
  Now for the bad part, you cannot get out of your car and wonder the world on foot. Some missions 
 are long and boring and thats really all...
  
  thanks for reading.... Mikey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outlaw-X13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  IMO this game is a great racer offering a variety of cars, bikes to explore Oahu with (hawaii) 
 and the whole idea of dealing with real estate and cars may sound like a stupid concept of a game 
 at first but once you get the hang of things... you cant let go. Test Drive Unlimeted is a pure 
 racing game (and not to mention franchise) meening taht there is no cheesy story line to go through 
 even tho some of you would enjoy that. This racing game is NON - linear wich basicly meens you 
 can go off track and just explore the forest like parts of Oahu
  and there are no invisable barrier type walls where they might stop you in a mid jump over a wall 
 into a golf course. You can also make bookmarks at anytime and at anylocation on or off the road, 
 this allows you to fast travel to that place at any given time in free ride . I could go on and 
 on about the vast collection of vehicles you can choose to rent, buy, get custom paintjobs for. 
 If you are at all interested in cars or exploring and the online part of TDU I have to tell you 
 to go for it. It has a low price of 40$ (good price for an Xbox360 game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 82ndRmilkman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  My favorite racing game cause its semi realistic driving capabilities and its awesome selection 
 of cars
  
  single player is good but it doest get boring after a while when u cant find a way to get to champion 
 cause ur too lazy to do some of the races like i was
  but once i went online with it it rekindled my excitement for the game i wanted to get the mclaren 
 or the koenigsegg if there were more cars my review would be in the 9 but there is a helluva selection 
 of cars but once u get to champion and u can get 1 mil in a 10 minutes the selection seemingly 
 gets smaller cause u can buy anything u want, tune it up and even give it a new paint job in 10-15 
 minutes
  
  also Microsoft points
  
  this is the game to use them on with them u can get new cars that u need to buy but with them u 
 can unlock the faster car the koenigsegg CCR and alot of other cars with the 2 packs that u can 
 download right now there will be more updates later probably so i got my points ready
  
  but there are a few cars u can download for free but they aint really too good
  but there cheap 
 n can add to ur car collection easily
  
  my last point is the music
  
  some of it is good but i mostly found myself shutting it off and keeping off or putting sumthing 
 else on from my music i put on my xbox
  
  Along with Gears of War this is another game where Xbox Live is a must 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B_Nanny
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought TDU, I had a 3-day weekend to enjoy it. Which I did. I spent near all of the 
 three days playing, upgrading from a Saturn Sky to a Ford Mustang GT, staying up past midnite saving 
 up for that beautiful red Enzo...
  
  I became the king. I had all the houses, all the cars, all the money, everything. Then, one day, 
 my save corrupts. My biggest downfall in gaming history (later overruled by my loss of my amazing 
 Oblivion save...) . I spent a full week regaining my spot, and then I stopped playing; new games 
 had come, and it was time to move on.
  
  Then, my friend Fifty0N350 got the game, and we played it for a few days. Then, my save corrupted 
 again. Thankfully, he learned an exploit to get A-Class cars for $1,000-$20,000. Using his expert 
 method, I quickly rebuilt a large collection of cars.
  
  The game has great graphics, beautiful scenery (I'm sure I'm not the only person tired of grimy 
 cities at night, cough, NFS Carbon, cough) and the overall game is pretty easy. I milked a good 
 850/1000 points, but I'm sure I would have 1000 by now, had my save not corrupted. The game is 
 pretty easy, and it gets easier if you can have a friend hook you up with a car to begin the game 
 with. The driving isn't Gran Turismo when it comes to drifting, but it isn't Ridge Racer, either. 
 It's a good mix, and for $40 this game is the best bargain you'll currently get for your Xbox 360.
 
  
  Overall, TDU is a great game, but replay value is limited and save corruptions will easily scare 
 off a hardcore gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It's not one of the best games I've ever played but its good. They made the 
 car graphics good but not much else. The environment looks all most PS2. The selection of cars 
 and dealers ships is great. I also like how big the map is. Also unlike mid night club you can 
 go off road. It's an easy game but driving fast is really addictive. The driving in this game is 
 extremely realistic and how fast the cars can go is realistic to. This is a good game and is a 
 must have for gamers who like driving games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benboz
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is a wide open road game on Oahu, Hawaii. The gameplay starts off with you 
 at the airport. You can choose from 8 people but you must choose one person. When your choosen 
 your dude you fly onto a plane and you head to Hawaii. When you get there you will be taken to 
 a rent a car shop. You can choose from 5 cars at this shop. You can choose with a Dodge, Mercedes, 
 Lotus and I can't remember the other two. When your choosen your car you now to drive to a Real 
 Estate shop but you can only choose from 2 or 3 places because they are the cheapest. When you 
 brought your house you can buy your car that you will drive but becareful because you have to stay 
 in the Car restrictions class because the one you start off is Class F. You can go to 3 car shops 
 to buy your first car. When your done that you can race or free roam or do whatever you like. Remember 
 the car you rent doesn't matter because when you buy your first real car you lose the rent car. 
 The graphics are awesome and the gameplay is awesome. I recommend this game to Free-Roam fans because 
 this game is aqbout 1600km of road I think. I am very addicted to this game and I can't get off 
 it because it is an awesome game. Any Xbox 360 lover will love to have this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazykillajoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Test drive is fun for a while but it wore of pretty quick at least for me. The online play is definently 
 a huge step for for all racing games. The gameplay is very realistic and I love the behind the wheel 
 view. But the races are pretty meaning less and boring. The graphics and gameplay pull this game 
 together to make a pretty decent racing game. This game just lacks enthusiasm. Test Drive sill isn't 
 up there with the other racing games. I like Need for Speed Carbon alot and i would recommend over 
 Test Drive. (look out for the new Grand Turismo the best racing series out there) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaisgaard
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  When I first played the demo of TDU I wasn't impressed at all. So when the final game came out 
 I didn't bother to get it. This holiday I tried the game, just to kill some time, and the two first 
 days I didn't do much else...
  
  The opening sequence of the game gives you a nice feel of what to come. The graphics are very good, 
 I am running my Xbox360 on a fixed cinema screen in HD and TDU looks very sharp on my machine.
 
  When you get to the island you have to rent a car to start with, of course you are not just given 
 one. When you have rented the car you have to start looking for a place to live (and store your 
 many cars to come) .
  
  The gameplay can be very much doing the same thing over and over. But if you see it as an adventure 
 and enjoy the scenery it is fantastic. Even if you succeed in completing all the races - you still 
 have many hours of playing the multiplayer part of the game.
  
  I hope that Atari and Eden studios will keep up the momentum and develop more cars and events in 
 the game. SUV's and trucks could be a cool thing to do.
  
  I can only recommend this game if you are a fan of driving games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danieloc92
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is set in the island of Oahu, Hawaii, and the island is exactly how it is 
 in real life.
  Due to the island being so big, Atari had to make it easier for players to get around. So how they 
 did this was by allowing you to warp to any road on the island that you have driven on before. 
 This is a great idea because it makes you explore the island, but you never feel like you have 
 to drive for miles and miles.
  
  The game also have a handy GPS system, and you can mark where you want to go to on the map, and 
 you will be given directions of how to get to your destination.
  The game does not always give you the best and quickest directions, but it is good enough.
  
 
  The game has no real aim to it. There is no storyline to it, which is a let down because without 
 a storyline the game has a very aimless feel to it.
  The game does have missions where you can earn money to buy cars, bikes and houses.
  The missions 
 range from car deliveries to races, and most of them are split up into classes (A, B, C, D, E, 
 F, G) .
  You can also buy clothes for your character, but you don't buy clothes with money, you buy them 
 with tokens.
  You earn token by doing missions where you give people a lift to their destination in an alloted 
 time.
  
  The game has a great range of cars and bikes. From a classic Ford GT40, to a McClaren F1 car.
 
  There is a problem with the vehicles though and that is the handling.
  The car handling is not that bad for me, but the bikes are terrible.
  There are no crash physics, 
 which in my opinion is not a bad thing, i mean, who wants to spend $1.5 million on a car and on 
 you way out of the dealership you hit a light-post and wreck your car? That is not my idea of fun. 
 Although it would be good if they gave us the option to turn crash physics on or off.
  
  The game also has a soundtrack, but its not very good, so i would recommend you to listen to the 
 songs stored on your hard drive instead.
  
  Now one of the big selling points for Test Drive Unlimited is the online play.
  As long as you 
 are connected to Xbox live you and everyone else playing will be put onto the island of Oahu and 
 you can just flash your lights at another player for an instant challenge.
  You can also put up any of your cars or bikes for sale over an online marketplace, or you can buy 
 cars or bikes there.
  The online play is really good fun, and adds hours of time to this game.
  
  Test Drive Unlimited 
 is a really good driving game and if you like cars in any way, shape or form, you must look into 
 buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdodds
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game and couldn't stop playing it for 5-6 hours, it's a different type of 
 racing game, it's not menu based but a free roaming island and when you drive and see a race you 
 have the choice to enter it. Or you can set up a cruise. Xbox Live is a great way to play this 
 game because not only is AI on the roads but so are 8 other people near you, and you can also enter 
 online races to play against your friends.
  
  Going to showrooms and being able to test drive cars is great because then you can try before you 
 buy, and being able to play around with the car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sainz2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This is my first xbox 360 game and it's great on my opinion. Game has great graphics even my mom 
 who barely watches my gaming said it has very life true image and cockpit camera is great: rolling 
 windows (why's that in a game? but still nice add-on) radio and so on... Plus long roads on Hawai 
 kepp you driving for hours and hours (there's over 1000miles of them) but on this great game has 
 some mistakes what should be pointed out like weird people (appearance) and ordenary traffic's behavoir (they 
 change row's like sock's on to left row and right back to previous row (pisses off when diving in 
 on delivery missions) but all those little things dissapear when u see Ferrari's, Maserati's and 
 other cool sports cars what's textures and engine sounds are great. Anyway it's a must buy to any 
 racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woozy_Gem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun...
  
  There are a lot of car choices to choose in this game. From a crappy Corvette Stingray to a fast 
 McLaren F1, this game has all of the exotic most tropical cars you can think of. The Island is 
 HHHUUUGGGEEE. Great detail in the environment and good motion blur. The Drive all of the Roads 
 Achievment is going to be tricky. Being an Ace requires a lot of skill (and getting every single 
 achievment) . The graphics are pretty much okay. Not that great, but great gameplay. The Graphics 
 are better than some games at least *cough* NFSCARBON *cough*
  
  This game s fun and highly addictive. That graphics arent that great... but who cares? This game 
 is really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saxo121
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This Game is far superior than any other driving/racing game that i have played and im talking 
 PGR3 and GT4 , Test drive unlimited is the most realistic and the most fun driving game at the 
 moment . Great selection of cars ferrari's , lambo's, mclarens's, audi's etc.... car interior's 
 look amazing! the ability to roll down the windows and turn the cd player is awesome . Alot of 
 camera views with each car speedo and tach on full screen awsome!! Engine sounds sound good especially 
 the bikes! going through the gears on the zx10 is music to my ears . if you drive a car or ride 
 a bike you should buy this game and see how lifelike it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanj23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:49 am PT
Review:  This game is just awesome. You get to drive around the island of Oahu in the best cars around. 
 This game is loads of fun! I have had hours of fun. This game has about 70 or 80 cars in the game 
 some of the brands are Ferrari, Lamborghini, Ford, and many more. You can also download new cars 
 off of xbox live. When your not driving around, or racing you can hang out at your house. Which 
 acts as your info center where you can find out how good you are doing in the game. You can also 
 buy new outfits for you avatar. You can upgrade your cars as well. This game is all around fun. 
 Any racing fan will love this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casper2007
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  i am a really big fan of this game, i didnt even know about it, i was really into need for speed 
 series, but once i played this game, it made me hate need for speed, this game gets a two thumbs 
 up, i hope they make another. I recommend this game to anyone wanting a real driving experience, 
 no other compares even close to this. Maybe in the next one they will make a test drive, wehere 
 it is day and night time that would be great. I absolutely loved the first person in car view with 
 the steering wheel and everything, and how you could look around in the car, very realistic, i 
 guarantee this is the best driving game i have played and will have played. i havent tried the 
 online experience but from what i have heard it is great too, i plan to try it here soon, well 
 anyways great game atari and all other makers of this game, 5 stars and above! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is very good because there is so many ways to go and drive to. I like the game because 
 of the cars and beautiful landscape. I noticed when driving awhile it gets kinda boring. I like 
 the huge world and everything its just to BORING i mean come on compare this to NeedForSpeed MostWanted. 
 This game lacks fun but has a very long and extensive overall that some games like Carbon don't 
 offer which is pretty sad. This game is also good because its very long and not even that expensive 
 unlike other 360 games. I say that this game is for patient people who like crusing around not 
 like street racer types. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  PGR3 set the bar for 360 racing simulators, so its hard to take on that type of competition. but 
 test drive steps up to the plate and fans of racing games most likley have the game due to a lot 
 of features in the game.
  
  gameplay - tacky start to the game allows you to pick from several players about to get on an airplane 
 to hawaii. you get a lump some of cash and you find a place to stay and then your on your way to 
 take on the competition. a good feature of the game for players that hate driving in huge areas 
 is the map feature to jump to places you have already been. the actual racing is solid but by now 
 if you plan on playing online get ready to play againts the pro's.
  
  cars - they have a very good stock pile of cars to choose from. plan on racing a lot to unlock 
 these cars, deffintly adds value to the game
  
  ahcivements - I you buy this game and keep it, you can get almost all the poitns, but if you plan 
 on renting the game, this isn't the game for achivements
  
  overall - very solid game for racing fans, and even renters should have a good time with all the 
 challenges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaiKhulud
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  No, really! Game mechanic itself like good old NFS5 with some very important and big add-ons, like 
 open world and strong multiplayer position. We're collecting cars, race in events... Standart Racing, 
 if not...
  Cars in the game... They're awesome! TVR, Jaguar, Ferrari... This is no sort-of-carbon-japanise-trash, 
 this is real Cars! And they all have unique behaviour... Surprisely good for arcade game! And the 
 sound of the engines, like a mechanic opera... No comments The graphics is unbelievable, no really! 
 I can even see speedometer in cockpit from the outside camera... Yeah, about cockpit... Great idea 
 that was forgotten since NFS5. Cockpits in the game, like an art. Impressive!
  Music good too, there's a lot of genres on any taste.... Without five minutes, ideal racing game. 
 I hope they'll make a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aboyforpele
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 3:07 am PT
Review:  This game is really FUN to play for me. Collecting great cars, driving all kinds of races from 
 easy to pretty hard, getting better in the process. And of course the interaction of single player 
 / online activities is a great feat. This game makes me want to hunt down those achievements like 
 a squirrel in the fall goes for his nuts (imagin the Over The Hedge kind of variety here) . Once 
 you adjust the sensitivity of your steering the control of the cars is good and differs clearly 
 with each type of car. I also love the kind of detail that has gone into the making of this game. 
 Watch the lighting effects on your window screen for instance when you take the camera view from 
 inside the car: the stains on the screen will only stand out when the sun is shining directly on 
 your window pane! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  Next Gen.
  
  What does it mean? Does it mean... better graphics? Better physics.
  Yeah, surely, it means those too; but mainly, at least for me, it means: revolutionized gameplay.
 
  
  Test Drive Unlimited is the first racer on the X360 to introduce something new.
  Project Gotham Racing 3 was a good game, but honestly, other than the great graphics, it didn't 
 offer anything new.
  
  Test Drive Unlimited, on the other hand, introduces a new gameplay-scheme: open-ended driving.
 
  
  In this game, mainly, you'll be driving. Not racing, driving. Yes. You got a huge island to do 
 the driving on. Hawaii. And yes, it's in here. The whole island, with all the roads, all the areas, 
 everything modelled. Everything explorable. No fences, no invisible walls.
  
  Actually, to get from one side to the other, you'll need to drive at least 30 minutes. Thats... 
 alot of time!
  
  In the game, you collect money by doing missions: delivering cars, taking people from A to B, delivering 
 packages. But of course, you can also race. The main point of the game is, though, the driving.
 
  
  It's alot of fun. The game although has no damage model in it, is, pretty realistic. Not a simulator, 
 but definitely not an arcade. Over 120km/h you seriously gotta watch your driving. The game has 
 an incredibly nice dash view, which easily beats PGR3's.
  
  Overally, the game is FUN, and that's the point. Nothing beats cruising on a hawaiian coast in 
 the sunset with a ferrari while listening to your favorite music through the car radio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxmartin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 14, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  Odd game to get you head around at first but in no time you will be whizzing around an island racking 
 other from around the globe. There is a lot that does not require Xbox Live but with out it you 
 are only getting a third of the games attraction.
  
  The realism of the island etc. is excellent and the cars graphically are the bees knees.
  
 
  Some of the off-line tasks can be a little frustrating at times but this is an online game and 
 a good way to make friends and beats them on the track :-)
  
  Highly recommend this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Good: Free roaming is pretty sweet; Hawaii is huge; so many cars and houses in this game; graphics 
 are pretty awesome; many different classifications of cars to choose from ranging from Ferrari's 
 to the almighty Lotus (My favorite) ; police system works pretty well, since it is fairly similar 
 to the GTA police system.
  
  Bad: Motorcycle racing is kinda sluggish and hard to maneuver; 2 crashes and you are basically 
 going to have to pay 3000 dollars; online play got destroyed; its gonna take a really long time 
 to get across hawaii.
  
  Im sure all of us have seen the commercials for this game and thought the game would be retarded. 
 Well, its not. This game made a pretty hefty promise in its commercial and the awesome thing is, 
 it lives up to it. Fully. So many cars to choose from its going to take forever to get enough money 
 to buy them all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidbob
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Generally I dislike cars and racing games. Recently I bought this game. Now I realize cars are 
 fun, and racing is exciting. The open ended game play can be a little off putting because there 
 are no specific goals, no story. The real draw is to get all the best stuff so you can get your 
 butt online. My friends don't play racing games so I don't worry about servers. Racing cars is 
 a world different from grand theft auto, bad cars on those! I wish the game had fast planes, or 
 rocket packs, but maybe in the future. This game is more for people who like collecting, and plan 
 to play online. Good game, play if are going to do it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MPK
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Having enjoyed the second half of my honeymoon in Oahu, and being a big fan of racing games, I 
 had no trouble parting with $29 for a used copy of TDU. Quite sadly, that's pretty much where my 
 lack of troubles with TDU ended.
  
  First, let's start with the graphics. Anyone who's ever spent any time in Oahu can tell you what 
 a bright, lively, and beautiful paradise it is. Unfortunately, the world of Oahu according to TDU 
 is a bland, somewhat colorless place where the entire population of the island seems to be in the 
 tens. Once you get past the novelty of driving around freely, it won't be long before you start 
 to realize that the textures on most of the buildings (and everywhere else) are lacking in detail, 
 and that too many roads consist of very similar-looking trees and grassy areas that make the longer, 
 multi-mile journeys seem even longer than they really are. The lack of everyday people simply walking 
 the streets or lounging on the beaches also detracts heavily from the realism, as you feel like 
 you're driving around in a lifeless ghost town; then again, the few character models you encounter 
 are so ugly and stiff that the less of them you encounter, the better off you are. And last but 
 hardly least, this game suffers from unsteady frame rates, occasional stutters, and very noticable 
 texture and scenery draw-in. I'm sorry, but exactly which generation is it going to be when video 
 gamers can wave bye-bye, once and for all, to that wretched draw-in and pop-up problem that still 
 ravages too many games? As for the sound... well, the in-game music will have you ripping your own 
 soundtrack before you can say, Who the hell picked these bands for this game, and why am I forcing 
 myself to listen to them? Some of the cars' engine roars (the old Camaro comes to mind) are absolutely 
 brutal on the ears. The Oahu I knew was filled with lots of random music and festive chatter, but 
 you won't hear any of it here. Actually, let me correct myself: there is some chatter here and 
 there, and suffice it to say that the voiceover work you'll hear is of the same quality as the 
 music, vehicle, and other in-game sounds. As in bad.
  
  And now, finally... the, uh, gameplay. Funny, driving around Oahu during our honeymoon in our rented 
 car in real life didn't feel like driving a tuna boat on black ice... but it sure does in TDU. Yes, 
 eventually you'll get used to TDU's wonky physics, but even then this game never really feels exhiliarating 
 or rewarding. The game tries to take a semi-realistic approach to incorporating real-world physics, 
 but 80 mph in TDU doesn't feel like anywhere NEAR real-world 80 mph. You can drive much faster 
 than that, of course, and that will give you a decent sensation of speed, but that only exasperates 
 the aforementioned frame-rate stutters and clipping issues. As for the police that occasionally 
 show up... well, suffice it to say that they're not terribly concerned with speeders, or with any 
 kind of dogged persuit should you arouse their attention by smashing other cars. If only there 
 was a way to port the cops from Liberty City to this game...
  
  Even with all of these negatives, there's something to be said for the innovation (even though 
 it's borrowing just a little from GTA and Crazy Taxi) this title shows. Too many aspects of this 
 game are broken to recommend it heartily, but it's a valuable first step in showing what could 
 be somewhere down the line. With a lot more polish and refined scenery and physics engines, this 
 could have been a great and unique racing title; unforunately, TDU stands as a rough draft... heavy 
 emphasis on ROUGH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  A couple of days ago when I bought the 360 people were complaining online about games not being 
 next gen , I'd like to take a moment and review a game that is next generation in content.
  
  Its an online/offline mixture of racing, for those who like to drive freely, or those who are 
 up to a challenge... The features for this game are incredible, but its a shame that more people 
 don't play it.
  
  The game starts you off by picking a character (that you can customize) and throws you into the 
 island of hawaii, with 200,000 dollars to spend on a car, and new house... You then can choose 
 in an open ended world (of something like 42 miles of road or more) where to race, who to race, 
 and what you want to do. You can spend money on tuning your car, upgrading it, or even buying new 
 cars... pretty simple yes? no...
  the fact that the game is always online is what makes it amazing... not only are you driving in 
 an open ended world, your doing with friends... or even people you don't know... all the time (if 
 you choose) , you can instantly challenge anyone you see on the road at any time... you can chat 
 to people whilst driving... you can even sell your car in an online market place... along with 
 buy other users cars (with good deals in mind)
  
  Not only does the game play good (powered by the havok physics engine, which makes for some nice 
 smooth racing) it also looks amazing... the landscapes look damn near realistic (to me) except 
 for a few problems I had (roads look pasted onto sattelite imagery... but its still not bad) but 
 everything you see, is actually there... its a real place... so you know your not driving in some 
 fictional place...
  
  The racing is what is the main point behind the game though, you earn money doing single player 
 offline races (found along the many roads in the world) and get some kind of reputation points 
 for winning multiplayer races... which is nice because you have the choice to earn money or rep...
 
  Personally Im greedy so I stick to the offline races.
  
  Overall this game is pure fun, its pretty... its easy to get into and you'll have a blast racing 
 against your friends...
  pick this one up if you havn't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedFreak21
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  The game is great the design is good aswell but... big problems... name changing, losing money, losing 
 game progress, losing cars, not able 2 connect 2 atari servers, trading car issue, not able 2 find 
 friends like promised, lag, not giving promised updates on time, lied 2 players about wat was going 
 2 actually be in the game (weather and nighttime) , Cars with untunable abilities???, several problems 
 with this game i could go on and on... these problems will be fixed!!! as they say, but ive herd 
 it all before; Aol quote, That is a problem and were working on it. well that is alot of problems 
 and for months now have still been up.. maybe if they put servers in america and other countries 
 we wouldnt drop connection or be able 2 connect 100% for shur... but then again im just a player 
 not a genius like the creators of the game??? o well.... i give the game a 8 out of 10 but... those 
 problems need 2 b fixed or a major loss of players are going 2 await atari.. (all of my friends 
 except 1 has stopped playing tdu because of these problems) but hey once again im only a player....... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  The original Test Drive games, Test Drive and Test Drive II: The Duel, were the definitive arcade 
 style racing games in the 1980's. The developer, Distinctive Software, went on to become EA's Need 
 for Speed development group, and the Test Drive series sort of fizzled with lame attempts at updates 
 to the series. Well, Test Drive is back with a new game, Test Drive Unlimited, and what it lacks 
 in over the top style, it more than makes up for with a solid roster of cars and motorcycles, a 
 huge, sprawling Hawaiian island, and plenty of content in the form of challenges, races, and more.
 
  
  First things first: If you are looking for a tough, linear arcade racing game, like the Need for 
 Speed series, for instance, then TD Unlimited won't make you happy. The single player AI, for the 
 most part, is poor. Sometimes AI opponents can give you a good race, but most times they won't. 
 You can also race online (I don't -- I am currently playing this as a single player only game) , 
 and that can potentially give you what you need in terms of challenge.
  
  If you want an open ended racer, though, then TD Unlimited delivers. It has an insane amount of 
 content, as it sports:
  
  -The entire island of Oahu. This includes cities, small highways, freeways, the ocean, with all 
 sorts of terrain and vegetation. You can find tight, twisty mountain roads, long, straight freeways, 
 and everything in between. It all looks great and is a pleasure to drive around in.
  
  -Car and motorcycles. You buy vehicles from dealerships, and you can drive to any dealer on the 
 island and check out what's for sale. In game you start off with a certain amount of virtual money, 
 you add to this by winning races and challenges, and you can use this to buy new cars and motorcycles. 
 Some things worth mentioning here: There are plenty of licensed normal and exotic cars available. 
 You should be able to find just about anything you like, but it doesn't have the depth of something 
 like Gran Turismo. Secondly, you cannot buy bikes until you have visited every car dealership in 
 the game. That's no small task. I just unlocked motorcycles this morning and although I wasn't 
 working on it full time, it did take a while. Next, cars have fully modeled cockpits, which means 
 you are sitting in the car while driving. This is actually done even better than Project Gotham 
 Racing (you have a better view out of the window, in my opinion) . Lastly, the selection is of course 
 augmented with Xbox Live Marketplace content, which is already available. -Challenges. There are 
 single player races, one on one races (both single player and multi-player) , speed and time based 
 challenges, and delivery missions. All of these, except for the one on one and multi-player races, 
 are handled by just going to the on screen icon and activating the race. The one on one races are 
 similar, except as you drive around you can flash your headlights at opponents and request they 
 race you. AI and multi-player opponents will have their name above their vehicles, and once you 
 request to race them, you then have to set up a course (just select a finish line from the navigational 
 map) and race. Some events, like car delivery missions, can only be completed successfully once. 
 All others can be completed multiple times, which allows you to accumulate vast wealth by repeating 
 speed challenges, for instance. The entire user interface is very streamlined and things like requesting 
 a revenge match with a one on one opponent, is easy to do. You win money for all challenges except 
 for fashion model delivery missions. Yes, you can find fashion models wandering around and drive 
 them from shops to home and accumulate points you can use to buy clothes for your avatar.
  
  -Houses, clothes, and appearance. In a nod to games like The Sims and Tiger Woods, I guess, 
 TD Unlimited offers you a limited choice of avatars, male and female, and a fair assortment of 
 clothes and appearance altering tools. You can alter the head quite considerably, including color 
 and facial hair. You can also buy tops, pants, shorts, shirts, jackets, shoes, gloves, and other 
 gear. It is all very streamlined and actually quite fun to use. You would think the feature would 
 be a throw away but it can actually add some depth to the game. You also have to buy at least one 
 house at the beginning of the game, but you can buy more. They all have distinct looks and can 
 hold at least four vehicles. Yes, that means as your stable of vehicles grows you better upgrade 
 your house!
  
  -Navigation and the GPS. The game has a navigational map with easy to use filtering, allowing you 
 to zoom in and out on the island and see what resources or challenges are available. You can immediately 
 teleport to any location you have previously visited, or you can set a waypoint and the in car 
 GPS will steer you there. It's a very slick system that makes getting around easy to do. -Driving 
 and the sensation of speed. Test Drive Unlimited definitely has an arcade feel to it, but I liken 
 the driving model as something closer to Project Gotham Racing 3, not Need for Speed or Burnout 
 Revenge. You definitely have to break around corners, and although cars you wreck into will break 
 apart, there's no damage modeling to speak of. As you drive the speedometer might say 115 MPH, 
 but it doesn't feel that fast. It does feel plenty fast though, and you can easily break and corner 
 responsively. Different cars handle quite differently, and it is just as fun driving in a Pontiac 
 Firebird as it is a Ferrari F430. There are quite different beasts and enjoyable to drive in their 
 own right. -The Police. An interesting addition to Test Drive, and a nod to the original series 
 as well as a prominent part of Need for Speed, are the presence of police. They aren't smart, you 
 can easily drive around their barricades, but if you've gotten yourself to that point you better 
 be prepared to give the locals a big wad of money (I have paid up to $72,000 in fines!) or spend 
 some time in jail. In other words, you can get out of minor infractions pretty easily, but if you 
 have them all after you, they will eventually capture you. There is really no way out of it. Now, 
 you are of course wondering how you can get into trouble, and that's really just by wrecking into 
 cars. You can fly past stop signs and red lights, ram into buildings and rails, and speed all you 
 want, but don't hit other cars. If you do it once, no biggie. Unless you do more often in a short 
 span of time, it's forgiven. If you hit a cop car or several cars in a row, though, all hell will 
 break loose. Some might argue that this presents a distraction, but what it does is teach you to 
 drive cleanly. I drive long distances in the game and I can often drive without a major infraction.
 
  
  To summarize, Test Drive Unlimited is huge, beautiful, and fun. It only costs $40, so if you love 
 cars and an open ended racer appeals to you, please pick it up. I haven't touched Project Gotham 
 Racing 3 or Forza in weeks. This in the only racer I play.
  
  Gord_Mose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sausn2002
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  Being the first Massively Multiplayer Racing game, this game lives up to the hype.
  
  This title is more of a love it or hate it game. Some may find it exhilarating, giving them something 
 different in a racing game, and some will find it slow and boring.
  
  I don't think this game was quite there when it came out, but give it time and it will become a 
 very great game. I say this because alot of features and cars are not out in this game yet and 
 the game needs more people online.
  
  I like the style of gameplay. The way the cars react are on a very realistic scale. Cars will skid 
 and drift like their real counterparts and don't do it in such an Arcade style gameplay as in Project 
 Gotham Racing 3.
  
  The graphics could have been better, but the way the environment looks is impressive. There is 
 an in-car view that maps the real look of each car like in PGR3, but is not quite as exciting as 
 in PGR3.
  
  There is an appeal with exploring the Hawaiian island of Oahu (location in the game where you roam 
 around) . This island has been mapped exactly the same as the real island (developers used photographs 
 and GPS technology to do this) . Its pretty cool to roam around and then decide to race someone 
 that happens to drive up next to you. You can also join car clubs within the game, which can be 
 fun when competing with other car clubs.
  
  The game would have been much better with more cars and the option to tune cars out like in the 
 Need For Speed series.
  
  People should rent this one first to determine whether its for them, but for a different racing 
 experience its worth a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JipJopJones
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is the newest game in the long running test drive series. This is probablly 
 the best one. Although the Bike handling is not wonderful, I don't know why everyone is complaining 
 about the car physics, I like them. This game will have you playing for hours and hours. The online 
 is great and it's lots of fun to just cruise around. Just be sure to give this game a chance. When 
 you start, It'll be great., then you'll play for a while and get bored, but take a brake and come 
 back to it, cuz once you get there you will love it. once you break in to the supercar market the 
 game becomes totally diferent. It's great. I love it, and I hope you do too, cuz this game is underrated 
 majorly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Wow, 1000 miles of a tropical Hawaiian paradise, wouldn't we want to all be in a place like that, 
 well now we can. Test Drive Unlimited is set on the Island of Oahu in Hawaii. The roads are accurate 
 down to the block and a lot of the landmarks are real too. Their are currently just under 100 cars 
 in that game and they all look awesome, The interiors are very detailed, you can even put the window 
 up or down and honk the horn. The cars each have a unique sound pretty similar to their real life 
 models. When you buy your cars you also get to choose from manufacturer options and you can also 
 tune you cars to 3 different levels. The enviroment is also very detailed. Other than grass and 
 weeds showing through you cars their is almost no problem with this game. The AI is pretty good 
 too, they arn't the best but they do put up a fight. The driving mechanics in this game are also 
 pretty good, each car handles differently and handle almost sim like. I don't have xbox live yet 
 so i can't review how that plays but i imagine it's pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodKn0wn
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  It's a good thing this game focuses on Hawaii. For one, its much better to drive on different streets 
 than to be limited to a race course (usually accompanied by invisible barriers) . Secondly, I live 
 in Hawaii, so it was nice to see all the little additions Eden Studios added to our aina.
  
  But who would I be to say this game is perfect just because its based on my own home (Oahu) . 
 The graphics in this game (besides the car models) seem a little outdated, and you'll be able to 
 see what I mean when you decide to go off-road. The tree graphics look similar to every other 360 
 game around, but then again, this game isn't about trees. Homes are nicely implemented, though 
 some are either not supposed to be there, are misplaced, or don't even exist. The cars are the 
 best part of the game, while on the contrary, the game is the worst part of the game.
  
  I know it all has to do with taste and such, but I'm not up for driving around Oahu pointlessly 
 doing races and buying cars or houses. I'm a GTA player, so I went for a game more like Saint's 
 Row. This game performs well on a racer's game level, and you should expect it to, but I was not 
 totally happy with the game's structure.
  
  I'd recommend you rent before you buy, because you're not missing much besides a cool drive in 
 Hawaii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemanu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game, good achievements, lots of cars, bikes as well and you can freely drive around 
 the whole island.
  
  I've managed to get to expert, I haven't done the long ones yet because I know I will crash near 
 the end and lose.
  
  The graphics look good on my 42 plasma in HD, the cars are nice and shiny.
  
  The gameplay 
 is also great, short races are fun, long I haven't tried much, but I like them when I don't crash. 
 :)
  
  The value for &pound;40 is good, it's fun and has given me over 400 gamerpoints, the game that 
 got me to 100. :D
  
  I'm not an expert at judging sound but it sounds good, you hear the crash when the crash into something. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Army_Veteran
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  First I will start out by stating that I am not a hard core gamer. And I am not all into specs 
 of cars on a video game and how they handle, I just play games that I enjoy, so if your like me 
 then read on, if not this review might not be for you.
  I will say I really enjoyed this game. I first bought the game only for the reason that I was in 
 the military and was station in Hawaii, so I figured that I could drive in the video games some 
 places I did in real life. I know that sounds corny but it is pretty cool.
  The game play on this is great, I love how the cars handled for me, and I loved the lay out of 
 everything. There are plenty of single player races and challenges. The achievements are somewhat 
 easy to get, and some are a little difficult. But all in all game play is great.
  The graphics are good, however; the repeated characters on everyone gets kinda dual, but easy looked 
 over. I wished they had more buildings around. The roads are defiantly accurate from what I remember 
 from 3 years ago.
  The updates for this game never happen, but no big deal, you will get plenty of cars in the game 
 to buy so purchasing more from marketplace would be a waste of money.
  The value of the game is great, it cost only $39.99 and you get plenty of game play, I played just 
 single player and got about 90 hours of game play out of it, that is not including multiplayer.
 
  All and all its worth the $39.99 and your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a few weeks after it came out and it was not long until i had sailed through 
 the single mode. Online mode is ok.... not great.. you get a lot of lag online when you race oeople 
 and i feel that they could of improved on the online mode. overall good graphics, realistic racing 
 . i like it. i have been on this game a lot and their are plenty of cars to choose from, such as 
 real exotic and fast cars, to classics and american muscles and dont forget the bikes. i was very 
 excited about getting the game, and now i have been on it for some time i have just got a little 
 tired with it as it gets very repetitive i would wait for another good racer to come out such as 
 forza motorsport 2 and project gotham racing 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpo335
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, I wasn't sure whether to get it or SC: DA. So, when I got there, I stuck to 
 my friends advice and picked it up. When I jumped in the car and looked into the manuel, I couldn't 
 believe it. I just knew this game was going to be a blast!
  
  Insanley good. I loved it. This is not even close to PGR3, which was just pretty grahpics and nice 
 cars. This game delivers a punch that will send you flying into a world with beutiful scenery graphics 
 (The vegetation coul have been better but it doesn't bother me) , sexy cars, not to mention the 
 selection is quite good, and great races. The races are realistic, too. The racers are not the 
 Go 50 around a hairpin turn like in other games, but they actually slow down and get in accidents 
 with each other. Plus, you dont have to do races. You can just cruise with some buddies if you 
 want, a popular on my friends list. You can also customize your charecter from making him/her from 
 being a fat slob to a thin twig. The graphics are great, I couldn't have asked for more. I've seen 
 my share of bad graphics like the mushed up faces in Hitman: Blood Money. Nope, not here, this 
 game carrys a great graphic system with saving times everywhere. Everytime you go into your house, 
 you save, everytime you leave, save, etc. The cars look phenomenal, I loved my Aston Martin Vanquish 
 but you have just go to give it to the Red Enzo Ferrari. BTW, you can cuztomize the interiors of 
 your cars to an extent. No complaints about the sound, it all sounds like the normal. Overall, 
 I think this game is a must buy for any car/racing/driving fan will love. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven_bergen
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is a very fun game. There is lots of things i love about this game and a couple 
 of things that i dont really like that much. One thing i really like the the ton of cars in the 
 game and pretty much all of them i like and want to own but i know i cant own them all. LOL. Another 
 thing i like is the fact that i can race a race as much times as i want and keep winning money. 
 One thing i dont really like in the game is the fact that when i get three badges from the cops 
 witch means three cop cars are in pursuit that it is so hard to lose the cops. Another thing i 
 hate is that when cops make road blocks i cant crash threw them really if i it a road block i would 
 be able to go threw it but it would slow me down alot. But at least i can go around them. Overall 
 i think TDU is an awsome game that everyone who likes the racing genre should buy this game for 
 there Xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheaton345
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  The game is great picture and noise capability. Test Drive also features 120 cars ranging from 
 my favorite Saleen to jaguar. The game is not very challenging but it is still very fun to play, 
 (it took me 8 days to get half way through the game and have about 25 cars and 3 motorcycles) . 
 If you unlock motorcycles save up 120grand and buy the mugusti Turbani 4 and tune it up i had mine 
 up to 220 and 0-60 in 2.6 second damn fast you can beat any thing with it. If you haven't already 
 picked up this game do it now ( or go get nfs carbon) but definitley pick this game up if you have 
 a 360 or go to a friend that does and make them buy this or you can go $h! t your self (JK) but go 
 now now now now now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  Test Drive has long remained a forgotten lost franchise, when put up against the recent success 
 of the Need for Speed series. However back in the day the 2 faced off as equals, and the last great 
 Test Drive game was Test Drive Lemans on Dreamcast. Now years later, they give it a go again, but 
 this time with a new take on mixing multiplayer into the single player, to create a living breathing 
 city both online and off. Read on to find out if it lives up to the Test Drive name.
  
  Graphically the game looks superb, with great car models, amazing scenery and great glair, smoke 
 effects, and what not. While not as good looking as Project Gotham 3, its still a very good looking 
 game. However the character models are horrendously bad looking.
  
  The Gameplay is where the game wins all its points though. Here you got a new idea for a racing 
 game that throws u into the Hawaii islands and lets you drive around buying houses, cars, upgrades 
 and what not. Along with this its a living breathing world where you can go online or off and race 
 with anyone around the world in this digital city. Its quite fascinating really, and the game controls 
 wonderfully, and the mission structures, while limited are still extremely fun. Overall its one 
 of the most original racing games in years, and for the price you cant go wrong. Highly Recommended 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toyeboy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This is simply the best game of the test drive series by far and I've played them all. I'll start 
 with the graphics. They are top notch, simply unbelievable the draw distance and detail that is 
 seen in the environments, it simply blows any other racing game out of the water in this department. 
 Never have I seen such open and detailed mountains, trees, houses etc.. and it does it all at a 
 very steady framerate. But I didn't give them a 10/10 because sometimes the horizon on the road 
 your driving does fill in before your eyes which takes away from the immersiveness of the evironment, 
 but for me it's definitely acceptable b/c it's usually very far ahead of you. The only other grip 
 I have is the car models themselves should have a little bit more shine and flare to them... but 
 they still look good.
  
  Next the handling physics. I'll put it simply the handling could be better. The cars all handle 
 differently and they are for the most part accurate and fairly easy to control but the supercars 
 should handle better IMO. The motorcycles do not handle like they should which is quite dissapointing 
 b/c in reality they'd handle much better, but not in this game.. you have to constantly use the 
 brakes b/c for some reason you can't take sharp turns with the motorcycles without going off the 
 road, I'm guessing had the bikes handled like they are supposed too, it would have given them to 
 much of an advantage to the cars b/c they are still very fast in a straight line and easier to 
 get around traffic. The gameplay is good, but some of the challenges are quite hard. The hitchhiker 
 and top model challenges do not let you hit more than one or two cars or even go off the road which 
 is very annoying if you do the hitchhiker will get out of your car. Also the police shouldn't even 
 be included in this game b/c they aren't very smart and the cop cars look hideous, and they only 
 come after you if you hit them, you can fly right by them at 200 mph and they won't do anything 
 if you don't hit them, plus the fines are huge like around $40,000 if you get caught.
  
  I've mainly posted the negatives of this game but as you see I gave it an 8.9 b/c it makes up for 
 itself in other areas, I recommend this game to any car lover and a fairly experienced with racing 
 games b/c it is tough staying on the road at times and not colliding with traffic. But it's graphics 
 are life like detail wise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 31, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of racing and driving games since the old arcade days. Many games and series 
 come and go, some leaving a worthwhile memory, others... nothing more then the pain of what could 
 have been. So far it appears that this is of the former category.
  
  TDU is an aimless game, so if you are looking for a plot or story, look elsewhere. Your entire 
 game consists of driving around one of the Hawaiin Islands and getting into races to earn the cash 
 to by new cars. The car selection is nice though, all from the real world or concepts from major 
 car companies.
  
  Gameplay - The cars handle realistically well (i. e. don't try that 90+ degree corner @ over 90mph 
 in most cars, you WILL hit the wall) for the most part, and the controls are simple. BUt there 
 is nothing truly exceptional about the gameplay except the amount of milage to cover.
  
  Graphics - Overall good, but I was dissapointed in the damage model for your own car (mine never 
 had a scratch even after a head on collision at top speed) . The buildings could have been a bit 
 sharper, but again, not to bad.
  
  Sound - The sound was good as well, nice vehicle and environmentals. The soundtrack was a bit stiff 
 though for a racing game.
  
  Value - So far a pretty good game, so if you don't need a plot and just want to picture yourself 
 driving off into the pacific sunset.... at least a renter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spurs2103champs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  TDU (Test Drive Unlimited) and Need for Speed High Stakes are definatly the two best racing games 
 so far for the XBox360 console. TDU has the ebst grpahics for an XBox360 game. The detail on the 
 cars is amazing. You can view them in your garage and notice every detail. The gameplay is very 
 good as well. Each car has its own control and sound. The story of the game is a guy is getting 
 on a plane to go to Hawaii to race cars. You first have to rent a car to drive to the dealership 
 and purchase your own. You have 50,000 (or close to that) . After you purchase your first car you 
 perticipate in many differnet activites. They are time trials, racing against the cpu, picking 
 models up, getting another persons car repaired , and speed traps. Each of the races are catorgized 
 by car restriction (there may not even be one) and difficulty. Also the races have different lengths. 
 The island in the game is huge. It takes at least an hour to get around the whole thing. There 
 is so much detail in the island it is incerdible. In this game you can also purchase clothes for 
 your character and homes. And yes, the homes are your garages too. The gamespot review lies to 
 you about XBox live saying that you can't find your friends. There are some glitches in Live but 
 it is way better than how gamespot says it is. Gamespot also didn't like the fact that the main 
 point of the game is just to get $ and cars. All I have to say about this is that for some people 
 the main point of this game is too miniscule (like gamespot) and to others the amazing graphics 
 and gameplay will be enough (like me) . The only TWO things that I didn't like about this game was 
 how there is no damage to the car you drive and the cop system. The no damage on your car would 
 just have been cool but it really doesn't matter. However the cop systme really gets me pissed. 
 It is really annoying. You can be driving 150 in your Ferriar and then you barley swide swipe someone 
 and boom you have badge blinking. Blinking isn't that bad then you might accidentaly hit someone 
 else and then boom you have 1 solid badge. It is easy to get rid of but once you get 3 you are 
 screwed. If you get pulled over you have to pay a fine or if you can't afford it you spend time 
 in jail. Don't worry though it is only like 60 seconds. So overall this game is amazing. The graphics 
 are revoultionary and the gameplay can keep you playing for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crippla87
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  TDU is a pretty big game in terms of scope. You get the whole island of Aloha to drive around and 
 for whats there, it sure does look pretty darn good. There's a good selection of cars in the game 
 from Ferrari, Nissan, Ford, but the bike selection could have benefited with a bigger variety. 
 Luckily, TDU will get car packs around the bend and the list will only get bigger and better. Single 
 player can be a little repetitive, but you can still have a blast offline. I haven't really tried 
 multiplayer yet, but being able to drive with hundreds of others in the same world is pretty neat 
 and the way the offline is integrated with online is cool. The sound I find can be quite repetitive 
 so I didn't get wowed by it that much. Another thing is the cops in the game are just pathetic; 
 you can blow by them at 150mph and they could care less unless you hit another vehicle and even 
 if you do that, just don't hit another one and you'll be fine! The price of the game is easy to 
 swallow and for what you get, it's a great deal and other companies should take the hint from Atari 
 and make their games $40, as well. *sigh* The most disappointing aspect of the game though is where 
 it needs it the most, the way the cars handle. It's a mix between arcade and simulation and sometimes 
 it can be outright frustrating. The cars are prone to spinning out a little to much for my taste 
 and it feels as if Atari should have gone one way or the other. However, there's more to this game 
 then just racing, you can also go to shops to dress your avatar and make them look pimp and you 
 can tune most cars and sometimes alter their appearance. Overall, TDU is one sweet deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Racing game I am playing on my 360, and it seems to be an enjoyable game. But 
 I suggest you rent this game first because I did and I find it fairly easy to complete, and once 
 you are finished the game it might seem like a waste of money.
  
  I rented this game yesterday and I already have 150 Gamerscore points from it. But thats all I 
 rented this game for anyways, easy Gamerscore points. And the achievements are fairly easy to get, 
 but its just very time consuming.
  
  Its a nice experience to be able to drive both Cars and Motorcycles, even though it is a bit of 
 a pain just to unlock the dealers that sell Motorcycles.
  
  The engine sounds are also very nice, I personally enjoy hearing the engine of a Motorcycle or 
 pushing a Muscle Car's engine to its limit.
  
  Though the radio is a little strange to get going and since it uses the D-pad it makes it worse. 
 So you'll probably want to stream music from your PC.
  
  The best feature I've seen in vehicles is how everything looks when you go on the inside view. 
 Unlike the last-gen consoles they always had a limit to how much detail could be added to games, 
 but with the 360 that limit has increased dramatically. The biggest feature that stands out from 
 the inside view is that the tachometer and speedometer both work. Also on most of the cars that 
 have the gear box on the floor, you'll actually see your character change the gear, but not on 
 all cars since for some reason the shifter doesn't seem to move. The mirrors also actually show 
 you whats behind you, but you may crash your car if you are driving and turn your characters head 
 so you can see the rear view mirror.
  
  It would have been nice if it was night time sometimes though because I am getting tired of everything 
 being so bright.
  
  The scenery is also very nice. And I've heard that the island is almost identical to the real life 
 version of it, and from a look at it through Google Earth I have to agree. Going off-roading is 
 also a nice experience because you can see how much work was actually done to place everything 
 (its amazing because if you see a tree, you won't see another one like it anywhere around it and 
 I find this very nice because most games use the same tree over and over again to save space) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergcard
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion Test Drive Unlimited is a acceptable game to all Test Drive fans. The car sounds 
 are very good, and the traffic is also acceptable. I don&acute; t like the gameplay . I think it 
 could be better. A Grand Turismo gameplay engine would be great and the graphics could be also 
 better. In the xbox live i just tried the easy ride, but it&acute; s great to see other player pass 
 by us, in middle of computer traffic ( +- like real life) . About enter a association or compete 
 in a race i don&acute; t have a opinion because i face some problems when enter in a race with other 
 player. (I can&acute; t get the green light) . I will try again because i&acute; m missing something 
 there. ;)
  In conclusion this game is not a bad investment. PS.: Just a appeal in this review to all test 
 drive fans is that if u play this game in xbox live email me if u know what i&acute; m doing wrong 
 in multi-player racing and also to race of course ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 26, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I spent $7 to rent the game and I'm a tad upset that I spent that much. The game is good, but I'll 
 stop at good.
  
  The car graphics are great, and there are a lot of cars. You can even customize a few features 
 before you purchase the cars, which include the interior that you will never see again. The graphics 
 on the characters are certainly not next gen, the gps map looks like low-res Google Earth stuff, 
 and the driving enviroment is fair at best. The one good thing about the graphics is that as you 
 drive along, like in real life, the scene to your left and right blurs more and more as you accellerate.
 
  
  The vehicles are hard to control on the road, and the most annoying thing is that the cars don't 
 seem to want to listen to you as you change from drive to reverse and back again. This is very, 
 very annoying for the multitude of crashes you'll experience. Plus, the game is good at getting 
 your cars stuck on hills after the crashes. So when your car finally does allow you to back up, 
 you can't go anywhere and you're certain to lose the race.
  
  Rent it, play it for a little bit, teturn it, and never think of it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 2.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimiteds title is missing a word. It should read Test Drive Unlimited Frustration. 
 Everything else in the game has its limits. But once you press Play Game on the XBOX 360 Dashboard, 
 youll be bald in no time ripping out hair from any and every part of your body that may have 
 at least one follicle. Lets dissect TDU and find out why.
  
  First thing is that loading screens occur frequently. From the opening cut-sequences, youll have 
 gone through at least 7-10 loading screens because Atari cant create an entire cut-scene without 
 breaking it up into 30-second segments. Throughout that sequence, youre subjected to looking at 
 one of the unattractive characters you have to pick at the beginning of the game as your Oahu persona. 
 Which brings me to Ataris next error. The only graphically pleasing part of the game is the cars. 
 The scenery is bland: green trees all over the place that look the same, streets, buildings that 
 can stop your car on a dime (as well as poles, fences, and the ugly green trees) , beach. All of 
 it is an eyesore. Then your character doesnt help matters any. I always imagined a Hawaiian island 
 filled with awesome looking women, and guys trying to hit on them. That could be true with TDU, 
 but theyre the ugliest bunch of island people Ive ever seen. Then theres the map which looks 
 like it was ripped off of Google Earth. There are parts of Google Earth that are pretty sharp and 
 clear, and others are just blobs of green, gray, brown just cant tell what it is. Same with the 
 TDU map its those parts of Google Earth that look like a kindergartener finger painted all over 
 the screen, with the icons being the only crystal clear objects.
  
  Speaking of questionable display problems, did everyone at Atari create and test this game under 
 a microscope? The text in the game is practically impossible to read. I have 20/20 vision and a 
 32-inch TV, so it isnt me. Most of the time, I dont know how much money I have, what that junk 
 is that flashes on the screen from the left about some song thats on the radio (that isnt even 
 PLAYING I havent heard any music yet, but apparently the game thinks I hear it) . However, I can 
 barely make out the competitor names and distances from time to time.
  
  Then theres the focus of all the Unlimited frustration you could ever want in a racing game: 
 the gameplay. Thats right, if you enjoy driving tanks at 150mph, then this game is for you. But 
 thats only once youre up to speed. Before then, youd better not turn, or otherwise the only 
 thing youll be doing for the next 20 minutes is spinning out. Even before that, the car doesnt 
 want to go until about 10 seconds after you push the gas, brake, or combination of both because 
 you want to go, but the car just isnt ready yet. Once it decides it would like to move, and you 
 take it beyond 100mph, youd better not decide to make any sudden turns because youll be plowing 
 through the forest about a half of a mile in the same direction you were going until your car begins 
 to go the direction you want it to go all that forest ago. And dont even think youre going to 
 dodge those pesky slow-moving cars at 100+ mph youre going to plow right into them, and then 
 the ridiculously irritating cops will be alerted to your reckless driving. One cop you can avoid. 
 Two is a little more difficult, but possible. But if you have three cops chasing after you, youre 
 better off paying the fine while its cheap. Otherwise, all youre going to do is obtain a higher 
 bill by plowing through more cars to try to get away from the cop behind you, only to have one 
 spawn in front of you. Youll never get away. And hiding in the ugly forest doesnt help either 
 because if you thought you crept away through the foliage and get back on the highway, the magical 
 cop cars are right on top of you for some retarded reason, when they were miles behind you.
  
  This games online features may redeem it, but since I dont have a Gold membership, then Im 
 content with returning this rental early. Ill just have to wait until Need For Speed: Carbon comes 
 out to satisfy my racing needs. Stay away from this one, though. Its not worth your green for even 
 the rental fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaseAH
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  This game is not my favorite but it is good. there are a ton of cars to buy and one thing that 
 i loved is that you could test drive the cars. its probably been in all the other test drive games 
 but i have not played any of them but this one. this is a good game but i would not buy it because 
 it cost so much. I think it is a fun game i like the free drive mode and i like all the customising 
 you can do to you character. I personally dont buy a new game unless its almost perfect. to this 
 one i would say no. but it is an ok game, but when the price drops i think it would be a fun game 
 to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxpkblade
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 23, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Take the picturesque Hawaiian island of Oahu, lots of licensed vehicles of varying pedigrees, and 
 a game design that attempts to blend a persistent online world with the typical single-player experience, 
 and what you get is an interesting take on what one might try to describe as a massively multiplayer 
 online racer. Of course, that wouldn't be quite correct. As huge as the island of Oahu is, the 
 online component of the game simply doesn't feel that massive, because the game limits how many 
 online players can come in contact with you.
  to sum it up in one word this game is a great accomplishment.
  
  sound.... above average sound
 
  
  graphics.... really great graphics and textures
  
  gameplay.... its not the best but its definatly a buy
  
  overall..... just a great experience 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oh-really
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Test drive unlimted is a very nice little game which pretends that you just moved to hawia and 
 now you have to buy houses, clothes, and cars. You can drive anywhere you want in hawia. The races 
 are very nice and other challanges. You get to buy your own house, cars, clothes, and some other 
 stuff. The online is very great to it is a very good idea. I think this is one of the best racing 
 games for the 360 yet. It is very long and very fun. anyone looking for a good racing 360 game should 
 deffinaly buy test drive unlimted over need for speed anyday. Ps. need for speed is another very 
 good game and should be rented next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeTGoDLiKe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  This is really the best racing game ever amde there is 1000miles off road about 10,000things to 
 do it takes 9hours to find everything thats how big this game really is. The graphics on this game 
 are just 10/10 you cant get better for a racing game i really like the way you can drive inside 
 your car and you can look outside the windows are look @ you seats mostly u can looks @ everything 
 insaide your car the gameplay is the best ive seen for a game this size it says 100percent smooth 
 for 100percent off your gameplay time its all a MMO= Massive multiplayer game every 1 is on the 
 same island as you which is great fun you just see every 1 driveing passed you and you can also 
 trade cars buy and sell them with your buddys online. The downpoint about this game is that the 
 police are just rubbish in the game if you stop your car and your on the highest police list you 
 need to pay about 50,000fine which is a lot off money but apart from that everything is great. 
 You can drive cars and bikes which is new for a game like this you can also go to performance shops 
 to upgrade the speed off your car its a bit like dneed for speed but Test Drive is better sound 
 better gameplay bigger world better graphics and much more to do. I give this a 9.6 because it 
 has about 100or more hours off gamplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdawg1003
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Well a day befoe my 360 took a crap on me i rented this game and i thought thatthis game was amazing 
 the fact that you can race a race as manny times as you want is a good feature the game is good 
 i love tom play a racing game here and there and this game i would play all the time i also heard 
 that this game was the first mmo racing game in the world now that is a good thing to look foward 
 to to those that have xbox live now that my xbox 360 is back and fixed i can race some people on 
 line. Well thats my review jdawg1003 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  First off for 40 dollars this game is a great deal. Your getting a game that has a lot more length 
 then project gotham and need for speed for 20 dollars less. And that is this games selling point. 
 Its cheap and will keep you busy. The graphics are pretty good The cars look great. the enviroment 
 is ok but you need to remember how huge it is. The in car view is way better then projevt gothams. 
 The game takes place on the island of Ohau. The map is freakin huge. Its around 50 miles long and 
 20-30 wide. And there is a huge variety of cars. From exotic ferraris to crotch rockets. The setup 
 is pretty cool. When you put the game in it signs you into the server and you get placed on the 
 map with up to 7 other people. And then you can do whatever you want. Some of the activities include, 
 time trials, delivering packages, and my personal favorite, vehicle transport. ANd at any time 
 you can make a lobby for people to join or if you drive next to another player you can quick challenge 
 them. The games biggest fault is its dificulty. Some races will make you pull your hair out and 
 send your controller across the room. Overall its a very good game and definatley worth a purchase 
 if your looking for something to keep you busy for a few weeks while you wait for GoW or cod3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  This might not be... the best. But it's probably one of the better xbox 360 games out there. I really 
 enjoyed how you can get a house ( though i hate how you can't decorate it) . And character customization 
 is a little shallow. It offers some good graphics and a ton of cars though. Missions are a little 
 repetitive but they ae fun nonetheless. It offers a huge area to drive in and playing online is 
 a blast. I would defenitly recommend this game to anyone who likes racing-and that says a lot since 
 i usually don't like racing games. Maybe you should give it a rental-or just go out and buy it-it's 
 great-trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkindly
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Very nice game and i would recomend it to anyone who likes racing games and is into cars. The graphics 
 also pretty impressive, espcially when doing a high speed race!
  
  The cars game are top end high performance cars, so no cilos, or corsa's (lol) non of that stuff. 
 It's all astin martins, jaguars, mercedes, ferrai etc etc etc. Also bikes, but no many! In game 
 there are plenty of things to do, many places to visit, lots and lots of racing to do. Various 
 different types of races, from timed limted races to online racing actually within the game itself. 
 A interesting feature to game is the fact that you can buy houses, without a house in the game 
 you would not be able to store your vechles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  test drive is a pretty solid racing game. It has great looking cars with realistic parts and dealers 
 and the landscape is not too bad either. The racing objectives are challenging but fun. The down 
 side to this game is the worthless mini games and side parts. To start the model pick ups and courier 
 missions are pointless and the clothing shops are right there with them. I really dont care about 
 the way my in game character dresses becuase im here to race not be a style freak. Also its freakishly 
 boring when you have to drive the entire island to get to one place if you havent traveled it yet. 
 also it takes forever to get money together to buy houses and cars. This game is really only for 
 a dedicated racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filmfreak1138
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for a few reasons...
  
  1. It was a good price... nice to get a game that was not $60 to $70 bucks.
  
  2. That it was 
 a world that never slept and was always happening even if you were offline.
  
  3. The Island is a fun place to drive...
  
  I have enjoyed this game alot... it is fun to just 
 drive around a place that I know pretty well. This game reminds me of driver though... and that 
 is not a bad thing, but we all know the last few have not all been that great.
  
  But TDU is a solid driving/racing game that is allot of fun and pretty DEEP once you get into it... 
 explore the Island... race a few time... and you will find yourself hours into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The game takes awile to learn but after playing for a few days and getting new cars it 
 becomes alot funner. The M. O. O. R (massively open online racing) aspect of the game is spot on as 
 your driving to a new mission or store or what ever if you see someone else driving just push (A) 
 and you will challenge to a race, heck! You can make the finish line the store you want to go to! 
 Also there are not just cars, there are motor cycles also! They are pretty fast but also VERY easy 
 to knock off the road. The island you play on is HUGE, the good thing is that you can teleport 
 to the local you want too as long as you have traveled there before. 10
  
  Graphics: Wow the graphics are nice! They almost look real! The only thing tho, bad draw distance. 
 The cars look almost real, the paint jobs you can get also very well done. 9
  
  Sound: The sound track douse not have any heavy metal or any good music for that matter. The driving 
 sounds are good and everything else... also the voice acting is kinda creepy... 7
  
  Value: I love this game. I normally HATE racing games but this game is pretty awsome. 9
  
  
 Tilt: Not for everyone. 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kahuna9995
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 17, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  I may be showing my age here by saying I can fondly remember playing the original Test Drive back 
 on my Amiga 500. The concept of the game was painfully simple. Sit yourself in an incredibly expensive 
 car and drive, avoid crashing and getting stopped by the police. Sadly it has been a long time 
 since a driving game has focused on just that... driving.
  
  I was very excited when I first came across the outline for TDU and in my head started to visualise 
 the potential of a persistent on-line driving world.
  
  To that respect Atari have made an fine attempt at creating a driving game that runs at a pace 
 all it's own. By far the most interesting facets of TDU are it's concept and it's location. A grand 
 undertaking of immense digital proportions to recreate over a 1000 sq/km of roads and associated 
 scenery and one that has been carried out to a very high standard. The creation of an almost seamless 
 single player/multi player interface and a reasonably intelligent traffic simulation. All these 
 technical merits put TDU in for the moment in time a very exclusive club.
  
  However there are some faults with the games execution that unfortunately prevent it from toppling 
 PGR3 as my top driving game on the 360.
  
  For arcade playabiltity TDU is amongst the best out there. The cars physics are forgiving and subtle 
 enough to give a fair representation of each cars handling and performance. The varring levels 
 of driver aides do come in handy for new drivers as some of the supercars do bite as well as bark. 
 As one would expect from a car boasting in excess of 400bhp. There are some strange occurrences 
 though. For example when driving along in my F430 i'll pull out at 80mph drop a gear and then find 
 that this SUV I'm trying to overtake has a better pick up than my Ferrari... hmmmm Also I found 
 the controls of the bikes to be substandard. I have never personally ridden a motorbike that under-steered 
 or was incapable of lighting up the rear wheel.
  
  The multi-player side of things is where TDU starts to shine but not from a competitive standpoint. 
 I like the near seamless interface for quick races however it can be very annoying when your driving 
 along in your E-Type and some idiot on a Kawasaki keeps challenging you to a race. I feel there 
 should be some limits to the class difference in vehicles that can challenge you because I really 
 don't think it's fair or fun to leave someone miles behind with no chance of winning or to have 
 the same be done to you. Or at the very least allow for a handicapped start. Also it is a complete 
 pantomime to set up a race with your friends due to the layered sever distribution and clunky interface. 
 However these short-comings can almost entirely be overlooked for the sheer social aspect of the 
 game. I find nothing in the game more enjoyable that when out for a drive you happen across another 
 player and the two of you just chat and drive, even better with a larger group of players. It is 
 this aspect the game that away from the somewhat repetitive challenges and the clunky multiplayer 
 competitive interface that TDU moves up a gear. Quite simply it's just a great social game more 
 of a leisuirely Sunday drive than a frantic racer.
  
  Graphically the game is very easy on the eyes, the cars are very detailed and accurate not to mention 
 all the engine nosies are accurate which in turn helps add to an immersive experience. The scenery 
 looks fantastic at 100 mph and above with lashings of motion blur and the high definition lighting 
 and shadow effects make for some eye watering moments but however they lack a sense of speed and 
 for a game that boasts a large number of vehicles that can best 200 mph this comes as a bit of 
 a shock. Also it is unfortunate to say that the games scenery looses a great deal of it's beauty 
 at slower speeds. I do recognise that there is only 4.5Gb of storage for the developers to work 
 with and once code, sounds have been created it doesn't leave a lot of room for textures for a 
 game of this size.
  
  The sound of the cars is very good but we have seen games with a higher roster of vehicles do the 
 same so nothing really to shout out about.
  
  All in TDU does one aspect of driving far better than any other of it's competitors. Social driving 
 is an aspect I hope we will see further development of in this series and who know maybe future 
 installments of TDU will see the rough edges smoothed off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjenk13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Most racing games have been trying to break into a free roaming style for a few years now. This 
 game leads the path in complete roaming freedom. Drivers are no longer limited to traveling on 
 even roads. The continuous multi-player configuration while in free roam also adds to the ability 
 to interact with players, other than just a competitive atmosphere of an organized race. The life 
 like behavior, looks, and sounds are also remarkable to the very detail. Online downloads also 
 provide the endless supply of gaming additions to keep the gaming experience from getting stale. 
 I definitely recommend this game. I can't put down the controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moospot
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  After playing the demo, I was a bit skeptical about playing this game. But I picked up TDU at Blockbuster 
 this weekend just to check it out. I've been jonesing for some racing action other than PGR 3 or 
 Burnout. Anyways, I was surprised at how fun this game really is. The game is pretty deep in single 
 player mode and the online multiplayer integrates well into the single player experience. You can 
 see other players connected through Xbox Live driving around the city. Additionally you can see 
 Single player and Multiplayer missions from the map so you can jump in and play online without 
 having to go back to the main menu. I would recommend this to anyone who likes the NFS series or 
 Midnight Club. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxConfidence3
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  First of all let's be realistic hear this is not a sim but it's not a arcade either it's just plain 
 fun. You have to be opened minded and have knowledge of the previous Test Drive games to understand 
 were they are coming from. It's meant to be a fun and enjoying racing series that everyone can 
 play and if someones complaining about this one it's probably because they are not good at racing 
 games and are mad because they can't get there presious achievment points (these people need help) 
 but seriously there is just about every car from Skylines to the most exotic Mclaren F1 GTR as 
 well as some sweet street racing style online play. The racing scene takes place on the island 
 of Ouhu in Hawai, theres over a 1000 miles to roam free and there's even a road racing track to 
 test your skills with up to 8 people. I truly have enjoyed this game and encourage everyone to 
 try this one and decide for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fr3ak0r
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 15, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Simply one of the best racing games to date for the xbox 360.
  i couldn't put my finger on a better freestyle racing game. Project gotham 3 has it on initial 
 gameplay, but for overall gameplay standards, test drive unlimited has it hands down.
  The sounds are great and the graphics are fantastic. The handling took some getting used to, due 
 to being used to gran turismo and project gotham. The amount of cars in this game is unrivalled. 
 Ranging from Audi TTs to Mclaren F1s. The sense of speed in Test drive is amazing, i've quite literally 
 seen nothing more appealling the bo360 has to offer yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve_o_666
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 15, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I just rented this game yesterday to see if i would like it. I have to say, im not uber impressed 
 with it. The cars are pretty detailed and realistic, the trans am looks and drives just like mine, 
 so kudos to them for that. The story behind the game is almost non-existant. I have no idea why 
 im going to Hawaii in the first place, and better yet, why the hell Hawaii? The game is very very 
 boring to me. Some of the car transport missions take forever to do and i just get to the point 
 where I dont want to play anymore. The achievements were extremely easy to get, I already have 
 half of them just from last night. The game has no real point, its boring, but it gave me sonething 
 to do last night. So, if you have nothing better to do and cant get a date, go rent it. DONT BUY 
 IT FOR GODS SAKE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valyant
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  A completely immersive racer, plants itself on the 360 and grows into a 1000 mile completely recreated 
 Island of Honolulu, aka: Oahu . Race though several millionaire good deed events such as vehicle 
 transport, top model, and hitch hiker missions, as we as races, on and offline. Race up 8 of your 
 friends at anyone time and best of all relax and drive your favorite ride though mind boggling 
 loadscreen free beautious Hawaii, with breath-taking scenary and amazing graphics it's hard to 
 believe this is all a game, I remember several times dropping my jaw and drooling, sorry but it's 
 true and the fact is despite the horrible plotline you have a solid racer, simulator, socializer 
 and user-friendly racer.
  
  One problem I have a lot with TD: U is that every so often right in the middle of a club meeting/race, 
 I get disconneted and have to reconnect, restart the game and log-in to where I was again, an hugh 
 pain in the ass, but with A. I just as good or better the half baked people it's just as fun playing 
 with them. They follow you, drive around with you depending on there personality traits I assume, 
 and will often blow the horn at you as if to greet you, so every now and again where it pisses 
 you off they managed to fix it up somehow. If you like racing, sims, etc. buy this game imediatly 
 if you all ready own it what the hell are you reading this for??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 12, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Wow, it takes a very long time to write 150 reviews, but it was worth the effort if even one person 
 took my advice about a game. But enough about me, let's look at Test Drive Unlimited.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Good: Very well done visuals, a very massive open world to explore, tons of things to do, 
 online is seemlessly melded with the open world.
  
  The Bad: More car customization features would have been nice, it's hard to win multiplayer races 
 without the best cars, GPS can get you lost.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Open worlds have been a recent trend in modern games thanks to Grand Theft Auto III, but very 
 few open world games have been racing games. The Need for Speed series did a good job with Most 
 Wanted and it's open world, but that pales in comparison to what Atari and developer Eden Studios 
 did with Test Drive Unlimited, the latest in the long running series. Unlimited does a very good 
 job of sticking to it's name by keeping it interesting with tons and tons of things to do in the 
 massive island the game is set on. You start by creating a character, then buying a car. After 
 that, it's completely up to you as far as what to do next. You could try to race online with friends, 
 or win single player races to gain cash for new cars. Either way, you'll have a blast. The island 
 is massive, giving you a lot of breatheing room and keeping the game from getting boring. If you 
 can think of a licienced car, it's probably in this game. The visuals are truely next gen and stay 
 nice, even when playing online. The races are very well done and keep going up in difficulty, so 
 there's always one you haven't tried. If you for some reason have tried them all, you can make 
 your own challenge and race your friends. One major thing that Test Drive accomplishes that very 
 few non-MMOs have is that the entire open world is online, so you may find your friend crusing 
 around looking for some easy cash while you look for a challenge, or a new car. Not only can you 
 buy cars, but you can also buy motorcycles and clothes for your character. With monthly new car 
 downloads planned, Test Drive Unlimited looks like a game that you will not get bored of anytime 
 soon and is one of the best racing games available on the Xbox 360, if not any platform. Overall, 
 for the low price of $40 new, this game is a must buy for those looking for a truely unlimited 
 experience.
  
  Gameplay: The massive open world is filled with tons of things to do and really doesn't get old, 
 meaning this game has a very long life-span.
  
  Graphics: Very impressive visuals, even for the 360, and relitively lag free.
  
  Sound: The 
 effects are very well done and keep the game's authentic feel.
  
  Value: For $40, which is $20 cheaper than it could have been, this is a must buy game, especially 
 for those who have Xbox Live.
  
  Final Thoughts: This is an outstanding racing game filled with tons of things to do and it's worth 
 every penny you spend on it.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Well, that was my 150th review. I hope you enjoyed it and will buy Test Drive Unlimited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamoosee
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Even though l get really pissed off when the cops pull me over and take $20,000 from the money 
 l'm saving to spend on that sweet Lamborghini, I still really love driving without boundaries. 
 The environments are b-e-a-u-t-ful and the driving experience is something new that you have to 
 try. I like to cruise around in my supped-up Noble and challenge these nOObs driving their G-level 
 cars. If you have a spare $40 bucks (which is pretty cheap for an xbox 360 game) , I highly recommend 
 this game. So far I own 4 cars, but my parents only let me play on the weekends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kawikacow
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 11, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  I live in Hawaii, and they said that the island is exactly the same as Oahu, the island is the 
 same shape and same elevation but the roads are off, the buildings are way off the suburbs are 
 jungles and there is not any traffic, unlike real life. I will admit that the game is amusing but 
 like i said, they said it was going to be exactly the same as the roads, but they lied. Your house 
 is where a high class neighborhood is and the main road goes over were a mall should be. If you 
 don't believe me, check Google Earth. its a good game its pretty realistic, but its not the same 
 as Hawaii. If you like racing games this is fun, but if you want to play in Hawaii its not even 
 close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xacoupe
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 11, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  While it is a great game, and alot of fun, multiplayer is great, visually it's great, but it's 
 lacking in depth. What happened to having access to all the manufactures' parts cataloges, and 
 a crapload of aftermarket items? What happened to being able to customise your car the way you 
 want, not just purchase this package, or that package. Visually it's fantastic, but has the visual 
 side let down on the physics of the game itself, I think so. Having said that, I'll still be in 
 there, on-line, racing against others, just to be a part of it and hope that the next version is 
 better again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bartondemon
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 8, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Having spent at least 100 hours playing, i though i'd write a snappy review to let you all know 
 what i think about our little french friend here.
  
  Graphics : First of all if you've seen all the screenshots you'd notice they have anti-aliasing, 
 when you actually get the game running however, you'll notice alot of jaggies. Secondly there is 
 a lot of pop-up and at times, you'll fall through the road because the xbox hasn't been able to 
 keep up and therefore hasnt loaded it resulting in you losing the race, and then dying.
  Pgr3 has the better graphics overrall with higher res textures and the like, but it doesn't include 
 the island of Oahu which looks mighty fine but becomes very repetitive after say...100 hours or 
 so.
  
  Sound: I thought the car's sounded excellent in Td: u however i was pretty pissed when i found out 
 many car sounds are reused (Mclaren f1 and gallardo for example) . Some cars like the f430 sound 
 very weak, and suprisingly the 750 bhp Saleen s7 make barely a sound. GAMEPLAY: The car's in this 
 game are quite something, they at times seem to think they are aircraft when going over the slightest 
 incline and skateboards when even coming in contact with a guard rail. The cars also seem to have 
 no grip, i'm pretty sure an enzo doesnt understeer at 30 mph fellas. Another frustrating aspect 
 is the traffic, it's forever changing lanes and mostly into your current one not to mention theres 
 always 50 on the road at one time Eg. round the corner your about to take.
  
  Value: Lots of cars, challenges and Yanks get it cheaper, pretty good id say.
  
  Tilt: Dont 
 even know what tilt means, does it have something to do with pinball machines?
  
  Overall: Overall lots of content, the digital readouts dont work in cars, **** physics and French.
 
  
  4.2 - Poor like me before i won the lottery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baumy3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 8, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Like most games with a shady past (especially the TD series) I always try to be critical rather 
 than take a positive approach.
  
  It is easy to be skeptical given the track record of the last few test drive games. Also, the 360 
 so far has had a few minor issues that make it hard for me to see it as truly next-gen. However, 
 I am very impressed with both the system and the game in this case.
  
  Lets start.
  
  Gameplay:
  =======================================
  
  One thing I would like to say is that 
 this game mixes the fun of arcade racing with the sense of reality of a sim. The way these cars 
 handle, sound, and look, are amazing. It all mixes in to make the game feel so much better. The 
 idea of buying houses (lots of them) and having dealerships along with rental agencies is a great 
 new twist to a game. Also, the option to test drive cars before buying them is really sweet.
  
  This game mixes everything into one, and does it near perfection..
  
  You have motorcycles, 
 hot pursuits from police, a variety of cars, deep character appearance, real estate purchases, 
 you name it.
  
  You can even paint or tune up the vehicles you purchase.
  
  Think of this as Moto GP meets Gran Turismo meets NFS hot pursuit.
  
  The option to free roam 
 all over a beautiful island makes this a hard game to stop playing.
  
  Once you start playing this, it may or may not take a little bit to get used to the handling, but 
 it eventually comes around. Oh, also.... Very few and very short load times. Really cool!
  
  Graphics:
  ==========================================
  
  This game has some of the nicest 
 scenery I have ever seen in a video game. Period.
  
  Everything in the vehicles is fully functional. Even the cars that have navigation systems equipped 
 sport the screen displaying all the GPS information you need.
  
  Things such as wildlife or papers blowing in the wind look so natural and realistic in this game, 
 that it is easy to forget you are playing a game.
  
  The interiors of the cars are very nicely done and highly accurate. Houses and buildings also look 
 great in here.
  
  Character models are average at best. Nothing too bad, nothing too special. But hey, if you buy 
 this game to see a good looking animation of you're character, maybe you should take a step back 
 and get you're priorities straight.
  
  Some minor pop-ups occur, but that can be expected with all the things on screen at once. Shouldn't 
 be an issue.
  
  Sound:
  ================================
  
  Sound on this game really is superior. Each and every car sounds different and sounds highyl realistic.
 
  
  Tires screaching, cars crashing, birds chirping, you name it.
  
  Even driving off road a bit makes the grass emit noises. Just a'lot of little things like that 
 with so much detail.
  
  It doesn't pay to go on with the sound. It's top notch.
  
  Overall:
  ==================================
  
  Not much left to say. If you like racing 
 or are even remotely interested, at least rent this game.
  
  There is plenty to unlock and do, not very likely you will be bored with it.
  
  I also believe 
 the price of 40 for this is very reasonable.
  
  This game is a must rent. Anyone who likes car (whether it be a'lot or a little) needs to get in 
 on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkme
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  A great detailed game that gives you the ability to work your way up to the rich and the famous 
 life style. At first you buy a car and then a house to rest in, then your off racing. You have 
 all of Hawaii to roam around in and there are plenty of racers to compete with. The multi-player 
 holds up to an amazing 100,000 people playing at the same time, though you will be sorted by what 
 car level you are so that you are evenly matched, now the only thing separating you and your rivals 
 are your skills . A cool thing is if you ram normal cars police will come after you, if you get 
 caught you have to sit their waiting till your aloud out of jail. I would have like to seen real 
 damge to your car and also more length and better replay value.
  
  If you love racing games you can not miss this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  The aspect of playing with thousands of other people online is always an interesting proposition. 
 First there was the Massively Multiplayer Online RPG genre. It arrived on the scene to much praise 
 from video game players. It allowed users to work together in masses to complete missions and create 
 clans; it enabled people to just have a jolly good time with new friends. It's been a while but 
 finally there is another genre coming to join the popular craze, this time it's known as M. O. O. R.
 
  
  Atari and Eden Games have invented this term for their new game Test Drive Unlimited. M. O. O. R (No 
 it has nothing to do with marshes) . It stands for Massively Open Online Racing. What this basically 
 translates to is that when you are playing the game online, the island of Oahu, which is one of 
 the huge Hawaiian Islands that the game is based around, is populated with other Test Drive players. 
 The game has the ability to have up to 1000 other players on the same island at any one time. It's 
 an extremely awesome idea but it certainly isn't as unlimited as the game makes it out to be. The 
 reason for that is because of the large number of users online, the game users a filter system 
 to find seven players closest to you that fit the criteria. This can sometimes make it hard work 
 to meet up with fellow friends to hang around together in the game's world. You can get past this 
 however by inviting your friends into a multiplayer race, but then it loses out on it's free roam 
 ability, which is what the game is trying to promote.
  
  There is one thing that you've got to understand is that to get the most out of Test Drive you 
 are going to need a Xbox Live Gold account. The second O in M. O. O. R really means something here. 
 The free roam multiplayer is the best aspect of the game and you will be absolutely missing out 
 if you plan to get it without the ability of the online mode. One thing you will notice is that 
 there is no separate multiplayer, this means you can't actually have multiplayer on the same console, 
 everything has got do be done online, so no online means no hanky panky with friends and you are 
 left with just another racer.
  
  The M in M. O. O. R stands for massively and that certainly isn't an overstatement. Test Drive contains 
 the entire island of Oahu, all fully mapped with roads, and a lot of roads that is, with over 1,000 
 miles of tarmac to burn rubber on. There's also a tonne of vegetation and mountainous areas, thus 
 allowing for some really great race courses to be created. It can however sometimes feel a little 
 repetitive and for whatever reason there are some buildings and landmarks missing, like government 
 buildings and commercial buildings (Hey it's fun to drive cars into government property!) which 
 is kind of what you'd expect on something of this scale, so it doesn't really bring down the amazing 
 job the guys at Eden Games have done to match it to the real life counterpart. The whole of Oahu 
 is beautifully displayed to the point where it's almost like you are taking a virtual driving tour 
 of the island. It really is gorgeous and you can sometimes end up just driving around for a while 
 looking at locations.
  
  The open (That's one of letters coming into play again) aspect of the game is what really makes 
 this stand out from every other racing game. The island is a gateway to everything you require. 
 This includes single player races, multiplayer races, clubs, car shops, clothes shops, car upgrades 
 and garages. (Very important, you need a place to stock all those cars.) There's a lot to do and 
 it's all scattered across the island, you don't have to panic about travelling crazy distances 
 to get to a location though. If you have already driven down the road, the game notes all the roads 
 you have travelled with a blue line and consequently will allow you to be transported to that location 
 in an instance.
  
  When you first get into Test Drive you have to acquire a house and car. Once you've created your 
 avatar and settled down it's time to earn money by doing selected tasks that open up as you progress 
 throughout the game. There's a mixture of assignments available to choose. You can do racing tasks 
 which include checkpoint racing, A to B location and laps, these usually consist of a random number 
 of generic A. I opponents taking you on. Time trial style racers are also included, of which a few 
 stretch some fanatical distances around the island, they might not be as long as some of Gran Turismo's 
 endurance races but they are certainly more interesting, you aren't going around a racing track 
 here. Speaking of racing games, the speed camera challenges that have appeared in games like Need 
 for Speed: Most Wanted are also featured in here as well. The free roaming ability does add a little 
 spin; you can freely take on the cameras in any order, just as long as you pass them all in the 
 given time limit.
  
  It isn't all about racing though. Test Drive is filled up with female models and hitchhikers, who 
 are all too willingly to get into your car and asked to be driven to a destination in a required 
 time. It's a good job that there are no pedestrians, or it would look like my video game character 
 was trying to pick up a prostitute. It is kind of weird that there are no pedestrians walking around 
 the island. It's a babe filled hot popular holiday destination, and it seems everyone would rather 
 drive around than walk. The traffic can become a pain in the challenges that have a limit on how 
 many collisions you can have. There are some challenges that require you to take a car to a place 
 without getting it damaged (There's actually no physical damage to be seen in the game.) So if 
 you crash you lose some points. The game isn't fair though as sometimes you might clip a passing 
 car with the tiniest of margins and it will still take off the same points you get for hitting 
 one at 180 mph straight on. It can really annoy you when it's the final one to make you fail the 
 mission. It's too strict Eden games Waay too strict. Police are also on the look out for any road 
 rule breakers, but they are so damn stupid it's not even worth mentioning them. If you were expecting 
 Most Wanted style police chases you will be sorely disappointed. You can just drive past them, 
 even when you are apparently wanted by them. Eight out of ten times they just won't even take a 
 second look at you. I guess you must have paid them off before you arrived on the island.
  
  Multiplayer racers also have icons set around the island. To start a multiplayer session you 
 travel to the destination and when you arrive you jump into a hub. The hub lists all the games 
 that have been created on that race track. There are loads to choose from but it seems from the 
 online experience that most players really only choose a selected few. A lot of the tracks were 
 always empty. While travelling around the island you will no doubt encounter other players and 
 you can initiate a one-on-one race by flashing your lights at the user and betting some money. 
 If the user agrees you will enter the map mode and you have to plot the track and then you will 
 race for the amount of money betted. This is only scratching the service of the multiplayer as 
 well. You can join clubs and have club races and even set your own map challenges for other online 
 users to pay the fees to enter, hoping they will get the fastest time to win the prize money you 
 put down for the champion. It's all well thought out and Test Drive has certainly laid down the 
 boundaries for other companies that will no doubt try to bring this sort of experience to their 
 games in the future.
  
  As you can guess the game is about cars, well cars and bikes too. There's a selection of over 100 
 vehicles to choose from, but there are some major companies missing. It seems Eden Games wasn't 
 interested in the Japanese car manufactures, so the game only features Nissan and Kawasaki for 
 that area. The models for the cars look excellence and are nearly as detailed as the car models 
 featured in Project Gotham Racing 3. A cockpit camera is available, which flashes off the beautifully 
 rendered interior of the cars, from the steering wheels to the automatic windows. It's all a perfect 
 copy of the product it's trying to represent. This view also gives an awesome sense of speed as 
 the game features some cool motion blur effect. There is no damage modelling, well not for the 
 player's licensed cars anyway, only the traffic show damage. Another let down is just how poor 
 the customization of cars is. After you bought your car with that freshly opened smell and take 
 it to the tuner shop, you can only upgrade its performance. There's a choice of three kits, each 
 one making the car faster. That's all there is, you can paint it a little and then you're done. 
 The game really could have done with the Need for Speed Underground customization. It would have 
 made everyone's cars all unique online. It's something that should have been featured and hopefully 
 will be included next time.
  
  It's nice to hear the sounds of real cars when playing Test Drive. The car audio is superb, especially 
 when you hear it from in the driver's seat, the roar of a jet plane sounding TVR or the turbo kicking 
 in for a Skyline R34. It will make motor freaks wet themselves with glee. Music-wise the game features 
 some radio stations, but it wasn't till about five hours into the game that I actually realised 
 that the cars had a radio. Pressing the d-pad left will open up the radio option and then you've 
 got to turn up the volume to turn the radio on. The songs featured are pretty forgettable, apart 
 from the classical music that everyone knows. No doubt most people will opt for their own soundtrack.
 
  
  What Test Drive Unlimited brings is a very distinguished and unique game. It's the first of its 
 kind and undoubtedly won't be the last. It manages to bring single and multiplayer components together 
 without many hiccups. There's bound to be some small problems on your first attempt on something 
 this diverse, but these are usually improved in the sequels that come. Customization of some sort 
 is certainly needed to be included in the next game to give the player that my things are different 
 than everyone else's on here feeling. Overall it has its limits but the idea is solid and there's 
 nothing on the market like it. Racing fans will be enlightened that something like this has finally 
 come their way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snow-75134
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 6, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  I really like this game, its fun and relaxing. Very close to Hawaii in street detail; however, 
 I would love to drive onto Schofield Barracks, like I use to while in the Army. There could be 
 a little more house detail as well. Other than those two minor things I like this game very much. 
 The missions are just right for the causal gamer, not too easy and not to hard. I also like that 
 you can drive where ever you like, and buy cars, houses and stuff like that. I would recommend 
 this game especially for $39.99, and I like that they released the full game and not tricked you 
 into having to download more stuff to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. Even after all the hours that I have spent playing that game, you'd think that 
 I would really be just flat out, can't play this game anymore, kind of thing i do with most of 
 the racing games that I have played, sorry not this one. I can't put it down, I mean just the other 
 day I played for six hours straight and I did of course get the gold cup in the tour of the island 
 in the first try and same with the millinaires challenge. Those were really tough races. The game 
 controls are really easy to learn and the graphics are really mind blowing even when you zoom all 
 the way out on your GPS. Really thanks for the GPS, it proved to be very helpful, it just needs 
 to be a little quicker on the turns and what not when you are driving over 200 mph. Other than 
 that no complaints. It has to be one of the best racing games that I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris12321
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  the games cool but you should be able to walk around showrooms and be able to trade on the streets 
 of hawaii and maybe have car-for-car trades but so far everything else is great like the car selection, 
 xbok live gameplay, challenges, MONEY $$, and overall gameplay, not bad for the makers of arcade 
 classics (which i luv) !!! KEEP IT UP ATARI YOU ROCKKKKKKKKKKKK!!! MAKE you should make more games 
 like this!!! M. O. O. R's rule. I would say test drive unlimited is worth it for the retail value 
 ($60.00) GO ATARI you rock T D U IS WORTH IT make more games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackthegame
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  GUYS, THIS IS MY FIRST GAME FOR THE 360 SO I MIGHT OF GOTTEN A LITTLE CRAZY WITH IT, SO LETS START 
 WITH THE REVIEW OF THIS AWESOME GAME, LETS START WITH THE GRAPHICS AND THE GAME PLAY, ACTUALLY 
 THAT LEFT ME SPEECHLESS SO LETS START WITH THE ONLY THING THAT IS BAD WHICH IS THE SOUND, ITS NOT 
 THAT IS BAD ITS JUST THAT THEIR IS NO MUSIC WHICH I LOVE, BUT THAT S NOT A PROBLEM TO ME BECAUSE 
 I CAN JUST PLUG IN MY MP3 PLAYER AND LISTEN TO IT WHILE I PLAY, BUT THE CAR SOUND IS NOT BAD. THAT 
 IS THE ONLY THING I HAVE TO SAY ABOUT THIS GAME, IF YOU BUY IT I BET YOU'LL ENJOY IT A LOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Snaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I moved from racing sims on my PC (with a wheel and foot pedal) to the X360, simply because of 
 my 40 HD Sony XBR :) Can't beat HD gaming, and TDU looks awesome on it. And, can't beat a force-feedback 
 driving wheel, but oh well...
  
  If you know anything about real cars, this game will be for you. I was delighted to find TVR for 
 instance. Every car is an exact replica of the original, even down to the interior, interior colors, 
 and special paint for certain makes/models (ex: TVR has a Dark Fantasy paint which is very unique) . 
 Want to drive one of your dream cars? It's probably there and waiting for you at the dealership.
 
  
  Graphics are incredible (particularly because you're in hawaii) . Doing doughnuts leaves tons of 
 rubber. Shadows in specular highlights on your hood reflect the actual environment. And the ability 
 for different views while driving can give you varied visual effects. Putting the camera in cockpit 
 view or hood view really makes you feel like you're on the road.
  
  The sims part of it is good, because you can take a break and relax a bit. With most racing games, 
 you can only play so much of it at once due to the fast pace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proskater40000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I would put it on my five best games ever made list. Even though the professional 
 reviewer put the aimlessness on the bad, I kind of like it. It sort of adds to the feel of the 
 game. Overall, this game shines. The only thing i don't like is the inability to get out of your 
 car and explore the city on foot. If that was in here, that would make the game a ten out of ten. 
 If you want to buy this game, i say do it don't hesitate. This game is great and will not dissapoint. 
 If you are not such a big fan of racing games i suggest you rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthUnchi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Traditionally racing games have been very linear. You have a number of set tracks that you race 
 to earn money to buy cars and then customize them to optimize the performance. TDU claims to revolutionize 
 this genre by turning it into an MMO and emphasizes community play in a representation of a real 
 life location: the island of Oahu and in that sense they are somewhat successful. Like all other 
 racing games there are a number of set tracks that are available both online and offline and the 
 premise of the game is to earn money to buy better cars or upgrade your current ones (and there 
 are a number of name brand high-end high-performance cars each gorgeous in their graphical representation) . 
 However, this is where similarities end. As TDU claims to focus on the community aspect and nonlinear 
 gameplay, this title features open world driving in that you can elect to cruise online around 
 Oahu and run mission based objectives in any order you choose, ala GTA series. And there are a 
 number of modes from escort type missions where you take a hitchhiker to their destination, enter 
 set races against other human players or play against a number of AI driven cars, race against 
 oncoming traffic for the best times, or try to get the fastest average time as you race past a 
 series of checkpoints that you tackle in an order that you choose. Each mission is ranked globally 
 so after you finish you can see how you compare with other players in the world. There is also 
 the ability to choose your favorite roads and create your own races for others to enter or feel 
 free to buy, sell or trade your vehicles with other community users. Both on and off line your 
 nemesis will be AI driven police who give chase if you cause an accident and fine you if you are 
 caught.
  Out of all the online features that this game boasts, my personal favorite is the instant challenge. 
 You can challenge any other player instantly by flashing your headlights at them as you get close 
 to them. If they accept you will be prompted to set a start and end point for your race and then 
 create a wager from a few dollars to the car you are driving in. As far as the online community 
 aspect goes this game succeeds for the most part, however this game is far from perfect. It seems 
 to be very challenging to locate friends unless you are in the same racing club and there appears 
 to be an upper limit on the amount of drivers in any given area at any given time. I was wondering 
 if the game is being played on multiple servers chosen at random. It would be nicer to be able 
 to select a server where all your friends can play. As far as the driving mechanics go it feels 
 much more arcadey than racing sims like the Grand Turisomo series or Forza Motorsport and the customization 
 process is very limited. Modifying your car consists of buying upgrade kits disallowing you to 
 do any real tinkering with your car. And although the car model graphics are superb at times I 
 was questioning the quality of the background graphics and whether I was playing this game on the 
 PS2 or the more powerful XBOX 360. The lack of real time damage in this and many other racing games 
 is an ongoing problem.
  My biggest gripe with this game may result from the fact that I actually live here on Oahu, and 
 the game very, VERY loosely resembles the roads here. The roads are accurate in that they go where 
 they are supposed to go but the many liberties that the game developers took severly cripple the 
 familiarity of the area. Anyone who lives on this island would have difficulty identifying where 
 they are without using the GPS. There are several famous landmarks such as the Aloha Tower, Rabbit 
 Island by Makapuu, and China Man's Hat, but these are too few and far between. Where is the statue 
 of Duke that graces the shoreline when driving down Kalakaua? Where is the Stan Sheriff Center 
 at the University of Hawaii? And last time I checked there was ONE power plant driving out towards 
 Waianae, not 20. It was also a very poor decision to place oceanfront stores where Sandy Beach 
 is supposed to be.
  That design flaw aside, the overall feel of the game is pretty good. You do feel like you are cruising 
 around some tropical island even though it doesn't necessarily feel like Oahu. There is enough 
 variety in the online features to keep things fresh and the uploadable user-created races are a 
 definite plus. Also the fact that the title is just under $40 makes this an excellent value buy. 
 For a different type of racing game I would recommend playing this one, although I somewhat disagree 
 with the self proclaimed revolutionized gameplay in this genre. TDU is a good game, but there are 
 too many shortcomings that prevent this title from being truly great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5387
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  When you get the game be sure to pick the person that fits you best. The graphics in the game are 
 totally awsome. This is by far better than Gran Turismo. The first thing you want to do is find 
 all of the auto sales shops. That away you can just jump from shop to shop. It seems like its real 
 to scale. Like if you go driving to this point in the game. It actually takes that long to get 
 there. I just wonder how long that tour would be. The rest of the things you do is pretty cool 
 too. But be prepared to get upset a little too. Like when your on a mission pay attention to your 
 bar. It will decrease for every car or sign you hit, run off the road for any reason, and if you 
 have the cops after you. To make a quick buck or two. Do a race several times over that you know 
 you can win or do the car missions, (where you pick someones car up for them and drive it to a location) 
 take your time on the missions and try to score a perfect. You get more money or clothing slips 
 if you do a perfect job. This game will keep you busy for hours. Since there is a whole lot to 
 explore. Have fun gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited presents the island of Oahu, Hawaii to you no limits, no barriers only obvious 
 ones like the sea. Apart from that you can go wherever you like, whenever you like. You don't have 
 to be a car nut to enjoy it but it does help as the games foundations are on cars (and bikes) .
 
  
  There is a lot to do on TDU and you can do even more just by driving around which is also how you 
 find new challenges, races, garages, tuners, paintshops and landmarks. It may seem like there aren't 
 that many cars in TDU but in real terms there is plenty to keep you happy and Atari is adding more 
 to marketplace, similar to PGR3. However you can test drive the cars before you buy them to make 
 sure the money is worth it and whether you like the cars handling and style.
  
  Now the MOOR section to the game is a bit of a lie as youc an't see everyone at once you can only 
 see 8 players at once and the amount of players you see depends on your location in Oahu as some 
 places are more popular.
  
  The SatNav is a great feature but don't rely on it too much at high speeds as the notifications 
 come a bit slow when pushing 230mph in your Lambo! Overall do get TDU as the online community for 
 PGR3 dwindles still and TDUs increases, but if you can afford buy both as they both offer different 
 styles of racing, TDU more realistic and open and PGR better racing with more of a challenge.
 
  
  Thanks for reading TKQ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is Ataries new racing game for the XBOX 360. It's a decent racing game with 
 various cars to choose from ranging from Muscle to high end Exotics. The game even features bikes. 
 You can upgrade, and paint your ride, however you're limited when it comes to upgrades. You don't 
 have much choice here, but it isn't so bad.
  
  TDU is basically an MMO game. You're always online and connected to other players on the island. 
 This is good since you can pretty much challenge anyone, provided you're next to someone, anytime 
 you want. Racing online is 24/7 so you don't have to worry about searching for matches when you 
 can't find one.
  
  The game boasts that is have over 300 challenges. However these challenges are all the same. You're 
 either a courier, taxi driver, car deliverer, or hitchiker picker upper. The bad part is that it 
 doesn't change the gameplay. You're still driving from point A to point B.
  
  The games racing isn't very difficult. You can basically win any race provided you've got enough 
 skill or a car/bike powerful enough. Test Drive isn't very challenging due to its easy AI. As for 
 the police, don't expect Most Wanted Chases here. If they can't see you anymore, they wont bother 
 chase you. Infact they'll only chase you if you're on a mission and have caused too much mayhem, 
 or if you hit one of them. After a while TDU gets old and boring. The game doesn't have much replay 
 value, and the online achievments are pretty simple to get. You have no reason to finish the game, 
 since it isn't forcing anything on you. The island Oahu is pretty nice, and fun to drive around 
 on, but thats what you'll spend most of the time doing since you can't fast transport anywhere 
 unless you've already stopped there. At 39.99 it isn't a bad buy since the game isn't broken. The 
 minor framerate issues, which usually occur only when your at realy high speeds, are overlookable. 
 If you're waiting for Forza 2 and is tired of PGR and NFS: MW, look here to get your fill. You'll 
 be hungry in a short while, but at 39.99 it isn't a bad buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray94SS
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I've only had one MMO experience for this game (City of Heroes) and I think Atari 
 did a great job with this online racer. Perfect blend of single player racing, easy to find online 
 races and plenty of guilty pleasures like clothes shopping for your character. Over 100 cars and 
 bikes means there is something for everyone. Buying houses and joining car clubs helps keep the 
 game fresh as well as exploring an entire hawiian island. LIke GTA, I can just drive around aimlessly.
 
  
  If your looking for a technical driving game, this isnt it. The upgrades are poor for each car. 
 But if you want a great racing experience that will stay fresh with cars added every month at a 
 cheap price, then go buy this so i can finally find some competition. haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedi_sentinel1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Wow! What a cool game. Its what they call an MOOG (Massively Open Online Game) , very similar to 
 an mmog, except there's not quite as many people as in FFXI. Yet, there are a whole lot of people 
 on the island simultaneously. There is so much to do and see, its unbelievable. It is basically 
 a cross between a racing sim and an arcade style racing game. You have the entire island of Oahu 
 (and then some) to drive and explore with the ability to challenge anyone you happen across. The 
 driving action is the best I've seen since Forza, and for all intents and purposes is a much better 
 game in my opinion. There are maybe a few less cars available, yet there are plenty of cool rides 
 to choose from. At present, I own about 60 cars and motorcycles with more available which I intend 
 to acquire. The only draw backs so far are the silly noobs who try to challenge people who happen 
 to be in inferior rides. (e. g.- some jerk challenged me in his Enzo Ferrari when I was driving 
 a D class Mustang... yeah, that's not happening:) Also, some idiots have figured out a modem glitch 
 similar to that in Halo 2, which allows them ungodly times in the multiplayer challenges. (I refuse 
 to sink to their level.) You can choose not to do that crap and still have quite a good time.
 
  
  Other than that, its one of the truly fun games available for the 360. Its replay value alone makes 
 it well worth the $40 + tax that it cost me. I would recommend this game to all my friends and 
 anyone else who asks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMac76913
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is a very fun and exciting game. The game is very nice looking graphicly as 
 well. This is a game that any racing fan can enjoy as it has a lot to offer, a huge lifelike version 
 of Hawaii, a nice array of luxury automobiles, houses that range from 100k to upwards over millions 
 of dollars. The island itself is huge when you are driving across it, it really makes it feel like 
 you are driving a mile when you actually drive a mile in the game. It has tons of cars to choose 
 from including Lamborghini's, Ferrari's, Fords, Alfa Romeo's, motorcycles and much much more. There 
 are also lots of little things in the game for you to do such as running packages, and giving rides 
 to models and hitchikers when you don't feel like just racing across the island. The price tag ($39.99) 
 is also nice when you are used to paying the $59.99 for all the other games out there. Racing fans 
 should deffinatly pick this up, but the avid gamer will also enjoy it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siggidesert
Rating: 7.6
Date: Sep 26, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited has gone beyond the ordinary for racing games. Most in the genre usually take 
 place in real world locations and recreate sections of a city so that you can race through them. 
 Test Drive Unlimited has removed all of those boundaries and mapped the entire island of Oahu with 
 so much detail that people who have been there will likely recognize the scenery. All of the roads 
 are there for you to drive on at your leisure or race on in pre-made or custom courses. It's expansive 
 and seamless, allowing for near-limitless racing possibilities. Even better, the line between single-player 
 and multiplayer racing has been nearly erased. Unfortunately, the racing mechanics and car customization 
 don't keep up with the driving freedom, but that not quite enought to drag the games score down.
 
  
  The way that Test Drive Unlimited is presented is what impresses us most. At the top of the list 
 is the method of finding a race, particularly for multiplayer gaming. Creating a game that blurs 
 the line between single and multiplayer racing as effortlessly as Test Drive Unlimited does is 
 a feat in itself. Provided you have an Xbox Live Gold account, you're placed into one of the online 
 servers as soon as you finish the tutorial. From there, you can drive wherever you please on the 
 island, enter missions or solo races, or choose to partake in a huge variety of multiplayer races. 
 You'll see other players driving around on the road just as you are and can challenge them to a 
 race right then and there by flashing your headlights. Or you can simply drive past them and pretend 
 they're no different than the numerous AI cars that also inhabit the road. Just by turning the 
 game on and driving around the island, you're already partaking in the multiplayer experience. 
 The way that you can play with any of the numerous modes alongside the entire Xbox Live community 
 is unique, extremely well done and makes the game flat out fun. There are a slew of modes to experience 
 as well. The single-player game has missions of course, which involves driving someone or something 
 to a particular location within a time limit or escorting an expensive car across the island without 
 dinging it. For these you'll get huge cash rewards or coupons to purchase a wardrobe for your character. 
 The races are split up into three main categories; timed challenges, race challenges, and speed 
 challenges. The time and race challenges aren't anything extraordinary. You simply need to beat 
 a group of opponents or a specific time. There are variations on the basic idea here, which include 
 being forced to race cleanly or meet specific checkpoints. Most of the speed challenges give you 
 several points where your pace will be clocked and you'll have to average a specific rate of travel 
 when you cross these points (which you can do in any order you choose) . Other speed challenges 
 only require you to reach certain rapidity within the time limit under tough conditions. These 
 challenges are great fun as they're the ones that make you do the most planning and upgrading of 
 your cars. Although the single-player racing is fun, the multiplayer is where Test Drive Unlimited 
 really shines. All of the same options for racing in single-player are present in the multiplayer 
 as well, but with a few additions. The first is that anybody can create a challenge and upload 
 it for others to try out. We've already seen some great race courses designed and amazing times 
 posted. You can also join an auto club, or clans as they are called. From there, you can challenge 
 others in your clan to a race or other clans for racing superiority. Like the graphics, the animations 
 and physics in the game have a lack of polish, or in some instances, a lack of existence. Driving 
 into any sort of solid object will create a brick wall experience regardless of what you just hit. 
 Slamming into a small bush will create the same response as hitting building. If you drive your 
 car into the ocean, there won't be a splash. Instead you'll just see a pause and loading screen 
 while you're zipped back to the course. Very litle revelutionery about this bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alcoholado
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 25, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  TDU is a good racing game. Take some feaures from Burnout (fight against traffic) , from GTAs games 
 ( free roaming along a huge islands with a lot of missons to do) , and from the clasicc racing games.
 
  The single player is EXCELLENT. 120 races + 100 missions + a big island = a lot of stuff to do. 
 So the value of the game is high. You will expend more than 30 hours to close every race. Without 
 any doubt, i can say that TDU single player is a lot better than PGR3 single player. PGR3 lacks 
 passion offline. This game is pure emotion and fun offline.
  Graphics are great and deserves more than a 7 (gamespot score) . Yes, you have some hiccups (nothing 
 annoyng) , but the graphics are gorgeus, the light is amazing, cars look cool, the blur effect is 
 great, and.... no loading times!!!, on a huge environment. You will love Oahu island.
  The handling of the car is good, and you feel the differences beetwen car classes. The music is 
 the most weak feature of the game, but your 360&acute; s HDD i think have at this time a good compilation 
 to hear while racing.
  The problem with this game is online. Yes. This game have been made to play online everytime. And 
 that is cool. You see people around while you are strolling arund the island and you can race against 
 them on instant challenges. The problem is when you race on the online spots of the map:
  
  - Everybody is racing in Waikiki. There is two tracks when everyone is playing online. The rest 
 of the races ( a lot) , have nobody racing. And these tracks are boring.
  
  -One night, 10pm ET, there were just 12 races in all the island!. 11 in Waikiki of course. So, 
 is tough to find a good race. Few people online. And mostly online gamers race with A cars 80% 
 of the time. Boooring too.
  
  - You experience lag online. This game is not smooth online as PGR3 was. And this is the big dissapointment 
 of the game. -And when you find a race , you can not retry that race with that group of people.!!. 
 This is weird. At the end of the race, whatever button you press you return to the lobby.
  
  - When i raced 1 v 1 , it was mostly disgusting. If you are winning the race, the other guy 
 easily disconnected from the race. And the race finished!!. So, the server punished the guy who 
 wants to play and don&acute; t quit. And the quitter?..., very well, thanks.
  
  So, this is a great game... offline. Sadly, CPU &gt;&gt; Real people. PGR3 is a lot better online: 
 no lag, no cheats.
  
  But the offline worth enough to enjoy and buy this game, if you like racing games. We will wait 
 until ForzaMotorSport 2, to enjoy a better online experience. I hope that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadgerGravling
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 25, 2006 2:21 am PT
Review:  I adore this game. It's a stand out game alongside the likes of Gran Tourismo and Forza, by taking 
 driving games in an entirely new direction on consoles... It's about collecting and meeting online 
 in WoW, MMorpg stylie, and it does the job pretty well. There's a solid range of houses, cars and 
 even clothing to collect, and a joy in buying a luxury automobile and looking around the inerior, 
 dropping the electric window, and turning up the stereo. There are a few things that need fixing, 
 with problems finding friends, setting up clubs and multiplayer set races, and the private trading 
 system is borked. But the single player mode should keep you going for long enough for Atari to 
 fix it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bossjimbob
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Though Xbox 360 has been on the market for less than a year, there is no shortage of racing titles 
 available for the platform. Armchair tweakers have been getting their hands dirty under the hood 
 of virtual exotics since day one, racing each other offline and on in a variety of arcade and simulation 
 games. Test Drive Unlimited, from development studio Eden and publisher Atari, takes an altogether 
 different approach to the established formula of racing games. Rather than retread the same tired 
 asphalt of other titles (start career, win race, buy car, tune car, win more races ad nauseam) , 
 the folks at Eden have crafted something far more unique in TDU. They have created the first free-roaming 
 online console racing game. While it isn't perfect, Test Drive Unlimited does enough things right 
 to earn its place in your library. The premise behind Test Drive Unlimited is ambitious: give players 
 1,000 miles of picture perfect Hawaiian road to cruise on with 90 different cars and motorcycles 
 ranging from the pedestrian to the rare and exotic. But before you can tear up the circuit, you 
 first need to get settled in your new digs. At the start of the game, you create a personalized 
 driver avatar from a handful of premade models, purchase a home, and go shopping for your first 
 set of wheels. After that, you're on your own.
  
  Similar to games like The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion or Guild Wars Factions, in Test Drive Unlimited 
 the world is your oyster. In order to access certain content, you must first discover a location 
 or challenge by traveling there. Once a zone is updated on your GPS map you have the option of 
 fast traveling to that location to shop for cars or upgrades, race computer or human opponents, 
 or take on various side challenges. By winning competitions your avatar earns cash, which can then 
 be exchanged for new cars (in different classes) , bigger homes, and other goodies.
  
  Those looking for a challenge (and not interested in playing dress up) can cruise the island for 
 other players and invite them to race for fun or profit. Once you unlock the race editor you can 
 customize your own challenges by setting checkpoints and posting them online for others to try. 
 Or you could just roam the countryside and take in the beautiful vistas from the driver's seat. 
 Regardless how you choose to play the game, there is much to see and do.
  
  There is a lot of content to soak up in Test Drive Unlimited, though it's not overly varied. Out 
 of the several hundred challenges you'll face, most fall under the same handful of categories (speed, 
 time, or checkpoint race) where the only differentiating factor is the location. Still, the speed 
 races and checkpoint challenges are a lot of fun on the open road (though navigating a sea of SUV-driving 
 soccer moms on their way to little Johnny's practice can be a bit of a drag) . Finding (or creating) 
 a pick up race is quite easyjust drive near another online player and flash your lights. If the 
 other guy accepts the terms then the race is on. Gathering folks for a premade online race is a 
 bit tougher (I suspect it's because the island is so vast and players tend to spread out unless 
 traveling in packs) . Thankfully, aside from the occasional four-wheeled griefer, most of the TDU 
 players I encountered were not only helpful but also very polite. Burnout this is not.
  
  Visually speaking, Test Drive Unlimited is a pretty game. The developers at Eden spent much time 
 recreating the serpentine roadways of Oahu from GPS data, and it shows. While the human characters 
 in the game are nothing special to look at, the virtual landscapes are often breathtaking. The 
 sad thing is you can't get out of the car to walk around and enjoy the beach (or do anything else 
 in Free Ride mode other than visit select locations like dealerships, for that matter) . But if 
 you feel a Kodak moment coming on, a few button presses will get you into Photo mode, which lets 
 you snap some shots for the scrapbook.
  
  In a lot of ways, Test Drive Unlimited demands a lot of patience and devotion from its players. 
 You'll have to invest a good amount of time simply joyriding the island to enter races, scope out 
 real estate, or start a club. And the game's many quirks will undoubtedly rear their head on more 
 than one occasion. For starters, all manner of pop ups will cover the screen anytime you unlock 
 an Achievement, drive past a challenge, or encounter another player. Sometimes it's unclear what 
 your options are at any given moment, and the menu system is convoluted and confusing. The included 
 manual, though sizable at over 40 pages, doesn't cover any of the game's finer points in detail 
 leaving you to figure out a significant portion of the gameplay mechanics and online modes for 
 yourself. Even after clocking many hours with the game I'm still learning as I go.
  
  Despite these minor gaffes, Test Drive Unlimited remains an enjoyable and very unique experience, 
 both online and off. Fans of Project Gotham Racing, Forzaeven Need for Speedmight be turned off 
 by its free-roaming nature and shallow customization component. For those looking for a change 
 of pace, Test Drive Unlimited is a great alternative to the scores of cookie-cutter driving games 
 currently out on the market, especially at the price point of $40.
  
  Highs
  Roaming Oahu in exotic sports cars is awesome; beautiful scenery; fun online and offline challenges; 
 GPS system rocks; nice use of physics and cosmetic damage modeling.
  Lows
  Folks looking for instant action will be turned off by the game's slower pace; challenges generally 
 fall under three predictable categories with the occasional surprise mission; unlocking certain 
 modes can be a grind; the menus are confusing and the user manual is woefully inadequate; character 
 models got beat hard with the ugly stick; lifestyle portions of the game (dressing up your avatar, 
 buying houses) are a tad shallow and uninteresting; with a game so free roaming it's a shame you 
 can't exit the car or do anything else.
  
  Final Verdict
  Despite some minor issues, Test Drive Unlimited is a blast to play both online and off. Its slower 
 pace might put off the usual crowd, but those with the patience to explore the immense island and 
 unlock its many secrets won't be disappointed. With any luck, Atari will explore the myriad of 
 possibilities further and give the community content-creation tools and new mission types. The 
 game has a lot of potential.80% Review by Bossjimbob
  
  (Originally published at GWN. com) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 21, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is sooooooooooooooo good if you read this and are wondering wether to get it or not im 
 telling you now go and get it!!! First of all its only $40. There is a ton of road to drive on 
 I personally have dumped a lot of time into this game and im not even close to completing all of 
 the missions. The cars handle great I think but a lot of people say they handle weird for some 
 reason. But I couldn't tell you how the online play is but I dont have live yet but i do hope to 
 get it soon. Its definitely worth your 40 bucks. The only thing that bothers me about this game 
 is that it is hard to find some of the tuning shops but otherwise the game kicks a$$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BANDESGANG
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 21, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  TDU is a very good game. The island you drive on is huge. The largest open ended sandbox you have 
 ever seen in a video game. You can go off-road and explore pretty much anywhere a vehicle could 
 go. The roads are simply awesome in variety. There are 8 lane Highway overpasses to windy mountain 
 driveways. Just keep on driving to find something new. With over 1000 miles of roads to drive to 
 scale, if you drive 55 mph it will take you 181 hours to cover every inch of pavement. The environment 
 is alive with birds, planes, cruise ships, changing cloud cover, and of course AI vehicles and 
 Live gamer drivers. This game is deep and grand in scale. There is tons to do. Race, explore, buy 
 and sell houses and cars and motorbikes. You can challenge and join your friends in clubs, design 
 races, buy clothes and accessorize your character you choose. You can do delivery missions, one 
 on one challenges, group races, time trials and speed trap tests. 100+ vehicles with actual car 
 models from almost any car you have ever been curious and or jealous about. With Xbox Live multiplayer 
 isn't a separate mode, it just happens and your in with dozens of players at any given time. The 
 graphics are amazing as well. The car models are perfect and the driving views are all quality. 
 If you have a need for speed, try the bumper cam view. The in-car view is my fav to cruise in. 
 I could go on and on about the great audio and fun control. If you haven't figured out yet that 
 this game is hot... YOUR LOSS!! I gotta go play more now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja-Striker
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Very fun racing game at first. You can buy cars, motorcycles, and free ride with lots of other 
 people at the same time. As you play more and get more achievements you rank up (Ranks give you 
 more things to do) . However, Online racing in the game seems VERY VERY difficult. It seems like 
 everyone in the game plays with the fastest most expensive cars you can buy. This leaves people 
 that are just trying to play with a fun car that they really drive in real life or something in 
 the dust. Other then that the game can be very fun, running away from cops, buying houses.. (Houses 
 are very irrevelent though.. you can buy one for 3000000 dollars just to see the living room and 
 watch your guy sit there drinking bear and watching a tv show of cars driving around in circles...) 
 This game is a defenite rent, dont buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwatTeam14
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Well im not really happy with this game, Well when i got the game i was like HOLY **** but after 
 i played i got board, seeing as its a street racing game there is not really much custimization 
 factor, So thats a disapointment, and im stuck with offline play. So uhh i cant give it a high 
 score. If i had a choice between Import Tuner Challenge and Test Drive, well Import Tuner Challenge 
 &lt; Test Drive. A street racing game isnt anything without Custimization factor. And i like Toyko 
 xtreme racer games better... But NFS Carbon is way to far... No need for speed game is good anymore. 
 This game is a rental. Dont waste $40 on it cause yourll just put the contolr down and say god 
 this is boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 18, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited is the game that we've all needed for a long time. Rather than modding cars 
 with stupid spoilers and nitrous TDU encourages you to enjoy the true untampered engineering perfection 
 of cars like Ferraris and Lamborghinis. Not to mention the bikes.
  
  The graphics are stunning, the detail in both the environment and the cars is mindblowing. Then 
 there's the driving itself which is on a completely different level to every other driving game 
 I have ever played. The way the cars handle is exactly how you would expect and the sense of speed 
 is teriffic. The sound is TDU is also worth a mention. The engine sounds are tremendous, especially 
 on the bikes. However, the selection of music on the radio stations is hardly the best in the business.
 
  
  Online this is one of the best 360 titles around. The abilty to flash your headlights at any other 
 user during the Free-ride mode is a genius idea. This allows you to jump in and out of the multiplayer 
 whenever you like. There are also more organised, longer races which you can take part in by joining 
 the more traditional lobby system. On top of this there is also an extensive Club system which 
 basically performs the function of clans with events such as inter-club races.
  
  Overall this is quite simply the best driving game ever made and one of the must have titles for 
 Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjs90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 18, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Test drive beats my expectation easily, with so many races and with so many cars its sooooo addictive.
 
  
  you start off as a rookie with hardly any money. With this money you have to get a house and a 
 car (which at the start is about 6 ) and then you do your first race.
  
  A great way in which TDU levels up is that you unlock achievement e. g own 3 cars and you get 10 
 points. The more you unlock the higher your level and that can be very addictive.
  
  The only problem personally was there's not much variety of races so there is a chance that you 
 MIGHT get a bit bored after doing some of the races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited for the Xbox 360 game that came out of left field or under radar for most 
 people the same way The Chronicles of Riddick : Escape from Butcher Bay did when it hit the Xbox. 
 Both games are from relatively unknown developers when the games were released and both are immensely 
 good. Grade A good that said titles have and will most likely etch both developers in the minds 
 of gamers for future reference. Yes, thats Eden Studios (Test Drive Unlimited ) and Starbreeze 
 Studios (The Chronicles of Riddick : Escape from Butcher Bay) . Test Drive Unlimited appeases the 
 car nut audience in that the interiors and paint that can be applied to all the real world/concept 
 cars in the game all exist within the real world which means if you go buy an Audi RS4 in Moro 
 Blue in the game, thats the same thing you will get in real life. Moro blue with Carbon fiber interiors. 
 Pretty awesome huh? It is but this is only a small part of what makes Test Drive Unlimited fun. 
 The gameplay, the bread and butter is here and its here in spades. The cars all feel very realisitic 
 in not only sound but handling. Plus the perspective all car drivers salivate over is available 
 in this game. Yes, you guessed it. We are talking Cockpit view . Cockpit view is even more of a 
 pleasure as all car interiors are modeled to be as accurate to real world cars as possible as is 
 the option pick what colors you want at purchase time for said vehicle. Also, the gameplay is accentuated 
 by long, open roads with traffic that make driving +200 m. p. h. all the more fun. The damage modeling 
 however is not present due to the fact that chances are most licensed car manufacturers would not 
 let Eden/Atari license their car would it be possible to completely trash these real world ingame 
 cars thereby tarnishing any awesome image the general public may have about car companies like 
 Lamborghinni or Audi. Yes, most of the exotics are present like the Ferrari Enzo, the TVR Sagris, 
 the Audi owned Lamborghinnis or even the Mercedes SLR McLaren but some are missing. Most notably 
 the Porsches, the cream of the german supercar crop but rumors abound that the RUF versions will 
 be hitting the Xbox 360 Marketplace on Xbox LIVE. In summation I have to say I love playing this 
 game especially for the reason that I got my dream car in here. I'm talking abou the Audi RS4, 
 the car that will be mine in 5 years time and I am talking in the real world. What a joy it is 
 to ride it in a videogame on the Island of Hawaii at top speed against oncoming traffic in cockpit 
 mode without any consequences but that of an abrupt slowdown. What a great time to own an Xbox 
 360 and love cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painful_secrets
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 17, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  a nice racing sim to play good graphics, easy gameplay, easy to pick up and great multiplayer and 
 I want to add that the game is just 40 dollar, for any gamer low on money, and this game is a mmo 
 so you are always online all the time and you can race your friends or just own a club and go head 
 to head with other clubs and the achivements are very easy to boost up your gamerscore and to level 
 up in the game, so pick up today in a store near you. and if you tell your friends to buy this 
 game you can get to cars for free by enter the code that is in front of the manuel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfc_Meanstreet
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 17, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I were among the people who not only loved the first 2 Test Drive games but could sit infront of 
 the tv ( the good old Amiga days ) and play this game for hours and hours, not really racing or 
 anything but simulating driving in real life... Time went by and the playstation came out, and 
 the first Need For Speed game too - and boy, it was a 3D copy of the old Test Drive 2 game and 
 boy did I love it - so once again I spend heaps of time just simulating driving...
  
  Well I finally turned old enough to drive and Test Drive started putting out crappy racer games 
 that made me lose all fait in the franchise... a little later NFS turned down the same sad mainstream 
 road where it all has to be def and street : (
  
  So when info started poping up about TDU I started out kinda sceptical... a car MMO?
  
  But 
 damn! - and now for the review - this IS the game I have been waiting for since I sold my PS1 and 
 steering wheel some 10 years ago... wow!
  
  It's has some of the most realistic driving ( if not the most ) ever - high speed does feel high 
 speed - believe me!
  
  You can control minor details like the posion of the windows or the driver seat - you have a complete 
 3D interior and can see your hands act realisticly on the steering wheel... The Island is beautiful 
 and huge, and you can go anywhere, see everything right out of the box... It's just like I wanted 
 it to be....
  
  There's car dealers and shops scattered out over the island, you can see their positions from the 
 start, but have to go there manually the first time to get access... and boy did I enjoy that...
 
  
  Well, I'm just balbbering here... basicly I love this game... it's has a pretty solid racing part 
 too.. tons of great realistic cars and quite good AI - but for me the greatest part is that this 
 IS a driving simulator... you don't have to tune or paint or whatever - you can just drive peacefully 
 along the coast - have a friendly race or two with fellow drivers ( humas or AI ) and just for 
 kicks see just how crazy it is to do 330km/h on the freeway on a superbike...
  
  I love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetrallyacer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Yet its so superb. I've never played enything like it before. Almost every little part of this 
 game is perfect. The gameplay is great. Really realistic. The graphics are perfect. Especialy on 
 High Deffinition. It feels like your actually driving in howiey. The selection of cars is teriffic. 
 The cars sound it great too. This is most likly the best xbox live racing game I've ever played. 
 the only thing that I dont like is how theirs not that much diffrent race types. Its so cool how 
 you can buy houses. I have only three right now though. There is a lot of diffrent car classes 
 thats good. Over all this game is awsome. Its totally diffrent then eny other racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 16269
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game i ever played it was easy but and the graphics are amazing .... It`s 
 the most realistic game i`ve seen and not boring like other car games that are mostly racing games 
 and all u have to do race round tracks this allot more different its in the streets and u have 
 cars that are extreme.... Before i got to know with this game i never new that Atari could make 
 such good games coz the other test drives were`nt that nice but i think they made up for the other 
 games coz Test drive unlimited is just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoConflict
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 17, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited designed an entire island from Hawaii with 1,000 miles of roads. TDU also 
 utilizes Massively Open Online Racing, which means you are free roaming on this huge island and 
 you can see and drive and communicate with everyone else who is playing this game. Test Drive features 
 multiple gaming modes, including Top-Model (You pickup a model and take her to her photo shoot 
 before time expires and receive coupons to use to buy in-game clothes for your character) , Time 
 Trial (Drive to the finish before time expires to receive cash) , Race (Of course, race 7 other 
 CPU drivers, first to finish wins) , Speed Challenge (Two in this classification, either reach a 
 set speed driving with traffic, or drive past the checkpoints and have an average speed from those 
 checkpoints above x MPH) .
  
  There is a HUGE selection of cars to choose from, which you may be able to customize your rims 
 and paint job when you purchase your vehicle. However, you can not always have as much cars as 
 you want, you need enough garage space to fit all of your cars. This means houses. Soon after exploring 
 the island you will notice many houses of which you can buy. The houses have a certain amount of 
 garage space, and are as expensive as $3,500,000.
  
  Overall TDU is a very addicting game that you will find yourself constantly finding new parts of 
 the island that you have not visited yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redclaw01
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is a great game to dump several hours into and has lots of fun factor. The problems 
 with the game come with several very noticeable glitches in the graphics such as backrounds not 
 coming in right away like trees, buildings, ect. (which is very bad for next gen) and missing elements 
 from cars that are kind of dissapointing. The ferrari enzo's lights on the steering wheel dont 
 light up, shifter nobs and paddles dont move, and the speedos on bikes dont work. Beside from the 
 not so big problems the game is very entertaining and fun with lots of things to do around the 
 oahu island to keep you sucked in for tons more hours to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morketh
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  +Positive: I love being able to drive around in a singleplayer world while running into people 
 online!! Its great!! Also, I love the variety of cars, though I wish there were a few more Dodge 
 Vipers, it has enough to keep me occupied. I just love cruising around in the world, I dont feel 
 that I have to race, but I know that its there.
  
  -Negative: I do not like only being able to see 8 certain people in my area when there could be 
 30, makes it hard to find that friend of yours. There definitely should be more cusomization to 
 your cars, lets take NFS: MW for example, you could totally trick out your car with wings, spoilers, 
 paint jobs, and body kits.. Why did they not include that in TDU? Seems that they sacrificed that 
 for something else.. and in my opinion, they should take everything great about other racing games, 
 stick them in the new racing game, and then add more content, kind of like how they added the single/multiplayer 
 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: campfireglory
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 15, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  The initial response from this game is wow! It is a beautiful game and plays pretty good. Oahu 
 is even mapped out somewhat the same. But after only a few hours the game starts to dull down, 
 somewhat.
  For example, the cars, though beautiful, don't get the galloping room they need to show their true 
 work of art. Obtaining the bikes involves a task that can take hours and leave you feeling bored 
 and like you have accomplished nothing. The missions or tasks are not very well thought up and 
 lack difficulty and surprise. Basically the game becomes very, very repetitive. The MOOR (Massively 
 Open Online Racing) seems like it would be a good idea, and it was, but it was nothing compared 
 to what it was hyped up to be. Finding friends is random at best and going to the menu usually 
 causes a disconnect from the server.
  
  If you like a driving game that looks pretty and makes you feel like a tourist, not a racer. Test 
 Drive Unlimited is the game for you. If not, stick to Burnout or NFS.
  
  But if you must try it out, rent it. It will save you the save you the disappointment of wasting 
 60 bucks.
  
  Final Thought: The game is very beautiful and the customization can leave you with hours of fun, 
 but the lack of challenge and the 30 minute drives around the Island cause a loss of interest. 
 The frustration often leaves you gritting your teeth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m34d
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game from hollywood video, sceptical of its ability to keep me tied from the real 
 world. Well I am here to tell you that you get the sense of speed when your cruzin at 200. I love 
 this game and look forward to buying it sometime, when I got a job. The only thing I dislike is 
 that the muscle cars tend to do donuts when you want to drift, let me tell you kids. This game 
 is not NFS you need to really hone your gaming skilz b4 you pick this one up. Once you get past 
 the amature level or Rookie as its called. It beggins to start grading you on your handling skills. 
 You have to watch out for going offroad in your fararri or running into other drivers it gets kinda 
 tuff. But on the lighter side you will find yourself sticking to the multiplayer more and more. 
 But and its a big one, you need to do certain missions where you can pick up some serious chit. 
 Vehicle transport missions and box delivery can cost you money if you fail so you don't want to 
 fail often, but they offer a hefty reward of 80,000 bucks if you can get it there without hitting 
 anyone or going offroad. I picked up some serious cash and then blew it on some sweet cars but 
 they werent the class nor the speed that I needed. You will find in multiplayer that it is crucial 
 to own a slower car and a faster one for instance keep a class E handy as well as a nice A or B 
 to keep other players on their toes. But if you enter most races you will get the farrari treatment, 
 when you have a saturn SKY and its not pretty, everyone else peals out and your left with nothing. 
 Also its hard to find a match since there are litterally hundreds of tracks and hundreds of matches, 
 but you gotta find the track that the matches are on and at the skill your at. Although I did find 
 that a firebird with a great driver can wup up on a diablo with a bad driver. Well just remember 
 its just a game and nothing that this game simulates should you immulate on the road. Keep in withing 
 10mph of the speed limit and be careful and courtious to other drivers. Buckle up and with that 
 being said. Ingame pedel o the metal and don't let up. Also a tip if you didn't see it above, drifting 
 is for experianced drivers and requires you turn the driving aid off. You will find your self doing 
 donuts instead of a smooth drift, its hard to perfect. Game hard and kick some DONKEY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattVans
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I played the demos a while back which were ok but nothing special I thought. When the game was 
 released I was intending to buy Dead Rising but my friend said I could lend his copy. This left 
 me with wanting a new game still.
  I was hesitant about getting this after reading some reviews but to be honest, after giving it 
 a good hour you start to find yourself getting deeper into it.
  The graphics and detail are what you expect, not too overboard and flash but enough to make you 
 admire them in parts. The detail to cars and bikes are superb even down to the coils in the suspension 
 of the cars.
  The island is huge as you may have already heard and what gets me is while you're driving there 
 are no loading times!
  There's just too many little things to mention that make you admire the game even more (but no 
 pedestrians?) .
  To sum it up... If you like driving games and are willing to get past your first five wins or so 
 to get a couple of cars I personally think you'll start loving it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveOwl
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Make way, Table Tennis, the Xbox360 has just got another enjoyable, immersible game... and I haven't 
 gone on-line yet!.... I've read various forum entries, reviews etc and this is the first time I 
 have decided to put on view my feelings about a game. Let's start with what it's not, GTA (any) , 
 Saints Row, Halo, Burnout (any) ... what it is, is a simulation of you going to a pacific isle, starting 
 with a basic (!) car (don't know about you but I drive a Mondeo (paid for, not as a rep!) ) , choosing 
 a pad to hang out and then given the freedom of that island to either cruise, race or do other 
 missions... what were you expecting!... It looks good, sounds good (as if I know what a Noble sounds 
 like above 6500rpm!) and is enjoyable.... Now the bad points... freezes now and again (but that 
 could be the 360! as it don't like cabinets and the temperatures we've had this year) , sometimes 
 stuttery as the map unfolds, and as you are driving along... but hey, NFSMW was too smooth... half 
 the time I drove by guesswork... at least with this I can see where the road goes. If you want to 
 risk your 40 on a new game for the x360, (and let's face it, we've had a drought these last few 
 months) I'd recommend it as probably the most non-linear game since elite on the atari ST520 (now 
 I'm showing me age!) ... don't flame me, just discuss 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartagnan60
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  I've beI've been playing this game for a week now. I absolutely love the visuals. The challenges 
 are repetitve but the game is about driving and pusjing your car t the edge. I do most f the driving 
 aimlessly arund the island trying to drive faster, cleaner and trying to find the next challenge. 
 I haven't even tried the online races but I love the seamless junction. the only things missing 
 to make this an absolutely perfect game would be more accurate motorcycle handling, damage modeling 
 and definitely more customization. I hope future downloads will include more stores, variety of 
 challenges and customization attributes. en playing this game for a week now. I absolutely love 
 the visuals. The challenges are repetitve but the game is about driving and pusjing your car t 
 the edge. I do most f the driving aimlessly arund the island trying to drive faster, cleaner and 
 trying to find the next challenge. I haven't even tried the online races but I love the seamless 
 junction. the only things missing to make this an absolutely perfect game would be more accurate 
 motorcycle handling, damage modeling and definitely more customization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAdam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  It kicks toosh :D I love it the graphics are immence its all good fun. The size of the map is immence, 
 the graphics class all of this makes it a 9.1 but there are let downs wich i think can be made 
 better in TDU2 lol if there is 1. For instance hard to get into i found it difficult to understand 
 some of the ways to go about things. No storyline, i thought there would be 1 witht he intro but 
 nothing just drive n win cash whish is great but needs a story. and MORE CARS :P i know theres 
 loads but i want more more lol - ad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icechains
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:47 am PT
Review:  This gae has its problems, its bugs, and some complaints. But, i find myself coming back for more 
 every time. there are some graphical problems, such as trees just popping into view, and cliffsides 
 with grass on them look horrible, but overall the graphical quality is great. the trees and environment 
 just blend in. and the lighting isnt bad either. some of my complaints: there is no night. i want 
 to be able to have a nightime, like in real life. the water and beaches are very unrealistic, hanauma 
 bay looks nothing like the real hanauma bay. there are also no pedestrians. i want to be able to 
 see **** of people everywhere, surfers on the waves, waves, etc. i want to be able to feel like 
 i just went on a hawaiian vacation. but other than that, the game revolutionizes the race genre. 
 the physics could be a little better, but overall the game rocks. best game for the money on the 
 console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creatre
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  First of all, 7.8 out of 10 from gamespot?? Someone dislikes driving games i do believe. I would 
 like to say im a car fanatic, therefore some views represented on this game may be swayed by my 
 pure love for automobiles. First of all i would like to say I have played for around 15 hours so 
 far, and all I can say is wow. There are so many good things about this game, i could care less 
 about the bad things in it. I shall now describe how awesome this game truly is!
  
  Gameplay:
  -The semi "storyline" i guess you could say is kinda weak. The missions for the models 
 and hitchhikers are nearly impossible due to not being able to drive off the roads or hit cars, 
 and all that with a time limit. However, the vehicle transport missions are one of the coolest 
 things in the game. Not only do they have massive rewards, normally 90k or 120k if you get a perfect 
 (don't hit any cars or drive off the road) and you get to drive this wicked insane fast cars that 
 you most likely won't afford for a while, or don't have room for. The house buying features are 
 awesome, i mean, who doesn't like being able to buy multi million dollar mansions on the beach 
 in Hawaii?? All this!!! and more!! I mean, just driving around, its so realistic, and perfect, 
 its so hard to describe! I've driven around 400 miles so far, which you wouldn't think is that 
 far, but in game is a long night! My SRT-10 viper and SRT-8 300C are my two perferred cars, however 
 i have a Ducatti 45k bike and a 100k TVR beast with stage 3 performance upgrades. Oh and this is 
 only as a "Pro" rank in-game. And the Xbox Live features, being able to cruise with friends, man 
 this game is just getting better and better!
  
  Graphics:
  -Just plain awesome. These cars look so freaking amazing you have no idea. The interiors are identical 
 to real life, the wheels are shining and realistic, and hell the tires even look realistic and 
 look like they have tire shine! Only seen 1 or two mistakes with the sport seats and the character, 
 as well as the **** bushes that will stop you if your going 200mph : (
  
  Sound:
  -Man o Man you don't want to get me started on this!!! Its so **** amazing, excuse the language, 
 but dear god. One of the best things about cars are the sound of the engine and of the exhaust. 
 These cars have so realistic sounds, i just can't get enough of it. I sit there cruising at 1-4k 
 rpm's just to hear the exhaust tones, especially in my 300C SRT8 and the Ducatti, absolutely amazing 
 tones. I mean, in the 300C you can even hear the gurgles and pops on decellaration, a classic reminder 
 your in a SRT vehicle. Radio feature is amazing, and jeez, sound gets a huge huge thumbs up!!
 
  
  Value:
  -Well worth the buy and to just cruise around the 1000 miles of roads on Hawaii and see the wonderful 
 landscapes and hear the muscle and tones of some of the most exotic and rare cars in the whole 
 world. Deffinately a buy!! Now go get it..... NOW.... i mean really, right now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bb19349
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I don't quite get the official review of this game. Missions not varied? I'm sorry but I missed 
 the last game that had you transporting suspicious goods and picking up Desperate Housewive caliber 
 hotties around a tropical paradise rendered in unbelievable, yet believeable detail. The homes 
 that you can buy and the ability to designer fashion your virtual bad self has never been done. 
 I'm actually not surprised though, this site rarely full out endorses any 360 game. Makes me wonder 
 if ....... nevermind... i'll leave it at that. Go buy it!!! It is a great game that truly shows a 
 portion of what we should and can expect from next gen hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: droideka
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is not the best racing game there is, far from it, but it is unique... and that counts 
 a lot! On what other game can you go from playing a single player race to a multiplayer one without 
 leaving the main game? None. Thats innovation! they head in the right direction for future Multiplayer 
 games... But even if you dont have live (you own a 360 and dont have live?????) , this game emulates 
 the multiplayer feeling very well, by having lots of cpu controlled characters driving around...
 
  The fact that it has outstanding graphics, music and those litle things players enjoy with car 
 games, dosent hurt either... you can view your car from inside out, open the windows , the doors 
 honk the horn, see the interiors in detail. Also its amazing how you can just enjoy yourself, driving 
 and enjoying the view... I found stuff i wasnt even aware they had included in the game (like a 
 stadium) .
  
  It never gets boring for a guy who just like driving games...
  
  The three only bad parts of the game are the characters, the police and bikes. It is unecessary 
 to have fashion stores and other stuff... A generic "you dont see his face and dont hear him talk" 
 character would be better, only because you would feel even more immersed in the action... And 
 the cops... The AI is all messd up and they only have one lady cop for tickets... Shame. The bikes 
 were rushed in, but for the car loving driver bikes dont really matter so, forget them all together 
 and thats that...
  
  These are very minor flaws on a game that its the spot every time.
  
  Graphics isnt all but even if it was i wouldnt be ashamed if this was the only next gen game 
 i had to show off to my friends... And i have showed it off... And people were amazed. And wanting 
 more.
  
  For all these reasons it seems that 7.8 is a rather understatment for what this game as acomplished. 
 I Think, like the bikes on the game that they rushed the review before they tried it well on LIve.
 
  
  P. S.- Sorry about some mistakes in grammar, but my native tongue is not English. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donscrillinger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 12, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  i haven't felt this way about any race game since grand prix from namco at the arcade the two seatied 
 one !this game is truely a work of art to play. very nice since of speed, graphics ,control ,sound, and 
 my god what the hell or who the hell came up with lets just make a state ,my fualt an whole freeking 
 state to role through while you play it and watch other peeps come up to test there skills out 
 .this game is sick MY FRIEND! an must have if you have an 360 .the next gen is here !D@mn an whole 
 state !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! do you guys know how sick this game is. me and my friend spent two and 
 half hours just driving around what we have dubed the east coast .just a great all around game 
 all they need to do to make it better is weather effects rain etc.. time changes like night to day 
 etc. if this game had those things to me i would have gave it an 10 out of 10.. atari'S back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaruslothran
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 11, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I am
  going to try to list the good and the bad of both of these games, and explain
  which one I FEEL is the better of the two racers. Lastly, I am going to talk about our
  over-reaching 
 view of what "Next Gen" should be. I apologize for spelling errors in
  advance. Long post. You were warned.
  PGR3
  
  It would
  probably be best to start with 
 a game I think that everybody respects. It is very clear that for an arcade style
  racer, PGR3 is the best of the best. PGR3, is not a simulation, by any means though. Here are the 
 positive and negative points of
  the game, as I see it:
  Positive
  
  1) Fantastic
  online. Having the ability to watch
  others with Gotham TV is also a blast. This can be a great 
 learning tool and a wonderful way to spy on your
  friends :-P. Lag is almost nonexistant
  in PGR3. I have been in a couple of
  races where there has been a laggy car or 2, but that is 
 so few and far between
  that is almost not worth mentioning. It
  was most likely the connection of the people lagging. Gotham TV is a wonderful tool for learning
 
  how to play the game. Watch the worlds
  best race. It is amazing.
  
  2) Great
  frame rates. PGR3 is not streaming a
  whole lot of area, so it can do a remarkably good job of 
 keeping a steady frame
  rate. It looks good.
  
  3)
  Customizable Tracks. Make your own
  courses and race people with them. They
  claim you can 
 make over a million courses (at least at the loading screens it
  does ,lol)
  
  4) A ton
  of cars: Honestly more than TDU, but
  this will discussed later. Each car is
  modelled 
 beautfully and is a pleasure to drive (except I suck at the Evolution
  for some reason)
  
  5) Beautiful
  textures. Of these 2 games, PGR's
  textures have more resolution and a higher 
 poly count. Of course, this is expected in technically
  possible in a smaller area. The
  screenshots of this game are, in fact, on my desktop. The game looks incredible.
  
  6) Day
 
  and night racing. Nuff said.
  
  Negative
  
  1) Car
  driving performance not varied much. You
  can pretty much get into car 1 then car 2 and pick 
 up where you left off. The biggest difference is the classes. E is different from D and so forth. 
 That is very noticeable. But for the most part, MOST ( and here comes
  the flames because there are a FEW cars that feel signifigantly different in
  each class ) cars 
 handle to same way. This is one of the symptoms of an arcade racer. The game is also plagued with 
 the "Ridge
  racer" type sliding. Not NEAR as
  bad, of course,... but it still makes power sliding way too easy, as compared
  to how it should 
 be.
  
  2) No
  damage. The only reason I bring this up
  at all, is because people are complaining about TDU not having one. I figured it would be fair 
 if I just pointed
  that out as well. Would you like to pay
  for your repairs after a PGR3 ram fest race. No, I did not think so. If we had
  a damage engine, 
 people would complain about the expense and the griefers. Sorry, for the time being, until they 
 have a
  way to patch griefers,.. I don't think you will see damage on these kind of
  games very often.
  
  3) Races
  plaged with everybody has the same car. I have joined hundreds 
 of races where people are forcing everybody drive
  the same stupid car. This is so common
  in PGR3. While not a flaw of the game
  itself. It does force players to race on
  somebody's 
 best track against their best car.. and you lose. Not a lot of fun in my opinion. This can make 
 finding a race that you want to
  join a bit of a pain. Once again, this
  is a player base problem, but should be remarked on.
  
  4)
  Unrealistic roads. When I say 
 this, I
  mean that the roads are relatively flat. The roads have little personally. They are curvey and 
 such, but for the most part, the bumps just are
  cosmetic. Perfectly flat streets are not
  normal ( at least if you have lived in all the places I have ) . Most of the time you lose control 
 is because
  of over or under estimating a turn. Tracks are pretty linear. There
  is no chance to leave the track and blaze your own path.
  
  5) AI is
  on a fixed course. 
 The AI always seems
  to get right back into place, even if they get bumped around ( which is WAY
  hard to do ) and 
 they ignore each other and just "pit manuever" you,
  if they can.
  
  TDU
  
  Positive
  
  1)
  Fantastic online. No "Gotham TV" option present, but the ability to
  just 
 cruise around and see somebody as well, suddenly you flash your lights at
  them, and you two are off on a race with or against traffic down to
  who-knows-where. Lose, win,.. 
 it's
  ok. Click revenge and off you go again. This is a blast. You can do this for $$$ and it is a fun 
 way
  to win and lose some cash. Also join
  custom made time challenges and premade courses as well. Some of these courses are well over 100
 
  miles, creating a mini "Cannonball" style event. The option of fast or short courses, mixed in
 
  with optional traffic and cops makes for a really different driving experience
  online. As of right now, there are some
  problems with the online. But, then
  again, I defy 
 you to find one Massive Online type game that has started off
  perfect. Can't think of one? Neither can I. People always whine that there are problems
  in the 
 first few days. But you can't
  test the stress on the servers with a console game like this. A demo does not cut it.
  
  2)
 
  Customizable Tracks. The customization
  of tracks in this game makes PGR3's "Million courses" seem like a
  very.. very.. very ( more 
 very's ) small number. The number of tracks that you can have in
  this is.. well... infinite. You really
  can't beat that number.. ever You have
  curves, straights, 
 city, country.... whatever. It is here. TDU wins in this
  area. Players can create their own
  challenges, where the best time after a set time periond 
 ( 2 days or such )
  wins the whole pot. The creater gets 10%
  of the pot. This is a great idea.
  
  3) Each
  car handles very differently. Not all F
  
 class cars are the same, not all A class are the same. There are very clear differences with these
 
  cars. You can feel them with weight and
  body roll. It is done very well. To really understand the differences between
  the cars, get 
 yourself a wheel and you can really FEEL the difference.
  
  4) Real street dynamics. What I mean by this is, the streets have
  flaws. Bumps, dips and flaws. 
 Some people will not like this. I do. It gives each road real personallity. Most racers have the 
 roads as pretty flat, with some slight elevation
  changes. By adding personallity to a
  piece of road, you make the road a real part of the game and not just a
  texture. Also, a bumpy 
 stretch of road
  can be really punishing to somebody doing 235 and trying to turn, lol. Also, you are not forced 
 to race on the
  streets. Shortcuts through the dirt and
  fields can sometimes be used.
  
  5) A good
  deal of cars. While not the
  "ton" the PGR3 offers, they have stated that there 
 will be more for
  download in the future.. same as PGR3. Furthermore since there is such a difference between each 
 car, I feel
  they don't need as many to fill the void. Still, if you feel that 90 cars is not enough... Personally, 
 I want to get good with just 1
  car. I want to master it, that is more
  interesting to me. Still, the cost is
  $40 partially because they know people will pay for car 
 downloads in the
  future.
  
  6) The
  ability to "cruise". You can
  just drive to.. well.. drive. Test drive
  started this way. Here is a car, now
  drive it. I 
 find this kind of gameplay
  to be extremely relaxing. Just drive. Simple, but fun.
  
  7) The AI
  makes mistakes. The AI attacks each
  other. They drive off the road, they
  crash. 
 I love it. Finally, a non-perfect computer
  opponent. That makes it more interesting
  by far.
  
  Negative
  
  1) No
  Damage. This one has been covered. Though it is fun to 
 ram the cars on the
  street sometime, since they DO take damage.
  
  2)
  Difficulty. While I do not consider this
  a negative, most people who are not into more realistic 
 physics will. Yes I know the physics are not perfect, but
  they are much better than PGR3 and Burnout revenge or any other arcade racer. The difficulty will 
 turn off most
  people. This is a negative, because to
  truly get the most out of the game, you may need to invest in a wheel. I did, and I can tell you 
 it is night and
  day. So the added expense of a wheel, to
  get the most out of this game will hurt. Sim lovers won't mind.
  
  3)
  Ocassional frame rate 
 issues. I have
  noticed that when running a race with the faster cars, such as B or A classes,
  through a city 
 the frame rate can suffer, until you get out of it. That is the majority of the frame rate issues
 
  I have noticed. Others may have noticed
  more.
  
  4)
  Occassional streaming problems. I have
  driven off the world once so far ( I have driven the 
 entire map --  see
  achievements for proof ) . Only once have
  I driven off the world, as I outdrove the streaming ( it only seems to happen
  on this one stretch 
 of highway going east, sometimes )
  
  5)
  Motorcycles. While fun, they are not
  FULLY implemented. Front and back break
  control would have been nice. The only
  reason I mention 
 bikes is that they are in there. All things equal, PGR3 does not even have
  bikes. Still fun though if wierd. Maybe it is ok, I don't know. I don't play bike games
  
  
 6) No
  night time. It is always dusk in Oahu. Kind of
  wierd. Pretty,... but wierd
  
  7) Some
  online issues. I expected as much, but I
  have to be fair and put it in, as they are 
 still working out the bugs, it will
  get better. It is pretty good now, but
  finding friends can be hard sometimes. Go to a remote area and meet up. It is easier that way.
 
  
  Overall,
  I would say that TDU is a much greater racer. It is clear it has its flaws. Yes, this is true. 
 All games have
  flaws. But pound for pound, this game
  has more to offer you than any other racer out there. It is the Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion of
 
  racing games. Great job Atari, for
  creating a whole new direction to go for racers in the future.
  
  Final
  thoughts on Next 
 Gen:
  
  We ask
  too much of this next gen in gaming. We
  want the moon now. It is ok to ask for
  it, it is ok to desire it. Do not expect
  it yet. The 
 reviewers were upset at TDU
  because there were no people on the sidewalks. They were upset at character models. Common people 
 how can adding something to a game, that has never been
  added before cause it to lose points. Most of the time this stuff is not even there. It is the 
 added level of immersion that is
  making these games more intense. But
  every time they try to add something like this, people complain about the
  quality. It was not 
 even there last time,
  so why complain about it now? Somehow
  everybody thinks games on Next Gen should look and run like FF 7: Advent
  Children. That is in 
 the future, but it
  is not now. I would have NEVER have
  expected TDU to map out Oahu to drive on, but
  yet there are still people who complain that they 
 cannot find their house. Common people, stop being so whiny! This is a giant leap in racing games. 
 If you can't admit that then I would stay out
  of consoles for the next 20 years, as it will be a while, before you become
  slightly satisfied. 
 Let these advances
  happen, and let games like this grow. You can't do it all perfectly the first time, but I will 
 say this. They came pretty darn close.
  
  Grats
  Atari! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plantedchaos
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 11, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive unlimited is highly addictive. When you pick up the game, you start out taking a plain 
 to the great island, Oaho. There you rent a car and drive to one out of many dealerships to get 
 your first car. After that you buy your house. Once completed, you are set loose. You can complete 
 one of more than 100 single player challenges. Or race against other players across Live. After 
 you drive around and gain achievements you rank up, starting at amateur and ending at Ace. Test 
 drive is a MOOR. If you don't know what that means, You drive around with other players in real 
 time. You can roll up behind them and challenge them to a race. Or go into a multiplayer race with 
 up to eight people. You can even design your own races and have other people race them.
  
  But what makes Test Drive such a great game is that besides the regular races you have speed, in 
 which you try to go as fast as you can through the checkpoints. Selebrity delivery, where you drive 
 someone withought 'shaking' them up to much. Delevering cars, where you return a car to a selected 
 point and the more you dent it up, the more money is deducted from your pay. And more! After you 
 get board with the more than 100 cars Test Drive has, they have motercycles.
  All around Test Drive unlimited is a great game! And for 39.99$ It will be a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  The best way to describe Test Drive Unlimited is going to sound like a no-brainer, but it's uniquely 
 true: it's designed for people who love to drive. Test Drive Unlimited is the first mainstream 
 massively multiplayer racing game, but before you think it's like an MMO version of any other racer, 
 it really is important to understand just how focused this game is on the actual act of driving.
 
  
  In Project Gotham Racing 3, players drive to be stylish. In Burnout Revenge, players drive to cause 
 mayhem. In Forza Motorsport and Gran Turismo 4, players drive to enjoy their automotive customizations. 
 But in Test Drive Unlimited, players drive for the sake of driving. The game includes multiple 
 checkpoint, race, escort and speed-trap modes, but the core of Test Drive Unlimited is the simple 
 act of cruising.
  
  The game takes place on a fully realized island of Oahu, with roads criss-crossing the island and 
 skirting around its perimeter. Scattered along these roads are challenges such as those mentioned 
 above, each of which is restricted to different car classes or player rankings. As players progress 
 through the single-player challenges, they earn money with which to buy houses, cars and tuning 
 kits, as well as coupons with which to buy new clothes for their driver. Many of these challenges 
 are just that (challenging) , and therefore require either multiple tries with one car or exercising 
 a bit of patience until a car in a faster class becomes affordable.
  
  This all seems like pretty standard fare, until you realize three things. First, although there 
 is a "fast travel" option, every challenge on the first go-round requires the player to drive there. 
 This can be a total time-suck considering the island is mapped in its entirety. You think the literal 
 act of driving isn't important to the developers? Maybe you can explain why they included Achievements 
 for driving 200, 400, 1,000 and 5,000 miles.
  
  Second, driving to and through these challenges requires players to travel as responsibly as they 
 would in real life. Again, this is not an arcade racing game; it's really, truly about driving 
 around Oahu like you would on a lazy Sunday afternoon. The passengers in the Top Model and Hitchhiking 
 missions -- and many of the challenges themselves, in fact -- only allow for a certain number of 
 videogame-esque shortcuts before calling the mission a failure. As a result, if you drive irresponsibly 
 (i. e. as you would in most other videogames) , you will fail miserably.
  
  But it's the third realization that distinguishes Test Drive Unlimited from other racing games 
 before it: its massively multiplayer online functionality. As players cruise around Oahu, they 
 of course encounter computer-controlled cars and opponents. But if they're connected to Xbox Live, 
 they'll also encounter real-life players driving around the island in "their own, single-player" 
 game. Each of these real-life encounters can be treated as an online challenge (flash the headlights) , 
 a chance to socialize (just start chatting) , or an opportunity to trade/buy/sell vehicles and share 
 user-created races. Regardless, these real-life encounters happen seamlessly within the context 
 of the single-player game, and it's not uncommon to have five or six people just driving around 
 within a three-mile radius at any given time.
  
  This social aspect of Test Drive Unlimited takes the racing genre in an exciting new direction, 
 and its seamless integration with the single-player portion is sheer genius (as it would've been 
 in the PC game Mythica, had that project not been canned) . EA plans to do this with the next Burnout 
 game, and it's such an immersive feature that future racing games should consider implementing 
 it, especially as more gamers use broadband.
  
  That's not to say the implementation of the online and a few other functions is flawless. For instance, 
 the constant on-screen popup of players' Gamertags can be frustrating as you try to navigate some 
 of Oahu's tricky corners, much as the Gamertags were distracting in Conker Live and Reloaded on 
 Xbox. In addition, navigation in mid-mission is far too challenging due to the game's color-coded 
 roads. One of the Achievements in Test Drive Unlimited is to discover every road in the game (remember, 
 it's all about the act of driving) . Consequently, Atari included a feature that automatically tells 
 players they've traveled a road by coloring it blue on the map. However, when the GPS tries to 
 indicate the most-direct route to a destination, it denotes that path with a green road. Far too 
 often, those blue and green shades are so similar that you'll accidentally turn down the wrong 
 direction, screwing up time challenges and often leading to mission failure.
  
  A story or campaign would have also been nice, as the act of driving likely isn't sufficient to 
 hold some gamers' attention. The game starts out in a story-like sequence, but once players buy 
 their first car and house, the driving challenges are the only glue holding the game together. 
 Atari was probably focused on making sure the multiplayer aspects worked well (which they do) , 
 but gamers who are only able to play the single-player portion will find that they've been there, 
 done that with most of the game.
  
  For gamers who love the literal act of driving, who can't wait for Sunday afternoon when they can 
 cruise through miles and miles of countryside, Test Drive Unlimited is ideal. For players who appreciate 
 technical feats such as seamlessly integrating the online and offline worlds, Test Drive Unlimited 
 awaits your investigation. But for gamers just looking for a new racing game, remember that the 
 meat of Test Drive Unlimited isn't necessarily racing, but driving. It seems like a simple distinction, 
 but it's an important one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazycracker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  If you love racing games this one takes the cake. It has it all: huge open beautiful varying scenery, 
 great cars, and of course cops. Every car has its own personality. From there extremely real looking 
 inferior to its tuned motor and custom paint job. If you are say for example an import guy or girl 
 and want to cruise and talk to other people like yourself one could join a club or start one and 
 recruit other import lovers. Whether you like the growl of a big V8 or the whine of twin turbos 
 you will enjoy the sound quality, especially if you have a decent Dolby sound system set up. Bottom 
 line is if you like racing games and cars buy this game. If you like one of those things at least 
 give this game a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  First, let's talk about the good stuff. Test Drive Unlimited is cheaper than normal XBox 360 games, 
 20$ (Canadian dollar) cheaper. It is sold 49.99 instead of 69.99. Sound is good and graphics are 
 acceptable. There is a lot of cars available and they are all beautifully rendered. Driving around 
 the island is enjoyable, like a nice sunday ride.
  
  And that's probably what the worst thing about this game. It's mostly a "sunday ride" game. I never 
 felt the urge or the energy to do more than just driving around. To get money, you race or do delivery 
 missions. But nothing forces you to go after money. If you are not an addict of "gamer points", 
 there is no real reasons to race, other than wanting a new car.
  
  Technically, the game suffers of some really annoying bugs. Cars that appear right in front of 
 you when you drive, cops that arrest you because you were pushed into their patrol car by a stupid 
 AI, a lot of pixelated textures, backgrounds not loading fast enough (a lot of pop up, even when 
 driving at low speed) , some hiccups... and the list goes on. These bugs are not that important, 
 but they contribute to ruining the game experience.
  
  I mention earlier that the graphics are acceptable. It's because I found the sceneric background 
 poorly detailed. In the city for example, I was expecting more details on the buildings and streets. 
 I have a XBox 360 and an HDTV, there should be better graphic, don't you think. Isn't that the 
 reason Microsoft gave to convince us to buy a 360? But I suppose this was to be expected since 
 the loading from a DVD drive is quite slow. Maybe graphics will improve with the PC version, where 
 everything will be on a fast hard drive.
  
  Most of the enjoyment of driving comes from the scenery. But after a while, it becomes very repetitive. 
 The city is not that big, and the coast line becomes boring after a while. It would have been nice 
 to have more "special" scenary (how about a volcano, or some interesting ruins, etc...) .
  
  One thing the developer could have tough of, is some kind of treasure hunt around the island... 
 Oh well, maybe another time.
  
  I did not test the online racing because I cancelled my gold account a few month ago. So I can 
 give my opinion on this part of the game.
  
  In conclusion, Testdrive Unlimited is an enjoyable game, but it should have given the player more 
 incentive to go forward in the game. I've driven all around the island, and now, I don't feel like 
 there is something else to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ermejo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Essendo una persona che ama macchine veloci e muore dalla voglia di visitare un paradiso terrestre, 
 questo gioco pu apparentemente rispondere ai miei desideri. Apparentemente?! Ansi, di certo! Grafica 
 magnifica senza caricamenti lunghi o interruzioni. Una grande selezione di bolidi pregiati e un 
 concetto di gioco a sua volta infinito. Io mi sono ritrovato a guidare per le strade senza la voglia 
 di fare una gara o decidere tra le altre opzioni poste dal gioco. Ci significa la bellezza di 
 TDU contiene gi motivazione abbastanza per fermarsi mezza giornata davanti al televisore. Quindi 
 Gente..., ascoltate, Chi appartiene a la vera razza italiana non si far scappare un gioiello di 
 questo genere. A tutti gli altri consiglio di almeno provarci qualche oretta. Se dopo di che non 
  di vostro gradimento... pazienza ;-) Guerra alla Mafia! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 2, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  I think this is the first time we see a single player/multiplayer on the same level. It's kind 
 of cool how you can be driving around an entire island from scratch and run into other Xbox Live 
 members on the island. The game and the cars look great. You start off as a preset character at 
 an airport. You get to choose who you want to be from the beginning of the game. You're on the 
 airport on your way to Hawaii. The storyline there's not much too it it's every vague. You just 
 go to Hawaii and rent a car buy and how and just start racing that's basically it. But for me that's 
 not a problem because that's what I want to do regardless. You have missions like racing against 
 the computer for cash, Picking up hitchhikers for clothes coupons, Driving a nice car from point 
 A to point B very carefully for a lot of cash, and then you have driving a package on a limited 
 time. Which are all good ways to earn money but they get kind of repetitive. There's always a place 
 where you can create your own tracks but I've been having some problems it's at a diner and it 
 always seems to freeze when I get there. You are also able to create your own club online or join 
 an existing one. Each car looks amazing and sounds different and handle different. The controls 
 are a little touchy at first you might spin off the road the first couple of times but once you 
 get the hang of it you'll be fine. If you're looking for a racer that's online and you can racing 
 your SP and MP at the same time than this is definitely the game you've been looking for. You should 
 definitely check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loosenut
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 10, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  While some courses can get old, this game is all about the clans. Find some friends make a clan 
 and go after it. Add to this, that it is one of the cheapest games on the 360 really should make 
 one look at this title. i only got to play at a friends as my 360 is still being repaired. I had 
 prepurchased the game and am looking foward to playing to its full extent soon. Liked what I played. 
 There seem to be plenty of achievements to unlock (34 I believe) . Some just for driving, some for 
 owning cars, big houses, etc. You can easily unlock 6 achivements you first go out. One of the 
 easiest is the drive 30miles. This does not take long, and you will drive 30 miles just looking 
 at the different parts of the island. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lance_Young
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimted has such good xbox live play but other details can definately be touched up. 
 The graphics of the people aren't that great but cars look good. There is a wide selection of cars 
 to buy, but if you barely touch a car it spins you out. The xbox live play is like this, you drive 
 up to a gold thing in the middle of a street and press A. The next people at the same gold thing 
 will either race you or just move on! Simple as that! i think its great so you dont have to search 
 in a loading screen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ig123
Rating: 4.9
Date: Sep 10, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  TDU was meant to be 'the' game. I even considered getting Xbox Live for it. I won't.
  
  I have Silver membership so i cant play online. So im reviewing the offline part only..
  
  
 I gotta say , its boring. It sounds exciting. 100 + cars, costumizable home, character, whole island 
 available to explore... but, you will soonly realise, its boring..
  
  The car doesnt damage, although traffic cars do. You crash a traffic they fly away, you just slow 
 down. Argh
  
  The car controls are pathetic. I cant enjoy it, even if i try. The dash view is good, but it doesnt 
 help the lack of physics in the cars. the graphics are good, cars are great, enviroment is.. well.. 
 mediocore. the plants are 2d, and most of the things are simply not detailed enough, especially 
 the water
  
  you can race, sprint, whatever, its really boring after a while, actually, since races are so short, 
 it gets boring very quickly.
  
  disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  I have only played the game for about 12 hours or so but I think I should give people a bit of 
 insight on the game.
  
  Gameplay: Excellent gameplay, Very different from most other racers, Yes you do races timetrials, 
 etc. There are also crazy taxi like missions as well where you bring someone to a certain location 
 and other missions like deliverying cars (like porshe unleashed.) This is just the main story line 
 though.. The real fun is just free roaming. You can cruise with up to 8 other people and I believe 
 you can cruise with up to 16 club members. It is also a massive environment. I have drove around 
 for about 7 hours now exploreing about 1/8th of the island. Not only is it massive it is well done 
 and it keeps you interested in sight seeing. There are a few other elements that makes this game 
 unique as well such as buying your house, able to host challanges to other racers, car clubs and 
 clothing shops, need I go on?
  
  gameplay 10/10 best gameplay in years, have not played a racing game this good since porshe unleashed 
 (I like this more)
  
  Graphics: Excellent graphics, The car detail is great especially in the different times of the 
 day you really notice how good of a job they did. The only flaw in the graphics would be some of 
 the textures they used for things such as some of the ground and a few others. There not bad and 
 there are only a few that could be changed so excellent graphics as well.
  
  Graphics10/10
  
  Sound: The weakest part of the game however is still great. Car sounds are 
 actually fairly good, could be improved but still nice. Also the music is not bad and the ablity 
 to add custom playlist is actually very handy. You can turn your musics volume up and down while 
 driving and such. The voice acting in the game.... not very good buit then again who got this game 
 for voice acting?? and not many racing games even have a story line or voice acting so what that 
 have done is not to bad.
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  Value: Game is worth every penny even if its not a discount game where you live. The small details 
 in this game make it worth every penny they spent alot of time making this game right. (small details 
 such as if you have a passenger and slam on the brakes they go foward from the force, I think its 
 neat ha ha.)
  
  Value 10/10
  
  Reviewers Tilt: My favourite game and have been waiting for a game exactly like this for about 
 8 or so years. I have drempt about a game like this for sooooo long and they did it almost exactly 
 the way I want it (even the car choices...) Amazing use of next gen technology. tilt 10/10
  
  PS: Don't let low review throw you off this sleeper hit, It may just be the best racing game 
 you will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedrovon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I think that Atari has published a half baked game, and lets hope that we can put our hands on 
 the final version soon. I find couple of small things very annoying for exampla the wind. It blews 
 strongly, because you can see the leaves flying around, but you can not see the trees moving. But 
 this is a small thing you can get over soon. I would have gas stations in the game to fill up, 
 that would also give more life like feeling to it, and olso if you can play with your window, than 
 why cant you clean your windscreen? Sadly Atari left the crash effect out which gives a game a 
 bad taste. It is like playing with need for speed or burn out, you can drive with 150mph and nothin 
 will happen if you crash. Other players complain about the handling, i think it is ok, not the 
 best but dont forget, that this game is no Richard Burns rally or other driving games. Overal the 
 game has a serious side effect because i can not stop playing it. The feeling is enormous but Atari 
 please give us the final version not the beta!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twolegsbad
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  7.8? Come on, Gamespot. Sorry, but the only reason I'm actually submitting a review is because 
 Gamespot missed the mark on this one.
  
  Gamespot Says:
  Test Drive 7.8
  Project Gotham 8.8
  NFS 8.4
  MotoGP 8.2
  Ridge Racer 8.1
  
  Test drive is better than 
 any of these other games. No longer do you have the limited and closed tracks of Project Gotham... and 
 the cars actually look like cars instead of that plastic look from PG (Don't get me wrong, I loved 
 Project Gotham, but it was not an 8.8 compared to a 7.8 for TDU) . And Ridge Racer... come on, it's 
 scope is so extremely limited it's not even worth comparing to a game the size and scope of TDU.
 
  
  TDU is just big and fun. And that's the most important thing. And you can play around with it because 
 it's in a world, not on a track.
  
  ---------------------------------------
  
  Okay, it has been a long time since I originally submitted this review. As much as I loved it before, 
 recent racers have made me realize what a mistake my 8.9 score was - TDU deserves a 10. Burnout 
 Paradise, PGR4, Forza 2, DIRT, GRID, and a slew of other top notch racers have been released. And 
 I just couldn't get into any of them, except maybe DIRT (for that off road fix) for awhile. And 
 I really have tried, but TDU changed what I expect from a racer. It is still the best racer out 
 there. It strikes the perfect balance between realism and arcade fun, and it doesn't depend on 
 a gimmick to do so.
  
  The open world racing, overall immersion, functional fun, and online experience are still unsurpassed. 
 TDU's online has turned out to be a high point. Instead of having to "go online" by some control 
 mechanism, you just are - if you are connected. And you don't have to have a monster friends list 
 to meet and play the online portion which is completely 100% seemless with the single player portion.
 
  
  The races range from massive to short. You can test your skill on a track, on a circuit around 
 the whole island, or on a short drag section. You can do time trials, vehicle deliveries, passenger 
 deliveries, and a great variety of races. And they are user friendly - meaning once you have found 
 a race you can go straight to it at anytime without having to drive all over the huge world - a 
 feature that was missing from Burnout Paradise and absolutely killed that game.
  
  The cars were fantastic. Again, a great variety. And they each sound unique in a fun way. In fact, 
 there are some cars, like the Ford GT (my favorite) and the Zonda that you will drive just for 
 the fun of hearing them. They also handle diffently in all the ways you would hope. And motorcycles 
 as well. Would you believe I sold this game in anticipation of other racers coming out, but I've 
 had to buy it again because nothing else measures up.
  
  Now I just have to wait for TDU2, which is supposedly in development, but no details. It is rumored 
 that they will have over twice the kilometers of road, allow off road racing, and have dynamic 
 weather and a damage model. Those rumors read like a wish list for the only features missing from 
 TDU. And their abscence is why I originally gave TDU an 8.9. But now, I've revised it to a 10 because 
 it must be a 10 if no other game in the genre is quite this fun. The exciting thing is that these 
 are important features that, if implemented correctly without taking away any of the things that 
 made TDU great, would make TDU2 the ONLY full featured racer in existence and EASILY the best racer 
 EVER.
  
  Now, to be honest, there are a couple other things that need to be done - like adding some more 
 race tracks to the world and changing the head movement speed so you can actually use your head 
 to monitor your racing competition (like PGR4) - but the bottom line is still that no other racer 
 is quite this good.
  
  Come on Eden, bring on the TDU2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
   First, and most importantly, this game is $39.99 USD most everywhere (if not cheaper) . This is 
 a next generation game that isn't wallet raping you like many of the other 360 games out there.
 
   It's a racing game, with a catch. It puts you in control of how your character looks, how he 
 dresses, and much more. Plus, no matter what, as long as you're a Live subscriber, you'll play 
 against people online. You'll see people running around in the city as well as you. It's kind of 
 like playing a massive multiplayer game (without the massive players per game) .
   You can customize the interior of your car, which is pretty sweet. You can match the paint job 
 you choose for your car, that way you'll have a more authentic look.
   The city is freakin' huge and highly detailed. There's literally 1000 miles of map to drive on 
 (although, you'll run into a lot of hills that are modeled with nothing on them... but that's just 
 real life) .
  
  :Bad Idea:
   Some minor glitches in the graphics department and physics. Nothing too major that I've ran into.
 
   The races are pretty repetitive. It's basically the same type of racing, over and over, just 
 in another area. I was hoping for a little more than that.
   There's no way to actually play a friend (from what I've seen anyway) .
   I'm being picky on 
 this one. The cops do not pull you over for driving on the wrong side of the road, running red 
 lights, and misc other stuff that would make it a tad bit more realistic.
   The soundtrack is a little weak, in my opinion. Not enough tracks.
  
  :Overall:
   This 
 is a nice game, especially for $39, and will defiantly last you for a good while. It's a very fun 
 game and something to keep you busy while you wait for the big hitters later this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moradel100
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 9, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows that the game brings a new way of racing. Well let me start with the (graphics) 
 the cars look great if you have a HDTV witht the $399 system, if i was to compared it with another 
 game it would be PGR3. The (single player mode) is like every other racings game out there. You 
 race and make money to buy more cars. The best feature of the game is the freedom to driver anywhere 
 you want to go. Is a Grand theft Auto experience without getting out the car and killing people. 
 You can also go to dealers and buy cars and change the color of the car, put on different rims 
 and you can also choose the interior color. The good thing is that you can meet up with your friends 
 by using the GPS system. The bad thing about the GPS system is that you have wait until the xbox 
 live updates. Then your friend will appered at the same place where you are. I believe that the 
 system updates ever few secongs or every minute. Dont believe other games that say the GPS Suck 
 because they do not know how to use it. In conclusion, if you like to race and drive around with 
 your friends making news friends or talk smack and nice HD Graphics this is the game for you. ( 
 copyright GuiltySapartan01) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussiaM3
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  The way i look at it , there are no good racing games in Xbox360 Market yet. You think PGR3 ? Think 
 again , not realistic at all , i admit that it has nice graph, sound, incar view ... But still 
 not even as close to realizm as Forza. So for me PGR3 and Testdrive is just something to drive/do 
 while waiting for Forza2 . I mean dont get me wrong , testdrive is good but still needs some upgrades/patches 
 to make it better. So hope Atari knows when Forza comes out , there will be much less people driving 
 around . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homersimpsons
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  This is my second review, so im gonna be a bit more specific about this game, as ive had it for 
 longer since my last review.
  
  First of all im gonna start off with the gameplay. now it seems a abit too arcady to me. and thats 
 a let down, because a game like this needs be a simulator. so the HArdcore Mode, was released on 
 the xboxlive marketplace. and ill tell you now it was tottaly worth it. It certainly makes you 
 feel like your driving the car, handling is more heavier, braking is more realistic. also when 
 you crash, its like when you have crashed. not before where, when you crashed you would just come 
 to a halt. but not in hardcore you can actually flip your car now!!!!!.
  
  Moving on. Graphics!!. Now, this is a tricky game to rate about its graphics. so im not gonna give 
 any ratings on it. im just gonna explain. Because the graphics seems to vary abit. its good in 
 one place, but in the next it looks bland and doesnt look alive. which is another let down. but 
 dot let that stop you, from buying it. Now!!! carrying on with graphics. The reflections are amazing. 
 even in dark bits on the map. your car still shines. its amazing. so your car looks real. so its 
 still got that shine.
  
  Moving on to sound. The sound isnt that good really. well its not bad. but its certainly not CRAP. 
 some of the cars sound exactly the same. which is a nother letdown. because you want your car to 
 be individual. but not in test drives Case. The other cars certainly sound exactly like the real 
 sound. other sounds like the enviroment, certainly fit into the map. make it feel like you are 
 actually there.
  
  Thats the last of my review. hope you enjoyed reading it. and please do buy the game. because its 
 amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkisielewski1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I have only played it for an hour or so, and I have to say it is a sharp game. I think it is something 
 that I would not mind paying the cheaper $39.99 for. The graphics are solid so far, and the missions 
 seem to be varied enough that I would not get bored for a long while. The achievements are evenly 
 paced and smartly put into the game. The cars initially seem to be quite solid from the get-go, 
 especially since it does not force you to choose between three sub-par cars from the get-go. This 
 ultimately was the problem for me in the original PGR's. Make sure you turn off the driving aid's, 
 and you will be given a much more tuned driving experience with a weight and substance to the cars.
 
  
  My only main concern is the reverse function of the cars, but this may have to do with the car 
 that I am driving at the moment and not a mechanic of the game itself. The drifts and poweslides 
 seem to be solid, and the weight of the cars definitely seem realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dz1gns
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive Unlimited has taken the racing genre to a whole new level, and perhaps setting itself 
 as the stepping stone for a whole new wave of racing games. Referred to as "Massively Open Online 
 Racing", Eden has completely wiped out the line between online and offline racing games by creating 
 a massive world that is entirely open to anyone. Well, kind of. Despite having such a gigantic 
 island to drive on, the game does limit how many other players that will appear in your area, which 
 is about 7 other drivers, not including yourself. This does make tracking down a friend who wants 
 to race you or finding out whoever T-boned your car a little difficult, but regardless the concept 
 behind this new vision for racing games is still totally cool.
  
  You start all of this conceptual greatness on the Hawaiian island of Oahu, complete with over a 
 thousand miles of open road, recognizable scenery that reflects the actual appearance of the island, 
 and apparently also seems to be a total ghost town. After choosing from a selection of characters, 
 your pad, and a rental, you are ready to hit the street with the other drivers. There will only 
 be a small number of missions on the map to start off with, but as time goes on, you'll see more 
 of them gradually begin to show up. Your skill level will reflect whom you are able to encounter 
 when out in the island, which is nice because it obviously won't be fun getting smoked by a Gallardo 
 when you're not even 10 minutes in the game. After your skill level progresses over time by completing 
 various achievements the game has to offer, there will be quite a fair number of missions and races 
 to choose from all across the island, but unfortunately there isn't a whole lot of variety in them 
 and can get repetitive and boring quite quickly. While all these missions and races are scattered 
 all throughout the map, you don't necessarily have to drive your way to each one, as you can position 
 yourself anywhere that you've visited before on the map. Fortunately, there are more than just 
 missions, as there are more events to compete in, such as races and speed challenges. For races, 
 they feature up to seven opponents and a course from a lengthy bunch filled with checkpoints, each 
 with a distinctive characteristic. Speed challenges and time trials are where you will get most 
 of your fun at, as the races can be a humdrum experience after a while, as your opposition won't 
 pose a threat if you can keep your car on the road. Driving above a speed limit through various 
 checkpoints and beating the clock aren't things you haven't seen before, but they are still quite 
 entertaining. For completing such events, especially for the missions that are available, you build 
 up some dough, which you can use on various goods throughout the game, such as houses, clothing 
 for your character, upgrades, and, most importantly, your ride.
  
  Available are 90 licensed vehicles, from sports cars to motorcycles, and more to come via the Xbox 
 Live Marketplace. The customizations on your ride and its handling aren't spectacular, although 
 enjoyable. The controls will take some getting used to as they feel odd and at times a little annoying 
 to start off, but once you settle into your ride you'll get the hang of it, until you get a new 
 car when you may have to adjust to that, but it'll be worth it. Adjusting steering sensitivity 
 is most likely a must, regardless whether you are a racing enthusiast or not. Motorcycles are available 
 in the game, but handling one is impossible to master as they seem to be more intended for long 
 straights rather than the sharp twists and turns that you may encounter. Building your car collection 
 will take some time, as with the more cars you buy, you're going to need some places to store them. 
 There are plenty of unique lots to purchase all scattered on the island, varying in price range 
 and each can store a different number of cars. You may not want to start a car collection, but 
 due to some of the race designs, though, starting your own personal collection of cars would be 
 a handy idea, as there are certain races that require you to only use a car from a specified class. 
 If you don't have the money to buy it, there is also the ability to rent a car for a certain length 
 of time. It's sad to say that for a racing game, Grand Theft Auto has more in terms of customizing 
 your car than Test Drive Unlimited, as customizing and tweaking your car is rather limited and 
 restricted to just one of three improvements. To take advantage of this, if you desire, all you 
 will need to do is visit a shop and have the money to get your car they way you want it to look. 
 In the end, with the lack of customization in an online game like this, cars throughout the island 
 will be less unique as they could have been, and it doesn't give the feel that your car is essentially 
 "your ride". Your money isn't all that hard to build up, so if you're thinking that you'll be spending 
 days of racing trying to afford a Ferrari, it shouldn't take too long at all. As quickly as you 
 gain it, however, you can quickly lose a huge chunk of it too. How so? For such a ghost town in 
 terms of inhabitants, there are more than enough cops to hunt you down for your slight dents into 
 your slow citizens, while driving 190 clicks an hour is somehow condonable. They are largely ineffective 
 for the most part, as if you stay accident free for a while afterwards they'll give up on you, 
 but when you do get caught the astronomical fines will put a dent into your funds. Nothing is more 
 annoying than racing for bread and end up owing three times as much a half hour afterwards.
  
  While all of this so far sounds great, the real fun hasn't begun just yet. If you don't have 
 an Xbox Live Gold account, you will be missing out on most of what the game has to offer, as the 
 single-player mode in the game isn't close to how appealing the online mode is. The multi-player 
 mode pretty much has all the modes from the single-player edition, but with a little more as well. 
 The game features an online trading system, where you can sell your motorcycle that handles like 
 garbage, and a clan-like system, called clubs, where you can challenge other racers in your club 
 or other racers in other clubs, which will definitely get you hooked if you have a group of buddies. 
 Plus with the likelihood of running into your friend who is "in your area" slim-to-none, clubs 
 are the alternative to setting up a challenge or a race with your friends. Aside from that, you 
 can also approach anyone who is driving around in your area and challenge them to a race by flashing 
 them your headlights, and if you accept your challenge, you pick a spot on the map to have the 
 finish line set up and then you are all set to go, and if you don't win, there is a revenge option 
 if you dare wish to challenge him again. Overall, you will be wondering what the hype is all about 
 if you do not have an Xbox Live Gold account, because the online mode of the game is what makes 
 the game dazzling and newfangled. Otherwise, the already reduced price tag will still seem like 
 too much.
  
  Visually, the game as a whole looks great. Most of the vehicles are incredibly detailed, and although 
 not the best you have seen, it still looks great. The blur effect which you will notice when moving 
 at a fast pace looks impressive and wonderful to witness. The island itself is also quite detailed 
 and because of this it is quite a nice sight to see as you drive down the streets. The graphics 
 of the game aren't all praise, however. For starters, the character models on the other hand look 
 down-right ugly, but fortunately they don't play that big a role in the game. Occasionally there 
 will be the frame rate twitch and other minor graphical issues, especially moving at a high rate 
 of speed, but they don't occur often enough to disrupt the joy of driving around. In relation to 
 the island, and while perhaps it's just the way the island is, since it's a replica, there are 
 some pretty tasteless sections of road on the island, which makes cruising around, which the game 
 encourages you to do at times, a bit of a snore. The physics of the game are irritating at times, 
 and you will notice this most if you are learning to handle your car. Basically, heading straight 
 for a bunch of bushes and ramming into a building are essentially the same thing in the game, although 
 quite minor. Overall, the game's no Project Gotham Racing 3, but the game looks pleasing, and the 
 cars still look astounding.
  
  The sounds in the game aren't quite what they could be for the most part, however the game has 
 a killer soundtrack with various music genres included, but due to the lack of songs the soundtrack 
 can get very repetitive, especially for your longer races. The cars in the game sound alright, 
 but the realism just isn't there. The GPS lady can also get on your nerves rather quickly, to be 
 quite honest, but thankfully you can disable the feature.
  
  While the game does have its disappointments, Test Drive Unlimited is a game you'll probably want 
 to get your hands on and had the opportunity to be a must-own with a little bit more polish. It 
 has taken the racing genre for a spin and taken it in a new direction, and leaves us excited for 
 what the future may hold. The online component is what keeps you occupied for hours of sheer fun, 
 but without it, the game just feels dull, boring, and way too repetitive. It's certainly not the 
 best racer out there, but the fact that Test Drive Unlimited is such a solid unique game makes 
 it definitely worth a shot, and at a slightly reduced price, you shouldn't have any excuse not 
 to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Pretty decent arcade racer. Its fun and photo realistic, with some nice polish to go with the game's 
 visualy impresive textures. After all this is a "Test Drive" game so it has many elements that 
 make it a test drive game, while at the same time it blends in the multiplayer racing.
  
  Gameplay : is fun and addictive. You can very easily find yourself playing for hours with out realizing 
 that your progress has automatically been saved.
  
  Graphics: are good for a budget priced game. The artists that programed this game paid attention 
 to the mapping of Hawaii.
  
  Sound :is okay what it should be for a next-gen Test Drive game.
  
  Value: it could be worth 
 something if you want a good arcade experience on Xbox live.
  
  Its a good game check it out you will not be disapointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggroll360
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Yes, sometimes it's a bit dull but you'll find it fun after awhile. If you 
 get some of the better cars, your enjoyment will increase. The downside is that the races and etc 
 have a repetitive feel, but overall, this game is just Amazing, I've been waiting awhile for this 
 and now I'm satisfied :D
  So if you like car games with a big array of cars. This SHOULD be the game for you, if not, then 
 oh well :D
  
  Pros: Nice Graphics and Many Many Cars. You can change your clothes and get a house Cons: The crashing 
 and cops and more little details are a bit annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TWOC2689
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 8, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Since Test drive was realised this year at E3 and xbox live users have played only a small section 
 of the island with only three cars but when we realised that this would be an entire island and 
 there would be more then 90 cars many fans of racing have been anticipating the idea of a enormous 
 free roaming race course and playing with hundreds of people at more then one time. Well it's out 
 and it has given more then it's promised giving customisation and a great selection of cars. The 
 actual handling of the cars feel very real and changes from car to car. The actual interface if 
 very easy and simple allowing quick to access races and hot spots for players. There is more then 
 just racing with nice side tasks which keep the game going even longer if 100 single player races 
 weren't enough.
  
  All in all a must buy game for any racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cejay0813
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Right off the back, people start complaining about the graphics of this game like thats all that 
 matters in a good game. The only graphical flaws that seem to present itself is the fact that the 
 cars don't take on any damage. Like that's the first time this has happened in a racing game. Other 
 than that i dont find anything wrong with the graphics. The controls are weird, but i also think 
 the controls in GT are weird too. Doesn't make it a bad racing game though, just takes parctice 
 to get used to. And what's the deal with people really wanting to find friends. Who needs friends 
 when theirs hundreds of people online to race. And there is a way to find them, a lot of people 
 haven't figured it out yet cause the game came out..... uh 3 DAYS AGO!! (well at least down here 
 it did) . But in all honesty if people got you scared about buying this game, rent it first, not 
 unless you're still one of those neanderthals who go to Blockbuster... lol then you better go ahead 
 and buy it because what people seemed to forget was that they payed only 40 bucks for this game. 
 And if you're me, $15 cause i traded in a game for it. :) . This game is worth every penny thats 
 asked for it, and honestly, there's a lot of games on the X360 that need to be worth this much. 
 Last thing is the controls for the bikes, 10 mins of driving around and i started hitting things 
 less and less. We call that learning. Basically just learn how to play this game first and spend 
 some good time with it before you go nutz about its minor, MINOR flaws 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santo4600
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. Graphics aside becuase obviously thats a givin, You can do what 
 ever you want at any time on the island. And no mater what there is always someone to race thats 
 online. This game sets the bar for racing games to come. I also would like to point out at this 
 time, that who ever wrote the "offical" review at game spot is a complete idiot. Im not bashing 
 them becuase they didnt like it, i could care less about that, its their opinion, all im saying 
 is that the facts in their review are wrong. "Its pretty cool you can just find random people to 
 race when your driving but even if your sitting in the same area with your friend you wont see 
 them, and theres no way to find them off your friends list." Are you serious? did you even play 
 the game what so ever? Ok, ill break it down for you. Go to the gps, go to the little guy icon.. 
 ok? got that? now go to filters, then at the bottom switch all players to just friends. Then.... 
 ready? click the person and it takes you directly to them where ever they are as long as you have 
 the road unlocked. Geez, im glad im not a paying subscriber becuase it would really piss me off 
 to pay for reviews and such from a game website that are just inacurate lies. Its like they wanted 
 to hate this game but there wasnt enough bad things about it so they made stuff up. Ahh oh well, 
 i have it and am loving it so what ever. Great game, worth a buy (definitally at 40$) great graphics, 
 what else is there to say. Oh and if I get in trouble for this that is completely rediculous becuase 
 one, im just stating a correction so people dont get on here and think its dumb they cant find 
 thier friends becuase THEY CAN. and im just stating my opinion, like i said above im not bashing 
 anyones opinion, just the lact of effort it took to write a good review about a revolutionary game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamtheinternet
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that I have been waiting for all my life. It is absolutely FANTASTIC!!!! The Island 
 is so vast that it may seem a little intimidating at first, but is so much fun even just to drive 
 around the island! The races are fun and not too easy that it's boring and not too hard that you're 
 making holes in the wall from throwing your controller. The other missions are new, interesting, 
 and above all, FUN!!! The vast customisation of your character is incredible!! The police chases 
 are not too easy, but also not as over the top as NFS Most Wanted. There is so much to do in this 
 game it is very addictive!!! One of the best parts is that there is no loading times while driving. 
 This is definitely an instant classic and a game that everyone should have the pleasure of owning!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darwin-Jay
Rating: 3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  @ first, I was blown away by th amazing grafix and the plethora of rides. My joy, however; was 
 short lived when it came to a few major issue in MY book of racing game etiquette. For starters, 
 the fact that you can't wreck licensed cars or sustain any damage to them really irks me. An aggressive 
 driver loves the notion that you can still beat an opponent whose ride is markedly better by simply 
 ramming the stuffing out of him/her, and handicapping the vehicles capabilities in one way or another. 
 Being unable to do more environmental damage is also disappointing. I'm not asking to be able to 
 crash into somebodies living room while they are watching tv or anything, just a realistic effect 
 of what might happen in an accident scenario. The absence of people is also a little annoying. 
 On another note, you can't customize your ride, the fact that you can customize you character's 
 closet rather than your rides is downright ridiculous. Makes me wonder if paid advertising from 
 3rd parties was involved when it came to the developing process. And finally, the handling of the 
 cars isn't all that good. Test Drive for the ps2 was much better in that aspect My expectations 
 are high for all games when it comes to next gen gaming, and when it comes to racers, this one 
 just didn't cut it. As a matter of fact, I'm so disappointed i can't finish this review. I would 
 suggest renting this one rather than buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  7.8? You HAVE to be kidding me. That's the first thing I had come into my head when I logged on 
 to write this review. I have personally been waiting for this title for quite some time now. Hearing 
 of Atari's financial woes instigated worry on my behalf because, as we all know, companies love 
 to start cutting corners... or even cancelling titles... when the funds get tight. The announcement 
 that this game would retail for $39.99 did nothing to quell those fears. Could Atari come out with 
 a racing game that could somehow avoid the monotony of Project Gotham and deliver the free-roam 
 style of Need for Speed? Or would the long project of Test Drive Unlimited become just another 
 bug-infested beta disc that made it to retail? I have jumped in the driver's seat and hit the road 
 to bring you, the curious fellow gamer, the Game Breakdown on Atari's driving simulator.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are, in a word, gorgeous. The car models are all extremely 
 accurate. Character models don't look bad.... they could have been polished a bit better. However, 
 the thing to remember in this one is that the cars are the star of the show.. not your avatar. And 
 the street machines are represented very well. The ennvironments are very sharp and crisp, and 
 doing doughnuts has never been so much fun. I say this because after about three or four you won't 
 be able to see your hand in front of your face from the nice smoke effects they included. Houses 
 and garages are detailed, but again, I can not stress enough the amount of time and detail that 
 was crafted into these car models. The biggest thing to mention here though is sensation of speed. 
 It's there. Project Gotham didn't have it as far as I was concerned. But this game does it in spades, 
 and is very realistic about it as well. 
  
  Sound: Alot of games can learn from this one. The game allows you to raise and lower your windows. 
 That said, even at idle, try lowering and raising the windows. You can actually hear the engine 
 better with the windows down, just as in reality. The wind noise was a definite nice touch as well. 
 The soundtrack is a mix-and-match combo of everything from punk to Beethoven.. and that's not an 
 exaggeration. I wasn't blown away by it by any means, but it served it's purpose. Not to mention 
 I always turn the radio off anyway so that I can hear the engine noise. The engine sounds in this 
 game are superb. Very impressed with the sound presentation on this one.
  
  Controls: Braking and sliding around corners takes some getting used to, but after awhile you'll 
 have the hang of it. Throttle response is definitly there, as it is very possible to cruise at 
 a steady speed and then lay on it, causing the front end to lift on the faster cars. Manuvering 
 the map is easy, as waypoints are easy to find. I'd have to say they did one heck of a job on this 
 one. And having the left bumper be the look back button was genious. Gameplay: You're cruising 
 along a two-lane road, heading up into some hills on your way to the local car dealership of your 
 choice. You've got your windows down, radio playing quietly in the background so as not to overwhelm 
 the calm purr of the engine as it idles steady at 60 mph, the sun shining off the fresh red custom 
 paint job on your recently-purchased Ferrari F430. You take in the scenery, now and again hearing 
 the loud rev of an engine as one of your fellow auto enthusiasts flies past in the other direction. 
 Coming up on traffic, you shift down into third. Your GPS audibly informs you that you are 3 miles 
 from your destination. With a smile you wait for oncoming traffic to clear, then pull out and mash 
 the gas. Welcome to Test Drive Unlimited. This game is the perfect driving sim. You purchase your 
 car at the dealership. Pick everything from exterior color to interior color, rims, etc. All the 
 vehicles are fully licensed and ready to hit the pavement. I had high expectations for this game, 
 but it surpassed even those. The framerate runs smooth, the entire package just comes together 
 very well. If you are a car enthusiast, you will find SOMETHING you like to drive in the game's 
 125 car selection. Or... maybe you'd rather have a motorcyle? How does a Ducati sound? Because you 
 can do it. You can even buy different outfits for your avatar to better represent your own personal 
 style. Drive around and find all the tuning shops and soup up your car to your own expectations. 
 For anyone who has ever wanted to test drive that supercar they wish they could afford, this game 
 makes that dream a reality. The detailed cockpit view this game offers beats out even PGR3 in my 
 opinion. All in all, this game is alot of bang for your buck and would have been so even at $60. 
 Car enthusiasts, your game is here. Get out and get this game. As a rental, I can recommend it. 
 But after you take the test drive, you'll be wanting to buy this one hands down. Test Drive Unlimited. 
 Welcome to the open road ladies and gentlemen. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister2zx3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Everything in TDU is polished. A lot of attention to detail in the litttle things. Great job over 
 all, once you know the big pieces that would put this game well beyond any racing game. Damage, 
 Car Tuning both performance, suspension, etc and visual and it would be incredible.
  
  Using a wheel is less then perfect though. The controls expect a right thumbstick to setup courses 
 in challenges and since the all the racing steering wheels on the market now have no right thumbstick, 
 you can't create a course! Also if someone challenges you, you can't shift until you hit B. Driving 
 an automatic probably not an issue, but for someone with the assists turned off, using a steering 
 wheel and aiming for the best simulation driving on the 360 so far, it falls short.
  
  Not beign able to save replays is another big screw up.
  
  But the driving and physics are 
 very good with all assists off and a wheel. With word that car packs will be coming every month 
 it's even better
  
  If damage were present folks would learn to be much more cautious drivers. Maybe a patch will bring 
 some car tuning aspects and soem form of damage even if not visual but to a cars performance and 
 suspension alignment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemerler
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 8, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  TESTDRIVE ROCKS!
  
  HERE ARE THE +'S
  
  1-VERY GOOD ONLINE. (LOTS OF FUN)
  
  2-THE MOST REALISTIC CARS YOU WILL EVER SEE IN A GAME. PERIOD.
  
  3-THE MOST REALISTIC DASHBOARDS 
 EVER IN A GAME. FINALLY IN CAR VIEW. I HAVE BEEN WAITING A LONG TIME FOR THAT.
  
  4-DRIVING HANDLES JUST LIKE IT SHOULD, NOT HARD TO DRIVE AT ALL. (ITS NOT HARD TO DRIVE A REAL CAR 
 IS IT?) EVERY CAR HANDLES DIFFERENTLY. DONT LISTEN TO THOSE OTHER REVIEWS AND ALSO GAMESPOTS REVIEW 
 THEY'RE DEAD WRONG!
  
  5- 1600KM OF OPEN ROADS ARE THERE FOR YOU TO EXPLORE. YOU CAN GO ANYWHERE ON THE ISLAND. NO INVISIBLE 
 WALLS TO STOP YOU.
  
  6-ENGINE NOISES ARE TOP NOTCH. THEY SOUND VERY REAL.
  
  I CAN GO ON AND ON WITH THE GOOD BUT TIME FOR THE BAD.
  
  1-COPS ARE REALLY DUMB. YOU CAN BLOW 
 BY THEM AT 250MPH AND THEY WON'T EVEN NOTICE YOU. THEY ARE BASICALLY THERE ON VACATION THAT'S ALL.
 
  
  2-OFFLINE RACING IS TO EASY. THE COMPUTER PLAYERS ARE NOT ALL THAT SMART CRASHING IN TOO OTHER 
 CARS AND RUNNING OF THE ROAD ALOT. ONLINE IS WHERE ITS AT.
  
  3-NO CHANGE IN DAY AND NO WEATHER EITHER. THAT SUCKS!
  
  OTHER THEN THOSE 3 THINGS ITS JUST 
 A GREAT GAME TO DRIVE AROUND AND ENJOY THE BEAUTY OF THE ISLAND. ENJOY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  I have only played the game for about 12 hours or so but I think I should give people a bit of 
 insight on the game.
  
  Gameplay: Excellent gameplay, Very different from most other racers, Yes you do races timetrials, 
 etc. There are also crazy taxi like missions as well where you bring someone to a certain location 
 and other missions like deliverying cars (like porshe unleashed.) This is just the main story line 
 though.. The real fun is just free roaming. You can cruise with up to 8 other people and I believe 
 you can cruise with up to 16 club members. It is also a massive environment. I have drove around 
 for about 7 hours now exploreing about 1/8th of the island. Not only is it massive it is well done 
 and it keeps you interested in sight seeing. There are a few other elements that makes this game 
 unique as well such as buying your house, able to host challanges to other racers, car clubs and 
 clothing shops, need I go on?
  
  gameplay 10/10 best gameplay in years, have not played a racing game this good since porshe unleashed 
 (I like this more)
  
  Graphics: Excellent graphics, The car detail is great especially in the different times of the 
 day you really notice how good of a job they did. The only flaw in the graphics would be some of 
 the textures they used for things such as some of the ground and a few others. There not bad and 
 there are only a few that could be changed so excellent graphics as well.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Sound: The weakest part of the game however is still great. Car sounds are 
 actually fairly good, could be improved but still nice. Also the music is not bad and the ablity 
 to add custom playlist is actually very handy. You can turn your musics volume up and down while 
 driving and such. The voice acting in the game.... not very good buit then again who got this game 
 for voice acting?? and not many racing games even have a story line or voice acting so what that 
 have done is not to bad.
  
  Sound 7/10
  
  Value: Game is worth every penny even if its not a discount game where you live. The small details 
 in this game make it worth every penny they spent alot of time making this game right. (small details 
 such as if you have a passenger and slam on the brakes they go foward from the force, I think its 
 neat ha ha.)
  
  Value 10/10
  
  Reviewers Tilt: My favourite game and have been waiting for a game exactly like this for about 
 8 or so years. I have drempt about a game like this for sooooo long and they did it almost exactly 
 the way I want it (even the car choices...) Amazing use of next gen technology. tilt 10/10
  
  PS: Don't let low review throw you off this sleeper hit, It may just be the best racing game 
 you will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeleNel
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  I personally have been waiting for this game to come out since it was first announced, and I couldn't 
 be happier with it... to a degree. With TDU, you get one of the most innovative ideas for online 
 gaming, and one that I expect many other games to follow suit very soon. Imagine the popular XBL 
 games like Halo being a MMO.
  
  But back to the game. While the graphics are not up to par with PGR3, the gameplay and different 
 missions you can do around the island are enough to keep you coming back. If you don't feel like 
 racing, take a day to drive the coast of Oahu, or if you've ever visited, try to find that place 
 you stayed and see if Atari got it right.
  
  The music leaves something to be desired, all the radio stations seem to be short on the music 
 selections. Also the car sounds dont differ volume when you are using the in car view, a little 
 something else that made me enjoy PGR3.
  
  The thing that really can make you choose to get this game or not is the price. In the day of the 
 $60 video game, a great LARGE game such as this for only $40 is definitely something that you may 
 want to add to your collection. See you on Oahu. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  Test Drive: unlimited the second game in the test drive series from atari and eden studios and 
 one of the most highly anticipated games to come to the xbox 360. This street racing sim has hardly 
 any faults but one of the major faults in the game is the plain single player, the game is just 
 no fun without online races it lacks enthusiasm and definetly lacks gameplay, but on the brightside 
 the game has massively large maps and amazing graphics. The cars and the custmizations do well 
 with the game but if you do not have an Xbox live account this game is just useless to you. I recommend 
 you rent it first and test drive befor wasting sixty dollars. Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oaksey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 8, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  This game is a revolution, theres loads to do from missions to races.
  The the game does`nt need a story line theres more than a great sense of acheivement from earning 
 money and buying prestigous cars, houses and showing them off to your friends.
  
  I really cant understand how pgr 3 got a better reveiw than this, in fact i cant understand how 
 alot of games got a better reveiw than this, ghost recon got 9.2 and online its probably the worst 
 shooter on any platform, i played it for 4 hours and then never touched it again hmmm....... money 
 well spent ? gamespots reveiws leave me baffled !
  
  This is the best racing game on the xbox 360 go out and buy it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrissnyder
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  +PLUS+
  
  -The area where you play is HUGE, it's a world where you can do practicly anything. And drive for 
 hours without even exploring 5%.
  - The sound is awesome, really well sampled.
  - Cool veryity if missions
  - The feel
  
  -MINUS-
  
  - Your car doesn't break
  - The 
 motorcycle feel isn't just so realistic
  - The graphics could be better
  - It could be a little more realistic with cops.
  
  
  First of all I want to say that the 
 user "Sardaukar87" who gave this game 4.4 cannot be older than 4 or have to be a retard Difficulty: 
 Really Hard? Eh, it's a race game, you have gas, brake and the steeringwheel. Learning Curve: Over 
 Four Hours? You can teach a monkey to play this game in less than one hour. My 5 year old daughter 
 learnd to play it after 10 minutes, not good, but she understood.
  
  I've dreamt of a game like this since I played Test Drive on my Amiga500. A game where you could 
 drive practicly anywhere, just exploring, like you were out drivning for real. Well this is it, 
 and it game me that warm speciall kind of feeling in the stomach. It's SOOO big, and I love that. 
 And the fact that other online users are there with me is just a blast, really amazing.
  
  The driving feel is really good, if you want a realistic game. It's not like NFS where you can 
 drive 250mph with a MiniCooper, make perfekt turns at the same time, jump over buildings and at 
 the same time make 43 policecars blow up. Those drivinggames are ARCADE people, TDU is not.
  
  I've heard someone that compared this to the lataest GTA, well, the only thing I can say, is 
 that all the GTA worlds put togheter is like 7% of this world. This is one of, if not the biggest, 
 the biggest games in our time.
  
  The grapichs could be better, no doubt about it. But the game doesnt lag anything, even if it's 
 20 cars around you it doesn't lag. Just take the latest NFS for example, sure it looks alot better, 
 but everytime it's like more than 2 cars at the screen at the same time it barely playable cause 
 of the lag.
  
  I prefer a lagfree, smoth game before a graphics masterpiece. But this game is really really beautiful, 
 just take a ride at sunset down by the beach, look out your sidewindow and then you realise that 
 it IS really, a very goodlooking game.
  
  The things that bother me, and they bother me ALOT. That is that you can't crash and break your 
 own car, but every other car has great physics, even the slightest bump give's them a buckle in 
 the car. I really HATE when you're in some kind of supercar that will never break. That really 
 disapointed me. It would be so much cooler, and you would drive a million times better if you knew 
 that your car could break asweel, and you had to take it to the shop and get it fixed and so on. 
 Another thing that would be really cool were if you could like set the SIMULATION level. Say for 
 example that I put it at HIGH. Then your car could be broken, you would run out of gas, if the 
 cops saw you driving against a red light of driving over the speed limit the would put out a APB 
 on you. That would RULE I think. But at that level Forza is the only game capapble of, exept the 
 copthing.
  
  And yes, the copthing could be alot better. I don't think that I would be able to go by the police 
 in like 170mph and they just don't care. Do like the game Mafia did 5 years ago, MAKE IT REALALISTIC.
 
  
  In conclusion, this is a really good game, a fantastic game if you want to go away in a fantasyworld 
 for a couple of hours, race, hang out with your friends, take photos, chillin in Hawai.
  
  I can't give it a perfect grade because of the realismissues. But this game gave me a almost religioustrip.
 
  
  These are the simular games I've played and finished, and played online for many hundred hours:
 
  
  Grand Turismo I, II, III
  GTA 3, 4, 5
  Need For Speed (all the games from Porsche Unleashed)
  Race Driver 1, 2
  Forza
  Midnight 
 Run
  PGR 1, 2 ,3
  Burnout (all the games)
  
  and Test Drive Unlimited is the best of these games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1SFGiantsFan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 7, 2006 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I just bought this game today and I'll admit that I've spent WAY too many hours playing it 
 in one session. Now, my wife is mad at me and my son finally gets to play G. R. A. W.
  
  I'm not one to spend too much time online playing games. I prefer single player, against the computer. 
 I've had a taste of Madden 07 over the past several days, and my 0-7 records confirms what I've 
 known all along. I SUCK online! This is where TDU comes in. I know, for a fact, that I can do okay 
 while online.
  
  Now, about the game. At first glance I've noticed that the the game looks a little bit "washed-out" 
 when it comes to colors and detail. I'm jumping the gun here because I am finally getting an HDTV 
 on Friday, and I'm looking at TDU through the eyes of a standard picture tube. So, my graphics 
 will have to remain at 7, just for the fact that the makers of the game keep things moving. I've 
 yet to see any slowdown at any part of the game.
  
  The games controls okay. It takes a little getting used to because my initial car tending to slide 
 around quite a bit. Maybe as I upgrade, things will improve. It's no Forza or GranTurismo, and 
 has a kind of "arcade" feel, but this fussy reviewer has no problems.
  
  Where I know I'm gonna be addicted... Online. I was a bit scared to join an online race but once 
 I did I couldn't stop racing against others.
  
  I'm running outta time here..... I don't think you're gonna do better for your $39.99 and a Gold 
 X-Box account. If you're a racing fan and love to compete, you'll be satisfied.
  
  If you see JimiMack650 wizzing by you in Saturn Sky or A Mercedes SLK, say hi and tell me you seen 
 my review on GameSpot..... maybe we can trade a ride? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first game I've pre-ordered in my life.
  
  The first.
  
  I have never been so excited for a game to come out, as I was with this game. To be honest, I am 
 partially disappointed with this game, but I'll explain more as this goes on.
  
  Gameplay: The racing physics are really quite weak, I will say. The cars handly really poorly, 
 which is quite a frustrating thing. Another problem is actually racing with people online. It is 
 near impossible to chase down another car, challenge them, and actually make that all work. Another 
 small issue for me, is the fact that working through the single player is really tedious, because 
 it just doesn't offer near the fun that online does. Other than that, the game is a truly fun experience 
 with the way that the online and offline aspects of the game blend together. It makes it very easy 
 to play.
  
  Graphics: The game looks really good. Everything is very smooth, and maintains a solid framerate 
 throughout. For such a large island, I find it cool that it stays so beautiful throughout. The 
 interfaces look great, too!
  
  Sound: I honestly hae to say one thing. The GPS voice whatever thing, is so annoying, I can't stand 
 it. She is always talking. The soundtrack and effects are also extremely weak.
  
  Value: With an awesome online, and being able to buy tons of cars, houses and outfits, the game 
 is really addictive, and lasts a long time.
  
  Would I recommend this game? Sure. Do I guarentee you'll fall in love? No. It's a game that you 
 should do some research on before you buy, but for me, I'm still quite satisfied.
  
  Positives:
  + Addictive gameplay
  + Tons of cars, houses and outfits
  + Beautiful island
 
  + The best online racer out there
  
  Negatives:
  - Tough to join a race with someone online
  - Boring single player
  - Everything about the 
 sound aspect is awful! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnKnownViper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 7, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Cars are extremely detailed especially when viewed up close. Driving gives a good realistic 
 feel. Good selection of cars. You always play online which is great. Huge island to drive on. Taking 
 photos is pretty cool, and customizing your driver to the way you like adds more realism. The map 
 is just like Google maps... which is quite nice.
  
  The Bad: The cops will piss you off. Some missions require you to stay completely on the road the 
 whole time which can frustrate you. Most of the music ain't so great.
  
  The Ugly: The mirrors aren't so great as PGR3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrman43807
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Test Drive can best be described as a driving simulator. Sort of. While the millage and speed are 
 pretty realistic, the turning feels a little off. So far, only a day after its been released, it 
 doesn't seem to be as much of a MOOR like the box says it is, but that could be because not many 
 people have the game yet. One major complaint of mine is that one cannot earn money from online 
 races, which makes the game feel like it has an offline "story mode" with online races, just like 
 any other racing game thats out. I haven't experienced much of the online races because of this, 
 so I could be wrong about the money (one could possibly earn money under certain conditions that 
 I have not yet experienced) . Which brings me to my next point: this game is HUGE! Not only is the 
 map the entire island of Oahu, but there are so many customizable options that there literally 
 is always something new to try.
  
  Gameplay- Pretty much a standard racing game. Speed feels real, millage seems realistic. Turning 
 could be a little more realistic, but this could take away from the fun. Also, online racing could 
 have been mixed with the offline racing a little bit better.
  
  Graphics- Absolutely outstanding. Real-time reflections on the car, smoke particles from burnouts, 
 etc. makes it feel as if the player really is in Hawaii.
  
  Sound- Radio is a little bland and not quite loud enough. Cars sound realistic enough.
  
  Value- 
 For $40 dollars, this is a no-brainer. This game has so much to do for such a small price tag compared 
 to other 360 games out there with higher price tags.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- I enjoy this game and will be playing it for some time, at least until Gears of 
 War comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardaukar87
Rating: 4.2
Date: Sep 7, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is not Great. worst than it looks. 125 different cars and sport bikes. The graphics are 
 not better tham P G R 3 and it's hard to believe!!! Hawaii is bigger than you think it would be. 
 It's probablely big as 1 of a midnight club's city! Incase you didn't know this is masifly multiply 
 playing game. Thousands of online gamers can be free roaming hawaii all at once looking for someone 
 else to race (with some big LAG) . the gameplay is not very deep you can do more than expected. You 
 can build a reputation, buy new houses, trade with people online or go with a super sexy lady being 
 a pimp. You can chose and coustmice your character. The audio effects aren'y good except the sound 
 tracks (except for a few) are prety lame. You should use youe own songs saved on your hard drive. 
 It does copy another games "feel" and won't last you a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okami195
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 7, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Test Drive is one of those series that's had enough re-incarnations of it that most players have 
 at least heard of the title by now. The latest addition to the family, Test Drive Unlimited, premiers 
 on the Xbox 360, this time boasting 125 cars, 1000+ miles of open road on the main Hawaiian island 
 of Oahu, and an interesting combination of Massively Multiplayer Online elements and arcade racing. 
 The game has its qualms, but the innovative ideas and the solid gameplay make this a well rounded 
 arcade racer.
  
  The game starts with a group of young adults all leaving for Hawaii, which is ultimately a glorified 
 method of picking your character. Right away, players will notice that the graphics of the game 
 aren't quite on par with the higher end 360 games such as Project Gotham Racing 3 or Tomb Raider: 
 Legend, but the customization that TDU throws at you right from the start balances this issue out 
 nicely and makes you forget about the somewhat bland character models. Besides, it's a racing game 
 - it's all about the cars, right?
  
  The cars are definitely the stars of TDU, and it's instantly obvious as soon as your new character 
 touches down in Hawaii and has to pick an exotic rental car to tackle the Tutorial with. Each car 
 is painstakingly detailed, from the reflections in the paint to the working gauges, shift knob, 
 and pedals all performing accurately inside the car. Vehicles have several different camera views 
 - the most notable being the in-car view ala Project Gotham Racing 3, complete with head movement 
 to look around inside the car - though players will find themselves using the typical behind-car 
 view more often than not. And, as if taking an improved in-car view wasn't enough for players, 
 each car also has working headlights, windows, and accurate horns for players to toy with while 
 cruising the streets of Oahu.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, TDU plays very much like a standard arcade racer. Each vehicle has its 
 own unique feel, though realism is not one of the goals the game was shooting for. Wrecks can be 
 pretty intense and damaging for your opponents, though any licensed vehicles in the game conveniently 
 escape any damage and simply topple around like toy cars. They'd be fairly tempting to avoid during 
 races, except that a simple push of the "Back" button will set you right back on the track while 
 going a reasonable speed the entire time. It's not to say this is a bad set up. It's just easy, 
 especially since the computer opponents don't make use of this feature (and tend to wreck frequently) . 
 The game does get progressively more challenging though - especially police chases for causing 
 damage to other vehicles and property - but overall the difficulty isn't nearly as bad as many 
 other racers out there.
  
  Speaking of races, there are many of them that take place in the game, and an unlimited amount 
 of Multiplayer matches that players can partake in via Xbox Live. Race events range from the typical 
 street race (both sprint and lap races) and time trials to the more unique errands that players 
 can run to earn additional cash and clothing coupons to help customize their homes, cars, and characters. 
 And, as if those aren't enough, the game is completely free-roaming, meaning players can drive 
 from race to race, or ignore them completely while simply exploring the various clothing shops, 
 tuner stores, and car dealerships dotting the island. There are no road restrictions either, so 
 feel free to take that Ferrari offroading (if that is what you prefer, of course) . The game feels 
 a lot like Grand Theft Auto in this sense, with the exception that there aren't any civilians to 
 run over...
  
  Sound, like the look of the cars, is another star of TDU. Each car has its unique engine sounds, 
 horn sounds, and radios equipped with several stations to choose from, as well as the typical range 
 of tire squealing. Volume on your car's console can be adjusted as well - a nice touch, most notable 
 on surround sound when your car's subwoofer truly overpowers the sound of the music. Aside from 
 the cars themselves, expect plenty of environmental sounds ranging from the splashing of waves 
 on the beach to the roaring of airplane engines overhead.
  
  All in all, Atari/Eden Studios have put together a very solid and innovative arcade racer, utilizing 
 some unique elements not seen in racers before while paying very close attention to the current 
 and re-used ones (especially in their car roster) . Whether being played offline or on, players 
 can expect to put many enjoyable hours into the game, and at $40 for a new Xbox 360 game? It's 
 a deal that's hard to pass on for any car enthusiast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdboy007
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 7, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  was weary of the price if it was going to be a good game or not but it is worth more I think, this 
 is a first of its kind racing game even though they are dragging their feet with the referral program 
 that was suppose to start 13 hours ago to the first 10,000 people and I am still waiting on my 
 free lamboghini gallardo download code to be emailed to me it was suppose to be sent 2 days ago 
 at launch but no one has received it that is my only downfall to the game, oh yeah and there is 
 no contact numbers for atari us, the ones I did find are disconnected 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foreverporkchop
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  Game is unbelivably addicting. just keep striving for more cars, more motorcyles better outfits 
 for your character, not to mention you'll need to buy more properties to accomodate all the new 
 rides. The island is huge to say the least. the fact that you can drive around meet up with people 
 and no matter where you are there is always people around you you can talk to for help. A truly 
 unique experience that i wish was done a long time ago. This can be a bookmark of future racing 
 games to come. Thanks for the great game at a stellar price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joejoe160
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  So after a long amount of game play I can write in and say that my first impression and review 
 of the game was way off. While I gave my first review of this game a low score based on the steering 
 and sound, I have grown to love the game. Its kind of like a nagging girlfriend, if you hang around 
 long enough you can get past all the things you don't like.
  
  The online concept is awesome and it is pretty fun passing by online players and honking the horn. 
 Of course I like to ram em every now and then! lol
  
  The graphics are very nice and the sound isn't as bad as I first thought. The steering though is 
 still my biggest issue and should be an issue for anyone. A racing game that has poor steering 
 mechanics are very annoying... However, after you play the game for a while you will get use to 
 the way the cars handle. You could also try using the "Driving Aid", although I don't think it 
 did much for me. The one thing I will say is that when you get Class A and B cars (I have one of 
 each currently) the steering is much improved, which is should be naturally.
  
  At any rate despite my strong feelings towards a racing game should have great steering mechanics 
 right out of the box that you should not have to get comfortable with after hours of game play 
 I am going to rate this game rather high.
  
  I base my score on the online functions and the graphics. I still have strong feelings towards 
 the steering, but like I said it grew on me!
  
  Note: I am still looking for a Subaru dealership if anyone knows where to find one - message me. 
 Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarge20
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2006 6:38 am PT
Review:  After playing the game for about 5hours last night. Then handling to me which I have played Forza, 
 PGR1,2, and 3, Burnout, and Moto Gp 06. The handling will have to be that of a touch of Forza with 
 a slight mix with the PGR series. You can powerslide but most the time you do that your spining 
 (not a huge deal) . Any smart person can figure this out quite fast. At higher speeds in the TT 
 it was really fun it acually felt like you were right on the edge of wreaking the whole time just 
 because if you messed up to bad you ended up in a tree. Other cars such as the Ferrari F430 drives 
 really good just use your brain on when to hit the brakes. The sound is flat out awesome I have 
 a 5.1 surround sound THX certified system. (Go to amazon and search z-5500) . Sounds in the game 
 are that of recorded from straight life. The inside veiw is really nice you hear the wind hitting 
 the car and cars just barley missing your car as the blast past you. My favorite would have to 
 be when you start a car. Starting a little 4-cylinder sounds stupid. But crank up a Ferrari or 
 a huge Ford V-8 it just comes alive turn up your system with the car at an idle and its really 
 awesome. The only issue I can find with the game is the cops they tend to get annoying but if you 
 think right just drive past your location u wanted to go to and keep driving lose the cops and 
 then jump via GPS back there. In all honesty buy the game because the gameplay is just awesome 
 and the handling is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhiwakar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  this game for xbox 360 rocks . i just love the graphics , sound and the vehicles . the game does 
 come with some flaws like the damage model ,
  
  and the lack of shifting time of the day . I mean Night is There even in the islands . cars may 
 look hot but it does take a while ( .. ok, a lotta while )
  
  to earn them . but overall the game is addictive with a one of a kind gameplay . Customising cars 
 is again very brief in terms of visual looks and it is the performance upgrades that seem to matter 
 the most . Ferari , Lamborghini , Bugati , Bmw are just a few from the huge array of vehicles in 
 the game . I Drive a Shelby for the moment in the game now . And Gameplay Does get Repititive . 
 In the End If Racing Is not your thing , Just Rent Before Purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtwlin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 7, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best driving experience available on a video game. If you are a car guy like 
 me, you will LOVE this. Cars look and sound amazing and interiors/dashboards mimic the real thing. 
 Attention to detail is laudable. The online experience isn't what I have expected (I was expecting 
 a WoW type environment) , but it's fun and unique. Unlike many other games, switching between solo 
 and online mode is done cleverly and seamlessly without having to navigate through complex menu 
 settings just to get to the races/missions you want. In terms of the game's driving physics, yes 
 it is a bit arcade-like, but that's the only way you are able to blast down the streets of Honolulu 
 at 150mph without losing control. Whatever you do in this game, it's simply fun. Go get yourself 
 a copy and start playing. Atari has done a superb job this time. And trust me next time you visit 
 Hawaii in real life, you won't be needing a map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehsdomi
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Turning absolutely sucks in this game. Also, when you hit another car, nothing happens to yours. 
 I know the game supports the havox engine, but it is really weak in this game. Game seems somewhat 
 limited and gets boring after a few hours of play. It is nice to have a vast variety of cars. It 
 has a great concept to the game and it has a lot of potential but the game falls short. It is great 
 that it is a MMO, but as I found out that if you want to try to race a friend, it tends to lag 
 or not find them. Test drive games have never been good, this one is a little better, but still 
 no Need For Speed. With the crappy steering, especially on bikes and the lack of damage to cars, 
 this game is definitely a rental first. Try it first before you buy it, it is only $39.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_wayne
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Get ready for the best racing game you will ever play period. The sound is realistic and the graphics 
 are nothing less than supurb. There is alot of attention to detail with every car whether it is 
 the tach or air conditioning vents it is all there. The mission and races are fun too. Also with 
 xbox live you can race against you friends, download new cars, clothes, and performance part so 
 you will have this game for a long long time. If you are a car and bike enthusiast you will love 
 this game and with a 39.99 tag price you can't go wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I picked up a copy today and am very happy with my purchase. You basically start off with a minimum 
 amount of scratch to buy a car and a crib. After which you begin to cruise to find races to win 
 more money to buy bigger homes and sweeter cars. I started with an audi and a condo. Not so much 
 a pauper in the islands but you can really live large as you continue to win races and good deeds 
 such as helping a hot chick with her groceries. Of course the graphics are great
  Of course the island is HUGE
  
  For $40 bucks this is a Duh! purchase. I haven't played online 
 yet so i can't give comments on that. Right now i'm trying to earn some cash on /single Mode.
 
  
  Great Game EDEN STUDIOS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: projump2001
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  how does a game like ghost recon get a good review but this get high 7s. I never know. maybe its 
 that they have more money? money can do alot of things, like get a high review for the right price..
 
  
  You can meet with your friends, all you need to do is go to the map. and click on the name of the 
 car and you will go to that persons instance simple. not clunky. gamespot dont make statments unless 
 you know what you are saying.
  
  I remember when i had nintendo the games were not the best in looks but they had just good game 
 play because they had to. As the game systems got faster the game play went down, only some games 
 has both and this is one of them. I found out that the game did not come out on the 5th but so 
 they now say the 6th lets hope so, The demo is all i can talk about. I dont want to tell you anything 
 that you can read on the summery or on the net, I just want to add my thoughts. Its finaly here 
 where a game uses all the power that the 360 has, I am amazed that they can get the island of ohau 
 onto the 9gb disk. If you lived in this area you would be able to drive down your street and see 
 your house Its that amazing. Its about time they make a racing game that does not limit you to 
 tracks Its about time they make a game with 120 cars and bikes in the mix, its about time they 
 have a virtual world with virtual cars and money, cloths, and real people. All i can say is this 
 is what it was supposed to be like and lets hope that whoever dident think outside the box like 
 atari did, will end up doing so and come up with games like this and other games that go beyond 
 where we have been stuck. It seems that game graphix get better but game play goes down or stays 
 the same. This is a title that will shine in the 360 era. I like that it will take along time to 
 save money for cars and homes, weeks and weeks for expencive cars, that will make the game last 
 longer and also make you feel good when you get it not to mention that it will indeed make you 
 feel like you do if you really did own a nice car and people will envy you for it. I cant write 
 worth a damn so sorry about that. Just wanted to let people know what i think about the next gen 
 games. exp this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Denny7495
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome for racing enthusist . the game is full of awesome cars ,bikes and awesome 
 races . the streets of oahu are amazing when compared to the real one because the are a lot alike 
 . like buying houses this is a good game for that . this game is really worth buying and give a 
 9.7 for this amazingly fun game. THANK YOU ATARI!!!!! and every please buy the mclaren mf1 its 
 a must have ! testdrive unlimited testdrive unlimited testdrive unlimited testdrive unlimited testdrive 
 unlimited testdrive unlimited testdrive unlimited testdrive unlimited testdrive unlimited testdrive 
 unlimited testdrive unlimited testdrive unlimited 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryandc
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  this is new STRIKE to ps3 and wii it means the xbox 360 is best .
  the character made good and you are free in this game and that is thing you want . that sound is 
 good and realy sounds are good the car are in best form you can be amator and you can be pro every 
 one can be in this game and make your story. when you play you can touch this is a diffrent game 
 this is not same as others game and this game is an allert to nfs: c .
  shadows are good they are soft ..
  ok dont wait go and buy this game it is game you want................... 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
