-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tetris Evolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/tetrisevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Four-player support, online and off.
 Addresses infinite spin issue.
 Ridiculous FMV backgrounds.
 It's Tetris.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Feels too pricey even at $30.
 It's Tetris.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 5.8, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 303 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Mass Media
Genre: Stacking Puzzle
Date: Mar 19, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tetris Evolution is a competently made -- if slightly pricey -- rendition of the classic Russian puzzler. 
 

  Do you like Tetris? Would you be willing to pay $30 to play Tetris on the Xbox 360? This is pretty 
 much the sole consideration when deciding if Tetris Evolution is right for you. The single-player 
 and multiplayer options are solid yet predictable, and the game's got all the personality of a 
 screensaver. If 22 years of Tetris have left you tired of the formula, Tetris Evolution will do 
 very little to reignite your passion for this classic Russian mind-bender. It's not a bad package, 
 but it's hard to get excited about. For better or for worse, it's still Tetris.  

          Yup. That's Tetris all right.     

  Tetris Evolution features all the trimmings that 
 have become standard for Tetris games over the past five or six years. There are eight different 
 modes to choose from -- marathon, ultra, cascade, race, score, hotline, go low, and eraser -- and they 
 can all be played alone or with up to four players, either locally or over Xbox Live. There are 
 no real surprises here with the different gameplay modes -- most of them just stack scoring or timing 
 rules on top of the Tetris rules. The biggest perk in Tetris Evolution's gameplay is that it addresses 
 the infinite spin feature that has crept into Tetris canon over the years. It still happens by 
 default, but when you're setting up a game you now have a lockdown option that you can adjust to 
 determine how long a shape can be spun after it has touched down. It's a small but important feature 
 that makes Tetris Evolution far more playable than any other THQ-published Tetris game.  

  Since you're just dropping polygons down the screen, the game of Tetris isn't a whole lot to look 
 at, something Tetris Evolution addresses with lots of ridiculous, full-motion video backgrounds 
 that will loop while you play. The default background makes it look like you're flying through 
 some sort of CG Tetris world, though you can also choose looping footage of fire or a giraffe eating 
 or high-speed footage of clouds passing, flowers blooming, and city traffic at night, to name a 
 few. They're amusingly random, and by default each comes paired with a music track. Most of the 
 music is bland and forgettable, though a synthesized version of the Russian folk song "Korobeiniki," 
 known more commonly as "that Tetris music," is featured. Unfortunately, the music sounds soft and 
 watery and could have benefited from a more blippy, square-edged sound. The 360 achievements in 
 Tetris Evolution are numerous and pretty well balanced. You'll bang out a few within minutes of 
 starting up the game, but some will require hours and hours of play along with some high-level 
 Tetris skills.  

  Released at just $30, Tetris Evolution has the distinction of being one of the cheapest retail 
 Xbox 360 games, but for what you're getting, it feels like it probably should and could have been 
 a $10 Xbox Live Arcade game. Still, if you've got an itch that no amount of Bejeweled, Lumines, 
 Hexic, Zuma, or Jewel Quest will scratch, Tetris Evolution isn't an entirely bad option.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Iceferno
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:18 pm PT
Review:  For a start, there are more game modes! So this is an incarnation of Tetris suited to the more 
 advanced Tetris gamer who demands more than simply passing time in Marathon Mode.
  
  There are actually quite a few features to appreciate in Tetris Evolution. But since I brought 
 the fact that there are more game modes to your attention, I'll start with those. Not only do you 
 have Marathon and 40 Lines (which has now been renamed Race) , but also, you have 6 brand new modes 
 to enjoy! Score is another time-based game which focuses on the points needed to successfully complete 
 the mode. Ultra is like Score, but the rules are somewhat reversed. Instead of getting the score 
 within a specific time, you have to rack up as many points as you can within a very short period 
 of time! What's a very short period of time? Well how about 1 minute! You can also choose 3 minutes 
 or 5 minutes. Eraser mode lays out holographic lines on the Matrix (the area the blocks are dropped 
 in) and you erase them by getting line-clearances right through them. The main scoring aspect in 
 this mode is also the time limit.
  
  I suppose I could name and explain them all, but I won't out of a combination of laziness and so 
 you're not spoiled! But these modes are enjoyable and differ in surprising ways.
  
  Other features Tetris Evolution includes is the ability to change the skin of the Tetris Matrix, 
 the background you play on and also your player icon, which, by default, appears as a crazy smiley 
 face. You have a surprising number of other icons to choose from so you'll no doubt find the one 
 that's right for you.
  
  There's also the Xbox Live option which allows online multiplayer games. I suppose it'd be a bit 
 too disappointing to exclude this feature from a Tetris game! I haven't been successful in trying 
 the mode yet simply because there haven't been other players to play against, but I'm sure it operates 
 in a similar way to Tetris Splash's multiplayer mode.
  
  Now, for the controls. You may think I'm doing a lot of comparing to Tetris Splash, and you'd be 
 right. I really think the controls in Tetris Evolution bring the game down a bit. It's not quite 
 as smooth as Splash, which is probably the only area where Splash triumphs. There is a slight delay 
 towards the hold-button-down effect on Evolution, whereas on Splash, this delay is reduced significantly. 
 What I mean is, the time it takes for the block to move fast when you hold down the Left or Right 
 button. This can be annoying when you're at a particularly fast-paced point in the game, but for 
 everything else, Tetris Evolution is superior.
  
  If you want to try this game, then in a way, playing the demo of Tetris Splash does have it's effect, 
 if a slightly distorted one. Keep in mind that the controls on Splash are more responsive than 
 on Evolution and that on Splash you have much fewer game modes, but I think that's the best way 
 you'll decide if you want to get Tetris Evolution. It's quite pricey to buy and there are no demos 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Tetris continues to illicit the nostalgic, addictive gameplay even after all these years -- from 
 the time I spent glued to the monochromatic Game Boy pack-in. There have been many, MANY variations 
 and versions of it, spanning on almost virtually every game platform you can imagine. It was even 
 in the arcades. So I'm not the least bit surprised about the 360 version. This Gamespot review 
 has labeled it "pricey", but I can assure you as of this writing, the game can be had for under 
 $20, which is quite a bargain considering all those other high-priced newer games on the shelves 
 today.
  
  Numerous game modes, such as Ultra, Eraser and the popular Marathon, provide different ways of 
 playing this time-honored puzzler. You can even customize your skin, backgrounds and background 
 music. It would have been super nice if you could import your own pics and music, but the stuff 
 included in the game is pretty cool. Much of the music is upbeat and lively, and even the popular 
 Tetris theme song has been given the remix treatment.
  
  It's still going strong, and it can still pull you in. There's nothing like it in the entire world, 
 and there may never be anything like it ever again. But until that time comes, you owe it to yourself 
 to give this unique puzzler a deserving shot.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symphonybeast
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Everyone remembers the original Tetris and how addictive it was. The hours spent playing into the 
 night to see what color the next level was going to change into. Unfortunately there are no color 
 changes in this one but the images floating around the screen as you play are very cool and kind 
 of trippy. Definitely not for anyone who has motion sickness. Xbox games warn of seizures and things 
 of the like and I mut say that if you didn't have seizure before, Tetris may just do it for you. 
 Ther are a lot of cool flashy lights and things to watch even though you're supposed to focus on 
 the game.
  
  Oh, that's right, the game. It's Tetris and it's called Tetris for a reason... Because the game 
 itself hasn't really changed at all. There are a bunch of different modes which are cool the first 
 time you play them but you're going to find yourself going back to the old fahioned mode where 
 you just keep plugging away and moving on to harder levels. 
  
  It's a cool game and it looks great on the next-gen system. Well worth the 20 bucks I spent on 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OscarTheGrouch5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Tetris evolution is a surprising fun, social, and addicting game for just about anyone. I was never 
 an avid tetris gamer but this game actually turned me on to the series more than I expected. My 
 girlfriend recently got an xbox 360 and we went to buy games after she traded in her ps2. She picked 
 out Halo 3, splinter cell and tetris. When she grabbed tetris, I thought to myself, "seriously 
 oblivion is only $5 more." Thinking that it was a mistake, I criticized the decision until we got 
 home a played it. 
  
  I found the local four player mode to be an extremely fun and the xbox live is quick paced and 
 well balanced. The game play is what you would expect from a tetris game although there are a surprising 
 amount of different game modes. 
  
  The achievements are the best part because they are interesting and challenging without too much 
 frustration. There are also only a few achievements to go along with xbox live which is nice considering 
 many puzzle games will have the horribly annoying achievement with the word "expert" tied to having 
 to play 10 hours of xbox live. Seriously, if you play 10 hours of a puzzle game on xbox live then 
 you really need to turn off the 360 and get some fresh air.
  
  The price tag is now $20 which is more than a good value for all of the content you will get. There 
 are also a bunch of extra features including backgrounds that look amazing and good music (for 
 the most part) . The graphics are really clear and crisp consisting of the traditional 2D animations 
 while the gameplay is solid. 
  
  I was surprised how fun tetris can be and for a small price tag you will be entertained for hours. 
 In comparison, tetris splash is available on XB LA for 800 credits. This game has only one mode, 
 horrible achievements (including the 10 hrs of xbox live achievement) and a background filled with 
 fish. I left my xbox on for a while and when I returned, the tetris game turned into a fish screen 
 saver. This may be cool for chicks but if I wanted to have a cute looking system, I would have 
 bought a Wii.
  
  In short, tetris evolution is worth the $20 price tag, ou will be amazed when you finally put the 
 COD4 or Halo 3 aside to play a classic remake with al ot of extras 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattieshoes
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Online play works and it's fun, but...
  The controls are lousy. Sometimes I'll drop a piece, but it won't drop. I drop it again, and two 
 pieces drop. The biggest problem is you can't rotate and move a piece at the same time. If I'm 
 pushing a piece to the right and I click to rotate it, it stops moving to the right. I feel like 
 I'm playing the game underwater, where everything I do has to be in s l o w m o t i o n.
  
  I got it because I'm a tetris nerd, and I'll definitely get my money's worth out of it, but don't 
 expect a work of art. This game is blah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokenmachine00
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 21, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  First off, yes. I own the game. I bought my local game store's only copy. I have been a fan of 
 Tetris since the creamed spinach colored days of the original Game Boy. I have bought a few different 
 adaptations of the game over the years, and none of these games has done much to change the core 
 formula that is Tetris. This latest offering tries to trump its predecessors by bringing you Evolution. 
 While there do exist some small new tweaks- the addition of multiplayer is a nice touch- Tetris 
 itself has done little in the way of evolving. And I hope it doesn't. That's what drew me to buying 
 this game. Don't mess with something that in its pure state still offers fun and enjoyment for 
 those who found it captivating at an early age. $30 may sound steep for Tetris, but if was available 
 on Live Arcade I'm sure Microsoft would charge at least $20 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pmpinoy65
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  This Game would sell more if it was the old, primitive NES version. The one with the true Tetris 
 Theme . A simple game like this shouldn't require vivid colors and visuals to keep the players 
 playing. Reliving old memories should be the main target, and that Tetris Theme is the key to keep 
 the players playing. Also, this game is readily available for download on any cell phone. For me 
 personally, I already have this game on NES and Gameboy and do not need to get it for xbox360. 
 The publisher THQ does not know what to remake or how to remake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelSoft
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Been there done that Repetition ca kill the overall great value of a game 
  If it's not broken don't fix it God help us.. 
  
  All these phrases sum up my review of this 
 horrible game. It's so horrible as to say there's nothing good about it, besides the fact that 
 it's Tetris. If you've never heard of tetris, never played Tetris, never saw Tetris, and never 
 touched any of the variations of Tetris's out there, go ahead and get this game. Otherwise just 
 play a flash version of it since this is almost the same thing as the original. Online play you 
 say? Screw it (I don't like curse words either but.. I wasted my points) .
  
  There's nothing good to say about this game so here's what I'm going to do: RANT. This game claims 
 to have 8 modes. Well it does, but they are all the same with some slight fix. This game has new 
 graphics and sound? Certainly does, but 3D or 2D it plays the same and as for the sound.. you barely 
 notice it. Testris is a classic isn't it, in most cases yes, but in this case no, don't spend your 
 points.
  
  I've been downloading games for a long time, wether on PSN or XBOX Live, and I'll say this: this 
 is by far the worst game I rememer downloading. So please. Don't think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tech_Viper
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  the last time thq made a tetris game it was abysmal, and their second attempt with this game is 
 a much better try. And that is the key word try, they tried to make it and failed in the same place 
 by excluding the one thing that makes tetris what it is, and that is the endless mode. The game 
 should not end when you get 150 lines, thats stupid and pointless, all it does is make getting 
 achievments with high scores harder to accomplish. I would have okay if they had even made it an 
 option you turned on, but no its not. And the achievments, would it have killed them to let us 
 view them in game without having to go back to the dashboard. The game feels rushed and while i 
 dont mind paying $30 for tetris i just wish it was a better tetris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leifsillenger
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I briefly enjoyed playing this game but would never buy it. I found the price of 35 dollars plus 
 tax way too expensive, it should have been 400 -800 points instead. Shame on you thq for not setting 
 this up to be a live arcade game. There are currently better live arcade games than this one and 
 i would recommend renting before buying.
  
  The game itself is good. It deserves the same respect as the arcade classics during the same era 
 got. The last time i checked, it was in the late 80's when the arcade version came out. The hd 
 is nice but all the upgrades remind me of putting a ring on the nose of a pig-its still a pig. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 30, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, Tertris is one of the best games in the world but this game is great... except for 
 the price.
  
  Graphics: I find the Graphics pretty good but it alway felt it's really dark and you can't let 
 you really see it.
  
  Game play: simple game play, hard steady and old school tetris, if you don't know how to plat tetris, 
 then your a big noob.
  
  Sound: tap tap tap, pretty good sound and it has one at least those annoying looping music... this 
 one only has a little.
  
  Tetris is a good game but the price of the game i brought was only 10 bucks because of the discount, 
 i find this game good but if don't like the price, the buy it
  
  Rent or buy: It your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Tetris Evolution doesn't change hardly anything, just a couple new game modes, but why change something 
 that already works so well. Tetris from the beginning and clear up until now is the best puzzle 
 game money can buy. I agree that $30 to $40 is entirely way too much for Tetris Evolution on the 
 Xbox 360 and that you would have to be crazy to spend that much, but there are always ways to get 
 things cheaper. I got my copy for $18.00 Brand New Sealed off Ebay as a Pre-Order and it has been 
 well worth it. If you just can't stand not being able to feed your Tetris fix because you don't 
 want to put up that much money for Tetris Evolution remeber that Tetris World for the original 
 Xbox is compaitable on the 360 and you can pick it up for less than $10.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agirlyman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  THQ must have been reading my mind, because I have been craving a 4 player xbox live compatible 
 version of tetris for awhile now. Thank you! My kids, and friends had a blast playing this very 
 good game of tetris over the weekend, a must own for tetris fans! You can customize your icons, 
 and backgrounds which is pretty cool. The soundtrack is the only thing lacking here, but you can 
 just play your xbox tunes to counter that. I really like this game, and can't recommend it more. 
 Tetris is the Zen of videogaming, just remember to blink (Ow my eyes burn!!!) when playing marathon 
 sessions! AM I NOT MERCIFUL?!?!?!?
  
  Tee Hee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowFFVI
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Overall this is still a decent value, at about $34.99 CDN ($29.99 US) . It provides a nice way to 
 play Tetris on Xbox Live, and even supplies you with some fairly enjoyable achievements to go after.
 
  
  But with that said the game DOES feel a bit broken, some pieces feel like they just don't spin 
 the same as past versions (they shift over a block horizontally when you don't expect them too) . 
 It's terribly annoying to bring anything to the very edge of the screen when turning your blocks 
 and your met with the game repeating the terrible (hitting the edge) sound over and over again.
 
  
  For whatever reason the control just doesn't feel that responsive either, I played a game of this 
 right after playing Tetris DS, and it just felt as if it was lagging.
  
  The music is somewhat sickening after a while (even if it is a remixed original tetrist theme) . 
 Mainly I think because the pace of the song keeps changing. When the pace of the song stays the 
 same, you really don't notice the song repeating and it just kind of stays in the background. But 
 with this kind of alternate pacing to it, you get sick of hearing it a lot quicker. It's difficult 
 to explain, but think of it like a tiling texture. (a seamless one is just a whole lot nicer) .
 
  
  My last complaint is the backgrounds, they have video backgrounds which are sickening to look at, 
 and you get dizzy playing. So i switched it to an image background, which change in the blink of 
 an eye (as opposed to a nice fade) , which cause an annoying blink half way through your match.
 
  
  All I can say is only get this if your really desperate for Tetris, this is definitely a worse 
 experience then the Tetris World release on the Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elbastard
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Although this is Tetris and i love Tetris the game has some pretty big problems. The first being 
 that the game only goes up to level 15. Once you beat that you get a simple game over as if you 
 just filled the screen with blocks and ended your game. The music in this game is horrendous. Theres 
 some songs that sound like they belong as background music for a wedding. Im not sure what they 
 were trying to do with this game... Where i thought $30 was a bargain i think its a little steep 
 for what they are offering. $20 sounds more realistic. Stick to the old school Tetris games because 
 they didnt get this one right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukoAsho
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Tetris. The series has endured for nearly as long as post-crash console gaming itself. Now, decades 
 after the classic was unleashed on the Game Boy, the next generation gets its first Tetris game. 
 However, it's something of a mixed bag.
  
  I'm not going to insult anyone and describe the game of Tetris to the people on this website. Tetris 
 is too ubiquitous in the gaming world to like it's something new. Indeed, the simple line-clearing 
 game has been enjoyed by folks young and old for two decades now. No, whoever wants to buy this 
 is interested in how the game is handled in this new version.
  
  A wealth of variants are available for play, from the original game that started it all to new 
 modes like Eraser and Go Low. Most of them are as much of a blast to play as the original, but 
 Go Low seems not to have much of a focus compared to the others, and the objective wasn't very 
 clearly described in the manual or in the in-game guide. Controls are precise and easy to learn, 
 and customization rules the day. One of the coolest features is the ability to change the amount 
 of time a piece is movable after landing. Hardcore Tetris gamers will be happy to know that the 
 strict limitation of older versions is available here, along with the current Infinite standard 
 and a middle ground between the two.
  
  The game is a blast to play, but it's marred by one thing: a lousy online interface. It's impossible 
 to create a private match, for one. Quick Match searches will only look for results from the previous 
 Custom Match search. As a result, most people are only playing Marathon in multi-player. This is 
 a shame, since the game itself is as awesome as ever and plays without lag. Playing online in Marathon 
 mode is especially awesome, since the garbage block distribution makes them much harder to clear 
 than they were in Tetris DS, making it important to load an opponent's side with them before they 
 get a chance to respond.
  
  Even with small online issues, it's hard not to recommend this one. A wealth of gameplay modes 
 and tight controls in game, Tetris Evolution is an awesome pick for any Tetris fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etherealsyn
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok, This is one of those games where most everyone knows what to expect. I had some high hopes 
 with the evolution subtitle that this would be a new era for Tetris, but it really wasnt. This 
 is basically Tetris worlds with some nice new backgrounds. The moving backgrounds kind of make 
 you a bit motion sick but they are kinda cool at the same time. Overall, if you like Tetris, this 
 is a great buy as its on the 360 (Wife loves it) and has online capability (Like Tetris Worlds) . 
 The achievements are good (with a little bit of challenge mixed in there) . The sound does get a 
 little repetitive (I personally turn on my stereo and listen to that rather than the repetitive 
 droll the game offers. Overall a good game that I would recomend to any Tetris fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  This is the same ole game that we all loved at one time or another... especially when it was on 
 the NES and GAMEBOY. The online multiplayer is quick and simple to get matched up. The music and 
 visuals are the same as they should be.... some music should be turned off and you should use your 
 own tracks. Over-all saying the $30 price point is kind steep.... and if you can get it for $15.... its 
 a must!!! It is an enjoyable game to have around if you are looking for something different time-to-time. 
 If this would have came out with the launch.... Mabey this would have been a solid $30 to own for 
 the Xbox Live service. But over-all this is not a bad choice if you like TETRIS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timdabrat
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it was inevitable, Tetris for the 360. HD, Live, total customization, and the newest tetris 
 features all come together in this fantastic and good priced game!
  
  The core of this game has to be its xbox live multiplayer, with marathon, ultra, race, and a few 
 other modes that I don't remember, but yeah, its plenty of fun.
  
  the customization is also full of options. You can change your picture, skin, background and even 
 your music to play to! There are 10 songs, 20 backgrounds, 20 skins, and 300 (yes 300!) pictures! 
 This is a good game for its price of $30-35, a must-own for all puzzlers out there! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
