-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Bigs
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/thebigs/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced gameplay is a great alternative to the slower pace of sims.
 Pitching and hitting are equally satisfying.
 Home Run Pinball is a unique and fun minigame.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A bit shallow, even for an arcade-style game.
 Fielding controls are poor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,001 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Blue Castle Games
Genre: Baseball
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Big strikeouts and even bigger homers make The BIGS a great arcade baseball game. 

  As good as baseball games have gotten, many people feel that they're too complex and yearn for 
 the old days where you could play an entire game in 15 minutes but didn't have to have a college 
 degree to figure out the controls. If you've ever felt this way, or you just like fast-paced, over-the-top 
 baseball, The BIGS should be right up your alley.  

  The BIGS has a lot in common with Midway's Slugfest series; the games move along at a brisk pace 
 and there are plenty of gargantuan home runs, as well as some absolutely filthy pitches. On the 
 mound, each of your pitches is mapped to a face button on the controller. To throw a pitch, you 
 simply press the corresponding button and hold it until you've gone past the mark on the meter. 
 If you wait too long or release too early, your location will be off and you'll tip your pitch 
 to the batter. Each pitch is rated according to the pitcher's ability to throw it. This ability 
 decreases as the game goes on, but the change can be accelerated by giving up hits. The harder 
 the pitch is hit, the less effective it will be, and eventually, you'll lose the ability to throw 
 the pitch completely. This isn't a huge problem when playing a single game because you've got plenty 
 of pitchers at your disposal, but it's an issue in rookie challenge because a pitcher's stamina 
 level carries over from game to game.  

           Pitching is as much fun as hitting.      

  For every strike you throw, you'll fill 
 your turbo bar a little, and when you've filled one of your bars, you can press a button to activate 
 turbo. This adds some extra zip to your fastball and adds some break to your breaking pitches, 
 making them very difficult to hit. Above the turbo meter is the power-up meter. On defense, this 
 can be filled by striking out hitters, making great plays, and robbing home runs. Once it's full, 
 you can use it on either offense or defense for one at-bat. When it's used on defense, your pitches 
 are all powered up and nearly (but not quite) unhittable. You'll also steal some of the points 
 from the opposition's power-up meter depending on how many strikes you throw. Even when you're 
 tossing regular pitches, it's a blast because the pitches are so darn nasty.  

  Hitting is just as simple and just as satisfying as pitching. You've got one button for a contact 
 swing and one for a power swing. You don't have to worry about lining up cursors or using the analog 
 stick to try to match the pitch location -- it's all about timing. The left analog stick can be used 
 to aim your shot, but there's no reason to be intimidated -- it's easy to do and not all that necessary. 
 You can earn turbo by taking balls, but the pitches move so fast and break so much that judging 
 location is nearly impossible unless the pitcher tipped his pitch.  

  The turbo that you've accumulated on defense carries over to when you're on offense though, so 
 you'll get plenty of chances to use it. If you activate it before a pitch, you'll add some power 
 to your swing and force the pitcher to throw a strike. If you use it after you've hit the ball, 
 you can run extra fast. While you might not be able to fill your turbo meter much on offense, you 
 can increase your power-up meter fairly quickly by getting base hits, walking, or getting beaned. 
 Activating your big hit power-up will guarantee a home run, provided you make contact. But this 
 isn't just any old home run, it's a titanic blast that will spark as it hits the fair pole or explode 
 when it hits the scoreboard. It would have been nice to have a bit more variety with regards to 
 where the ball goes when it's hit because it seems to go to the same few spots over and over again. 
 It also would have been nice to not get home runs taken away by the CPU several times in a game 
 (even when you use turbo to hit) , but for the most part, hitting is a lot of fun.  

           Even Chris Berman would get tired of saying 'Back, back, back' when calling some of these 
 blasts      

  Where The BIGS stumbles a bit is in its fielding and base running. Once you've practiced (and when 
 it works) mashing a button to run faster and using buttons to select the runner, moving the analog 
 stick to direct them works OK, but too often the runners don't make the turn when you want them 
 to or they stop in their tracks just shy of the base. The ability to run full-speed into the catcher 
 like a freight train is totally awesome the first time you see it and makes up for some of the 
 base running woes, but not all of them. The rest of the game is so simple you wonder why base running 
 is so complicated. In the field, you can use boost to run faster or throw the ball faster, but 
 the game plays so fast that you'll rarely have time to discern that you need turbo and press the 
 button before it's too late. You can rob home runs by running up to the wall, pressing a button 
 to jump, and then replicating a sequence of button presses shown onscreen. But unless you're playing 
 another person, these opportunities are few and far between.  

  Once the ball is hit, you're given control over the player in the best position to make a play, 
 but the ball is hit so hard that it's often already passed you by the time you figure out who you're 
 controlling. This issue is exacerbated by a fielder's inability to change direction quickly; if 
 you take one step in the wrong direction, you can forget about getting to the ball in time. Finally, 
 the plays where the ball hits a fielder, knocking him down as it ricochets away are far too common 
 and are all the more frustrating thanks to the lousy fielding controls. But even these issues don't 
 prevent the game from being a ton of fun to play.     

  There's no traditional season mode in The BIGS. Instead there's the rookie challenge, where you 
 create a player then try to lead him and his team to the World Series. There aren't a whole lot 
 of customization options with which to create a player, though additional items unlocked throughout 
 the mode let you add a little flair. Once you've picked your player's position and distributed 
 some attributes, it's off to spring training. Here, you'll play a couple of games; based on your 
 performance, you'll earn points that can be used to improve your players' running, hitting, and 
 fielding abilities. You'll also participate in some fun minigames, such as batting practice and 
 running an obstacle course. You earn big points for successfully completing these drills, which 
 is good because the points you get from playing actual games don't amount to much.  

  After you've finished spring training, you must barnstorm your way around the league, taking on 
 whatever games appear on the map. Sometimes you'll have to play a full (five inning) game, while 
 other times, you are placed in a situation where the game has already started and you must perform 
 a task with your created player, such as steal a base, drive in a run, or get a base hit. After 
 you've beaten the first few challenges against a team, you'll get the opportunity to steal one 
 of its players if you beat that team in yet another a full game. You can only steal 10 players, 
 so you might want to hold off on snagging someone from the Devil Rays or you might not have room 
 for someone on the really good teams that you'll encounter later in the rookie challenge. As you 
 finish the available games and scenarios, new ones will open up. Then eventually, you'll take part 
 in the All-Star game, and if you're good enough, the playoffs and World Series.  

           Fielding is one area where the game stumbles.      

  The rookie challenge is quite 
 a bit of fun for a while, but you'll find that you've seen most everything it has to offer in just 
 a few hours. Because this is an arcade-style game, it would be unreasonable to expect a whole host 
 of general manager options and full stat tracking, but it wouldn't be unreasonable to expect at 
 least some customization options or some basic statistics. Alas, there are none. As a result, you 
 might find yourself rushing through games or even getting yourself out on purpose because there 
 aren't any rewards (other than minimal points for your created player) for playing well and crushing 
 the competition.  

  The BIGS is light on additional play modes, but what is here is good. Home run pinball drops you 
 right in the middle of Times Square, and your objective is to do as much damage as possible by 
 hitting balls into neon signs, taxi cabs, or huge televisions. It starts off easy enough, but it 
 quickly gets tough when the pitcher adds a new pitch to his repertoire every minute or so. There's 
 also a bit of strategy to employ because you can earn bonuses for hitting all of the letters in 
 the "HOTEL" sign, and once powered up, you can smash the new year's eve ball. Once you've finished 
 a round, your score is uploaded to an online leaderboard for all to see. If you prefer to hit in 
 a stadium, you can take on another player in a split-screen home run derby where the objective 
 is to be the first to hit 10 taters. Both the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 have basic online options 
 that let you play a ranked or unranked match. Unfortunately, lag and frequent hiccups make the 
 online games significantly less fun than offline contests.  

  Most likely, the first thing you'll notice upon starting a game is that the players are absolutely 
 huge. Their faces are detailed and in most cases look like their real-life counterparts. But their 
 bodies are larger than life, and their muscles are ripped. Even normally scrawny players like Ichiro 
 look like superheroes, though there is still a little difference between him and someone like Albert 
 Pujols. There's not such a dramatic difference between the stadiums in the game and real stadiums, 
 but some artistic license has been taken with the proximity of local landmarks to the field, as 
 well as the size of notable features inside the stadium. A few issues prevent the game from looking 
 as good as it probably could have looked. For example, the lighting is poorly done. It's so intense 
 that it frequently washes out colors and gives players an odd sheen that makes their uniforms look 
 as if they're made of rubber. Some of the animations, such as when a player spins around after 
 missing a pitch or how a second baseman floats in midair in slow motion as he turns two, look great, 
 but there isn't enough variety. The transition from one animation to the next is also often awkward 
 or nonexistent, particularly when fielding. The huge home runs look fantastic, and it's awesome 
 to watch the scoreboard explode, but you'll probably find yourself wishing for more variety rather 
 than player celebrations, or at the very least, more destruction from your homers.  

           Players are so buff, they'll be testifying about steroids in front of Congress in no time. 

  Given the over-the-top nature of the game, it's probably a good idea that the outstanding but somewhat 
 mild-mannered duo from MLB 2K7 Jon Miller and Joe Morgan aren't calling the action. Instead it's 
 Damon Bruce, a radio host for KNBR out of San Francisco who calls the action. Outside of a few 
 instances where he blurts out the wrong player's name, his basic play-by-play is on point and his 
 energy level is high, though not to the point of being annoying. The crowd and the sound effects 
 are also typical for a baseball game. The exceptions to this are the nicely fitting, almost cartoonlike 
 sounds of the bat crushing the ball and the sound of a pitch whooshing past a hitter. Fans of grunge-era 
 rock will enjoy the soundtrack, which features artists like Stone Temple Pilots and Screaming Trees. 

  With its simple, yet exciting gameplay, The BIGS has gotten off to a great start. It's a bit shallow, 
 with some room for improvement in regards to how it plays in the field and on the base paths, but 
 anyone looking for a fun, arcade-style baseball game would do well to give The BIGS a shot.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (53 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  There are alot of mlb games out there, and most of them are good, since gamespot is having a discussion 
 about if the reviewers actually play the games they review, I can honestly say I have played this 
 game, like my many other reviews.
  The Bigs is a little break, sort of, away from the big baseball games, to have a little fun in 
 your own way. You can play in a rookie season mode, where you excell to get your team to the world 
 series. You can customise your charecter with tatoos, and customised baseball bats etc., which 
 can make the game cool.
  Also in this game, there is a minigame, which is called homerun pinball, its pretty cool to play 
 because you can only miss a certain amount of balls before you lose, and when you increase in your 
 progress the pitches get harder. There is also homerun derby, where you and a fellow player can 
 out hit each other.
  The only downfall to this game has to be that it gets really anoying when you hit a powerfull homerun, 
 and they show the same cutscene again, and also the control sceme is a little rough when you are 
 trying to throw the ball to another player, and it goes in the wrong direction.
  Overall I would say that this game you would have to rent, because you dont always feel that satisfied. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  The Bigs developed and published by 2k sports continues the trend of 2k delivering high quality 
 sports games. The Bigs is a different game than anything else that 2k has published, and they did 
 a fantastic job. 
  
  The overall gameplay is both arcade style and sim style. The game is fairly easy which adds to 
 its arcade appeal, and the player can hop right into the game and have a fun time. The game is 
 classified as arcade due to a few gameplay differences than a mlb 2k game. First is that after 
 every good play a power meter fills up and when full the player can unleash a devastating home 
 run power blast or a super fastball. The player can also make wall climbing catches and barrel 
 into home plate based on their performance in short button mashing mini-games. The game is also 
 part sim due to the precision of making a perfect pitch and hitting the ball with the right timing. 
 
  
  The main career mode in the game is known as rookie challenge. Here you will create a player and 
 customize his abilities. After creating a player you must pass a few spring training challenges. 
 After that the players team will travel across the united states playing other teams and also completing 
 certain objectives in games. For instance a three game series against lets say the St Louis Cardinals 
 would consist of three objectives:
  
  Game 1: Beat the Cardinals in a 5 inning game
  Game 2: Hit 2 HomeRuns with your rookie in a 9 inning game
  Game 3: Throw 5 strikeouts with your 
 team in a 5 inning game
  
  I was surprised at the depth and length the career had to offer with one playthrough lasting about 
 18 hours.
  
  The graphics in the Bigs are very good, but I do not think they are as good as the regular mlb 
 2k games. The big draw here is the amazing lighting effects during daytime games and some neat 
 ball effects ( when making a perfect pitch ect.) The sound is also good in the game with cool sound 
 effects such as the one heard when a runner and a defender collide. The commentary is only ok, 
 as again 2k has put out better.
  
  The game also offers a few other modes such as home run derby and home run pinball. Home run pinball 
 is pretty cool, as you try to smash objects and building in time square. The Home Run Pinball is 
 both addicting yet frustrating due to its difficulty.
  
  Just as a note for achievement lovers the bigs will offer a fairly easy 600 points in about 20 
 hours, but in order to get the rest you have to be outstanding at the game. Difficulty 7/10 
  
  Overall I had a great time with the Bigs and am currently on my 2nd play through to get more 
 achievements. Personally this is the best arcade baseball game I have played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I must first say that I'm not a big sports fan. I liked mixed martial arts and skateboarding in 
 real life. I don't watch football, baseball, or any of the other so-called "jock" sports. I've 
 tried playing baseball video games in the past and could never really get into them because I found 
 them too complex. So I wanted somethin that leaned more to an arcade experience than a sim and 
 The Bigs fits the bill perfectly. It has a perfect balance of Sim and Arcade style gaming. I just 
 find this game very enjoyable. Great graphics of course. The pitching system gives you great control 
 over different pitches. 
  
  ONe of the best things about the game is the rookie challenge mode. In this mode you start out 
 as a brand new rookie and it takes you through the basics and teaches you how to play the game 
 with mini games and exercises, scenarios, and short games. It is very well thought out to help 
 newbies learn the game and get good. I opened probably 15 achievements in the first few hours of 
 play. 
  
  I don't know how it compares to the other baseball games out there cause I don't play those but 
 it's the perfect game I was looking for. I get the baseball experience without having a game so 
 complicated it takes all the fun out. But that doesn't mean it's an easy game that you will just 
 run right through. It is challenging. You can set it on an easy level also. 
  
  Very addicting and fun. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mps32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a really big fan of baseball games and for the last few years (since the exclusivity 
 crap that everyone is pulling) i have yet to play a good baseball game. the 2K series of major 
 league baseball just keeps getting worse and worse and The Show doesn't come out for 360 so baseball 
 fans are kinda stuck between a rock and a hard place. enter The Bigs... I played this game for the 
 first time today and i rediscovered something that i hadn't had in a LONG time. a genuine good 
 time playing a sports game. it's over the top, it's ridiculous, players are huge and whatnot but 
 it is just plain fun. you can't ever get enough slow-mo big catches and everything and when you 
 boost up the meter and just destroy the ball out of the park it really never seems to get old. 
 all in all the people at the 2K studios need to bring the same kind of attitude to the sim series. 
 quit trying to find new and improved ways to make the game irritating and just focus on making 
 a fundamentally sound game. this game is fun to play with friends (as a beer drinking game) as 
 well so i'd say this game rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  The BIGS is the baseball version of the Street series. I guess it would be difficult to find a 
 suitable street or rooftop to play ball on, but they try with a bonus game that's great. The best 
 part of baseball for me is batting. There's a bonus game where you can take a swing at knocking 
 lights out in the Big Apple as a type of pinball game. Knock out lights in a certain section and 
 you get a special section that opens up for you to try to hit. It's great.
  
  Then there's the game play. Create a player isn't incredibly detailed, but then, neither was NFL 
 Street in the original version. Your player does get better as you progress. He gets more star 
 options like better looking bats and tattoos to move your player along in his career.
  
  Play is something like Street as well. There are certain challenges you have to complete to get 
 to bigger, better challenges as you take on the rest of the league. Challenges give player attribute 
 points which you assign to build your player as you see fit. 
  
  The over-the-top graphics are amazing. The only annoying part is when you max out your turbo meter 
 and take a crappy swing while batting. You don't tip with the turbo tripped. You will always hit 
 the foul post and get a home run if you mess up your timing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LIKETOPLAYGAMES
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  I have never been a big fan of sports games, my favs are FPS and RPG type games which seem to be 
 flooding the market today, which is good and bad. One day online I downloaded the demo for the 
 bigs just to try something new. I was addicted the first time I played. I knew I needed to buy 
 this game, so I did reletively cheaply on Ebay. The controls are very very easy which is rare in 
 any kind of sports game today, the graphics are really good, and after playing for an hour or two 
 I was hooked. The game is just plain fun, this is one game that I always go back to after beating 
 other games and shelving them for the rest of time, it just never seems to get old. Since the game 
 was so fun I decided to try another similar baseball game by the same publisher (MLB07) , I hoped 
 that I had found a new genre to enjoy... Unfortunately I was wrong, that game was in the xbox for 
 about 20 min. and after frustrating the crap out of me with terrible controls it sits under my 
 tv forever. 
  Anyway, even if you don't enjoy sports games you might want to check this one out, at least download 
 the demo of of live, I bet you'll get hooked too, It's even fun to watch someone else play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhbk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  When i bought my 360 this was the game i bought with it. The 360 had in it Forza motorsport 2 and 
 well i wasn't too attracted to that game, so i wanted to buy one separately. I got the Bigs... AWESOME 
 CHOICE! You will love it. I am one of the biggest fans of baseball, hell i play it myself! I am 
 a baseball player proud to say that the bigs is a really great video game. Of course playing baseball 
 for reals has nothing like the video game, and this is what it makes this game so fun, because 
 you get to do all this crazy things you wish you could do in the field. Let's say, rob a homerun, 
 or throw a ball so fast that you can see fire. i mean, this game is a fantasy for baseball players 
 like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superboy97
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  this is an amazing game i LOVE the rookie mode that is amazing and it isn't as hard as some oh 
 the games where u have a rookie and its like a power bar but this one is just stars so its easier 
 much easier
  i give it a 10.0 its just a wonderful game and an abosolutely posotively instant classic! i think 
 the powerups are amazing and the game has a lil bit of a memory unit like if u have the powerup 
 and u hit the screen it stays black for the entire game and i get aggrivated sometimes how every 
 time i hit a homerun it gets stolen but oh well great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sectshun8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Great game to play alone, but really shines playing with friends. The Rookie Mode is suprisingly 
 fun, mixed well with game lengths, mini-game to improve your plyer skills. Stadiums look out-freakin'-standing. 
 No single team realty has an advantage. Slightly cheesy gameplay but overall the amazing plays 
 and eipc plate appearances are awesome. I'm used to Baseball simulators like the MLB and All-Star 
 series, but this game is just an all out joy to play despite it's lack of depth. The pinball mode 
 is unique, but not really worth trying more than once. We made a drinking game based on it, check 
 it out!
  
  http://www. geocities. com/thebigsdrinkinggame/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sabru8
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  I was excited to get this game for my birthday and I popped it into my 360 with high hopes of mastering 
 the game. I soon found that the controls were a little bit more complex than I thought they were 
 going to be. Offensively I am pretty much dominating in the Rookie Challenge , which I think is 
 a great aspect of the game. Without this I think that the game would be nothing to right home about 
 at all. The defensive controls, pitching being the one exception, are not has easy to master. I 
 dread trying to hit a home run since I know that the computer is going to attempt a gravity defying 
 leap over the wall in an attempt to rob me of my trip around the bases. This would not bother as 
 much if I could also perform such feats. I find that when my player does attempt to make a big 
 play they almost always drop the ball. I think that what the game really lacks is a practice mode 
 that would better teach you the controls and how to perform these big plays that can earn you some 
 hefty turbo point and give you an overall advantage in the game. The Home run Pinball game is a 
 lot of fun, but I wish there were other places to play besides just Times Square. I guess the bottom 
 line here is that the game is good, but it isn't great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doisemeio
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Average graphics, average game play, Average upgrades, now some modes exceed and others just do 
 enough to pass by. Playing rookie is fun on the beginning but it get repetitive after a wile and 
 it takes allot to max out your character. custom bats and other minor features make this a perfect 
 average game that is a perfect match for a average player that is not that much into baseball. 
 Sure it has some big names and all your favorite teams but don't do them all. The character models 
 look true to the persons but most of your custom characters will end up looking the same. Batter 
 controls are easy to cope with pitching is very easy but out field controls couldn't be more annoying 
 if you love baseball this game may offended and bored out of the box but average players will find 
 this mildly entertaining good for no more than 2 weeks of play. Sorry to all how disagreed but 
 this is a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  The Bigs is what I've always wanted when picking up a video game baseball title. It looks and sounds 
 great and it a lot of fun to play, by yourself or with friends. Everything in the game is somewhat 
 exaggerated, but it feels right while you're playing. Fielding is the only downside, sometimes 
 it is hard to tell what you're doing, but eventually you'll get it figured out.
  
  The majority of the one player game is made up of the rookie challenge which is fun to play through 
 and to unlock the achievements you; ll have to play through multiple times. There is an additional 
 game mode that is a fun variation of pinball which can be quite addictive while trying for the 
 high score. Other than that there is exhibition matches, and that is about it. The is the only 
 other problem with the game is that it feels a little shallow... but only a little.
  
  For what is there, the game is great! It is fun to play for anyone who mildly enjoys baseball, 
 even if you haven't liked baseball games in the past. It is fun and fast paced, and you'll have 
 lots of fun if you decide to play against friends. This is just an all around fun game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeybladeHolder
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The BIGS is basically the MLB on steroids. The players have a real buff build as if they are really 
 taking steroids. At first glance, it looks like the game might follow in the vein of Slugfest but 
 those fears are put to rest when you play the game. During a game, a meter appears that can be 
 filled by hitting a home run, getting a base hit, stealing a base, etc. Once the meter is full 
 you can unleash a power blast which is a guaranteed home run when the ball is hit. If the meter 
 is full while you're pitching then you can unleash big heat. If you strike out a player while in 
 big heat mode, you can decrease your opponent's meter and fill up yours. Each game is fast paced 
 and exciting. Catches that seem out of reach can be reached with the help of turbo. The weird thing 
 about the game is that Barry Bonds is not on the Giants roster in the game. A major weak point 
 is that fielding could have used a bit more work. Sometimes the wrong player is chosen to catch 
 a far away ball resulting in missed chances for getting outs. Despite some minor problems The BIGS 
 is a great baseball game that is worth a try for any fans of arcade sports games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentium4dude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  The Bigs is a solid, arcade style sports game that brings baseball to life. You start to play the 
 game and you get enveloped in the action and fast paced gameplay. As you progress through a game, 
 certain mannerisms, slow-motion cinematics and game play help you to THOROUGHLY enjoy this game. 
 I have never been a big fan of arcade style games because realistic qualities can really make a 
 game stand out. Ever since I started playing the demo, I went out and bought the game the day that 
 I tried it out. The BIGS is a great game and I hope that 2K can come out with other games alike 
 to help saturate the sports' fans' collections across the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FSUJD524
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Remember NFL Blitz when it was on the huge arcade machine. I, like thousands of others, spent countless 
 quarters on jumping 30 feet in the air and absolutely destroying your opponents with a power hit. 
 The BIGS gives you the same feel. The pitching and hitting system is very simple to learn, but 
 fairly difficult to master. It's all about the turbo, power meter, where you're aiming your hit, 
 and which hit button you use. Same for pitching, you position where you want your pitch to end 
 up, hold a certain button for a particular pitch, release the button when the power meter goes 
 to max. Simple as that. Very straight forward which allows you to concentrate on the fun aspect 
 of the game and not the mechanics. The only bad thing I can say about this game is the fielding 
 gameplay. The infield game play isn't as difficult to control, it's the outfield thats a real pain. 
 The outfielders never seem to go the way you want them to because the running programs on this 
 game are atrocious. Let me clarify, the base running is very easy, the fielding running is horrible. 
 But if you're a good enough pitcher you won't require alot of outfield play
  
  Over all this is a fantastic game that is perfect for online play. It gives you the right amount 
 of flat out play with an arcade feel. Did I mention that you don't play every game to 9 innings? 
 Most of the time you're doing either drills to up your stats, playing scenario games (2 down in 
 the 8th inning, win the game) , and rookie objectives (get 5 RBI's with your rookie) . It makes the 
 game interesting and not numbingly monotonous like the MLB2K series and other games like that. 
 I give it a 9 out of 10. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratboy64
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  When you first play it you will see beefed up guys and may even see them climb halfway up the green 
 monster to snag a ball. But don't worry you learn to play their style. This game can also be very 
 competitive. Multiplayer is awesome when your offlline. Haven't played online yet. Me and my friend 
 played until three in the morning be cause we liked it so much. Turbo is pretty sweet, too. If 
 you give it to Big Papi or Manny Ramirez they are pretty much gaurunteed to hit a homer. The same 
 goes for high heat (super pitches) and power blast (automatic home run) . You will have your multiplayer 
 partner begging for mercy when you earn either of the two. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I remember growing up and heading up to the video store with my friends, and we'd pick up a Nintendo 
 cartridge for a night, and that used to be THE thing to do. Keep in mind that I am an old guy among 
 gamers, so this concept might seem laughable to some folks.
  
  The BIGS reminded me immediately of one of those games. Senseless, but impossible to resist enjoyment. 
 It's about as deep as a Tim McGraw song, but damned if ain't a lot of fun. The first night I had 
 it, a friend of mine came over and we consumed cheap beer and pounded baseballs into Times Square 
 until our thumbs were sore. It was a blast, and it really did recall those salad days of yore (circa 
 1988) .
  
  You won't find difficult controller layouts or complicated button sequences in The BIGS. Unfortunately, 
 you won't find much beyond the Rookie Challenge mode, which avoids monotony mostly by sprinkling 
 in a few minigame-style challenges among the usual three- and five-inning slugfests. The achievements, 
 it should be noted for XBox 360 fans, represent a good mix of difficulty in obtaining. And that 
 Home Run Pinball... oh, yeah, it's kind of addictive. Like crackrock.
  
  The graphics need some polish in places and the sound effects and commentary tend to become tedious, 
 but that's largely due to the game just not having a great deal of modes or replay value. And for 
 an arcade game, it's got some very awkward baserunning, which should be about the most painless 
 part of the whole package.
  
  Little frustrations and its general shallowness excepted, The BIGS is a BIG winner for a debut 
 franchise. I look forward to some advancements next year, possibly the ability to unlock some old-timers 
 and maybe some retro stadiums as well. And I'm sure we can find some kind of a pitching minigame 
 that would be a riot as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riderfan1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I want to say is that the bigs is a great game that can be enjoyed by all, even 
 if not you're not a fan of baseball.
  The BIGS is an arcade style baseball with big catches, pitches and especially hits. Graphics: The 
 player faces look fantastic, and it looks as though people are on steroids (not just Barry Bonds) . 
 The bodies look more like plastic action figures then actual humans.
  
  Gameplay: The only kind of mode in the game is called the rookie challenge. In this, you create 
 a rookie and take him to the world series. And only for ONE SEASON. How can a madden 06 ds game 
 have a franchise mode and not this? The controls are easy to use but you have to have fast reflexes 
 to catch the ball.
  
  Multiplayer: Local multiplayer is a blast! Playing against people on your console is great. But, 
 online I have played a few games and was disapointed. It was lagging and was so bad (for lack of 
 a better word) .
  
  Overall: I gave this a 8/10 because it is still fun to play but could've been so much more. Hope 
 they get it right in The BIGS 2. Chow! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  The Bigs is a pretty hardcore baseball game. You can almost guarantee that you will enter 10+ runs 
 a game. Even if you play 5 inning games, you will still get some high scores. The Bigs main idea 
 was to make baseball a little big more of an exciting game. Normally baseball is a slower paced 
 game, filled with numbers and stats. Usually your voice actors talk about the ERA and the batters 
 on base percentage. In the Bigs they said No one cares about that! Lets just let make the really 
 good hitters have a much better chance of hitting the ball out of the park. The Bigs is different 
 than most baseball games. It is a lot faster paced and a big more exagerrated. If you're playing 
 by yourself, you'll spend your time playing the Rookie Challenge. Where you will customize your 
 own player, and watch him pretty much own the baseball league. You will go from a average player, 
 such as not turning the double plays, or striking out a few times, to becoming a legend only after 
 your first year, by crushing the ball every at bat. As you go through the games, you will recieve 
 the opportunity to 'steal a player' from another team, which adds up to making your line up unbeatable. 
 A problem with this is that it is pretty easy to get your guy all 5 stars in each category. Making 
 your character not very customizable after all. I'd advise you to play on a harder difficulty rather 
 than normal, because I doubt that you'll play Rookie Challenge more than once. You can get easily 
 tired of the game. I found myself hardly pushing through the Rookie Challenge. The game gets a 
 little repetative, and if you're not playing against a decent opponent who matches your skill, 
 you may find that your games last very much longer because you keep going deep on your opponent 
 making the score difference 10+. Sometimes I found myself purposely striking out just so I could 
 finish the game.
  
  Achievment points are fairly easy to get, a couple are hard, but you will get most of them just 
 by playing the game.
  
  Good: Fun game, with BIG hits, BIG catches, BIG plays, and more BIG stuff. Making your own rookie 
 and making him kick a$$ is pretty fun. Fun to play with a friend
  Bad: Gets a little too easy, you should play on a harder difficulty making your experience a little 
 better. Rookie is not as customizable in the end because he is perfect at all the skills. Gets 
 a little repetative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masherzoom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  While most people may think that The BIGS is only for casual, non-hardcore fans of the baseball 
 genre, it is actually the complete opposite. The BIGS is an over the top baseball game with fun 
 that will appeal to even the sim-type baseball players. It is however not perfect, and has a few 
 features that might be at most, unappealing.
  
  Lets start off with the outstanding visuals that are provided in this game. Player models are greatly 
 detailed and most players look like their real-life counterparts. Stadiums models are almost 100% 
 perfect and it seems as a job well done by the 2K sports team with them. The game play is very 
 fun but use of the A button for contact and B button for power are okay, but could have been represented 
 better with the swing stick from MLB 2K7. You'll often find yourself striking out the computer 
 very often which leads to your turbo increasing. Kind of dissapointing that you could only build 
 turbo by throwing strikes or watching balls go by you, but nonetheless the formula still works. 
 As you make your team better by stealing players (which is a great feature by the way) and in turn 
 making your player better, the computer does play a little tougher against you, but none of which 
 the average user can't handle. One annoying feature is that the good outfielders will rob about 
 95% of your home run balls, but you can deal with it. The BIGS can actually be portrayed as a very 
 realistic baseball game in which scores can be pretty lifelike at times, but also can get out of 
 hand.
  
  Sound is pretty good in the game, and the announcer doesn't seem to be very annoying, but some 
 might find him to be. Online play is pretty barebones with basically just leaderboards, somewhat 
 surprising considering how good 2K Sports is with their online leagues. Home Run pinball is probably 
 the most addicting feature of the game, and will always keep you coming back for more. Overall 
 The BIGS, is a very solid baseball game, that even the average fan would agree with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codezer0
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a rarity for me. Having played various baseball games throughout the years, I've experienced 
 quite a few companies' attempts at replicating America's passtime in a manner that is supposed 
 to be immersive and enjoyable to someone picking up the controller. Some have done better than 
 others (MLB 05 from EA surprisingly did very well in this regard compared to MLB 2k5, but where 
 EA has stagnated with their NFL exclusivity with Madden, 2k sports seems to have improved significantly 
 in their 2k7 offering) . However, this goes down as the very first baseball video game I've purchased 
 with my own money. And here's why...
  
  it's damned fun, with just enough realism to make things plausible without getting in the way.
 
  
  Sure, there have been games that are supremely realistic. MLB 2k7 from 2k sports in particular 
 is probably one of the most realistic looking baseball games out there. And with various control 
 systems implemented throughout the years, each baseball game has had a chance of interpreting how 
 they believe the game should be handled. But some of these various interpretations seemed to only 
 get in the way of what their fundamental purpose is - to provide an enjoyable and engaging set 
 of innings when we pick up and play.
  
  The BIGS follows more in line with the bar set by Midway's MLB slugfest of providing a more arcade 
 style of video game baseball. However, I believe the BIGS does better by a few reasons:
  - in MLB slugfest, a turbo-powered pitch was nigh on impossible to hit, and had some of the most 
 ridiculous trajectories to defy the laws of gravity and physics. While the bigs does allow for 
 one to spice up their throw with turbo as well, the pitches still behave like an actual baseball. 
 And it is still possible to hit the thing, even if the chances are slimmer now.
  - While MLB slugfest did allow you to charge the mound after getting slammed with a pitch, it didn't 
 really provide any benefit. The charging player would get ejected, the pitcher (usually) remained, 
 and a man was put on base in his place. At least in the BIGS, if you are hit by the pitch, even 
 though you can't readily charge the mound, you do get some turbo added to your meter, as a more 
 tangible form of compensation for the player's injury. That and after a while, the novelty of being 
 able to beat up the pitcher on the mound wore off for me, I guess...
  - it's still entirely possible to make a home run without pumping up your turbo or even with an 
 in-field homer in the BIGS; I certainly don't remember that being possible on Slugfest.
  
  And well... it's so incredibly rewarding when you can fill up your big play meter as a batter and 
 blast one out so hard that it blows up the scoreboard. Or enact some big heat and make a batter 
 look stupid on the plate.
  
  For a first-year arcade game, this thing's got a lot going for it. Graphics quality remains much 
 the same on player's faces from MLB 2k7 (obviously developers sharing assets) , but it's such a 
 giddy experience seeing them in larger than life size... or as the gamespot review put it, as if 
 they've been popping 'roids since birth. It's one thing to be able to see proportionately accurate 
 likenesses of the major league players. But it just feels so much more exciting when you see them 
 in that larger than life hero caricature that one's imagination tends to put for their favorite 
 athletes. Though could anyone tell me where the **** Barry Bonds is? I couldn't find him on any 
 team yet.
  
  As a total package, the graphics are just gorgeous. With full polygonal fans in the stands, the 
 fields feel much more authentic and alive than the typical static image that older baseball games 
 used to do. The finer details on players during closeups are particularly well done, and the grass 
 on your fields looks really sweet.
  
  In terms of sound, the two-man crew from MLB 2k7 is gone in favor of a new member, which from my 
 playtime seems to fit just right. There are moments where it seems he repeats himself, but these 
 generally only happen when the same thing happens twice (i. e. fielder makes a sweet catch or get 
 a really powerful home run) .
  
  Compared to the simulation-style baseball games, the BIGS distills its control scheme quite a bit. 
 It keeps things simple, because this is a game that is meant to be easy to pick up and play, and 
 meant sot hat one could have some fun even in less than 30 minutes of play. Pitching and batting 
 work very well, and batting becomes a method of mastering your timing to be able to get that solid 
 hit to round some bases. the weak point would come in with fielding. If you suddenly need to catch 
 a flying ball infield or out... unless you start moving in the right direction asap, it becomes 
 very hard to get to it in time to make an effective play, where the A. I. seems to have more luck 
 with this. But compared to how well the core of the game (the battle between pitcher and batter) 
 is done, it almost seems nit-picky. But it must be pointed out for those who would be concerned.
 
  
  Also, the home run pinball mode in the game is exceptionally executed. Seriously, who wouldn't 
 want to bat some hits down times square and blow out a few lights in the process? or ding one against 
 the New Year's eve ball? :D Only thing I could suggest for this mode is to have a few more stages 
 to be able to choose.
  
  For the first in a (potential) baseball franchise, the BIGS gets off to a great start, and at the 
 same time leaves one wanting for more. the fundamentals and core of the gameplay have been effectively 
 pulled off. And much like the Marlins' inagural year victory in the World Series, we could have 
 a genuine winner on our hands here.
  
  If in doubt, download the demo on the Xbox Live Marketplace. It's actually really good about letting 
 you get a feel for how the regular game flows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shizzo01220
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  I usually buy a baseball game every season and play the Franchise mode religiously but this year 
 I really didn't feel that the 360 had a good baseball sim to offer in 2k7. I was a bit disappointed 
 that I wouldn't get to play any video game baseball this year. I saw THE BIGS when it first came 
 out and it looked ok. It is not a baseball sim, it is arcade baseball but damn, IT IS SO MUCH FUN 
 TO PLAY. I got into this game instantly, and I haven't stopped playing it since I bought it. The 
 controls work well, and it is fun to use the powerups and such. The game looks amazing and it is 
 great if you only have a few minutes and want to play a 3 or 5 inning game. I am a baseball purist, 
 but for some reason this game satisfies me even though it is arcade baseball. Highly recommended! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScaryMoviefan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for people who like arcade style games. The rookie challenge is just phenomenal 
 and the home run pinball mini game is groundbreaking. But the one thing I hate about this game 
 is the online mode. I wish it was like Madden and had a lobby and a lot of people played. The thing 
 about rookie challenge is you get to create your rookie, pick his team, and once you unlock them, 
 you can get accesories and extras like batter ditty, batter graphics, and others. This is a great 
 game that i reccomend for baseball lovers and arcade lovers. Anyone can love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganandorf1000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  The bigs is an arcade style baseball game where you make your own rookie and improve him as you 
 get closer and closer to the the world series and watch him make his way to the bigs. When you 
 think about arcade sports you may think of MLB Slugfest, it isn't like that. There is no hitting 
 and no players on fire. Although there is turbo and a big play meter which helps you amp up your 
 pitching and hitting , basically an automatic homer and strikeout. When the pitcher and the batter 
 both use the big play meter at the same time you enter dual mode where it is really hard to hit 
 a pitch but you still get a homer if you hit it the ball. If you are pitching after you use the 
 big play and strike someone out, you steal their big play points. There is no season mode just 
 the rookie mode that I talked about. The rookie mode is like NFL supersatr mode in Madden. After 
 about an hour you learn how to make easy home runs. They're are scenarios such as You are down 
 by 2 runs, it is the bottom of the 8th inning, make a comeback and win the game. and stat challenges 
 that help you get your rookie better and better. Stat challengers are sort-of a scenario but it 
 will tell you to do something such as make 2 homers and make a home run with you rookie. There 
 is also a special game in each city where if you win it, you can steal a player from their team. 
 This makes up for the incapability to trade people and get free agents. The down side is that you 
 are only allowed to steal ten players. I recommend it to anyone who wants a sport game but without 
 the seriousness of a sport game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick4141109
Rating: 2.3
Date: Aug 9, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This game was so disappointing. This is the kind of game that plagues baseball and other sports. 
 The Bigs gives us characters so massive they scare the hulk. There giant steroid filled bodies 
 can perform impossible feats such as jumping 15 feet in the air to catch a ball or clobber a baseball 
 to the moon. The pitching is incredibly boring and is more primitive than a caveman. Who also is 
 this announcer. He's about as good a public speaker as George Bush. Overall this game insults the 
 good name of baseball with the steriod abusing characters. I had about as much fun playing this 
 game as watching Barry Bonds beat Hank Aaron s home run recored. They probably didn't even have 
 to size up Barry Bonds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashmar1414
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Like some of you reading this Ifell asleep after the third inning of MLB 2K7, the slow way to realistic 
 Baseball game bored me quickly. The Biggs however put the spark back in my basball simulator love-life. 
 Some of you might think that this is a simple flashy arcade game, your greatly mistaken. Yes the 
 balls do ingnite and go through the score board when you crack out a monster home-run, but the 
 pitchers stamina also goes down when your opponent crushes the ball on you or when you mess up 
 horribly on the pitch meter, not to mention the up to date roster updates. I loved this game from 
 the heart stopping dives, climbing up the wall and robbing hitters of there home-runs to unleashing 
 big heat and striking out your oppenent with great balls of fire! This game was just the basball 
 game I've been looking for. I hope all of you hard core realistic baseball gamers don't judge this 
 game by first glance, because after you get used to the flashy gameplay you'll find theres more 
 then meets the eye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: French023
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  The bigs is a unrealistic baseball game that is really really fun. Unlike realistic baseball sims 
 that take about 2 hours to get through one game, it takes only about 20 minutes to get through 
 a game of the bigs. This was the key point of why i loved this game. I could just play a couple 
 games and not have to spend 3 hours doing it. -Graphics-
  Before the game was released I heard alot of bad things about the graphics. I mean i think there 
 acually fairly good. The players are big very big. They look like they just came from shooting 
 up in the bathroom. Its cool to see all the muscle textures on them. There is a couple downfalls 
 though. The players and umpires are almost glowing. They have a glowing look to them and its really 
 annoying at times to some people. Also with some of the diving and robbing catches the ball never 
 seems to really go into the mit quite right.
  -Gameplay-
  The gamplay is probably the best part of this game. Its faced pace, great action baseball and ever 
 a baseball hater would love it. I would compare this game to slugfest almost but just not as over 
 the top. Like i said in the title its a mix between slugfest and a baseball sim. -Sound-
  The sound is fairly good but not anything really special.
  
  The best part of this game though 
 is the rookie challenge which basicly replaces the season of a regular game. You start off as a 
 rookie in the summer league. You then can progress makeing your rookie better and even changeing 
 his apperence on the way. For example you can unlock tattos to put on him or pick a song for them 
 to play when he comes up. Another cool thing about this game is the player steals. After you beat 
 a taem you ge the chance to steal one of thier players. This seems like it puts alot of stratigy 
 in the game put it really doesnt because ichiro can hit just as many homeruns as david ortiz. Thats 
 just the kind of game it is. There is also a mode called homerun pinball. In this mode you are 
 in times square in new york city. Basicly youru task is to hit all the signs and windows for points 
 earning various achievments depending on your score. \
  
  To finish it off i will talk about achivments. This is a game where you dont really have to work 
 very hard for the achievments they kinda come to you. As long as you play the game well you should 
 get most of them. I have only really gone out of my way to try to get one twice and that was 2 
 of the steals ones. So i basicly have got a score of 720 with out really trying. I think that adds 
 a little value to the 360 version. This is a great game but now i do regret a little bit buying 
 it for full price because there is really no replay value at all to the game. Once you beat the 
 rookie challenge you are pretty much done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegr8ben
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  its gooooooooooood Me and my girlfriend can play. why does it hace to a 100 words i say short and 
 sweet balh blah ba cd c d dc dcd c d dc d c ddc dc n d cn dc jbsd jnv kjfn l; kfnl; kje hnl; er nv 
 nlfkn n l; dj n n n sdnelskdjn lkjgfsdn kjsd ndn ekjn fdfkj ndkj ndakjd; kj afn lfxkbn o; kjhfsao; kaokjafi; 
 sa kjvbnfa kc kdc h j hlk jlk jlk jl kj lkj l; kjh lk jh ol; kj h l; kj l; kl; k'; k'; l l; k ljn lkj 
 kjvb ;, dcm s dcbnbd wfsv da dc dvi okwdvv bw kjh wk fsdjn sda kjh jz bnmfdv kmn lk j lkjdn ., mc 
 ,m flkm km hgiugiug b o iuy iu ijgh ig iu iuh n ioh iojokj iopj oijojh ophopi hioph oiojhj oho 
 hojh kjh l; k iopj oij iop [ j oij o; i o; ihj o; uh o; h gh ; ohb ;oh iohj io 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate3487
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  this game is very very fun to play.... i wish there was a season mode or something like that to 
 compliment the Rookie Challenge, then this game would be almost perfect. The best part about this 
 game is playing with your friends... I honestly can't remember the last time I've had that much 
 of a blast playing a video game with my buddies, the huge home runs, killer strikeouts, ridiculous 
 plays, etc.
  It sure beats the hell out of the drab Hey guys lets play Halo II ... which gets real old... real 
 fast. Also another great feature is the fact that, hey say you want to play a baseball game, it 
 doesn't take you an hour to finish it, you can be done with even a 9 inning game in about 15 or 
 20 minutes, which is great because that leads to sweet rematches. The rookie challenge is fun because 
 you can stack your team with power hitters and sick pitchers, and just run through teams... which 
 believe me is incredible. For the 360, the acheivements are cool, which funny names, and some are 
 actually hard to get, but not like other games where you could spend your whole life trying for 
 one acheivement.
  
  Overall.... great game, awesome for multiplayer, if you liked NBA Street and like baseball, this 
 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mstuff_basic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  The BIGS does take a small amount of time to practice and get used to the controls, but once you 
 figure everything out it is a BLAST to play. The left stick on the controller plays a key role 
 in batting, pitching, and running. Especially with batting it allows you to find a hole in the 
 infield or a gap in the outfield. Also pushing the stick up and timing the pitch with the B button 
 will help you swing for the fence. Fielding and running does seem frustrating at first but you 
 just have to give these aspects some more time. In regards to pitching you have to place the ball 
 on the corners of the plate and mix it up to keep the batter guessing in order to be successful. 
 It is very fast paced and you have to make quick decisions. This game is never boring and it does 
 not take a long time to play a game. I am really enjoying the rookie challenge that you can co-op 
 with friends and be careful the pinball game in times square is highly addictive. Games are supposed 
 to be GAMES and fun to play and I would like to thank the developers for accomplishing a 10/10 
 on the attribute I call the Fun Factor . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NigelDucan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I definatley liked this game a whole lot. I liked the fact that it was kinda likeSlugfest which 
 I like too. Its kinda like slugfest and its kinda not all at the same time really. Its got the 
 aspect of ramming the catcher and sliding to hit the baseman. I also liked that this game isnt 
 like slugfest in the way that teh whole game doesnt revolve around pucnhing the other players. 
 The BIGS has the real baseball kinda feel to it with that extra add-on of making it an even funner 
 game. I would definatley buy it because its not just another baseball game were they change the 
 roster each year and add one new extra thing to the new volume. I think that it is a very fun game. 
 The graphics superb too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reppdogg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of sports games for a very long time but not so much the arcade style games like 
 blitz, NBA street, NFL street... you get the point. so when i started playing the bigs i was not 
 expecting that much but to my amazement i was wrong! me and my friend have played so many games 
 of the bigs and everyone is just as fun as the first one, nice thing about this game is you can 
 play 5 inning games so you don't have to take lots of time out of your day to play. the pitching 
 game is pretty neat and each pitch your pitcher has will start off with a full Green bar of power, 
 as the other player gets hits it will go down based on which pitch you throw, so it makes you wonder 
 what kind of pitch your should throw to the big hitters like David Ortiz. you will earn turbo for 
 either throwing strikes, or taking balls at the plate and using turbo as a pitcher will put a huge 
 streak of fire behind the ball making it almost impossible to hit at times, but in a good way and 
 on the batters side of it if you use turbo the batter will be guaranteed a pitch in the strike 
 zone, now you will also be earning points through out the game and you get points for strikeouts, 
 singles, doubles, triples, home runs, and great catches. once you earn 100,000 points you can either 
 unleash a power blast, which basically is saying if you hit a ball its gone! as a pitcher is the 
 same... just impossible to hit the pitch now say you both have 100k points unleash them both at 
 the same time its a duel and the one who wins will get a whole new bar of turbo giving you another 
 100k points! usually the pitcher will win if your playing against a friend. there is some small 
 issues with the game on the game play side, sometimes there will be a ball that your player will 
 not get but no other player will attempt to get it just something minor but gets annoying at times 
 and the base running has had a few glitch's at times for me as well. graphics are great and i think 
 there just right for the game, small things that i really enjoyed are how when you aim a hit the 
 batter will actually tilt towards the spot your aiming. so i guess that will pretty much wrap it 
 up, I'd for sure go out and buy this game for whatever system you own, but if you have both a ps3 
 and a 360 go with the 360 version, I've played them both and enjoyed the 360 controls a bit more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barloc1337
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The BIGS is a new baseball game by 2k games, although instead of like the normal baseball games, 
 this one is an arcade style of gameplay. The BIGS with the overall goal in mind of making baseball 
 heroic, it does that very well. The unfortunate part about this game, is that it is way too shallow.
 
  
  The graphics are very shiny, the stadiums look pretty good, the thing that bothered me though was 
 that almost all the power hitters looked like they were taking lots of steroids. This is a minor 
 thing but can be a little annoying at times.
  
  The sounds of the game are present, with a pretty funny announcer who shouts out some memorable 
 lines that are just too funny. The players don't talk themselves, let alone most of the time their 
 mouths don't even move, even when look at the umpire and trying to say something.
  
  The big problem with the game is that its gameplay is very basic, and does capture the whole heroic 
 part, but there is no replay to this game. There is a rookie challenge mode, in which you must 
 take your rookie from bottom to top, and then win the world series. Sounds all fun, and it is. 
 You will complete a series of challenges in game against people. You will spend maybe 4 to 6 hours 
 of gameplay here depending on skill. But once you win, its over. There is no point in going back 
 and playing the challenge again, and all you can do is play online or quick play, which is pretty 
 disappointing.
  
  Overall if the game was pushed a little further, with a season mode or something, this game would 
 be a must buy, if you want to check the game out, rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  Video games derived from sports are a common bunch. With the dawn of a new season comes a new video 
 game with some minor gameplay tweaks and roster updates. Reinventing a generation-old sport isn't 
 something that can be done easily. Some conventions need to be respected, especially if the developers 
 want the major leagues to embark on their project.
  
  But 2K Sports' The BIGS dares to bend the rules of America's Pastime and gives us a refreshing 
 and, above all else, fun new outlook on the game, speeding it up and giving it a whole new attitude.
 
  
  One thing this game is not is a simulation. In fact, it's far from it. Although all of the teams 
 in MLB are present, there are no standings, no win-loss records and no statistics. You don't need 
 to be a rocket scientist to play this game. A basic knowledge of it will do. The controls are easy 
 to use and won't require too much thought. No more pulling the thumbstick back and pushing it forward 
 to hit the ball; aim your hit and press a button. The same thing can be said for pitching; aim 
 your pitch and press the desired button. Fielding is even easier, as the fielder will automatically 
 run towards the ball and catch it. You just need to press the button corresponding to the base 
 you want to throw to and that's it. All of this works pretty well except for the fielding, where 
 it seems like the game often selects the wrong player to field the ball, making it very frustrating.
 
  
  Aside from the controls, the game has other aspects which make it different from any other ball 
 game out there right now. Every good play you perform, whether it be a base hit, home run, strikeout 
 or a good fielding catch, will earn you points and, at the same time, will fill up your Big Play 
 meter. When that meter is filled, it will start flashing, indicating that either the pitcher or 
 the hitter is ready to execute a Big Play. When you're ready, press both triggers to activate it. 
 The screen becomes surrounded with a blurry effect. If you are pitching, the pitcher will throw 
 very fast balls surrounded by fire. If you are hitting, the batter will hit a certified home run 
 if you make contact with the ball. If both sides activate it at the same time, a duel will be initiated, 
 with the winning side getting their Big Play meter refilled.
  
  Not only is there the Big Play meter, there is also the Turbo meter. Turbo is earned by throwing 
 strikes if you're pitching or taking a ball if you're hitting. This meter fills up faster than 
 the Big Play one, but is a little less effective. Your hits and pitches will be stronger than normal 
 ones though. You can also use the Turbo while fielding, making the throws faster and more accurate.
 
  
  There are different game types in The BIGS, but let's talk about the most important one, the Rookie 
 Challenge. You start off by selecting the team you want to play for, your jersey number and your 
 fielding position. You can then customize your player. The player customization isn't very deep 
 though, as you'll get a default appearance where you can change the color of the eyes and hair, 
 but that's about it. As you progress though the Challenge, you'll get to choose your entrance song, 
 your nickname and other cool stuff like that.
  
  The Challenge itself requires you to complete certain tasks against all of the teams in your league. 
 These tasks vary from winning a game to hitting a certain amount of home runs, getting a certain 
 amount of strikeouts, and so on. Naturally, the tasks will get harder as you progress through the 
 Challenge. Once you complete all tasks against a certain team, you will be able to steal one of 
 their players by winning the final game against them. You can steal up to 10 players, so choosing 
 wisely is a must here. As your Rookie progresses through the Challenge, he will earn upgrade points 
 which can be used to, you guessed it, upgrade his fielding and batting attributes. This is by far 
 the best part of The BIGS and, although it could have been a little more fleshed out, it is still 
 really fun and challenging to complete all of the tasks.
  
  The other game types include Quick Play, where you select a team and jump right into a game, Home 
 Run Derby, where you choose a player and battle an NPC in this All-Star Game tradition and Pinball, 
 where you choose a player and hit homeruns in the middle of Times Square in a very flashy and destructible 
 environment. All of these game types are quite well done and the Pinball one is a ton of fun to 
 play. Quick Play &amp; Home Run Derby can be played online as well. Speaking of which, the online 
 works pretty well, but there isn't much meat on the proverbial bone here.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good, without being outstanding. The aspect that stands out 
 the most about them is the player models. They look absolutely stunning. Every player looks huge 
 and bulky, although there are differences between real life big players, like Albert Pujols, and 
 smaller ones, like Pedro Martinez. The animations, especially after the player hits a home run 
 or makes a great catch, are nice, but they get very repetitive, as the same animation will appear 
 several times during a game. The stadiums also look pretty lifelike and similar to the real ones.
 
  
  The sound aspect isn't anything groundbreaking. All of the sounds you'd expect to hear in a baseball 
 game are present here, except for when you use the Big Play. When you hit the ball during that 
 time, it sounds like the ball is being crushed. When you pitch, it sounds like a rocket going by. 
 This adds to the arcade style of the game. The commentating, on the other hand, is very poor, as 
 the same thing will be repeated over and over again. The stadium announcer often says the wrong 
 player's name when he comes to the plate. Every sports game needs a soundtrack and The BIGS is 
 no exception. Although the song list is quite short, it's still very good, with a mix of rock and 
 grunge, including Stone Temple Pilots' Plush and Motorhead's Ace of Spades.
  
  In conclusion, The BIGS will not be remembered as a ground-breaking baseball game, but it's still 
 a very enjoyable and addicting game. There is enough stuff here to give it a good replay value 
 and lend itself to a different experience every time. Albeit it's flaws, it's sure to entertain 
 even the most novice of baseball connoisseurs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBu
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really one for baseball games because they're too damn slow for one, and usually way too 
 difficult. But this game I just picked up and started playing and never wanted to stop!
  
  Graphics are amazing! When I played in the Rogers Center for the first time, seeing the CN Tower 
 in the background, my jaw dropped. Players faces are ok, but could've been a little better. They 
 could've added some expression instead of the dull, lifeless looks on their mugs. But on the plus 
 side, most of the players actually look like their real life counterparts. The playing field looks 
 great as well.
  
  The sounds are excellent in this game. The crack of the bat is where it's at. Whether you're swinging 
 normally, you'll get a nice whiff sound, and if you power swing, you get a really cool sounding 
 thud. Some of the tracks that 2K picked out for this game are killer! Then again, that's just my 
 opinion really because my taste of music will definitely differ from most. But come on, Killing 
 Joke in a baseball game is just way too cool.
  
  Gameplay. Oh yeah. Just killer. This is the most fun I've ever had in a baseball game. In most 
 baseball games, you play a game and it takes forever! The Bigs gameplay is very fast paced and 
 puts you on the edge of your seat. I won't go too much into detail about the turbo meter and the 
 big blasts, but this is what sets the game apart from every other game. This is an arcade game 
 you must remember, not a sim. There are several gametypes to play. The rookie challenge is my favorite. 
 You create your own player, which is your rookie, and you play minigames and real games throughout 
 the season while boosting up your character. VERY fun to do. Then there's the pinball mode which 
 has you hitting balls in Times Square, breaking video billboards and neon signs as well as cars 
 and other objects. This will rack up your points and allow you to see how well you do on the Xbox 
 Live Leaderboards. Fun stuff! Oh, I have yet to play any games online, but I did hear that it is 
 top notch multiplayer gaming.
  
  I don't know what else to tell everyone. Go buy this game. If you're a lover of baseball or NOT, 
 I highly recommend this to everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A55kicka
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  One thing that really makes me mad is the fielding, by the time you realize what position you control 
 off the hit it might be too late. The Computer also picks positions that dont seem very logical. 
 Once a ball was hit to Centerfield but it gave me control of the right fielder. So it was a triple 
 for the batter when it should of been an easy out. Also the pitching is ok. Some of the pitching 
 seems unbalanced, it feels like a fastball will get hit most of the time for some reason. The graphics 
 are pretty average for a 360 game. Overall there is nothing really amazing about this game, but 
 I definently would not buy it if I were you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlimShadee10
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Ok Number One This Is A Hell Of A lot Better Than MLB 2K7. That Game Is Just Horrible But 2K Sports 
 Finnaly Did Something Right They Made The Bigs. I Got This Game 2 Weeks Ago And Thats Been The Only 
 Game I Have Been Playing. The Rookie Challenge Is Very Addictinng And Very Long The Pinball Challenge 
 Is Also Additing. The Only Bad Part About This Game Is That There Are No Stats In The Game And No 
 Season Or Franchise Mode. But If Your A BaseBall Fan This Is A Must Have Game And For Your Xbox 
 360 Collection. And Also The Online Play Is Great Because Its Not Laggy Like 2k7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigWalt211
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying the I love the idea of this game, but 2K sports only got half right. Although 
 the batting and pitching are right on for this type of game, the fielding and base running are 
 an absolute joke. The ball leaves the bat so quickly in some cases, that you cant tell who you 
 are controlling on the field. And by the time you have figured it out, the ball out of reach. Which 
 brings me to my next point, if you make the mistake of stepping in the wrong direction, please 
 understand that you are probably about to give up an in-field homerun. It would be out thing if 
 the CPU had just as much trouble fielding, but Im sure Im not the only person who has fallen 
 victim to the miraculous jumping catches that the CPU can make on almost every play. If you can 
 get past these things, and spend the time to master the controls, youll probably love this game, 
 I am not that patient. Bottom line, 2K sports should probably go back to the drawing board with 
 this one, and get some game testers that can accurately test the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Baseball games in the past have faithfully and realistically re-created the glory and splendor 
 of Americas favorite pastime. While traditional simulation baseball titles on consoles tend to 
 be as accurate and time-consuming as real games, it was hard for many gamers to appreciate the 
 bombardment of controls and slow paced action. The Bigs is a great baseball rendition and proves 
 that even the most impatient of gamers can enjoy a solid, fast-paced game of baseball when not 
 dragged down by ridiculous control schemes or lengthy games.
  
  The Bigs is an arcade style game, meaning you wont find your typical fifteen-minute innings or 
 seventh inning stretches, but rather a quick pick-me-up with an average game length of no more 
 than thirty minutes. What makes The Bigs so appealing is how monstrous the hits can be and how 
 fast the pitches can be thrown. Almost identically similar to the Slugfest games from year prior, 
 players will have the option to unleash these special moves anytime during the game. What sets 
 the game apart from Slugfest, however, is the use of a Turbo button. Almost instantly this can 
 change the pace of the game in ones favor, whacking balls 500 yards into the outfield, or pitching 
 115 MPH fastballs. The Turbo button isnt always in effect however, and players must perform great 
 plays, strikeouts, or hit fair balls in order to rack up Turbo points.
  
  While the Turbo button can create larger than life moments, racking up points seems unbalanced 
 in some areas. For example, its much easier to accumulate Turbo points while playing defense, 
 catching unreachable balls, robbing homers, or strikes outs gives massive amounts of Turbo boost 
 in comparison to their offensive counterparts. The only manageable way to get Turbo while batting 
 is to wait for the pitcher to throw strikes (which is very rare) , or hit fair balls. Sure, hitting 
 is not exactly hard to do, but you never get the same amount of point deferential as you would 
 on defense. While gaining boost is a great incentive for players to go all out while they play, 
 earning points also improves your chances of winning as well. Similar to Turbo, performing different 
 tasks racks up points, which fills up a bar at the top of the screen. Like the Turbo buttons, players 
 receive more points for doing things on defense. The points spread seems almost unfair at times, 
 as you can constantly hit ball after ball to get a solid amount, but once the defense robs you 
 of that homerun they take the points lead from you almost instantly.
  
  Once you manage to reach 100,000 points you can unleash either a massive blast from the plate, 
 which is an instant home run if hit, or pitches that will never be hit. Learning when to use these 
 special moves can become strategic at times, like loading the bases before unleashing an untouchable 
 grand slam. Unlike other baseball games, hitting isnt as complex as it seems. To put it plainly, 
 just swing at the ball as it crosses the plate. Technically there is no need to line up pitches, 
 as long as the batter has perfect timing than they should hit the ball with little or no problems. 
 However you can choose which side of the field to hit the ball to, which adds some emphasis on 
 picking apart broken defenses in the outfield.
  
  While hitting has become loads easier to manage, base running and playing outfield feels like a 
 constant struggle. Players would run full speed at a base only to stop inches before touching the 
 bag, and getting to be tagged out. This nuisance is caused by a faulty control scheme, which has 
 you pulling as hard as you can towards the base you are running to with no definitive way of slowing 
 down. So naturally you will either overrun the base (and be caught in a rundown) or fall short 
 and be tagged out. Your players will run on their own if you so choose, but watching them run twice 
 as fast can sometimes help you if you manage to get them on base. Outfielding follows the same 
 trend as base running in that the controls arent as fluent as they could be. Whenever a ball gets 
 hit, the closest player to the ball will have an icon over their head, instructing you to press 
 that button to take control. Sounds easy enough to manage, except that the game sometimes picks 
 players farther away from the ball, which makes catching grounders and flies almost impossible 
 at some points.
  
  Pitching is probably the best way to shut down the opposition at the plate. If you can literally 
 stop them from getting on base than you might not even have to worry about the clumsy controls 
 at all. Pitching is as simplistic and fun to use as hitting, as it requires little or no skill 
 to be effective. A button on the controller designates the types of pitches for each pitcher. Holding 
 down a corresponding button will throw the ball at a designated speed, depending on how well you 
 maxed out the throw. At the top of the pitching gauge is a line, which displays how fast and powerful 
 the throw will ultimately be thrown. Let go too early and your ball will be less effective and 
 likely to be hit, but unleashing the ball in the green or at the very top for a perfect pitch usually 
 means a strike. Positioning the ball and utilizing strength and speed can make all the difference 
 in a hit and a strike, and usually both together will result in easy pitching.
  
  The Bigs also has a very interesting take on season mode called Rookie Challenge. In this mode 
 you create your own star and bring him up from the Minors for a chance to play in the Big Leagues. 
 Along the way you will earn points depending on your efforts through each game  for instance hitting 
 doubles earns you 10,000 points - which can be used to upgrade your Rookies attributes. There 
 are five stats which can be enhanced, ranging from speed to power hitting. There is a significant 
 difference in each stat once upgraded, so knowing which skill to enhance first depending on the 
 teams you face can be hard to manage. The Rookie Challenge forces different scenarios upon you 
 in certain games, like coming back from a three run deficit in the ninth inning to win, or getting 
 ten strikeouts in one game. The different scenarios will keep fans occupied long enough to eventually 
 win the World Series, which is no short task as the season lasts up to ten hours.
  
  Earning points in games will also increase your appearance, which you can edit constantly throughout 
 the season. Certain things such as tattoos, bat paint, and even entrance music (which plays when 
 you bat) are nice, subtle features, which give a sense of customization to the game. The music 
 also fits the game well, with a nice mix of rock and alternative songs from fairly well known bands, 
 such as Janes Addiction, White Zombie, and Motorhead. The same cannot be said for the games commentator, 
 who repeats himself far too often, and the sound effects for some of the ball hits sound clunky 
 in certain spots. Visually the game looks pretty nice for an arcade sports title, and there are 
 enough hints of flair to make it look truly stunning. Flags wave in the background in stadiums, 
 light gleams off empty seats, and all of the stadiums are beautifully re-created to almost the 
 exact detail. There are slight incidents when players change colors (like black to white) when 
 they go to bat, and uniforms look jaded during night games, but these arent big enough problems 
 to detract from the overall look.
  
  The extra features are plentiful enough to entertain players for hours on end. One of the most 
 is Home Run Pinball, which has you hitting balls in the middle of Times Square. The more things 
 you hit and destroy, the more points you rack up. Online leaderboards allow you to see the highest 
 scores as well as which player everyone used. Of course, the usual Home Run Derby and co-op multiplayer 
 matches are available, allowing players to go head-to-head against each other. Online matches are 
 not as seamless however, as constant lag and server crashes make fast-paced games run at a snails 
 pace. Games often look like they are being filmed with stop motion technology, and its almost 
 impossible to complete an entire game because of the lag.
  
  The Bigs puts tons of great ideas to life to give players a much more fast-paced and turbo induced 
 game of baseball that everyone will surely enjoy. While the fielding and base running could have 
 used a little more fine tuning, the overall package is fun enough for all fans to enjoy a game 
 of baseball without having to labor through hours of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I must say Bigs is a very fun and exciting game.. I usally dont play arcade
  type games , but this game is an exception. I also tryed puting the game down , but find it fun. 
 I would never knock mlb 2k7 , because its also a very
  fun game. The gameplay was fun and the graphics are pretty good.. I recommend this game to anyone. 
 I hope next year there be a Biggs part
  2 , and hope they dont stop there trend.. Im not gonna put EA down ,because it would be very unfair, 
 but hope the best for them this year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  I really love this game a lot. The problem with old baseball games is that it gets old and winning 
 the world series didnt feel speacial. This game makes you feel like your actually playing in a 
 game. I dont no why there isnt a lot of reviews because its so good. Well you get to start off 
 and make your rookie and name how he looks and all that. Then you play spring training games which 
 teaches you the methods of how to play the game. Because its a lot different the normal baseball 
 games.
  
  Then you get a little introduction skit on the opener. Than you play some games and than do training. 
 Which are contact hitting, distant hitting, fielding, and base running. During the games you have 
 to do spacial things either your rookie hits a home run or you have to come back in the ninth inning. 
 You get points which you purchase under 5 stars for
  power
  contact
  arm
  fielding
  base running
  
  You keep playing good and you purchase stars to make you even better.
  
 
  Than you get attitude unlockables where you get to get sun glasses, a nickname which they always 
 call you by, a speacial bat, and tons more o yea eand your music when you come up.
  
  
  
  
  I LOVE THIS GAME! except ( the fielders catch to many home runs ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milleraaron1234
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  The first hour or so the game will seem dull. Then you learn some of the little things that really 
 make this game great. The graphics are good, the gameplay is fun, the soundtrack is amazing, and 
 the achievements are easy whats not to like. The only aspect that i don't like is that every team 
 and player all play the same. Even though there are stats there isn't much of a distinction. I 
 have an easy time hitting a home run with Andruw or Smoltz. Pinball is great at least for a three 
 hours or so, and the Create-a-Player season thing doesn't have tons of games but the mini-games 
 and increasing your stats makes for a pretty deep experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is just....................... wow sooooo much fun the pitching is as fun as hiting wayyyyy 
 better than the real mlb and stuff those get boring after a while man this is soo fast paced always 
 keeps u wanting more and more!! the only thing that sucks is the fieldning it soo hard to field 
 but other than that this game is sooo fun its a must buy does not matter if u dont like baseball 
 cause i hate it its sooo boring but when i heard this game wasnt like any of the other boring mlb 
 games i got one quick and i was glad i did just get da game its worth it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magna_Man109
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Well this will be my first ever review so I hope that you guys will like it. So The Bigs , some 
 people might see it as Slugfest V.3 but nope this is a completely different game. The game has 
 many strong points which help it to be an easy buy for many people.
  
  First of all, the game is easy to play for anyone, even if you aren't a baseball fan . There are 
 a few times when your jaw will just drop while playing the game. The only issue I have with this 
 is the turbo meter. When you pull the Right Trigger, the turbo stays on which drains it a lot.
 
  
  The modes in the game are simple, Play Now, Exhibition, HR Derby, HR Pinball, and Rookie Challenge. 
 The most interesting ones in here are the Pinball game because it puts you right in the middle 
 of Times Square and lets you just rip balls everywhere. This was strangely addicting and fun.
 
  
  The Rookie Challenge mode lets you create your player and play with him from a rookie all the way 
 to the World Series. This is a good 17-20 hour mode which can help pass the time. This includes 
 some interesting mini games such as an obstacle course. What the game really did well was the commentators 
 focus on your player as well and gives him the attention.
  
  Along with the great modes, there are the great graphics. Each player is almost identical to their 
 real life counter part but a little more bulkier. The loading screens are filled with facts as 
 well and include a great picture of the main player of the team.
  
  This is a wonderful game and I recommend it to almost anyone who wants to just pass time with a 
 wonderful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsdhagljkgh
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  The Bigs is a great arcade game, in the field of outrageous sports games. The rookie buildup mode 
 is fast, and enjoyable, and also the exhibition brings the epic home runs that some people may 
 crave for. What NFL Blitz and NBA Street Homecourt was for their respective sports, The Bigs does 
 just about the same. Although the fielding aspect of the game does get frustrating and even annoying, 
 its still enjoyable to hit and even pitch. Another part that is enjoyable is the announcer commentary, 
 especially after a satisfying home run, or the strike out while the batter is looking. This game 
 isnt an essential buy, but if you are looking for fix in solo jack maddness, then this may be for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair150
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Getting tired of those complex, hard to pitch/hit baseball games? Really, you are! Then maybe you 
 should buy, pick up, and play THE BIGS! Amazingly, when i first bought this, I thought (and what 
 a stupid thought) did I make a bad choice by buying this? Hell no! This game is very easy to pick 
 up and play. This would or should almost immediately remind of you of the old Slugfest games. You 
 do because it has the same look and feel of Slugfest (except you can't punch or kick the other 
 team's players this time around) . If that fact made you mad, then F YOU! This game is fun, just 
 plain ROCKS! The players in this game look like their real-life counterparts, but it looks like 
 they all got hyped up on Super-Steroids. Which isn't a bad thing either, it fits the game perfectly. 
 Now this game doesn't have many modes. It has EXHIBITION, HOME RUN DERBY. Where it really shines 
 though is in the mode called, Rookie Challenge. You get to create your own player, looks, attributes, 
 attitude, and accessories. Then you play through challenges, facing teams, training, and doing 
 specific plays, to increase your player's skill and eventually make him look BADASS! This is probably 
 the mode you'll play the most and have the most fun with. Expect to play this enjoyably for a while. 
 Final Verdict: 9/10
  Rent or Buy: BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoman19
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Listen up the BIGS is an amazing game. Now if you like the sim MLB games, and want it as realistic 
 as possible, well stay away from this game. If your getting bored of MLB and want a twist on baseball 
 PICK UP this game!! I mean who doesnt want to see amazing double plays, or outta the park home 
 runs. Or my favorite wall climbs that actaully climb the wall. It's truly an amazing fun game. 
 Don't compare graphics, because this game has a littel cartoon like graphics. I think it's a great 
 game, and i highly recommned it!
  
  easy achviments for the peopl that like thoos =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwtaylor21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  For those of you looking for a detailed baseball sim, this may not be the game for you. However, 
 for a baseball game that is fast paced and provides more of an achievement based feel, I think 
 it's great!
  
  The turbo and power boost features can be used at just the right times to lift your team to victory. 
 And the pitches can be downright nasty. I love powering up and blowing a fastball past my friends 
 at 114 mph!
  
  Plus, you can swing for the fences and take your chances on getting robbed of a homerun and powering 
 up your opponenets boost meter, or play small ball to fill your meter and then launch one into 
 the scoreboard!
  
  The only downside is that the fielding can be difficult at times, and the baserunning functionality 
 can take some time to get used to. Plus, you'll notice that the amount of different animations 
 is a bit limited.
  
  I've played a lot of baseball games on many different platforms... from MLB the Show on PS2 to 
 NCAA College Baseball '07 on the original XBOX. Like most people I have good intentions of playing 
 a full season and completely managing every aspect of my team. But the reality is that I don't 
 have nearly that much time on my hands. So, this game is great because you don't spend as much 
 time in the menus and a lot more actually playing the games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thinkfootball
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  This game is not shallow at all like the reviewer stated -- in fact, the gameplay is amazingly strategic, 
 especially online! Every move has a counter (you use your turbo/power-up, I'll use mine to counter, 
 you use your big play power, I'll use mine to counter) . Or, do I wait to use mine at a more opportune 
 time...
  
  Every play is exciting (I hate baseball games usually) and very little lag online (some stutters 
 now and then, but overall VERY, VERY smooth -- at times zero noticible difference between online 
 and singleplayer) .
  
  I've immensely enjoyed this game online thus far, just simply a great, strategic, arcade blast! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzikdotcom
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  this game is amazing!! i cant put it down. today, 6/26/07 i picked up the darkness and the bigs. 
 ive not touched the darkness yet! this game has its UPS!! and unfortionally a few minor downs. 
 the UPS! the arcade style of play. i love this. i dont like baseball sims. i like unrealistic baseball 
 games. they are so much fun. if i want to make baseball seem like its real ill either watch it 
 or play it in real life. this game captured the fun element in baseball. its a fast pased game 
 with HUGE homeruns, full contact, and a very nice pitching system. i LOVE just being able to just 
 hit A on the controller and watch my person swing. i have having to do like 2 different things, 
 hold this... push forward on this.... ect ect...., i hate doing that. i LOVE the basic controlls 
 of this game. this game takes it back to what made sports games fun to me. they concentrated on 
 making the game fun, rather than realistic. the DOWNS
  slow reacting times, alot of the homeruns are robed, and no franchise mode/career. BUT!!! there 
 is something called rookie mode which is really fun, its bacially the same thing as a career, so 
 its not that big of a deal. and the last thing is that ken griffey jr. doesnt have his classic 
 swing and batting stance. they didnt spend alot of time on player detail. their faces look similar, 
 but not their stances. over all this is the best baseball game ive ever played. i love arcade style 
 baseball games, and this one passes all other arcade baseball and IMO all other sims also. its 
 everything you could want in a baseball game, and more!! oh yea.... how could i forget!!
  
  the thing that has me most addicted is HOME RUN PINBALL!! your hitting balls in the middle of time 
 square trying to knock out lights and signs. its highly addicting. i played that alone for 2 hours 
 today. if you dont wanna drop 60 on a game, at least take sometime and rent it. its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badazzr6
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  alot of fun, fast paced. pitching and hitting are much improved over mlb 2k7. i find this game 
 to be more challenging and more realistic albeit an arcade style baseball game. mlb 2k7 was horrible. 
 there would be at least 10 homeruns per game with both teams combined. it was ridiculous. the graphics 
 in this game are also really nice, and homeruns look spectacular. no long replays but enough to 
 keep the game fast paced and not so boring. only thing i thought was missing was a franchise mode. 
 but rookie mode is pretty good. and playing against another person is definitely more interesting 
 than the average baseball game. worth the purchase in my opinion. best part was i got to trade 
 mlb 2k7 for this game. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scottyyeahbaby
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Grab a buddy and join THE BIGS . Fun game to play with friends. Short baseball game that keeps 
 a boring sport like baseball exciting!
  
  I wish there was a short season mode, but the rookie challenge is pretty fun and does the same 
 thing, but in a different way.
  
  If your a baseball fan, it's a must.... other fans would probably enjoy it for a week. If you like 
 to challenge your friends in sports games you'll have a blast.
  
  2K has come back with a great arcade style game. I didn't care much for the homerun challenge, 
 but lets just say... my rookie is getting better and I can't wait to dope him out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naterbean33
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  The Bigs is a fantastic arcade baseball game. The graphics are brilliant and the gameplay is really 
 easy to pick up on. It essentially splits itself in half, one half MLB Slugfest and the other 2K 
 baseball. The multiplayer is even better than the core game itself. Its awesome to see that look 
 on your friends face after u hit a walk-off power blast homer. It is a little cheap but that joy 
 u get is still the same. I also love the play at the plate game and even if u lose your guy gets 
 mauled over and is just as fun to watch as scoring a run. The Rookie challenge mode is fun too. 
 The minigames add a bit of a twist to the normal formula. The game doesnt lack intense, nailbiting 
 moments either. I was caugt in the bottom of the 9th with my rookie at the plate and a 1-1 ballgame 
 with two outs. I had the power blast and my oppenents had three turbo pitches. I swung and missed 
 on the first two and the game was hanging on one pitch. The pitches were so fast u had almost no 
 time to react. The last pitch came in and I swung and the next thing I knew my whole team was waiting 
 for me at home plate. Thats what I call Epic Arcade Baseball. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
