-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/thechroniclesofnarniaprincecaspian/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Workmanlike action adventure.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Simplistic gameplay.
 Confusing story and cinematics.
 Gloomy visuals obscure important details and enemy attacks.
 Camera insists on moving into unhelpful positions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.2, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 4.9, 113 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Adventure
Date: May 15, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Prince Caspian combines simplistic gameplay with a confusing narrative for an action adventure that 
 unfortunately isn't as good as the movie on which it's based. 

  Disney has done it again. For the second time now, the kid-friendly conglomerate has defied the 
 odds and released a movie-licensed Chronicles of Narnia game that almost lives up to the source 
 material, thanks largely to the talents of developer Traveller's Tales (best known for its Lego 
 Star Wars and Indiana Jones games) . This summer's Prince Caspian follows in the paw prints of 2006's 
 The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, giving C. S. Lewis aficionados a lunch-pail action adventure 
 better than the kiddie dreck you were probably expecting. However, in both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3 versions of the game, a number of issues still limit the game's appeal to fans of talking animals. 
 These include the game's lack of imagination, as well as a confusing narrative and some oddly murky 
 visuals.  

           Prince Caspian sure is dreamy.      

  Although the plot is a straightforward recounting of how the Pevensie kids return to Narnia to 
 help Prince Caspian seize his rightful throne from the corrupt King Miraz, not much effort has 
 been put into making sure this tale makes sense. Animated cutscenes and film clips book-end missions 
 in such a haphazard way that it's often hard to figure out what exactly is going on in the game. 
 You'll be lost if you haven't seen the movie or read the book. This is especially true in the beginning 
 where you're dropped straight into some kind of flashback battle and then introduced to the prince 
 just as he hightails it out of Dodge fearful of an assassination attempt. All you can really make 
 heads or tails of here is that Caspian is obviously the good guy because he looks like he just 
 stepped off the cover of Medieval Teen Beat.  

  Prince Caspian's gameplay is simplistic. Levels focus entirely upon mindless combat and finicky 
 busywork where you pull levers, push buttons, or slap machinery together. You also switch back 
 and forth between characters with special abilities, such as throwing a grappling hook or firing 
 a bow. A second player can also join the action at any time and play through the campaign in co-op 
 mode simply by picking up a controller (there is no support for multiplayer over the net) . So you're 
 either hacking and slashing through hordes of eternally respawning enemy knights, or you're looking 
 around for the puzzles that need to be solved to open up the next area or reveal a quest item. 

  Nothing here is all that tough, though, because the game is geared toward the younger set. Combat 
 is all about mashing buttons and you can wade through foes slaughtering at will, especially with 
 tough characters like Peter and the minotaur or speedy ones like the centaur. Solving puzzles is 
 equally undemanding. You step on a couple of platforms to cause a staircase to rise up out of the 
 ground, pull switches to open up portcullises, smash through a wall by pushing over a statue, or 
 fire an arrow at a far-off target to release a bridge. Essentially, you spend a lot of time performing 
 the same sorts of tasks that you would expect from a traditional action adventure or a 3D platformer. 

  Prince Caspian doesn't reinvent the wheel, and the six or seven hours of action flow along so swiftly 
 that you never get bogged down, even with a lot of repetitive tasks. Gameplay seems well suited 
 to younger players. The action is not so dumbed down that it would insult their intelligence nor 
 is it so challenging that they might just give up. Some of the platform-style puzzles are even 
 a bit innovative, such as the windy caves where you have to keep torches lit to fend off bats and 
 insects. There are some annoyances here, most notably the way you have to mash buttons to pry open 
 chests and pull levers. But there isn't anything unduly offensive, save perhaps the automated camera 
 that forever turns to face your character head-on. If not for the great 2D minimap in the bottom-right 
 corner of the screen, you'd barely be able to find your way out of some corners.  

           Whenever things get tough, the tough get going. Or they just jump on the shoulders of 
 the nearest giant. Whatever works.      

  Unfortunately, what you can see in the next-gen console versions of Prince Caspian doesn't look 
 all that great. Both the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions of the game are extremely dark, and there is 
 no way to adjust this in the game because the usual gamma tweaking option is MIA. Cutscenes are 
 shadowy, and during gameplay, enemies are often so thoroughly obscured by the gloom that they're 
 invisible until they attack. So if you're looking for visual clarity, stick with the PC edition, 
 which is crystal clear. It's a shame that the game is so murky because the levels take you to all 
 of the key locales in the movie, such as the ruins of Caer Paravel, Miraz's castle, and the battlefield 
 of Beruna. All of the medieval architecture, grassy fields, and ancient ruins are also realized 
 with outstanding attention to detail. Audio effects and music are much more vibrant, at least, 
 with battle sounds and tunes that are vivid and cinematic. Large-scale skirmishes can knock you 
 right off the couch if you've got a good surround-sound system. One surprising drawback is the 
 lack of movie lines during gameplay.  

  Mediocre is the best word to describe The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian. It doesn't do anything 
 remarkable, but it's still a reasonably enjoyable way to take C. S. Lewis home.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hoodedrouge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 8:59 am PT
Review:  It may not be the best game ever made but this is a fun game with great co-op.
  
  And who of us doesnt want to be a minotaur and smash people
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  The graphics 
 are very good and realistic looking in this game and the minotaurs look real only bad thing is 
 giants look animated.
  
  Sound 7/10
  
  Just average game sounds here, grunt when you swing weapon and such.
  
  Gameplay 8/10 
  
 
  Fun gameplay with easy controls not hard to get used to at all, only bad controls are grappling, 
 but thats not too bad.
  
  Challenge 5/10
  
  Although the game being fun, it lacks real challenge, This doesnt take anything from the game, 
 But a few different modes would be nice (i. e Hard easy normal) .
  
  Overall 8/10 
  
  If your thinking about another game I dont reccomend this over it, but its is a fun choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolas95
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Now, I got this game cause' I was bored and the movie was good. Wow, BIG mistake. This, may be 
 the worst game for 360 that I know of.
  
  This game offer's nothing to people who love the movie and bring's nothing but annoyance to the 
 regular gamer, this game stinks. It almost takes Prince Caspian (movie) the Lord of the Rings Return 
 of the King (game) and Lego Star Wars and put's it all together. Into one bad combination.
  
  It's more repetitive (there's like 1 or 2 combos and all they really do is swing their sword 
 in an unskilled looking fashion) than Lego Star Wars and the graphics look like last gen, and the 
 voice acting is surprisingly bad. The battle sound isn't much better. It's almost as bad as the 
 voices.
  
  As Lego star wars, every character has his (or her) "special ability" such as Peter or a Dwarf will 
 grapple, or Caspian (?!) or Susan has a bow. Yah, you can play as a useless centaur or Minotaur (in 
 only a few levels) , but really since playing as all the characters is repetitive, its no big deal. 
 All the enemy put up no fight, heck, I think the publishers put in a "block" button just to take 
 up space on the controller.
  
  The game very short with 6 levels and something like 5 small stages to them. The boss fights are 
 just as repetitive as the fighting itself. you pretty-much dodge and wait for the boss to get "stunned" 
 and get a hit in. Or another boss was dodge until you get a rock to throw, and you do all that 
 over and over until the boss is dead
  
  So overall don't buy it, and really, stop thinking of buying it. If you HAVE to, rent it. So the 
 conclusion is don't get it's VERY mediocer and it's nothing but a waste of time and money.
  Gameplay: 4.2
  Graphics: 3.9
  Sound: 3.9
  Overall: 4.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Prince Caspian is a fun game but a shallow game. The story roughfly follows the film and each level 
 ends with a clip there from. As i like hunting for treasure in games i was happy to hear of the 
 chest, now not so much. Each chest, the 100 or so there are. Require 2 or more "Special Keys" to 
 unlock them. Sounds good. The the Secret Keys are in Plain site and the Chests open up bonus content 
 that gives to real boost to the games value although there are several Bonus Missions. The Graphics 
 are the strongpoint of the game. With Lush enviroments and Great Characters from the world of narnia. 
 Its alwasy fun to watch a friendly Minotaur Smash some Tamerines with a Mace. So for the sake of 
 its great CS Lewis Universe and its Mostly entertaining story and events i gave it a higher score.
 
  Now the Flasw. I Found that if you play the game for several hours it begins to show glitches. 
 Enemies wont Die, Camera Gets in the Way and Controls are non Responsive. Biut if you stop playing 
 and give it a few minutes, they seem to "Cool Down"? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Another dissapointing movie game. The fighting is the same through out the entire game. The framerate 
 gets pretty bad at times. Sometimes it's hard to see. The only thing that is somewhat good is the 
 different methods to solve the puzzles. I started to wonder if my control would break with all 
 the button mashing going on. The puzzles are the only thing that changes except they are extremely 
 easy to solve. Don't even think about this game unless your a Narnia fan. Some of the locations 
 are kind of fun. Characters are fun. The camera sucks. Like I said another movie game that should 
 just dissapear and stop crowding the game shelves. And now I just right random stuff so that I 
 can fill up the character minimum -.-. Don't buy this game. Don't rent it. Don't even look at it 
 when your in Best Buy or Gamestop or whever you go. I think that might be enough characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youthebestboy
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  Well i rented the game, because, I'm embarrassed to say this but the case looked good and the movie 
 was good. I was looking at the images and I thought this game looked like The lord of the rings 
 games. you could say the battle is somewhat the same button mash and kill all, but the story was 
 so weak and what little point of playing this game was achievement points, which was weak and pretty 
 hard to get. I found the graphics alright but with the technology today they must be able to make 
 a better looking game. Look at oblivion, from a few years ago, and it has better graphics. I feel 
 this game had potential but the annoying camera and sore thumbs forced me to return the game to 
 blockbuster just a few days after I rented it. Another game i would recommend that has the same 
 game play to it is Dynasty Warriors. That game got a 6/10 but it lasted me days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 6
Date: May 19, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  In no way am I dissing the movie (which I have not seen nor plan to see) , but this game is pretty 
 disastrous. I'll go over a couple things here: story, gameplay, sound/graphics, and replayability/value.
 
  
  Story: I assume the story stays true to the movie counterpart. I say this because I was never really 
 interested in the books, the movies, and this is the first Chronicles game I played. That being 
 said, I know it follows the movie plot for the most part because while there are cinematics, there 
 is also movie clips to go along with the current scene. So if you like the movie, you can expect 
 the same here.
  
  Gameplay: You play as one of a couple characters who all have the same basic premise. You can attack 
 your enemies straight-up, but the system isn't really deep with very few combos to speak of. You 
 also have character abilities, i. e. dwarves can go through smaller areas while the male humans 
 can pick up rocks or use grappling hooks, and a couple people can even use their bow. That being 
 said, the whole game is mashing in enemies' face (of which they yield no blood) until you reach 
 a quick and mindless puzzle. You will travel through 6 levels, each level having a couple missions. 
 That's really it, you'll occasionally get a boss but they are pretty easy to figure out and defeat.
 
  
  Sound/Graphics: The sound is very bland. You'll hear the same sounds over and over, the music is 
 okay but it tries too hard to sound "epic" and less fitting for the level. All the voice acting 
 is meh, so it wasn't very inspiring at all. The graphics would look decent for an Xbox 360 game 
 from 2 years back, they aren't all that great. The world from a distance was probably the best 
 this game looked. One of my biggest problems was the fantasy aspect, the dwarves just looked ridiculous, 
 and the giants were messed up. Maybe LotR set my expectations from the fantasy genre up a bit high, 
 but it's not hard to make a race look remotely creative.
  
  Replayability/Value: No reason to play the game twice, you have a level selection at any point 
 you want it. This game is definitely only worth a rental, especially since all of the achievements 
 can be gained in one day if you rush it; definitely in a rental. All the levels are pretty much 
 the same in concept, sure one level is a beach and one is a castle, but you're still pushing rocks 
 and beating up enemies. If you have kids, I guess you could wait until it hits the bargain bins, 
 since you can play with 2 people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 19, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  I couldn't find a single review on this game so I ddin't know what to expect but from the previews 
 I saw and the pictures i saw of it I thought it was worth taking a chance and buying it. I'm glad 
 I did. There's some really cool concepts in the game. At any time you can switch between a few 
 characters. You can climb on the back of a giant and then control the big giant to do some things 
 normally you couldn't do. So you will need to swtich between characters at certain times to complete 
 certain parts of the mission. The characters are very cool and look great. You will take part in 
 huge battles with an enormous amount of activity on screen at once. Here's some of the characters 
 you can switch between: Minotaur, giant, dwarf, archer, and there's others too. You will need to 
 hop on the back of a giant Gryphon at certain times and fly. The game has missions for you to complete 
 with checkpoints, so if you die you don't have to start all the way over, but just go back to the 
 checkpoint which is a big plus. 
  
  The game also has co-op so a friend can jump in at any time and play even in the middle of a mission. 
 I haven't seen this movie yet but from the looks of the game it should be really good. I'm pleased 
 and can't wait to play some more. And it's ten bucks cheaper than the normal game probably becaus 
 there is no online play. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
