-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Club
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/theclub/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The urge to go back to beat scores becomes overwhelming.
 The balance between style and survival is just right.
 Characters and zones are well designed artistically.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The weapons feel underpowered in multiplayer.
 Gunfire sounds lacklustre.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.7, 57 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 720 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Bizarre Creations
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Feb 19, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Club provides some old-school single-player thrills, but it fails to live up to its initial 
 promise. 

  The Club is an old-school shooter. It emphasises single-player action over multiplayer competition 
 and encourages near-endless replaying to beat that elusive high score, but while it's good enough 
 to keep you coming back, it is far from perfect. The game's premise is a simple one. The eponymous 
 Club is a powerful collection of super-rich, morally bankrupt individuals who have decided to run 
 their own personal worldwide blood sport  la  Running Man . Eight contestants are (mostly) forced 
 to compete against one another in various locations. You play as any one of them and must try to 
 win the most events in each locale. There are six characters available at the start, plus a seventh 
 unlocked after four tournaments and another after you beat them all. While these characters have 
 distinct looks, they play only slightly differently; some can take more punishment and others move 
 slightly faster  

           Your score for each kill is determined using a number of different criteria.      

 
  The way to win each event is simple: He who finishes with the most points wins. Points are awarded 
 for kills, with distribution based on the accuracy of your shooting, the toughness of the enemy 
 in question, and the weapons being used by both you and your mark. To spice things up a bit, every 
 kill causes your score multiplier to tick up by one, but if you wait too long between kills, this 
 multiplier starts to fade away. You also get bonus points for style: shooting someone as you roll 
 to dodge fire or as you burst through doors, or shooting from long range. You can also boost your 
 multiplier -- and refresh the timer -- by shooting wall-mounted skulls, which are placed in various 
 locations around the level. The higher your multiplier the faster it ticks down, so even with a 
 constant stream of willing casualties it's hard to get the multiplier much over 30.  

  This scoring system leads to tactical nuances that add an interesting layer of challenge to the 
 game. For example, when you're confronted by a group of enemies, you can take out insignificant 
 minions with pistols first, leaving those who can actually do damage for last. This means you rack 
 up the multipliers on lower-scoring enemies, and so get more points in total by multiplying the 
 bigger scores more. This can make life trickier in the long run but is one of several counterintuitive 
 things you can do to rack up more points.  

  There are five event types, and each location features up to seven different events. Three event 
 types involve more-traditional running, while two are static. The simplest of these is sprint, 
 in which you need to get from one end of a set course to another while scoring as many points as 
 possible. Run the gauntlet is essentially the same, but with a time limit -- generally around the 
 two-minute mark -- while time attack has you running two or three laps of a course, killing enemies 
 and collecting items to add time to your clock. The static modes -- survivor and siege -- force you 
 to stay in a set area as enemies pour in from all angles, and the goal is simply to survive until 
 the timer runs out. The only difference between survivor and siege is that in siege you find yourself 
 in an exposed position where enemies try to pick you off from range, while in survivor you will 
 end up fighting in much closer quarters.  

  The levels, with names such as Gondola in 60 Seconds, Diagnosis Girder, and The Crate Escape, are 
 varied, despite the fact that courses in each zone often share elements. The survivor and siege 
 levels, for example, almost always take place in areas you simply ran through before, but they 
 have additional barricades and helpful items. The three other event types also often share elements, 
 which gives you the sense that the levels are part of a tournament in a larger space, instead of 
 being unrelated individual courses. The tournament locations are fairly varied visually and include 
 such environments as a ruined steel mill, a decaying cruise liner, and an abandoned English manor 
 that doubles as a home for the criminally insane. Despite the significant superficial differences, 
 the environments are just combinations of rooms and corridors with few open spaces, and they demand 
 no real variations in play style.  

           While some of the locations look good, they don't make many tactical demands.      

 
  Some of the locations are impressive, however. One is set on a rusting cruise liner docked off 
 the African coast and provides several noteworthy moments. The Venice siege level features the 
 most impressive piece of destructible environment in the game -- assuming you have the accuracy to 
 shoot a rocket out of the air -- and the Manor House survivor level is likely to give even the most 
 hardened shooter fan something of an adrenaline kick  

  The weapons suffer from similar issues as the levels; while there are a few standout weapons, a 
 lack of nonsuperficial variation hurts the game. There are 15 weapons available, including two 
 pistols (one of which is the aptly named Magnum-like Callahan) , shotguns, machine guns, a sniper 
 rifle, a rocket launcher, and a minigun. Regardless of what is to hand, you are likely to find 
 yourself using the machine guns wherever you can and feeling frustrated when none are available; 
 their power and rate of fire make them unbeatable when it comes to racking up headshots.  

  Combat in The Club feels a little dated, despite the score-based innovations. The lack of a cover 
 mechanic stands out, given the game's fast run-and-gun style, especially in the siege and survivor 
 events, where cover is temptingly provided but impossible to properly use.  

  Melee combat is an option if you're backed into a tight corner, but it simply involves lashing 
 out at random with the butt of your weapon. This is particularly odd considering the game's emphasis 
 on killing with style and the fact that a number of the characters have useful melee weapons slung 
 about their person -- one has an ice axe, another a machete, and a third a truncheon.  

           The lack of a good cover mechanic is painful at times.      

  The game offers four 
 different single-player difficulty levels that ramp up nicely, forcing you to rethink your strategy 
 with each successive level. While this will keep you coming back to The Club, the multiplayer won't. 
 The levels feel too large, the weapons feel unbalanced, and the frustration of being able to shoot 
 someone repeatedly in the face and see that person walk away as you collapse is unspeakable. The 
 return of four-player split-screen offline play is welcome, but again, the game itself means even 
 this touch fails to fulfill its potential.  

  Technically the game's graphics hold up well; the frame rate is consistent throughout, and the 
 game looks good -- it's nothing spectacular, but it sits well enough among its contemporaries. The 
 audio quality is inconsistent, however. Your enemies will shout at you and at each other, and these 
 shouts vary with locale -- the various English accents from the Manor House zone are a highlight -- but 
 the weapon fire sounds universally poor and lifeless.  

  As a whole, The Club's single-player content just about works as an old-fashioned shooter that 
 isn't shy about its old-school roots, but it suffers from a lack of variation in its level, weapon, 
 and character design. It's still good enough to keep you coming back to try to beat that last high 
 score in a manner that may not be familiar to anyone under the age of about 25, and for that the 
 game deserves praise despite its multiplayer shortcomings.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (47 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 25, 2009 9:38 am PT
Review:  This game could have been much better but instead it really just was not worth playing at all. This 
 game looked pretty good at first but then it just got real boring its really repetitve and is not 
 what i thought it was gonna be like. Its like a arcade game shooter which could have done so much 
 better. I was not impressed what-so-ever by this game the idea of it was great the game just sucked 
 it requires you to run through these areas fire at these people who are in this game and kill them 
 then find the exit its really just dumb. I mean they could have had it where you actually could 
 do counters and stuff or more people to choose from with a great story line and great arcade action 
 but instead it delivers a very boring unsatisfying game. They should have added alot more guns and 
 like special moves you could do and a whole lot of other stuff to make this game good but instead 
 this game is just plain BAD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpalberg
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I want to say that I really do enjoy this game. At a quick glance the concept of 
 this game did not sound very appealing to me. Not to mention, there is no plot whatsoever. But 
 try playing this game a few times without wanting to go back and beat your previous score, it's 
 hard. I really found this game quite addicting and fun. Playing through the levels and trying to 
 pull off that perfect run keeps you coming back for more. It's a game of execution. You can know 
 exactly where an enemy will be, but to pull off that headshot with style, while trying to beat 
 the clock and stay alive, can make it pretty difficult. It's also pretty cool that your scores 
 are updated online so you can see where you rank worldwide on a particular map and be awestruck 
 by someone's ridiculous score. I was definately disappointed with the multiplayer though. Some 
 of the game modes are fun, but there just really isn't much you can do with this game to add real 
 depth. It definately is a single player game (as much as I did enjoy multiplayer) . If you don't 
 believe me, it will become quite apparent when you see how many people are playing it online. Anyways, 
 I would definately rent this one (or download the demo) before you consider buying it. I feel like 
 this is the kind of game that has to rub you the right way, some people will hate it others will 
 enjoy it. Either way it's a unique gaming experience that I really wish came with more maps : ( 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asian-Hawk
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 1, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Honestly there is no point of this game what so ever. If your into a game that feels about 20 years 
 old (doesnt look it though) then this is for you. If your like me and demand more from games than 
 just aimlesley killing people to score points and then replaying that same level to beat your score 
 then it most definatly isnt for you.
  
  Had sega bothered to create a story for each character and give the game some depth it could of 
 been an enjoyable experiance but alas no. It feels like a mini game wrongly boxed as a stand alone 
 title and even though i only payed 12 i still feel ripped off. Surely that states just how bad 
 i think this game is! Ive not played many bad games on the 360 but this is one of them, in fact 
 its probably the worse game i have played on the 360! Only good point is it looks decent graphically.
 
  
  
  
  Ahmad Kholwadia a. k. a. The Asian-Hawk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamprey263
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  I originally played The Club demo provided by XBL and found it to be quite a fun game, but I was 
 skeptical of paying upward of $60 at its release as I found that even though the gameplay was fun, 
 it was rather limited. Finally, I waited until the price dropped to about $25 before picking it 
 up, and at this time I'm rating it at that value.
  
  If there's one thing that SEGA did right back in the mid 90s was making great arcade games. Though 
 this game was developed by Bizarre Creations, it does remind me of how the SEGA games were in the 
 mid 90s; short and sweet. Though, this was also a big drawback when SEGA tried porting all their 
 arcade games to their consoles, because while arcades usually detered you from playing games simply 
 because you'd waste money, the console ports would eventually bore you since their gameplay wasn't 
 as extensive as games designed to be played at home. The Club is just that, seemingly fun but lacks 
 any lasting replay value. Though, as a $20-some title, it's not that bad.
  
  For those that don't know, The Club is a 3rd person shooter in which the character is put in a 
 number of scenerios in which the main objective is to score whore. Killing an enemy increases your 
 point multiplier and not killing an enemy in a given time depletes the score multiplier. Each stage 
 of the tournament mode puts you in a number of environment with several stages per environment. 
 Besides the survival mode, in which your character is confined to a certain area while you try 
 to run out the clock while bad guys try to kill you, all the other modes are variants on navigating 
 a maze to a goal. Besides tournament mode, other single stage modes exist and a stage playlist 
 can also be created, which allows players to customize which weapons they want to take into each 
 stage. These modes are just minor things to extend the replay value by no substantial time. There 
 does happen to be a great deal of variety with guns, but unfortunately the gameplay is not allow 
 for the player to second guess what they're carrying at any given time to make gun swapping essential 
 at all; I myself basically used whatever gun I started out with in any stage until that ran out 
 of ammo and switched to a sidearm if that ever happend. Though, unlocked guns are useful when you 
 can customize your stage playlists, because (again) it's at that point you can chose which weapons 
 to start a stage with. 
  
  An online multiplayer is also provided and by design it wouldn't be that bad... except for the 
 fact that nobody else plays the online multiplayer. Part of the reason for this (I assume) is that 
 nobody wanted to buy this game at its original $60 price. Had this game launched at $20 then maybe 
 more people would have picked this up at release, tried the online multiplayer more, and may still 
 be playing 'til this day.
  
  X360 achievement whores may get an easy 200 or 300 points out of this, but the rest are nearly 
 impossible to get as one needs to earn them over the XBL multiplayer, and like I said before nobody 
 plays the online multiplayer. Only the biggest achievement whores would attempt to get the perfect 
 1000 points, probably by going to the game forums and getting a group to meet up while they take 
 turns doing melee deaths on each other for achievements, and working together to meet each others' 
 achievement conditions, including seemingly the hardest achievement which is earning 10,001 multiplayer 
 kills (which could take forever) . Though, don't worry about the achievements like scoring on the 
 top 5000 on the leadership boards, as not enough people have cared enough to do so and in no time 
 I accidently did so without really trying.
  
  Lastly, I must say this game has even less story than any Street Fighter video game. There's a 
 basic obvious story which I guess you could figure out on your own where a number of guys belong 
 to some big snuff, human hunting club in which they risk their own life for the thrill of killing 
 for points... and that's about it. You can pick from a group of 8 characters (2 to be unlocked) , 
 but it doesn't effect the game in the least (though each player is supposed to have a different 
 set of stats) .
  
  Basically, The Club is like an $10 XBLA that couldn't meet the 250MB threshhold for being allowed 
 on the XBLA store, so instead they put it on disc and increased the price significantly. Had this 
 been a downloadable game it would have probably had more success. I attribute the biggest fault 
 to this game on marketing, not design, and the fact that SEGA limited its potential patrons for 
 this game on the price alone really effected the multiplayer feature which could have extended 
 the life of this game a lot futher.
  
  And for the last superficial details, I must add that the game looks and plays great. There's no 
 bugs that I noticed that'd ruin anything. The graphics and level design are really good. The game's 
 framerate is consistantly fast and never dips. The action is fast paced and keeps you on your toes. 
 And it's really fun until it gets old, that's the only drawback... but soon it'll be a cheap bargain 
 bin game, and when it seems cheap enough to be a comparably priced to a rental I'd suggest just 
 getting it, because it'll at least be fun for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  If you've played the demo of this game then you've already seen everything this game has to offer. 
 What you did in the demo is exactly what you'll do in the full version over and over again - running 
 and shooting brain-dead bad guys as you race to the exit before the timer runs out.
  
  There's no reason to keep playing it after the first few levels - you don't earn money to buy upgrades, 
 your character doesn't level up, you just earn points.
  
  The graphics are good and the levels are very well laid out but the weapon sounds are awful, especially 
 the shotgun which sounds like a spud gun. And don't even bother with the music, use you're own.
 
  
  I know it's an arcade shooter but I really wasn't expecting it to be this dull. The game should 
 really be called Club 18-30 because between 18 and 30 minutes you will loose interest and never 
 play it again.
  
  Don't waste your money on it, play the demo instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  
  In The Club you are part of a club, obviously, where you have microscopic bombs implanted in your 
 skin and you must go from point A to point B. And on that journey you will see enemies you must 
 kill. It sounds simple but it gets complex. Like some challenges make you run laps instead. Or 
 you can only stay in one part of a zone and kill people from there.
  The combo meter is a basic one. Each kill nets you a bonus and the bonus gets higher each kill. 
 For example once you kill 5 people in a certain time limit you have the meter at x5. And the next 
 kill will get you the points x5. But the points differ if you get a head shot or some other special 
 kill. If you don't kill an enemy in time the bonus' tick away.
  The game play is basically fast paced shooting like my headline says. But it kind of produces the 
 'one challenge' or 'gotta get a better score' thing. Some people might think of it as pain to get 
 higher scores and replay the same level over and over again or some might think it fun and get 
 top of the leader boards for a level.
  Multiplayer is pretty simple. Team death match, racing and free for all basically. Only 8 people 
 can play in one game on live which is smaller than the usual 16 in some games. If you don't have 
 live dont worry you can do four player split screen.
  It basically matters if you like this kind of genre or playing style. Some wont and some will. 
 If your not sure, give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Thanks for checking out this review. I have completed the game and put a couple hours into the 
 multiplayer mode as well, so you can input all of the facts I provide into whether or not you should 
 buy this game. To make my "wordy" reviews easier to read, I will split them up into certain categories. 
 As such the following: Pros/Cons, Gameplay, Graphics/Sound, Value, and Achievement Junkies.
  
  ~~~~
  Pros
  ~~~~
  -Fast, frantic fun.
  -Easy to learn, driven by competitive leaderboards.
 
  -The multiplayer, while not very original, is good fun with friends.
  
  ~~~~~
  Cons
  ~~~~~
  -Story mode is over in as little as 4 to 5 hours.
  -Lack of a real narrative or story.
 
  -The package as a whole is somewhat sparce.
  
  ---------------
  Gameplay
  ---------------
  The Club has no story, so let's get that out of the way. Now, this game plays 
 like a racer and a shooter in one. You begin by choosing from a selection of 8 characters with 
 varying statistics in 3 different categories. As far as tournament goes, you'll have 8 different 
 environments where you do 6 or 7 events each tournament. Make sense? Before I get into that let 
 me detail a bit more on the concept. You run through the level based on the type of event. Either 
 way, you run through at a consistently fast pace following arrows and guides, killing enemies, 
 and trying to get your combo meter up to accumulate a larger amount of points. Keep up your speed, 
 accuracy, and combo and you can see not only where you are "racing" but how that fits into the 
 shooting aspect.
  
  Now the aforementioned events can be a couple things. There's simple ones where you just go through 
 the level trying to reach the exit, wheras others have you staying alive for 2-4 minutes. On top 
 of that, there's one where it is much moreso like a race and you have to kill enemies to get time 
 as well as hit stop watches, because if the time hits 0 you pretty much die. There are a couple 
 more, but in the end they are just different variations that have you racing to the exit.
  
  Multiplayer uses the same controls as single-player and strips away most of the racing concept. 
 You are usually trying to kill the leader of the other team while protecting yours, or taking over 
 the enemy territory, down to the basic kill matches. Now it is fun from what I played, but I had 
 to have a friend accompany me. Why? No community, this game seemed to be released as pretty underrated, 
 and while it had people playing in the beginning, all those people got bored of the mostly unoriginal 
 MP and moved on.
  
  -----------------------
  Graphics/Sound
  -----------------------
  The graphics are slick and bright. The character models are very nice, but the AI enemies are oftentimes 
 the same one as the last. The environments, of which there are 8, is not enough to keep your mind 
 pre-occupied. Let me be honest, you get tired of an environment when you have to play 6 events 
 on it, even treading through the same parts from maybe a different event. Basically, a lot of things 
 are recycled. The AI, on that topic, is equally terrible. Although I can't judge it because this 
 game does just want you to run and gun not worry about hiding enemies. The sound is your typical 
 shooter.
  
  --------
  Value
  --------
  The Club went down fairly quickly as far as pricing goes. If you had the choice of renting or buying, 
 I would say rent if you can get it in the $20 or below range. A rental will also work if you aren't 
 an extreme completionist. But for a game that has a 5 hour single-player campaign and no online 
 community, it's hard to recommend a dieing game.
  
  -----------------------------
  Achievement Junkies
  -----------------------------
  The achievements are mostly easy, a majority 
 (35 or so, out of 50) can be attained in a day if you are determined. The multiplayer ones are 
 a bit tricky since the online community has really diminished since the game came out, and it's 
 hard to find someone to even boost with. Also, there is a pretty time-consuming achievement to 
 accomplish killing 10,001 people in ranked matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  I HATE the first person shooter genre, I cannot stress that enough. I find that more often then 
 not you have a game with a very bare bones storyline in single player and a very high reliance 
 on the online multiplayer to give the gamer the most bang for the buck. 
  
  The mechanics of "The Club" are pretty well the same as most standard FPS. There is really nothing 
 revolutionary about the gameplay itself but the level design, the combo system and the various 
 modes or level types that you play through make the entire experience fresh enough that I would 
 consider this to have perhaps as much single player replay value as it does multiplayer. 
  
  The single player is pretty low on story, you basically have to win a series of tournaments 
 in a series of locations and have the option of three difficulty settings at first and a fourth 
 once you complete the game. Where the game really stands on its own is the level by level requirements. 
 The general purpose of the game is the compete the level with the highest amount of points possible, 
 this is accomplished by killing as many people in a short period of time as quickly as you can 
 to crank up your combo meter. 
  
  Seems pretty simple? The perk is that each level has different requirements. You may have a level 
 that requires you to simple make it to the exit killing as many or as few enemies as you want, 
 or you may have to make it to an exit with a timer running which tends to encourage a creative 
 balance of killing and speed, or you may simply need to run three laps of a certain level while 
 you have baddies shooting at you from every which way and every direction with a timer ticking 
 down and getting three seconds added for every enemy you kill, this again leads itself to a very 
 creative way of completing a level. Then of course you have my personal favorite "Survival". You 
 are in a chalked in area that you have to stay within while you are fired at in every direction 
 for a period of time with very little cover. 
  
  The XBL achievement system truly does lend itself to this game, because the achievements are not 
 as much hard for the sake of being hard, but require you to complete a level in a different manner, 
 for example the efficiency achievement calls for you to kill all the enemies in a level with less 
 then 50 bullets. Needless to say it made me a much more accurate shooter which really helped in 
 the multiplayer aspect. 
  
  The multiplayer is also pretty interesting as it allows you to play all the areas of the game which 
 are quite large and lend themselves to a series of different ways to plays in your standard deathmatch. 
 
  
  Most of the standard multiplayer options are there, although I find the "Hunter Hunted" mode to 
 be pretty interesting, basically one person starts as the hunter you have to kill him and whoever 
 does becomes the hunter and scores points based on how long he stays alive, very entertaining. 
 
  
  Graphically, it's nothing new. It looks and plays like your standard FPS. Some of the enemy models 
 get recycled which for some can be an issue but all and all don't bother me whatsoever. 
  
  The soundtrack is interesting, as it really does match the game. It's a gritty sort of techno beat 
 which does suit the various levels that you play within. I may be giving it more credit then it 
 deserves but perhaps that is because I have some of the tracks stuck in my mind at the time of 
 writing. To its credit I don't think I could hum the scores to most FPS's whereas I could hum three 
 of four levels of "The Clubs" score. 
  
  What makes the Club worthwhile is the replay factor, it all goes back to the simple need for "points" 
 that comes from the Pac Man era of gaming. Once you beat a tournament you can play select levels 
 at your leisure and since some shorter levels you can blow through fairly quickly it makes playing 
 them less tedious and while you play those levels you get a strong feel for the layout which again 
 is handy later for the multiplayer aspect. 
  
  It's been a while where I could honestly say that I was able to get replay value from a single 
 player aspect of a game, I think the whole online aspect has really killed that portion of gaming. 
 
  
  I don't replay games that I have completed, and I rarely take advantage of side quests in games 
 unless they net me something super beneficial, so the fact that I am replaying levels in "The Club" 
 is somewhat of a rarity. Take that for what its worth. 
  
  Give it a rent before you commit, but with the twenty dollar price point its at now I don't think 
 you will regret buying it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadicta
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay definatily does what it sets out to do to give you a perfect blend of racing and shooting 
 (the system works fairly well, except for the part where rolling takes longer to pull off than 
 watching the Godfather trilogy) . The idea is to kill people to build up your multiplier, and the 
 more kills you get the higher your score. It gives you an asortment of different events, guns, 
 and maps to play in. After a few tornaments you'll find your excitment wanning. 
  
  The problem is that there just isn't any reason to continue playing. Sure there are scoreboards, 
 but that's for the ten or twenty people that are bad ass enough to acctually make top scores. The 
 rest of us need more, and this is one of their major letdowns. In racing games you can unlock new 
 cars, events, and locations, and that is true to a very shalow extent in The Club. you unlock about 
 seven areas, and two characters, which you can acomplish in about six hours, after that take your 
 riddelin, and hope that it kicks in fast, because you're gonna get bord. 
  
  As far as graphics and presentation go the game falls even harder. The graphics are standard, nothing 
 to say much about there. presentation is a complete letdown, though. They give you characters that 
 seem interesting and deverse, but all you get for them is a two paragraph summary at character 
 selection, and a thirty second ending cutscene. I would have loved to have seen the characters 
 going against eachother trash taliking and interacting between tournaments giving us a deep and 
 interesting character driven story, but alas this is not the case. 
  
  This game tried to give us a blend of shooting and racing, which they half delivered, and a character 
 system much like a fighting game, which they failed on in every respect... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowdancer96
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I always tend to be a little lenient when a publisher takes a chance on a new IP. The Club has 
 a lot of promise, and could really blossom to become a strong franchise. I like what's there, but 
 I have a number of ideas on how "The Club 2" could improve on the foundation laid here.
  
  For a "story" about a corrupt group of businessmen running an evil competition for their own amusement, 
 the level of violence is played down. Enemies go down with a small spray of blood, but nothing 
 excessive. I don't usually approve of over-the-top gore, but this would be one setting where it 
 would be entirely appropriate. An amped-up level of carnage would better submerge the player in 
 what is supposed to be a vicious fantasy. Let's have some more flying blood, severed limbs, or 
 location based damage! 
  
  I'd also like to see more interactive enviornments. While your character can smash through a few 
 doors, or bounce bullets off certain surfaces, the rest of the lavishly detailed world remains 
 untouched by the destruction raining around it. Having a hostile enviornment, such as enemies going 
 over the many elevated walkways, molten steel dripping in the wharehouse, or buildings collapsing 
 in the warzone would have made the whole affair feel more dangerous.
  
  The melee combat, as mentioned in other places, badly needed to be re-thought. At best it's clunky, 
 at worst it's useless. There are several characters listed with "high strength", which is nearly 
 useless in a game where there's only a single clunky melee attack. How about a close-combat system, 
 CQC weapons, or hold manuevers. How exciting would it have been to be able to use a thug as a human 
 shield in the siege levels?
  
  Additionally, for a game all about stylish shooting, there aren't all that many stylish moves you 
 can do. Other than shooting people in the head, rolling around clunkily, or shooting people from 
 far away, there's no real variety in how your character moves through the world. If the combo mechanics 
 of The Club were mixed with a more stylish third-person shooter (such as Max Payne or Stranglehold) 
 the mix would feel fresh and considerably more re-playable.
  
  That said, the game remains strangely addicitive and enjoyable for about a solid weekend. The Club 
 seems to be almost tailor-made for a weekend rental. Fans of fast-paced shooters will certainly 
 enjoy themselves while the fun lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 1, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Developer Bizarre Creations is known for creating and refining the racing genre with their Project 
 Gotham Racing series. After spending a good deal of time on their patented racing series, the team 
 decided it was time for a more "bizarre" change, giving us the bloodthirsty stylish action of The 
 Club. While The Club offers nonstop action and tons of replay value, a few minor occurrences dull 
 the fun a bit, but not enough for you not to give it a try.
  
  The story for The Club is undeniably ruthless and quite provocative. An underground organization 
 known simply as "the Club" features a violent sport in which contestants kill each other to the 
 behest of blood-hungry millionaires. The premise is quite simple: you control one of those lucky 
 contestants who must shoot his way to survive. As you run and blast your way to the finish, a score 
 will plaster across the screen to show you how well you perform. The score is based on three specific 
 factors: how accurate your shooting is, how tough the enemy is, and the weapons being used. Constant 
 kills rack up a combo meter which shows how well you are performing. The combo count will continually 
 go down if you take too long between kills or get hit, but there are also hidden skulls scattered 
 around each level that will increase your combo when hit.
  
  There are plenty of forms for killing your enemies and a wide assortment of weapons at your disposal. 
 You have your usual pistols, shotguns, machine guns, and sniper rifles, as well as plenty of heavy 
 melee weapons to use as well. However, despite the array of weapons, many of them will feel useless 
 when running for your life. The sniper rifle in particular, feels out of place in many of the levels, 
 simply for the fact that it takes a while to aim and shoot, something that is not required for 
 satisfactory completion. You can also use melee attacks if you are in a tight jam and need to escape 
 quickly, but it more or less boils down to randomly hitting buttons until your character pulls 
 out a very heavy object to smash with.
  
  The lack of weapon differentials and structure is made up for by the outstanding level designs. 
 Every level in The Club is original and different from the next, offering hours of fun and innovative 
 play. Some of the more intriguing levels, Stahlwerk (a gloomy steel mill) and Manor House (a former 
 insane asylum) really show off the intrigue and psycho tenacity of the game. Many of the other 
 levels are just as good, with levels taking place on empty cruise ships along the coast of Africa, 
 and abandoned warehouses in broken down cities. The environment surrounding the levels is anything 
 but bright, but you will appreciate the dark manner each one depicts.
  
  The Club offers more than just simple run-and-gun gameplay. A variety of modes allows you to play 
 the game as you see fit, and the array of options available gives players a never-ending supply 
 of fun killing action. There is the basic sprint mode, which amounts to getting to the finish as 
 fast as possible while racking up points (the overall count is determined by your speed and how 
 many kill points you rack up) ; gauntlet, which is initially the same mode as sprint but with a 
 timer; and time attack, which has you racking up more time with people you kill. If you hunger 
 for more diversity, you could always try the survivor and siege modes, which pits you against dozens 
 of enemies who rush at you from every angle of the maps, and your goal is simply to survive the 
 madness by the end of the timer.
  
  Multiplayer is also available for up to eight players, and offers the same basic modes in nearly 
 all shooters. Deathmatch and VIP are two of the most popular games played online, and both require 
 teams to rack up the most points to win (VIP has an under-dog mechanic to it, but the points remain. 
 One of the best modes, team siege, requires you to simply rush at the other team and wipe them 
 out. Offline co-op is also available for up to four players, a welcome change in today's highly 
 addictive online multiplayer age. Players can work together to rack up combo points and kill tons 
 of guys, although the levels feel a lot smaller when scrunched together on one screen.
  
  The visuals are good for what they perform, but we feel like something more could have been offered. 
 The look of the game is akin to old-school shooters and rail-shooters alike, but there is enough 
 diversity and visual grace in the locations and character models to make up for the groggy look 
 of the rest of the game. The sound suffers the same fate as the visuals, with too much old school 
 flair and not enough new stuff. Enemies all sound the same and weapons and effects such as rolling 
 and punching sound miffed at times.
  
  The Club offers a great experience for all gamers who are looking for non-stop action while giving 
 fans of old-school shooters something to talk about. The wide supply of modes and levels offers 
 many unique and diverse ways to play the game, and online multiplayer combined with four-player 
 co-op gives The Club a much needed supply of replay value. While the weapon structure lacks depth 
 and some of the sound and visuals flutter at times, The Club is a pure adrenaline rush of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaindog666
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I say the club is an amazing game because it's so fun and original you wonder how noone thought 
 about making it before.
  To me (and maybe there's something wrong with me) there's nothing more fun than just running around 
 a level filled with ememies and blowing a hole through every one of 'em.
  Honestly, this game CAN be blasted through in just a couple of hours IF you wuss out and play on 
 the easiest difficutly setting. However, if you pick the proper difficulty setting you'll be playing 
 for a Long LONG time.
  Basically, to get good at a level you have to memorize it. You have to know where all the enemies 
 are, and find out the best way to take them out making sure not much time is wasted between kills.
 
  EVEN IF you master that, you can still spend hours improving your score. A head shot is worth 
 a lot more than a regular kill and so is killing someone with the last bullet in your clip as well 
 as killing right someone right after a diving roll, and so on. Put a few of those together and 
 your kill is worth HUGE POINTS.
  
  SHOULD YOU BUY THIS GAME?
  If you're the type of person who only wants to play through a level once and move on then you WILL 
 HATE this game.
  If you're the type of person who wants to continually improve your score and test your own ability 
 you WILL LOVE this game.
  If you're the later, this game is highly addictive!
  
  That's why I say The Club is an Amazing game! And I totally recommend it!
  BUT, this game isn't 
 for everyone. You should try it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhh34c
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  Now if there is one thing that we have come to know about the fine folks at Bizarre it's that they 
 know how to make a game look fabulous. The Club is certainly no exception in this area. The levels 
 are all nicely designed and highly detailed, complete with some destructible elements. The frame 
 rate is rock solid and the main characters are very well designed and animated. The enemies on 
 the other hand feel like drones in some areas with stilted animation as well as being repeated 
 far too often. The sound is spot-on with plenty of solid gun effects and nice explosions, while 
 the music is simply fitting.
  last thing but not the least another interesting aspect about The Club is the reward system for 
 special kills. There are quite a few unique kill awards for different ways to eliminate your foe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marsbar188
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The Club. I rented this Game i wanted to see how the Game is, In my view more like a Arcade Game 
 for the Arcade play more so then for the 360 are PS3. The Game is about going through so so levels 
 then scoring your best when you get through the level to the exit. Some of the Levels are based 
 can you make it through without being killed in 5 minns wave s of foes come after you. Then you 
 have the time limit levels you only have so much time to find the exit, The Club is based on points 
 and time how fast and good are you about it. The A. I. is ok not the best they look good but not 
 Great. There is some fun with The Club Game but sure is not worth 64 bucks. Sega should of done 
 more with the Game what we have is about a 19 dollare Game be a great download Game on xboxlive. 
 My view rent frist are buy for 19 -24 bucks at tops. stay away from the 64 buck price tag . Thanks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camichan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  When I say The Club has the makings of a cult classic, I mean it. It's not great in the ways many 
 games are great. But it has something that's unique that seems to attract a certain kind of player 
 to it. Ask a diehard Club fan and you'll see what I mean. Some people just love this game, and 
 if you look at some of the speed runs on youtube. com you'll see some players boasting MAD skills. 
 It's just sickening how good some of these players are, and how much time they must have spent 
 mastering the stages they are running. 
  
  This game does not give it up easily. You could seriously spend years mastering this game and playing 
 for high scores on each stage. The team who made this game seem to have previously worked on racing 
 games. This game is faced paced, and although the graphics aren't spectacular and the sound isn't 
 great at all, the gameplay is fun. And dirty. 
  
  The most innovative aspect of the Club is its scoring system. The scoring system multiplies as 
 you kill bad guys, and gets faster paced as you rack up higher multipliers. This keeps the game 
 pace bleeding fast and isn't for the faint of heart. I'd like to see this scoring system take hold 
 in other games in the future. It's (in my opinion) the one thing about the Club that is amazing. 
 
  
  I can't say I'd recommend the Club to anyone not thinking they will be part of the rare breed that 
 "gets" this game. If you think you're one of those people, then I'd say get it, but you probably 
 don't need me to tell you that, you probably already have it. Otherwise I can't say paying a full 
 price for this game is worth it. I'd get it used if possible. For those who love 3rd person shooters 
 and arcade style single player action, this is a good game. Not great, but good and solid. 
  
  Something must be said about games that allow for the level of mastery that can be achieved 
 in this game. Shadow of the Colossus, MGS and the host of other games that you'll see players posting 
 competitive scores/times on youtube. com are special games. They not only are entertaining, but 
 they exhibit such depth that a true level of mastery can be achieved in them - that's rare. These 
 are great games to have coming out these days and this is certainly in that rare class of games. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The Club is a fast paced shooter that provides much needed variety to a sometimes old shooting 
 genre. Developed by Bizarre Creations (Project Gotham Racing) The Club is an arcade shooter with 
 elements of a racing game molded into one package. The Club itself is a secret organization that 
 buys abandoned buildings and structures to set up a gauntlet competition for its members to compete 
 in. That's it for the story; that's how deep it gets, but in this case no story is a good thing. 
 The single player structure has the player take one of eight cool characters through eight tournaments 
 with each being in a different location. For each tournament there are six to eight levels that 
 only span a few minutes each. There are a few different event variations including sprint (just 
 getting to the end of a level) , time attack (completing laps around a course) , and survival (staying 
 in a zone and holding off the enemies) . The single player can be completed in 3-4 hours, but The 
 Club encourages replayability. Some may find playing through the tournaments multiple times as 
 boring or tedious, but most players including myself have discovered a lot of depth by replaying 
 levels. There are four difficulties, and the two highest difficulties are very hard and are meant 
 for the hardcore gamer. On the other hand the easiest, casual, is really easy and doesn't offer 
 too much of a challenge but is still great for noobs. Upon first impression the single player structure 
 turned me off a little, but it turned out to be a lot of fun. The characters in The Club also provide 
 depth as they are all fun to play as and have some differences in terms of skills and stats. The 
 characters are graded in stats such as strength, stamina, and speed. The differences are not vast, 
 but they offer enough depth to play as each one. The controls are also very tight and very easy 
 to use. Fire is controlled by pressing the right trigger, the player can use precise aim by holding 
 the left trigger, and the player can spring by pressing the right bumper. These are the controls 
 that will be used most often.
  
  The shooting action in The Club is not for the faint of heart. This is the most action packed shooter 
 I have played on next-gen consoles and any action fan will greatly appreciate this game. It is 
 insanely thrilling to chain head shots together and make enemies beg for mercy. Each kill acts 
 as a combo multiplayer and the overall outcome of the level is based on how many points the player 
 scores using these combos. The guns in the game are average at best and they do not have names. 
 They are just the basic pistol, shotgun, rifle, and sub-machine guns. The guns do sound pretty 
 good, and are all fun to use when racking up kills. The online portion of the game is pretty broken 
 and only provides minimal fun. Some of the team modes such as team fox hunt and team siege are 
 cool ideas, but the overall mechanics are tough to grasp. First off, it takes many shots to take 
 down someone else online, or if you land a headshot one shot. This just doesn't make sense. If 
 you are playing someone good you can pound them with bullets and still die from one lucky headshot. 
 Other modes of play include the standard deathmatch and team deathmatch. I would not buy this game 
 for multiplayer, and the single player is easily twice as good as the multiplayer. 
  
  The graphics and sound are good, but they definitely are not the best the 360 or Ps3 can do. The 
 characters look much better than the environments. The characters are very colorful and distinct, 
 while the environments are pretty basic and bland looking. The enemies look pretty good. The character 
 models often times pop up over and over again, but the player can barely notice due to the quickness 
 of the game. As stated earlier the guns sound good, but other than that there aren't many sounds 
 in the game. What is very cool is the beginning of each level where the typical Sega arcade narrator 
 yells FIGHT! 
  Overall The Club is a pretty good game especially if you are looking for non stop action and can 
 live with the possibility the game might get a little boring. I personally haven't experienced 
 the boredom with the game but time will tell. The game can be found for about 30$ used, but I would 
 wait to purchase until the game drops in price to 20-25$, which will happen because this game is 
 flying under the radar. The game might even be a full 60$ purchase for those who love fast paced 
 shooting games. As a not for achievement hoars the game will offer a fairly easy 500-650 points, 
 but after that the rest are very difficult to achieve. A good 500 points can be obtained in 6 hours 
 or so. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smackman82
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Here's a game created by the stylish folks at Bizarre Creations, the same company that brought 
 you the series of Project Gotham Racing. Now usually, from what I see, games with weird or interesting 
 ideas come from small firms or even no-namer companies. For once, someone decided to use their 
 cranium and figured, "Hey, we make racing games, but FPS games are huge, especially on the 360, 
 let's put the two together and make a game that's not on the beaten path". And so they did.
  
  The game, I felt, borrowed quite a few pages out of the Unreal Tournament collection. But not 
 exactly in game modes or weapon usage, but more with how the game invokes the player.
  
  The Club is a fast-paced tournament shooter that keeps the player completely on their toes by using 
 timers, lots of baddies, and little health/ammo to go killing everything in sight, all while putting 
 you in bottle-neck environments to keep strategy to a minimum. This is great for avid gamers because 
 it makes your hand-eye coordination (read: aiming) that much sharper.
  
  There are multiple game types during the single player tournament; from running through a level 
 with a limited amount of time, defending a small area chalked off, killing adversaries for time 
 bonuses during a time run, or just plain old "Get as many points as possible". All of these are 
 done at 4 varying difficulties, which mostly just range in "high scores" and pick-ups. Guns are 
 very limited and really don't have that umph.
  
  On the technical side, this game has decent visuals although you won't exactly have time to sit 
 and stare at them. The gritty look does add to the atmosphere along with the rundown areas you'll 
 be seeing. The sounds are kind of standard for a shooter along with lots of techno/metal music 
 going on. I felt the guns were a bit sissified in terms of power and sound. As for voice acting... there's 
 no storyline so it's mostly nonexistant. My only peev with the game was the controls: they felt 
 a little sloppy and I think could use an overhaul.
  
  Would I recommend this? The first question I'd ask before anything is, "Are you fidgety and trigger 
 happy?" because if you are, this game is perfect. For the rest of us, it'd be better as an add-on 
 to Unreal Tournament or as a mini-game in some shooter. Not worth the whole $60, but maybe a discount 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brazenhead
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  The Club is easily the problem child of the shooter market. Some will embrace its brazen ignorance 
 of shoot 'em up conventions with open arms; others, perhaps, will likely react with dismissal, 
 or worse, hatred.
  It's understandable. The Club neglects to include the now expected prerequisites of a storyline, 
 smart enemy A. I, a glossy graphics engine and a sprawling campaign both on and offline. All it 
 essentially offers is shooting, in both buckets AND spades.
  If it all sounds too simple, it's because it is. And this is of course, where The Club's opinion 
 is divided. Those seeking depth and tactics will respond to one of The Club's bite-sized challenges 
 with both confusion and disgust, having neither been challenged nor absorbed. But this isn't The 
 Club's intention.
  The Club's intention is the revival of what is essentially age-old, arcade style gameplay, given 
 the most vanilla next-gen sheen acceptable. Graphics and sound are functional and clear at best, 
 uninspired and drab at worst, and the game's front end offers little beyond the minimal options 
 screen, high score charts, and game modes. It's bare-bones shooting and isn't afraid to admit it. 
 At the very least, it's commendable.
  The game itself is broken into levels that can mostly be beaten in less than 3 minutes, each with 
 one of 5 very clear mission objectives. You start the level having already been informed of your 
 mission, and all that remains is to shoot as much as you can in pursuit of this objective. There'll 
 be no sudden ambushes, scripted events, or any other drastic changes of pace, just a 2 minute symphony 
 of constant running and the sound of ricocheting bullets. 
  The Club concentrates on the most important element of shoot'em ups (the shooting) and cranks it 
 up to 11. The player is rewarded for head shots, long distance shots, multi kills and so forth, 
 with a combo meter multiplying this score for every enemy killed within a certain time gap. It 
 encourages a Rambo-esque approach to firefights, with your character soaking up bullets like a 
 sponge, never stopping, constantly and intently running through a hail of gunfire. You won't die 
 for carelessly running into a shotgun-wielding assailant, nor will you ever have to take cover 
 behind any walls. The challenge isn't in keeping your character alive - but how quickly you make 
 your opponents dead. The Club is a high-score game through and through, with the challenge increasing 
 along with the player's skill and determination. Levels need to be memorised, practiced and perfected, 
 and although the game sets a minimal score target depending on level and dificulty, the ultimate 
 goal depends entirely on the player's own standards. That such simplicity can yield such diverse 
 playing styles is refreshing, particularly in this era of games.
  While repeated plays are optional (and indeed mandatory for those seeking elite status) , it can 
 occasionally be for the wrong reasons. Often, players will find themselves lost in the game's poorly 
 signposted stages, frustrated as their timer and combo ticks away into nothing while they desperately 
 search for the correct entry. One could argue that this is part of the repeated playings each stage 
 demands, but with so many other stages consisting of simpler designs and clearer signposting, it 
 can only really be blamed on inconsistent design. And while each player will have their favourite 
 levels to practice their high-scores on, the similarities between some of The Club's game modes 
 teeter on the brink of ambiguity, with 2 game modes in particular made indistinguishable bar a 
 few rule changes. It's impossible to shake the feeling that a little more variety would have given 
 the game much more appeal, and still not have sacrificed it's shameless (and endearing) simplicity.
 
  There's room for improvement certainly, and although The Club is certainly a nich game these 
 improvements could have gained it a few more fans, which would have certainly helped given the 
 divided opinions between players. As it stands though, The Club deserves to be played not only 
 to subside your curiosity, but because you may find a deeply enjoyable experience behind its love-it-or-hate-it 
 formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamakarmica
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to something that can be played in quick 5-minute bursts, developer Bizarre Creations 
 definitely knows how to perfect the art. Second to only Nintendo and the Mario series, Bizarre 
 makes great games that can either be played for a few quick minutes or a few long hours and still 
 be equally as fun. Bizarre's Geometry Wars series helped define what downloadable games and retro 
 remakes have to strive to in order to gain an audience, while it's Project Gotham Racing series 
 has been doing an excellent job of giving a more arcade feel to simulation driving.
  
  So, when I heard about The Club, I felt highly reserved. A third-person action game? That seems 
 nothing like Bizarre Creations would make. I largely ignored the game until the demo came out on 
 XBOX Live Marketplace. Being the download junkie I am, I downloaded the demo and gave it a spin.
 
  
  What I thought was going to be a standard 3rd person shooter actually is a strange, violent hybrid 
 of Geometry Wars and Project Gotham Racing. The game has you play as a standard character with 
 various traits. Now, instead of going on a mission or giving you some sort of story to shoot through 
 all sorts of bad guys, the game does the complete opposite. There is no story. There really are 
 no objectives.
  
  The goal of the game is to go from the start of a level to the finish of a level shooting whomever 
 comes across you. In the basic sense of the game, that is all you need to know. You are, quite 
 literally, killing everything that moves.
  
  Then again, Project Gotham is just a racing game. It's how the racing is implimented that makes 
 the difference and The Club is no exception as well. Like PGR's Kudos system, The Club utilizes 
 a combo system that has you killing everyone as fast and accurate as possible to gain the most 
 amount of points, while building up your multiplier. Level's last anywhere between 5 - 10 minutes, 
 so you are meant to blow through everything in the level as fast as possible by finding the best 
 route to the finish.
  
  The odd shooting/racing hybrid was a bit daunting at first. First off, the lack of hand-holding 
 and structure in a level is hard to grasp at first. After having so many of these types of games 
 give us a story and cut-scenes for breathers, it can be intimidating not to be fed any of this 
 during a run. Also, the controls seem to be a lot more loose than the other 3rd person shooting 
 games that require near exact shooting accuracy.
  
  Yet, with all the differences this game has and the quirks that this strange mash-up wears on it's 
 sleeves, I can't help but think that The Club is one of the best shooters since Call of Duty 4 
 in November. The game is oddly hypnotic and very addicting; Trying to get a higher combo or completing 
 a level faster, while finding all of the secret areas, is one of the most intense experiences a 
 3rd person shooter has given.
  
  The Club brings back the old school mentality in a pre-dominately modern setting, making the score 
 and the skill more important than the proverbial money shot through a sniper scope that shooters 
 these days give. In fact, the game reminds me more of an old-school 2D fighting game than anything 
 else. Comboing headshots, crack shots, skullshots and grenade kills are intensely satisfying and 
 I find myself replaying levels just to find the best way to tackle an area.
  
  Reminds you of an old school platformer, doesn't it? Memorizing levels and AI patterns is the main 
 key to success in this game. Mapping out a level by saying to yourself "I'll shoot these two guys, 
 then hit the skull shot, after that more 5 steps and shoot the guy in the window. Then shoot the 
 exploding barrels to kill two guys then..." brings back those types of games we all used to love 
 and absorb ourselves in.
  
  I'm as embolded to say that this game is actually more fun than Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare 
 was on the single player and that is really saying something about the quality of this game. This 
 is a definite rent, but those looking for something satisfying and challenging, this is an immediate 
 purchase.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AptPupilSir
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  Surprised would be my initial thought, not at the game itself but the comments and reviews of others. 
 It would seem there are a lot of people out their who thought this game would be "so much more" 
 in the sense of storyline, graphics and all around game play. So after having rented the game (thru 
 Gamefly which is amazing) I read a bit about it before I actually let my 3-6 absorb the intensity 
 of it all. In my opinion even before I left the training stage which I spent at least an hour in 
 replaying and I believe almost achieving 3 million points by the time I left; I was blown away. 
 It was great, it was addicting and I hadn't even begun the game. It is exactly the opposite of 
 what I have read and it really did bring back the hardcore arcade feel. I own quite a few titles 
 varying from sports, FPS, RPG's and this has to be top five and a lot of that comes from its ability 
 to be played over and over. Not too many games that fit in this genre of "shooters" offer that 
 at all. Bizarre Creations had really created a great title and it's definitely not getting the 
 credit it deserves. A direct quote from them helps explain the statement:
  
  "For every person who played it and was expecting a story-driven game we found two or three people 
 who really understood the pursuit of high-scores," said Ward. "Already we've got a hardcore fan 
 base building up, which is very encouraging!
  "The game is all about competing with friends for the highest score possible, and showing off your 
 skills whilst doing it. It's something that's fairly unique in the shooter genre at the moment, 
 and something we really believe in."
  I guess there you have it, at least on that plateau. The game compares to you and your buddies 
 destroying each other over a few rounds of Fight Night to some degrees. 
  
  Now the game itself is a third person shooter which I typically do not enjoy for whatever odd personal 
 reasons but I found myself at home running through these various stages trying to achieve another 
 million. The graphics are great, and it almost reminds me of Killer Instinct simply for the intro 
 to a Stage"SeagerFIGHT!". The story is much that of Tekken where it's a once a year fight club 
 and once you go though you get the random ending. The Club follows that very well in the sense 
 that it is a secret underground organization and instead of hand to hand, you just try to stay 
 alive through the various stages i. e. prisons, cruise ships, steel mills, something that looks 
 like it was hit by an atom bomb etc. A side note to give people a random idea would be at the end 
 of RE3 and you get to run back through the whole map earning points and taking on Nemisis like 
 8 different times, I found myself wrapped in that for days. The Club offers the same deal and forces 
 you the gamer to just "Want more, more Headshots, more Rica-Slayers, Higher Kill Combos, ten million 
 points" 
  
  In either case it's a game that is definitely recommended to everyone who enjoys the shooters, 
 especially the arcade style. You'll get hours upon hours of solo game play and when it comes to 
 you and your buddies with a keg of Heineken, In me we trust you better bring two kegs because your 
 all going to love trying to one up each other. 
  
  P. S- I have no opinion on the online simply because I am probably one of the few ones out their 
 that has lost a job or two because I could never seem to put down the damn controller. From what 
 I have read though its not too bad and there is a fan base out their gaming it up somewhere out 
 their. 
  
  -Cheers and enjoy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayordenis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  An interesting development, lets grab a fistful of modern graphics and stuff them in our mouth, 
 lets grab a bagel and fill it with cliched characters, yes stuff that in your mouth too, then take 
 your plate and make your way to the buffet where you can get all the mediocre A. I. your body has 
 room for, you can get levels that have to be learned, not very many weapons, oh and high score 
 gaming in a genre that it isn't suited to, now 24 hours later you'll go to the toilet and you're 
 fecaes will be less than the sum of its parts, much like The Club.
  The game isn't a complete failure, the gunplay is very competent and being fair it's quite fun 
 when you're playing it, and the instant gratification that comes with high scores appeals to alot 
 of gamers, gamers who play puzzle games, not generally the gamers who pick up third person shooters, 
 the games engine though as i said works and would of been great for a nice new fully developed 
 game with a story and all the other bells and whistles, as of now the game feels like its all multiplayer, 
 the mulitplayer is multiplayer, and the singleplayer is multiplayer with bots.
  If i was able to put a stamp on this game it would be a big red "MEH" stamp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  The Club is a new shooter created by the team behind the Project Gotham games. And just as the 
 Project Gotham games were about racing to the finish while throwing in as much style as possible 
 to you driving, The Club does the same, except replace "driving" with "killing". The Club is one 
 of the most accessible games ever made. The learning curve is non-existent if you've ever played 
 a shooter before, and you can make real progress in the game playing as little as 5 minutes.
  
  STORY - A bunch of trained killers are saved from being convicted by some wealthy people, who 
 throw them in The Club, a group that pits these killers against each other to see who's the best 
 at what they do. It's an interesting set-up (though a little odd) but aside from an opening cut-scene, 
 the story is promptly ignored, though it doesn't really matter.
  GAMEPLAY - As I said earlier, The Club is a very accessible shooter. The shooting mechanics are 
 fairly basic, and you've probably already seen everything there is to see about them before, but 
 what really matters is the context that they're put in. 
  Instead of moving from point A to point B completing a series of objectives as in most shooters, 
 The Club feels more like a racing game. You have to gun your way from your starting position to 
 the finishing line, pulling off as many stylish kills, racking up as many combo points, and shooting 
 as many hidden targets as possible. But that isn't the only game type the game has to offer, it 
 also features a mode where your given a specific space to defend, dubbed "Siege", and another Time 
 Attack mode, in which you have to run the course a certain number of laps before you're out of 
 time.
  The multiplayer is okay, but it's nothing you've never seen before, and it doesn't have the same 
 "pick-up and play" accessibility that the singleplayer has.
  But what really keeps things interesting after you've beaten the game (or gone back and beaten 
 it again for multiple characters) is the fact that you can create your own "playlists" allowing 
 you to choose between all the maps, modes, and weapons that you've encountered in the singleplayer 
 tournament, then saving them, and being able to play them whenever you want to.
  
  GRAPHICS - The Club has okay graphics. The character models are good, and the physics and effects 
 are great, but the environments are extremely repetitive, and the game doesn't have much of an 
 artistic style.
  SOUND - The sound isn't anything special at all, the music is there, but it's forgettable, the 
 same for the sound effects, and same with the voice-overs. One thing I thought was very fitting, 
 though, was the menacing announcer, who, a-la Unreal Tournament, yells out when you score headshots, 
 and even says "FIGHT" at the beginning of each level.
  
  VALUE - The Club's singleplayer will be easy to breeze through with any character. But since there 
 are eight characters, if you're willing to play them, then you can multiply that number by eight. 
 The multiplayer is worth spending a couple of hours on, and the custom playlists could keep you 
 busy for a long time to come. But all that being said, the gameplay will get repetitive after a 
 while, so it all depends on how long your can stay entertained.
  
  TILT - The Club has a very interesting concept. It's essentially an on-foot racing game with guns, 
 where your opponents aren't competitors, but instead waves of henchmen. For the most part, that 
 concept works very well. Being able to make your own playlists is a nice touch, as it boosts the 
 replay value of the game by quite a few hours. On the other hand, the production values, and the 
 multiplayer are totally forgettable, and the game can get repetitive after a while. But, the game 
 has such a great idea behind it, and can last you for quite a while, so I'd definitely say it's 
 worth checking it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bojocon40
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Some times games combine two things into one. The clubs manages to take the Tony Hawk like trick 
 system and tweak it to a killing system. Then it mashes it with a third person shooter. Sounds 
 pretty interesting right? 
  
  The club is described in the manual as "an organization so secretive that only a handful of people 
 across the globe know about its existence. An organization that recruits 'outsiders' to fight in 
 an underground bloodsport, like ancient gladiators. The combatants have only one option, kill or 
 be killed. Drug lords, mob bosses, dotcom billionaires, rock stars, presidents, Hollywood superstars, 
 CEOs of multinational giants, aristocrats and royalty  They all rub shoulders in The Club. The 
 most exclusive and secretive organization in the world, the members all share the taste for blood 
 and a belief in wealth and power places them above and beyond the reach of normal laws. The entry 
 fee is astronomical, and the membership is for life. Once you're in The Club, you can't leave." 
 This all would be great if they actually showed any of this under ground organization going on. 
 The only way you would have known this is if you read the manual. Which most people don't do. So 
 most people will be left in the dark wondering how this all started? Sure you have an introduction 
 video but the video is way to vague to even show you the real dealings of The Club.
  
  As soon as you boot up the game you get a quick introduction to the characters. Like a five to 
 ten second clips of how and why they are in the club. You start out with only six characters to 
 choose from. You will unlock two characters during Tournament mode. One will unlock half way through 
 the game and the other at the very end of the tournament. All the Characters have different attributes. 
 Like some can run faster then other, some can take more damage then others and ECT. After you beat 
 the tournament you get a twisted Metal esque outro movie. There is only two really worth watching. 
 But if you really want to understand why they were in the club you'll watch them all. These outros 
 are also super short and don't give you tons of info. All they give you is just enough to get by. 
 The Club does give you a brief description of the characters on the select a character screen but 
 it's just stereotypical stuff. If want to learn more about the characters you have to go to The 
 Clubs official site. www. theclubgame. com. At the site you can look at longer profiles. It would 
 have been best if they actually fleshed out their stories and told you more in game, since there 
 is really no story.
  
  You have different kinds of game modes such as Single Event. It's basically a practice mode. But 
 it can also be competitive. You can post your best score on the leaderboards for the whole world 
 to see. Then you have Gunplay. Gunplay is basically were you can play The Club the way you want 
 to. Basically this is just a "create a playlist" mode. Levels, weapons and characters become available 
 in Gunplay after they have been unlocked though Tournament Mode. Then you have Multiplayer. You 
 can play The Club with your friends either online over Xbox Live (8 players) , System Link (8 Players) , 
 or on a single console up to four players. Then you have the Tournament.
  
  The Tournament is actually the single player campaign. In the Tournament you compete other club 
 members in eight tournaments spread across different locations. Each event is played in sequence 
 with points awarded based on the "Tournament League Table" If you do well you'll become champion. 
 You only need to survive until the end on the tournament to unlock the next, but if you come in 
 the top three you'll earn a bullet. Which is basically your trophy. You have a Bronze, Silver and 
 Gold bullet. If you are killed during any event you'll have only five retries before the game is 
 over.
  
  In the Tournament you have five different types of events. You have Sprint, Siege, Time Attack, 
 Survivor and Run The Gauntlet. The Sprint is a race to the exit to get out alive. While on the 
 sprint event you try to achieve a point target. Siege is an event where you defend your ground 
 against waves of enemies until the timer winds down. Time Attack is basically a race around the 
 level. You complete laps and earn extra time from shooting time markers and killing enemies. In 
 Survivor you try to stay alive in a survivor arena until time runs out. Run The Gauntlet is basically 
 you try to reach the exit before time runs out. I also noticed that on the back of the box it says 
 "48 single-player levels". Which is a lie. There aren't 48 levels, but there are 48 events. There 
 are only 8 levels. They only thing is they just block certain areas of each level to create a new 
 path in single player.
  
  The Tournament would be fun if the AI wasn't so dumb. Sure they take cover and blind fire but they 
 usually just either stand in one place, run up at you waiting to get shot in the face or the just 
 slowly back up (waiting to get shot in the face) . Then the game starts to get really repetitive 
 real fastvery fast.
  
  In multiplayer you have Free For All Games and Team Games. Some of the Free For All Games are Score 
 Match, Kill Match and Hunter/ Hunted. In a Score Match the first player to hit the score target 
 (Using The Clubs combo system) wins. If the timer runs out, the player with the highest score wins. 
 Kill Match is basically death match. Hunter / Hunted is a deadly game of tag. When you get a kill 
 you become the hunted and then you try to stay alive as long as you can to increase your score. 
 Some of the Team Games are Team Siege, Team Skullshots, Team Capture, Team Kill Match and then 
 Team Fox Hunt. In Team Siege you defend your area from the enemy team for as long as you can. Then 
 you'll swap sides to try to beat your time. In Team Skullshots you try to locate the enemy team's 
 Skullshots and destroy them before they can get you yours. In Team Capture you guide your teams 
 fox to the enemy base to score points. While doing so you also have to defend your base to prevent 
 the enemy from doing the same. Team Kill Match is just team death match. In Team Fox Hunt you hunt 
 down the team's fox while protecting your own. 
  
  While playing online I didn't experience any lag. I had a pretty decent time. But I noticed that 
 there was tons of spawn killing. On top of this as soon as you die you have to sit and wait for 
 you to respawn again ( I think it's about a 5 second wait) and hope that the same person isn't 
 camping there again. I also noticed that the online community was either really silent during matches 
 or they just talked trash and cursed into the Xbox Headset all the time. 
  
  You might be wondering by now how you score points. Scoring is a key to getting through The Club. 
 So getting to know the tricks is essential to a great score. Combos are key to scoring in The Club. 
 Every time you kill someone, your kill bar will max out. Kill another person to keep the bar full 
 before it drains and disappears and you'll earn a combo. (The higher the combo the faster your 
 bar depletes) Skullshots are hidden throughout levels. They'll give you points and they also max 
 out your kill bar. Awards are given to you when you link kills together. Headshots are self-explanatory. 
 A great shot is when you kill someone from a distance. A Crack Shot is when you get a headshot 
 from a long distance. A Snap Shot is when you do a quick turn followed by a kill. Gate Crasher 
 is when you crash through a door and get a quick kill. A death Roll is when you come out of a defensive 
 roll and make an instant kill. Ric-O-Slay is when you kill someone with a ricocheting bullet. Last 
 bullet is pretty explanatory. You get it when you kill someone with the last bullet in your gun. 
 You'll also earn badges based on awards and locations.
  
  The controls are pretty simple. Right trigger to shoot, while the left trigger goes into aim mode. 
 Aim mode is just a zoomed over the shoulder view. The right bumper is to sprint. When you sprint 
 the camera gets super shaky, which does make things feel more intense. Left bumper is melee. The 
 left analog stick is for you to move. You click in the left analog stick to crouch. The right analog 
 stick is to look/aim. The A button is the action button. The X button is to reload. The Y button 
 is for your character to do a quick turn. The B button is to throw a grenade. The D-pad lets you 
 switch weapons and grenades. One thing you might want to do as soon as you start the game is to 
 up the sensitivity on the aiming. Just go to options and fix it there. It'll help you out tons. 
 
  
  The Graphics are good but not great. The characters look pretty good. While playing the game you'll 
 notice certain stuff like the characters hair moving. Particles of their clothes move and the characters 
 also have good animation. But the enemies seemed to get the short end of the stick. Most of them 
 are decent looking. But it makes sense. You'll only see the person for a couple of seconds after 
 you plow through wave after wave of enemies. There is also some destructibility in levels. Such 
 as boxes, statues and certain railings. 
  
  The sound is decent. The most you'll hear is the sound of your gun and grunts from the people dieing 
 from your onslaught of bullets. But if the enemy does somehow survive longer then 4 seconds you'll 
 hear them scream "I see him!" or "I can't see him!" But the voice acting has its good and decent. 
 I really enjoyed the calm sounding voice of The Clubs owner. You wont hear really anybody else's 
 voice, but when you do it's just ok. 
  
  Basically to wrap this up you should probably rent this first to see if you like it. Plus $60.00 
 is a hefty price point to join The Club. This probably should have been priced from $50.00 to $40.00 
 dollar range. If this was released couple a years back this might have been an excellent game. 
 So either rent it first, wait till it drops to the right price point or just skip it all together. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxfx4u
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  Let me get this out of the way right now, this is not a COD4, or a Gears of war style shooter. 
 nor does it try to be. At its core, this game is all about the high score. points are awarded for 
 headshots, stylish kills, and combos. String together kills to increase your'e multiplier bar, and 
 rack up some big points. 
  
  The arcade style gamplay works great, and I never get tired of hearing the announcer say headshot, 
 or crackshot as you race through the arenas. the controls are tight an responsive, and the selection 
 of weapons are good.
  
  
  I am really enjoying The Club, and will go as far as to say, this is one of my favorite 360 games. 
 if you like arcade style shooters, leaderboards, and high scores, get this game. If your'e the 
 type of gamer who plays through a level once, and is done with it, then you might want to think 
 twice about a purchase.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robobie
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The club on the xbox 360 is a pretty good game but it feels as if it could have been so much more. 
 It feels as if the people who made it didn't really make this what it could have been. Lack of 
 game modes, maps and a proper storyline stops this game from being great. There are about four 
 game modes sprint, run the gauntlet, time trial and siege mode. All of which are good but the game 
 needs more variety.
  
  The graphics on the other hand look great. The characters look brilliant and the same can be said 
 for the opponents. 
  
  Sound is not so good. Guns sound terrible as do explosions. The high point of the sound is the 
 opponents shouting at you and each other. There accents can varie in different regions.
  
  Controls are great. Thats it really.
  
  There is no real storyline. All you get before each 
 mission is an account of the level you are about to play.
  
  The Club is trying to be an arcade shooter and it succeeds at that, BUT it just doesnt have enough 
 game modes or a good storyline to make it an all time great arcade shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fLaMbOaStiN
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The people of Sega heard our prayers and brought something new to the table. "The Club"s an arcade-like 
 shooter with racing elements, it defiantly sounds and plays like something that's never been done 
 before. Surprisingly the whole thing mixes together wonderfully and even though at first it sounds 
 like too much is going on with "The Club", later down the road it'll have you begging for more!
 
  
  You can play as eight different characters, all of who have their own pro's, cons, and story. Each 
 character has their own "Strength", "Speed", and "Stamina", so one character may be faster then 
 the other while the other character may be able to take more fire power. You pick the character 
 that fits your playing style and then fight through the tournament mode to discover more about 
 them.
  
  There are five different types of tournaments, the way you beat each one is by racking up points 
 and getting to the end of the level, or by surviving waves of enemies until the timer winds down. 
 You gain more points by killing more people, but the amount of points you receive depends on how 
 you kill them. For instance, shooting a bad guy in the head or killing a enemy with a ricocheted 
 bullet will give you more points then just shooting them in the chest until their dead.
  
  "Sprint" is one tournament mode where you must rack up points and survive until you find the end 
 of the level. "Siege" is when you try to gain as many points as possible while holding your ground 
 against hordes of enemies until a timer runs out. "Survivor" is just like "Siege" except your stuck 
 in a smaller zone. "Time Attack" is when you must complete laps in a certain amount of time while 
 attempting to score some major points. "Run The Gauntlet" is when you must reach the end of the 
 level before the timer runs out all while scoring massive points and killing tons of bad-guys.
 
  
  There's also a unique multiplayer set-up in "The Club". The multiplayer is pretty much like the 
 tournament mode except you play with live people and not the AI. Multiplayer is really fun, but 
 you die way too easily and it doesn't offer anything that isn't already in the single-player mode.
 
  
  "The Clubs" levels are fun to go through the first few times, but they seem to get old quick. Also, 
 "The Club" says it offers 48+ different levels, but they really are just small courses in 8 different 
 maps. So whenever I moved onto the next "course" I really felt like I had already been there. The 
 48+ different "courses" are really beautifully designed, but extremely repetitive. 
  
  The repetitive levels are bad, but they are not the weakest link in "The Club". The weakest link 
 HAS to be its story line! It isn't bad or confusing, it just really doesn't exist. The only story 
 you get is with the games one minute or less introduction or a 20 second clips you receive with 
 each character when you clear a tournament level, the whole thing is really a sad-excuse of a plot.
 
  
  The game play may be repetitive, the levels may be really short, and the story line non-existent, 
 but "The Club" is still a really great game. The multiplayers fun and the single players highly 
 addictive and always has you wanting to back to top your old high score. "The Club" brings something 
 new to shooters, but it really wont win any awards until the concepts expanded and the games made 
 into something bigger.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  The Club is a hard game to describe if you haven't played it yet, the action is very fast-paced 
 and the awesome run and gun action style that The Club brings to the table will most likely turn 
 some heads.
  When I first saw The Club I was almost postive it wasn't going to do well, I thought it would bomb 
 like half of the shooters out there, and I thought no one would buy it, love it, and never leave 
 it, but I was wrong.
  The overall gameplay mechanics of The Club are fun and addictive, you really want to get the high 
 score on all the challenges and you end up having tons of fun in the process. The run and gun attitude 
 in The Club makes the battles ten times more intense if you didn't want to never lose your score 
 muliplier, and keep the action going at all times. The Club does a great job of using thier racing 
 type challenges that help breath new life into the shooter genre. The overall graphics in The Club 
 aren't really something to behold, but are very good. The characters have just enough personality 
 to vary themselves from eachother. The sound is good, the highlight in my opinion is that if your 
 in a tunnel the other people trying to kill you echo thier voice. The Club's multi-player is amazing 
 and will really push you to kill more people, because of your ticking mulitpier.
  The Club will diffiently have it's moments to anybody that enjoys shooters, and it stands out enough 
 to actually vary from all the other shooters. The only thing you'll be asking yourself when you 
 play The Club is.... why didn't they do this before? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pantherde
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  First things first I have to warn you... DO NOT GET THIS GAME IF YOU DO NOT HAVE A LIVE ACCOUNT!!!! 
 The single player is terrible at best. It has no story line at all. This game is a complete waste 
 of money for the single player. Period. 
  Now that that is out of the way, i advise you to pick this game up just for its multiplayer appeal. 
 It is highly addicting and just plain fun. Old-school is the perfect way to describe it. Many different 
 game types with lost of different weapons with an arcade feel keep me attached to this game for 
 hours. I spent about 20 minutes on the single player, then turned to my friend and said "this game 
 is goona make or break its self on multiplayer." Some of the truest words i have ever said. At 
 least rent this game if you have live. You will not regret it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeloman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing this is a very fast shooter. the achevments are not to hard to get witch is 
 good. online is amazing tho it takes a little time to conect. there is about 8 levels but each 
 level has 6 missions in it. so right there that is a good amount of game. there is also online, 
 single player, multi player and a few more. all in all it is a very original game that i think 
 who ever likes there kind of games ( shooting everything ) should buy this game if you think it 
 looks good then rent it but you will change your mind and buy it. and for people who want this 
 game but dont have online card it comes with a not much but somthing 48 hour online gold card so 
 60 bucks is not that bad for a game that has amazing replay GET THIS GAME!
  
  (sorry the spelling if some stuff is wrong ) i typed this fast because i am about to go play peace! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaneandlynch93
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  The Club is a really fun game it doesn't have a story line but i like the idea of the game the 
 voice overs are pretty good. Game plays all right this game is a score based shooter it is a third 
 person shooter that has a lot of action. You can choose from 8 different charecters 2 you have 
 to unlock. It is a fun modern shooter game. This game really needed hot chicks to play as. If you 
 like Action video games this game is for you. I love this game my favorite charector is SEAGER 
 because he doesn't play for the money he plays because he wants to. this game is highly addictive 
 and very  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animationj
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  The third-person action game genre is certainly one filled with astounding entries; recently, titles 
 such as Gears of War have dominated this genre, and even though new, and often complex features 
 are constantly "thrown on the table," there has not been a game quite like the Club in a long while. 
 The Club follows eight, somewhat normal men who participate in the brutal sport of manslaughter. 
 Each of these characters have different traits, looks, and styles. For example, one character is 
 a disgruntled NYPD cop, and another is a rich business man who has "nothing better to do." I really 
 enjoyed the fact that the characters have different feels to them, and there is a character that 
 can fit just about everyone's playing style. Whether you like to sprint through the levels, or 
 be a true tank, there will be a character for you. 
  
  The Club's gameplay cannot be defined in one word; it is nostalgic, intense, and most importantly, 
 fun. When you first play the game, you will almost immediately realize that The Club plays like 
 an arcade game. One of the most fabulous features of the game is the combo system. Your multiplier 
 will either increase or decrease depending on how accurate your shooting is, and how many people 
 you eliminate before your combo runs out. However, along the way, there are "signs" that are called 
 "Skullshots;" these skullshots help keep your combo alive, and give you more time to find another 
 enemy. 
  
  As stated above, The Club is a very intense experience. As you burst through doors, jump off ledges, 
 and look for the exit, enemies are constantly shooting at you, grenades are flying, and rockets 
 are being launched. The personality of the Club is defined by these moments, and I can boldly admit 
 that I did say "oh snap" during my time with this game. 
  
  Every rose does have its thorns though, and the Club does have a few problems. Firstly, The Club 
 can become a bit repetitive, as the game modes and stages do share a few similarities. The main 
 game mode in the game is dubbed "Tournament," and it follows your selected character through an 
 eight staged tournament. During each stage, you will play in various levels. Whereas one level 
 may have you racing against the clock, the other may have you staying alive as long as possible. 
 The sad part about this is the fact that these levels are essentially repeated throughout the various 
 stages. Even though a change of scenery helps to spruce up the action, you can't help but say, 
 "I just did this five minutes ago."
  
  The Club also boasts an Xbox Live/splitscreen multiplayer option. You are able to play in basically 
 the same variants of the game as in the "Tournament mode." Nothing more, nothing less. Although 
 this may bee a bit disappointing, The Club truly shines in single player.
  
  Overall, The Club is truly a game that we don't come across very often. It's roots are grounded 
 in the action games of yester-year, and even though it lacks in depth, The Club is an experience 
 that no fan of shooters should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty good, good shooting, alright graphics and good online. Its kinda like Gears of war but 
 you cant take cover and GOW is better. The shooting is fun and engaging and... there really is 
 no story. The campaign is just basically make it to the finish or stay alive but its still fun 
 to play. The online is just your basic DM same like COD4 or Shadowrun. I disagree with the score 
 that gamspot gave it but they have the same opinion I do. I really have nothing else to say, just 
 buy it if you have the chance and I recommend this to any fans of 3rd person shooters. And thats 
 it nothing else buy it! Ah man 100 more characters to go! No! Well its a very good game good choice 
 of characters and everything and thats it a good game just buy it. Alright still 50 characters 
 left ok good graphics, good gameplay, alot of levels and alot of guns and wide open space so its 
 fun to play and discover so have fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  The Good: Fast paced, easy to get into shooting action, lots of game modes to play single or multiplayer, 
 racing game similarities give the game a unique flavor.
  
  The Bad: Story is shallow, online is fairly generic, tournaments are short.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  You like shooting up lots of dudes? Join The Club. Do you like quickly unloading on lots of enemies 
 while running around a track? Join The Club. Do you want a third person shooter that is a bit different 
 from the rest? Then you need to join The Club, a third person action game from Project Gotham Racing 
 developer Bizzare Creations and Sega. 
  
  So, what is The Club? It's an underground club where it's members are payed to survive brutal challenges 
 where you can dispose lots of payed Club perfessionals as you race around special club facilities 
 using a variety of weapons found along the way, which are included parts of your membership. Those 
 admited are usually convicts and scumbags, which are perfect candidates to run the gauntlet during 
 The Club's single player tournament mode. You start by selecting one of 6 starting playable characters 
 (two more are unlocked once you beat the game) , and complete each of the 8 tournaments The Club 
 has to offer. There are a variety of events that take place during the tournaments, and each one 
 is just as fun as the others.
  
  The first is Sprint, where you basically run around killing as many enemies as you can, racking 
 up points for chain kills as you go. You can hit hidden skull shots to keep your combo meter alive 
 and get more points. The higher your combo is, the more points you'll get and the better you'll 
 do in the overall tournament. 
  
  The second mode is called Siege. This is where you are forced to stay within a spacific area and 
 unload on a multitude of enemies who come up and start shooting you. You can leave your designated 
 area, but if you don't return in 5 seconds, you will die due to explosives that have been implanted 
 in you. 
  
  The third mode is survivor, which is the same as siege, but you have enemies coming from all around 
 you as oppose to one spacific area. 
  
  The fourth is the Time Trial. This makes the game play similar to a racing game. You have a time 
 to make laps around a fairly well layed out track, and can get additional time for killing enemies, 
 picking up time power ups and hitting time skull shots. It is a unique idea that works really well.
 
  
  The fifth and final mode is Run The Gauntlet. Essencially, it's the same as sprint, but you are 
 on a time limit and cannot gain additional time. It may seem like the toughest mode, but it's really 
 not too bad once you learn the ways of The Club.
  
  Each tournament, which takes place at a different location each time features a variety of combinations 
 of these modes, but all of them combined aren't really long, and there really isn't any kind of 
 story behind your characters, which is also disappointing.
  
  There are online features to The Club as well. There is everything from a capture the flag skull 
 shot game to something similar to Halo's Juggernaut mode. Unfortunately, although the online modes 
 to in some ways capture the speed and intensity of the single player game, aren't as good as they 
 could have been. 
  
  The graphics are really good and almost everything in the game is destructable. The sound effects 
 are also very well done. The online is mostly lag free and the achievements are fairly easy to 
 earn.
  
  Overall, The Club is definately worth joining. Whether you get a basic membership (aka rent the 
 game) or get the VIP membership (aka buy the game) is up to you, but it is at least worth playing 
 for pure enjoyment.
  
  Gameplay: Fast, intense shooting action that plays like a racing game, but is also very much a 
 shooter.
  
  Graphics: Solid visuals and almost everything is destructable.
  
  Sound: Solid voice acting and sound effects.
  
  Value: It's a fully priced game that is a bit 
 shallow, but is definately worth at least playing. I'd say if you like the demo or rent the game 
 and like it, then you should buy it.
  
  Final Thoughts: Welcome to The Club. We hope you enjoy your stay... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaySplasher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The Club, an exclusive members only society where people get money to kill. Try not to be killed 
 though. If you have played any 3rd person shooter like Max Payne or Stranglehold, then this game 
 is up your alley. Typical weapon load out includes Assault Rifles, Shotguns, Pistols, Rocket Launchers, 
 Chain guns and explosives. When I first played it, I got owned. However, I must say that the game 
 is quite addicting, even if it seems to be quite repetitive. This is old school gaming at its finest. 
 Trying to get the highest score by obtaining multipliers on every kills plus bonuses is fun. Sometimes, 
 its frustrating because you wonder how the hell you can get 3.5 million points in a single run. 
 However, its a really fun game. You have 8 players to play with, 6 are available from the start. 
 Each characters has their own strengths and weaknesses. When multiplayer comes around, you can 
 play as any of the 8 characters. My only suggestion is that more maps should be included in the 
 game, as well as more weapons, even though I think the current load out is more than enough. If 
 you want to play me, hit me up. My gamer tag is Shadow Ikazuchi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j3v1zzle
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that the game certainly isn't revolutionary or great by any means. In 
 fact, many might consider a game like this quite shallow. It has no true story mode, only the tournament 
 mode which puts your character in a level with about seven different missions. Each mission can 
 consist of either getting to the exit and scoring as many points as possible on your way there, 
 staying alive for a few minutes in a designated area with waves of people trying to kill you, getting 
 to the exit before the timer runs out with the ability to gain extra seconds by nabbing a kill 
 or picking up a stopwatch which are scattered around the map, or getting to the exit in a traditional 
 time trial mode. 
  
  The lack of a story is disappointing but this third-person-shooter certainly makes up for it with 
 totally fresh gameplay. Again, it's nothing innovative by any means but it's just flat out fun. 
 There are eight characters in the game to choose from, all very distinct from each other. There 
 are the strong types (strength) who can deal heavy damage, the durables (stamina) who can take 
 a beating, and the speedsters (speed) who can sprint across the map with ease, and of course a 
 few guys in between. The shooting mechanic in the game is simple but also surprisingly fun. It 
 has a pretty good feel despite the fact that the game lacks a cover system. This is your classic 
 shoot 'em up arcade style game. 
  
  I've only played around on a few games in the multiplayer but it is pretty darn good. The maps 
 are generally small but I'm guessing that was sort of the intention as even with only a handful 
 of people there is nonstop action. There are no 'perks' in The Club, rather, it is your traditional 
 pick-up-and-play game. You start your character out with a pistol and find different weapons around 
 the map or kill someone and take theirs. It would've been nice if there was something like a leveling 
 system since the game clearly was built around the multiplayer much like Shadowrun.
  
  The graphics are nothing great but it definitely looks next-gen. There are no fancy shadow or bloom 
 effect but the game itself looks decent and the character models are done quite nice; you can tell 
 that each of the 8 characters in the game all have a distinct and interesting personality and background. 
 For its run-and-gun style gameplay, the frame rate has been able to hold up pretty well. The rare 
 performance hiccups seem to come during the survival mode where waves of enemies come at you. The 
 level designs, again, are quite small and considering the campaign of the game only has a handful 
 of levels, it can feel quite monotonous.
  
  The Club is a game that won't break any barriers; it is a game that knows what it is and, for the 
 most part, does its job well. Once you hop in the game you will probably have a pretty good time, 
 especially if you have some people to play with as the game's strength clearly lies in its multiplayer. 
 The killing is fun, the pacing is excellent, and the ability to play split-screen with up to four 
 different people on the same console is a great feature. The Club, however, is quite a shallow 
 game. It seems like something you would have a blast with for perhaps a week or two and then never 
 touch again. Thus, it's probably worth checking out but only as a rental first. If you're a fan 
 of classic arcade style run-and-gun gameplay with a good deal of emphasis on multiplayer, The Club 
 is definitely worth checking out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cinematic0903
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Me and my best friend rented The Club. We got home and popped it in the 360. We had both played 
 the demo and we were a little disappointed, but we had heard that the game was a bit better. Our 
 1st reaction to offline multiplayer was "dude.. this kinda sucks..". There was not much to do with 
 only two people. He moved on to playing his Ps3 and I decided to try to play single player.
  
  Woah.
  
  The Club becomes REALLY addicting. There's something about the running and gun 
 aspect that interests me. I played it on Insane (the hardest level) so it was both challenging 
 and fun.
  
  The environments are pretty sweet. There are a variety, which is nice.
  
  Characters are pretty sweet, again, variety.
  
  But the animations don't look very next gen, 
 the running looks fake, the explosions are a little sad and some of the characters look just silly 
 when you are playing them.
  
  It's totally worth a rent, but it has some major flaws, but if you see past those.. you have hours 
 and hours and hours of fun on your hands!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pourya_ahmadian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  everyone must play this game to enjoy a great SP and perfect MP; the gameplay is amazing and the 
 rules are so easy and smooth; you can control everything, and only onething is uncontrollable; that 
 is you in the middle of a battle;
  at the begining, in the menu, you can figure out that is different; every pieces of the game are on 
 the right place and the target is that "play, play and more play";
  the guns are az same az real ones, not underpower; it is like a joking to me; the aim is so sharp 
 and aiming is so pro; places that in these games are safe, are a trap and a one-way road to death; running 
 and gunning is a good way to win (i think) ;
  maps are so well-design and make you to explore to find new places to survive; more you are smart, more 
 option to survive; your IQ is your fatal weapon;
  it is pro for pro players and rookie for rookies; all the components are to entertain you; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Depending on the sort of player you are, The Club is either the best game ever made, or a shallow 
 blaster that harks back to a time when all that mattered was your high score.
  
  Set in a series of shadowy arenas across the globe, The Club casts players as fighters in an illegal 
 blood sports championship, where criminals, fruit-loops and other unsavoury characters battle to 
 the death for the viewing pleasure of the twisted millionaires who stage the events and gamble 
 huge fortunes on the outcome.
  
  Developed by Bizarre Creations, the coders behind Project Gotham Racing, it's not surprising to 
 see an outrageous scoring system shaping the action; unlike the tedious stealth-action games that 
 dominated the charts for the past couple of years, The Club finds players sprinting through the 
 tightly-packed areas as quickly as possible, attempting to kill enemies in quick succession so 
 that their score multiplier keeps ticking over, and using stylish moves such as rolling into a 
 room or killing an enemy with the last bullet in their clip to earn maximum points. Uniquely, this 
 structure  which makes for tense, heart-pounding matches where every move you make is vital to 
 your score  also encourages gamers to replay stages over and over again to find the perfect route, 
 adding life to the brief and pacy challenges.
  
  But while there's no doubting the excitement that comes from chasing a top score, the pursuit of 
 points rather than any sort of cerebral or emotional involvement feels old-fashioned and won't 
 engage anyone seduced by deeper contemporary blasters such as BioShock or Call Of Duty 4. And, 
 in a gaming culture where players are constantly searching for new thrills, it's unlikely that 
 many gamers will be content to retread old ground again and again, just so they can nail that perfect 
 headshot or jump to the top of the online leader boards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveman_Ci
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 15, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  At first look I thought this was just some generic Grand Theft Auto style game and stayed clear 
 of anything to do with it. Over the few month before it came out however I decided to download 
 the demo and give it a go anyway. To my surprise it wasn't GTA style at all, it was infact more 
 like an acrade shooter! The demo really dragged me in and the game was purchased within the week.
 
  
  The game plays really well and haven't really found a problem with it yet and the online multiplayer 
 modes and games make this games really great.
  
  I am so glad I gave this game a chance and it's probs my favourite go to game for a few rounds 
 of madness banter.
  
  The graphics don't let it slip either, the overall finish of the game is quite beautiful.
  
 
  They could have added more characters to the mix as there is only 8 to choose from but I'll let 
 that one slide as the range of weapons you can pickup and use is quite sublime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypt_mx
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  The Club, a game that has a tonne of mixed reactions. Once again Crypt returns with another non-biased 
 review.
  
  The club needs no explaination, or a story for that matter of fact. The campain plays like a fighter 
 or a racing game. You know why your there and you see what happens when you leave. But the story 
 isnt deeper then a kiddy pool. Its nice that the great visuals and addictive gameplay keep your 
 crawling back.
  
  There are 8 Characters
  
  Dragov-Tank
  
  Finn-Gambler
  
  Renwick- Used to be polic officer
  
  Killen- The clubs favorite
  
  Nemo- Crazy guy
  
 
  Adjo- Nigerian warrior
  
  Kuro- Asian Assassin, or is he?
  
  Seager- Canadian Extreame sports player
  
  There are 16 guns, and 8 maps.
  
  Gameplay- 
 The gameplay is based around your kill bar. Make a kill and your multiplier goes up, the higher 
 your multiplier, the higher point you get per kill. Once you multiplier gets x30, its almost impossible 
 to keep it up.
  You also get points for style.
  
  headshots-announcer says "Headshot!"
  
  great shots/crack shots- announcer says "great/crack shot!"
  
  spin, then make a kill (Y 
 button then kill-Y button does a 180 spin)
  
  -announcer says "snapshot!"
  
  There are many more, but those a just a few things he will say to make you feel successful. Youll 
 find yourself coming back to beat your old record over and over. The AI is good, and the game is 
 too damn fun!
  
  Graphics-
  
  Character detail is incredible. And enviroments look just as nice. Although some things in the 
 enviroments break the same every time, its easy to forgive. Especially when your character has 
 great "Rag-Doll" physics, that look just awesome. Explosions are plentyful and great to watch.
 
  
  Sound-
  
  Music is intense and gets you going as you play, explosions sound great. Guns sound fine aswell.
 
  
  Multiplayer-
  
  This is the best part of the game, its smooth with no lag, and its the best online game i own. 
 Dont have online? who cares, take 3 other guys split-screen.
  
  The maps are awesome and the characters are all fun to use.
  
  Best part is all the different 
 game modes, which are all great.
  
  FFA
  
  Point score- use combo system to score given number of points
  
  Kill score- Kill score..... normal.
 
  
  Teams
  
  Fox hunt- VIP
  
  Capture-Capture enemy base
  
  Attack and defend (siege) -name says it all.
  
  team kill 
  
  team score
  
  and theres 
 a couple more i cant remember.
  
  The modes are all great, there is no lag. And its insane fun.
  
  
  FINAL VERDICT 
  
  
 This game is fun, and its the best 360 game i have. Need i say more?
  It takes alot of skill, and is exciting to play. If your going to buy one 360 game before Vegas 
 2, or Gears 2........ This should be it.
  
  But this is arcade like game, and its not for everyone.
  
  
  
  (below are recommendations, are 
 rated of +'s, 3 is highest and 0 is lowest.
  
  Buy +++
  
  Rent++
  
  Ignore
  
  Play at a friends+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  The Club reminds me of a cross between Unreal Tournement and Outtriggers. The gameplay couldn't 
 be simpler, make your way through short levels, killing those in your way. The main goal in the game 
 is to increase your score multiplier by getting head shots or style points. The game is surprisingly 
 addictive, for a while at least. There's several characters to play as, but they're pretty much the 
 same, play wise. Levels are a nice mix of city streets, a prison and a freighter. Graphics are functional, but 
 nothing new. Sound effects are pretty poor, your guns sound like cap guns. 
  There's several SP and MP modes and maps. Overall, this is more of a MP game as the SP or story 
 mode can be completed in a few hours. Overall, the game is a lot of fun, but once the repetition 
 starts there's little reason to keep playing other than trying to get a higher score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxfan2614
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game provides a challenge for users that like to play on the harder levels. The combo-system 
 in this game is a revolution for future shooters to come. It has a decent story mode and an even 
 better multi player. The graphics are astounding and show great detail. The weapons in this game 
 are fun to use. The style of this game is just totally different from the rest of the other shooters 
 and i think it will have a big impact on people's lives. The multi player in The Club is like most 
 other shooters. There is free for all and there is also team modes. These game modes never get 
 old and are always fun. There is a little bit of a lag but it doesn't change the game. The online 
 community is pretty big and you will be able to find matches fairly quick. There are 8 basic characters 
 you can choose all with different abilities. These abilities are strength, speed, and stamina. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEE310594
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  At first glance, Bizarre & Sega's new title, The Club, is just an arcade style shooter. Mixing 
 certain elements of DOA/ Virtua Fighter, PGR and various 3rd person shooters is seemingly quite 
 a strange combination, but somehow, it just... works.
  
  There are 4 play modes on the main menu - Tournament Mode, aka campaign / story mode, Gunplay, 
 allowing you to alone, or with friends, build up your own playlist and fight for points, and the 
 self explanatory Single Event and Multiplayer Modes.
  
  Firstly, let's look at the single player modes. The actual types of contest you can play are Sprint, 
 where you rack up points and attempt to reach the end, Time Attack, in which you go around a few 
 laps, picking up time by shooting the time-shots, killing enemies or walking through floating clocks, 
 Run The Gauntlet, where you have a short amount of time to reach the end of the map, and also there's 
 Siege and Survival, which are confusingly similar, as you defend a certain area for about 2 minutes, 
 against oncoming waves of opponents.
  
  You can play through these modes with a total of 8 characters, with two locked at first. These 
 characters offer different attributes that may help you in your style of play. These attributes 
 are Speed, Strength and Stamina, and are shown at the character select screen in stars, 1-5.
  
  Within the game, you must gain points to get higher on the leaderboard, and these can be awarded 
 by shooting skullshots, or performing stylish kills. For example, rolling on the floor before quickly 
 standing and killing your opponent gives you the 'Death Roll' combo, and performing a quick turn 
 before filling an enemy full of led is a 'Snap-Shot!'. Others include headshots, great shot & crack 
 shot.
  
  Tournament Mode could be played countless times, as 8 different characters on 4 difficulties, and 
 you could be fixed to the TV with the extremely addictive, point racking, blood spilling, shotgun 
 blasting action. And then... you can make your own playlists, and create or beat even more records 
 in gunplay mode! There's no end to the possibility.
  
  Feeling lonely? Check out the multiplayer modes! Offering Xbox Live, Split Screen and System Link, 
 with various Deathmatch and Team modes. Have a good ol' shootout in Kill Mode, play the single-player 
 style with Point Mode, and do so much more! And if that's not exactly what you want in multiplayer, 
 you can battle it out for the high score in your own, or preset Gunplay playlists!
  
  There's so much gameplay options and variables in The Club - you can even change the colour of 
 your crosshair, but there are some bad points about the other parts of the game.
  
  Here's one that I don't care about much, but you might: the arena's are often brown, or grey, and 
 there's not one tropical or even natural location among the lot, perhaps with the exception of 
 Venice. 
  
  But there's a few minor faults from me, but I don't think they really do anything to worsen gameplay. 
 As I mentioned earlier, the Siege and Survival Modes are extremely similar, and quite annoying 
 when, for example, you play a Survival Mode, followed by a Siege, as it seems to lack diversity 
 during two separate matches. And although it makes up for it elsewhere, there's no bots on multiplayer, 
 so you can't team with a friend against the computer. You may not mind, but I, personally, have 
 extremely limited access to Xbox Live, so that kinda sucks for me.
  
  However, I did say that it makes up for it elsewhere. And it really does. The Club is a fantasticly 
 addictive, arcade style, guns blazing shoot 'em up that really is a incredible combination of game 
 styles. You'll see plenty of elements from PGR, and in my opinion, have so much more fun along 
 the way.
  
  Note to UK Inhabitants: I got this cheap at 20 from Game. Co. Uk - it's 20 when bought with anything 
 esle in store, so I got 2 packs of batteries, 50p each. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -047-
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  The Club is Bizarre Entertainment's first foray into the shooting genre, and it's a worthwhile 
 one.
  
  The premise of the gameplay is as follows: you are a member of "The Club", a secretive organization 
 revolving around death match betting. You must compete against other members to attain a high score, 
 and to stay alive. The gameplay is very run and gun, which is exactly what the dev was aiming for. 
 The missions fit the game excellently, with time trials, hold outs and speed runs. The controls 
 are very good, with options such a sprint a welcome addition to your arsenal. However, your characters 
 movement can seem restricted at times, especially in tight spaces such as corridors.
  
  The graphics are good, but not the best in the genre. The game conveys the shady settings of The 
 Club's favored arenas well, and creates a good atmosphere while you're running through the back-canals 
 of Venice or duking it out in the tight corridors of an abandoned prison. The character models 
 are good, and the textures are overall well implemented.
  
  The sound is another high point in this game, with the gun effects sounding meaty and realistic, 
 and the soundtrack fitting the game's arcade fell and aesthetic.
  
  This is the kind of game you'll really enjoy if you've got a couple of mates over, or if you have 
 Xbox Live, but as for single player value, I would recommend a rental. Nonetheless, a very good 
 game and hopefully a stepping stone to a fantastic sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-son05
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  Hi welcome to my review
  
  This game is great fun just trigger happy!! lol great for peeps who like 3rd person shooters. Comtrolls 
 a easy to get the hand of. MAin gameplay is a little repetitve and very much arcde like, alough 
 still is fun to ruin around and shoot. Graphics are pretty good and i think better than the ps3 
 version i played. locations or the game are interesting and fun to play around in, from ship to 
 prison to even an obandond mental home. Ther not much... well any of a storyline to this game!
 
  
  online gameplay is much the same as single player so only advantage is you can shoot the living 
 crap outta your friends lol, To be honest i would only adise you buying this game if you can get 
 it cheap as could get bord very quick, or just borrow or rent the game.
  
  all in all not bad game 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dakk209
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a deep storyline, character customisation and varied gameplay then this 
 might not be for you.
  
  While this would be a backward step for any third person shooter trying to push the genre forward, 
 this is actually a strength for The Club.
  
  The games premise is simple. You choose one of eight modern day, gun-toting gladiators and blast 
 your way through 8 tournaments. Each tournament is made up of 6 different rounds that vary in type 
 from simple start to finish gauntlet runs, survival rounds based in a set area to a strange time 
 attack mode that has you running laps round a level while blastin foes outta the way. While the 
 differing game types do make for a bit of variety, the core gameplay always seems to be the same. 
 String as many quick kills together in a combo to reach the highest scores before either the time 
 runs out or you reach the exit point. Extra points are also awarded for action kills such as killing 
 someone while coming out of an defensive roll and blastin some fool as you smash through set pieces 
 of scenery.
  
  While this may seem a little too simple, its strange just how addictive this becomes in absolutely 
 no time at all! It will have you trying to top your score again and again.
  
  The downside is that some players will just not be interested in the retro style of top score gameplay. 
 And if you look at the game in comparison to other shooters such as Advanced Warfighter 2 and Gears 
 of War, there is minimal AI for the opponents in single player that function as little more than 
 moving targets that fire back with some basic cover mechanics but always spawn in the same locations. 
 The players are also restricted to set routes through the levels that might seem a little constricting 
 to standard multiple routes that are in most games. These things actually make the game work well, 
 but you'll only appreciate that if you appreciate the gameplay in the first place.
  
  There are also online multiplayer modes that while solid are also pretty standard and not exactly 
 deal breakers. Frame rates where nice and steady while the action had a good pace. 
  
  So there it is. If you are competitive and enjoy fast-paced, high score topping action and don't 
 mind a little shallowness then there is plenty of time to be wasted enjoying what The Club has 
 to offer. However, if you tend to stick to your RPGs and need depth in your characters and gameplay 
 then you might be better of going elsewhere for your kicks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sion_111
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  The Club is a third person shooter from Sega and Bizarre Creations. Bizarre are the makers of the 
 Project Gotham Racing series, which is all about style as well as winning. The main thing was Kudos, 
 awarded if you did stylish things like drifting, coming in high places and more. I was eagerly 
 anticipating The Club, mainly because Bizarre's last game PGR4 was awesome, but also because I 
 wanted to see how the combo system turned out in the end.
  
  So The Club borrows a bit from PGR, as it's all about style. Rather than having to kill everyone 
 in the level, or get to an objective, you win by scoring the most points. In each event, when you 
 first kill someone a multiplier begins to build, and you'll notice blocks dropping off the screen, 
 which means you have until all the blocks have dropped off to kill another guy otherwise the multiplier 
 will go down. If you keep killing, the combo multiplier increases and you get more points, but 
 it gets harder to keep it going as blocks drop quicker.
  
  This system makes rounds incredibly fast as you must keep moving from one bad guy to the next if 
 you want to keep the multiplier going. You can earn more points by killing more stylishly, for 
 example if you kill just after you roll or if you get a headshot you will get more points. You 
 can also get bonus points at the end of each match by having lots of health, having the combo multiplier 
 high when you finish the level and more.
  
  Unfortunately that's really the only unique thing about The Club. Shooting is similar to Gears 
 of War except you don't use cover. You're in a third person view and can zoom in by holding down 
 the left trigger. Weapons don't stand out because none of them really pack a punch, and they're 
 all about as effective as each other. In the end, The Club only manages to make an impact because 
 of it's combo system.
  
  There are also some poor attempts at story here. There are eight available characters, each that 
 look very different. But really, there's no reason to be picky as none of them are better than 
 each other. Plus, when you complete the tournament mode with a character you unlock a cutscene 
 for them. They look nice, and could inspire a sequel, but don't make much sense and feel tacked 
 on. It would have been nice if the story was more integrated into the tournament mode.
  
  
  The main meat of the game comes from the Tournament mode, where you compete in different tournaments 
 to be the best. There are three difficulties available at first, and a fourth will become available. 
 Easy is a cakewalk, as the opposing scores are pathetic. The medium is decent enough challenge, 
 but expert shooter fans will snooze. The harder difficulties definitely are the best as the scores 
 required to succeed are monstrous. Still, the game doesn't really ramp up the enemies or limit 
 health and ammo, just increase the score required to win.
  
  The game types include a match where you simply have to get to the end and score as many points 
 as you can, one where you must survive for an amount of time while not leaving the area, races 
 where you must make your way around the course as fast as you can with the most points and more. 
 Some matches require you to not only complete a task, but also score an amount of points, which 
 can be hard of the tougher difficulties. But sooner or later, the game gets repetitive as there 
 aren't too many match types.
  
  Graphics and sound are good, but nothing spectacular is here. The main character models look great 
 as some characters have huge jackets which hang of them, and some of them have dreadlocks that 
 look really chunky. Enemies aren't that inspiring though, and they can repeat often. The environments 
 are unique, with warehouses, a war torn street and more. The sound however is completely forgettable, 
 with hammy acting, absent and repetitive music and weak sounding guns.
  
  But what really lets The Club down is how shallow it feels. If you're into clearing every challenge 
 with the best scores then it could last you a good amount of time, but if you're not a perfectionist 
 you'll be lucky to get a weekend out of it, making it better as a rental rather than a full price 
 purchase.
  
  The Club is a decent game, but it's just too shallow to hold attention for long. The graphics and 
 sound aren't too impressive, the gameplay does little new and the modes feel light. But if you're 
 an old school player who likes racking up high scores, then The Club could be the game for you. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
