-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/chroniclesofriddickassaultondarkathena/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Butcher Bay is still amazing.
 Fantastic lighting and shadows.
 Great character models and voice acting .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New content is cliche and tedious.
 Troublesome artificial intelligence.
 Multiplayer feels tacked on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.2, 23 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 334 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Starbreeze
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Apr 7, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A remade classic and a passable sequel meet in this fun but inconsistent package. 

  It's difficult to come to grips with a release like The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark 
 Athena, because it's made up of several disparate components of varying quality. The shining star 
 here is the slick retooling of 2004's Escape from Butcher Bay, the illustrious Xbox action game 
 that helped shatter expectations of what a film-based game could offer. Butcher Bay holds up beautifully, 
 exquisitely building tension before settling into a satisfying, smoldering pace. The other single-player 
 component offered is Dark Athena, Butcher Bay's sequel. It is a serviceable follow-up, but it's 
 positively limp when compared to its superb predecessor, monotonously falling into a rut of predictability 
 that the original always avoided. The final piece of this inconsistent puzzle is an interesting 
 but uneven suite of multiplayer modes that is mild fun in spurts but too awkward to stand out. 
 One part unforgettable and two parts merely adequate, Assault on Dark Athena is a must-play for 
 those who missed the original and a tolerable diversion for everyone else.  

  Escape from Butcher Bay has been freshened up a bit and looks surprisingly spiffy on a high-definition 
 display. It certainly shows its age in a number of ways: The stiff character models move awkwardly 
 and exhibit scant expression, and low-definition textures betray the graphic engine's last-generation 
 roots. Yet though Butcher Bay's visuals have noticeable wrinkles, the phenomenal lighting and shadowing 
 smooth the crow's feet surprisingly well. Few games this reliant on pure atmosphere can provoke 
 so much awe five years later -- yet the dark recesses provide as much uncertain solace now as they 
 ever did. Though you won't mistake the remade journey as a slick modern release, you also won't 
 often be distracted by its graphical deficiencies either, which speaks volumes for both the quality 
 of Butcher Bay and the extra layers of virtual varnish applied.  

  More impressively, the remade original still stands tall, partially because few games have tried 
 to duplicate its blueprint, but also because its numerous gameplay elements are balanced so well. 
 As gruff criminal Richard B. Riddick, your main goal is to break out of Butcher Bay, the intergalactic 
 equivalent of Alcatraz: a menacing, unforgiving, and nearly inescapable prison. Riddick understands 
 that such an escape requires a quiet command of multiple talents, and correspondingly, you'll use 
 a number of different gameplay devices to guide him out. You'll start with just your fists, but 
 eventually you'll be wielding sharp-edged melee weapons and clubs, not to mention an arsenal of 
 assault rifles, shotguns, and other ranged powerhouses. However, whenever possible, Riddick prefers 
 to keep to the shadows, sneaking up on his prey and delivering each foe to his maker, one gruesome 
 stealth kill at a time.  

  Remarkably, each of these elements is solid on its own, yet Butcher Bay merges them so harmoniously 
 that the game surpasses genre conventions, so much so that even now there are very few games that 
 compare. As you progress through the game, the prison takes on a life of its own. Your fellow captives 
 have stories to tell and missions to give, and fantastic voice acting brings each of them to life. 
 Even the obscene graffiti scrawled on the walls and scratched on signs speak to their desolation 
 and desperation. Whether you're conversing with inmates, sneaking in the shadows, plunging a shiv 
 through a blueskin's neck, or stunning a foe with the tranquilizer gun before introducing him to 
 your heel, there's always an unnerving sense of general agitation. That tension builds steadily 
 throughout the experience, thanks to brilliant pacing that keeps even the quiet moments from feeling 
 comfortable.  

           The mech sequences drive home Dark Athena's emphasis on shooting over sneaking.      

 
  Assault on Dark Athena is the new story-driven content here, and it takes place after the events 
 of Butcher Bay. It retains some of its predecessor's strengths, and even improves on a few of them. 
 Visually, the sequel compares favorably to any current action game while still incorporating the 
 fantastic lighting and shadows for which the original was known. The new character models are authentically 
 expressive, and their bodies and faces animate fluidly. As Riddick, Vin Diesel's raspy bass provides 
 a sturdy sonic foundation, and that gravitas spreads through the entire voice cast. Each performance 
 is memorable, from ship captain Revas to a lecherous, grossly obscene prisoner, so though the plot 
 itself isn't all that intriguing, the superb acting goes a long way toward keeping you involved. 
 You may not hear better voice acting all year: It's that good.     

  Sadly, the new gameplay cannot compare to the tight mixture that held Butcher Bay together so wonderfully. 
 As you traverse your new confines seeking escape -- first on the titular ship, later on a planetside 
 prison colony -- you'll encounter a few strong personalities, but their stories aren't mixed in all 
 that well with the experience. These early conversations go on for too long and result in multiple 
 tedious fetch quests that require some annoying backtracking, all the while failing to instill 
 a sense of place or offer any kind of organic flow to the proceedings. It feels contrived, and 
 in fact, most of Dark Athena seems artificial, which makes for a jarring contrast to its dynamic 
 predecessor.  

     Flash Player 9  is required to watch this video.    
 = "none"; var expressInstallPath =  
  var object_ele = '              '; document. write (' ' + object_ele + ' ') ;   

  The gameplay elements are fundamentally the same as Butcher Bay's. You will lurk in the pitch-black 
 corners, use your eyeshine ability to see in the blackest of crawlspaces, gun down hive-minded 
 drones, and slice up some enemies in a few different gruesome -- and often satisfying -- ways. Sadly, 
 none of these aspects feel balanced, and they aren't put together well on their own. A protracted 
 sneaking sequence in which you avoid a searchlight while climbing across a series of stacked boxes 
 is tedious and uninspired, and poor enemy placement and cheating artificial intelligence cause 
 some moments to induce tension headaches in lieu of actual tension. Every gameplay element feels 
 split into chunks rather than flowing smoothly together. You play a short stealth portion, then 
 a shooting portion, and then a quick melee portion; the pace feels stilted, especially when compared 
 to its companion game. To make matters worse, scattered environmental puzzles that involve excessive 
 amounts of platforming (not the game's strong suit) grind the tempo to a halt. The manner in which 
 the gameplay has been sliced up in this manner is not only choppy, but it also makes the action 
 predictable. And in Dark Athena, as with most games, predictability leads to monotony before long. 

  There are some new elements that seem meant to add variety, but they actually have the opposite 
 effect more often than not. For example, some mech sequences are briefly fun but highlight Dark 
 Athena's unbalanced gameplay, which favors guns over sneaking prowess. This emphasis is particularly 
 clear during the second half of the game, which takes place on a well-lit base and puts you up 
 against a series of unmanned spider drones, the most annoying enemies in the game. Well, perhaps 
 more annoying are the giant robotic foes that the game tediously tosses at you over and over again 
 in the final hours -- which you must take down the same way every time. After the fifth or sixth 
 such encounter, it feels like tedious filler and represents one of Dark Athena's biggest drawbacks: 
 lack of imagination. Rather than melding multiple genres into a cohesive, original experience, 
 this sequel is a humdrum shooter with some sneaking and melee elements. And one of the most important 
 elements of Butcher Bay -- the mission-based adventuring -- is all but missing, with the exception 
 of the boring early-game fetch quests.  

  Nevertheless, Dark Athena is not awful, but it inspires more indifference than excitement. Likewise, 
 the multiplayer component feels unnecessary, though it's competent enough. You can join other players 
 in one of six modes, in ranked or unranked matches. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the 
 Flag work exactly as you'd expect, though few people seem to be playing them. Instead, most players 
 seem to prefer Pitch Black mode, in which one player skulks in the dark as Riddick, while the others 
 equip their weapons and flashlights and smoke him out. It's fun to pick someone off as Riddick 
 and slink away, or to gun down the gruff prisoner as he crosses in front of your beam, though the 
 novelty wears off in time. Butcher Bay Riot pits three teams against each other in a succession 
 of rounds, letting you purchase weapons, armor, and ammo in between them, a la Counter-Strike. 
 It's sporadically amusing, but weird animations and occasional lag aren't apt to inspire large 
 online communities. In fact, the PC and PlayStation 3 versions don't seem to be inspiring many 
 players at all, and though the Xbox 360 contingent is a bit healthier, even on that platform it 
 is difficult to find matches in certain modes.  

           Silent kills are still the most satisfying.      

  The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault 
 on Dark Athena is many things: an attractive rerelease of an amazing game, a mildly disappointing 
 sequel, and a forgettable online experience. If you haven't played Butcher Bay, it's a must-play. 
 If you have, be aware of the sequel's abundant shortcomings before making a purchase. Nevertheless, 
 though the new content lets in far too much sunlight, those that crave the darkness will still 
 find plenty of inky crevasses in which to lurk.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SotaWolf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  A 7.4 from IGN? 7.0 from Gamespot? These scores are ridiculous, especially how much they hyped 
 the game in previews. Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena deserves nothing lower than 
 an 8.0 and I give this game a solid 9.5 for many reasons: superb graphics and physics, a great 
 storyline, and spectacular sound/voice overs with the likes of Vin Diesel and Lance Henriksen. 
 Not to mention this is 2 games in 1 along with the remake of the instant classic Escape From Butcher 
 Bay, so you will get your money's worth based on that (Half Life 2: The Orange Box anyone?) . There 
 is also online mode which feels a bit out of place, but it's still a whole lot of fun, especially 
 the Pitch Black mode (very similar to Juggernaut in Halo) . 
  
  Chronicles of Riddick is a great game and if you're contemplating on buying it... take the chance 
 and embrace the darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WickedTrain
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed both games and replayed the 1st again - still a good game with quests and storyline and 
 remastered sound and graphics. Vin could of been more humorous though. He is too monotone. But, 
 good 1st person shooter. Good storyline in both games. I do think it is alittle too short. Perhaps 
 there could be a DLC to increase gameplay. The 1st game is still enjoyable and replayable again.
 
  The second game is alot more enjoyable since it is brighter with outside adventure added. The 
 game takes to a ship then to a planet with a some adventure, there could of been more adventure 
 at this lavel. There are game achievements for finding different things. The problem here is that 
 some are very hard to find but not bad. I do suggest getting the guide book if you intend to find 
 all these achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esman39
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2009 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I realize that the Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay was the ultimate in Xbox gaming 
 back in 2004 but I'm not feeling it in 2009 on my Xbox360.
  
  I love the movies and I thought that I would love this game given its following from back-in-the-day. 
 I've played many first person shooters and from old reviews and the new videos I expected this 
 game to be similar to Half Life2. I was very wrong.
  
  The graphics are dated but look pretty good.
  
  The game play felt very loose and far too random.
 
  
  The story seemed disconnected from the actual game. It was like I just randomly bumped into story 
 elements and I kept wondering what I missed as the story advanced!
  
  All-in-all I was very disappointed in this game.
  
  This game just made me wish Valve would 
 get off their butts and launch Half Life3! I want the thinking man's first person shooter back! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riddickfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  First off Im a huge riddick fan, so i bought this game with no looking up videos or reviews. I 
 found this game to be worth my 60 bucks. Butcher Bay is still good and although its the same game 
 it feels better for some reason. Maybe its the graphics or new gameplay parts but its still worth 
 playing and buying alone. Dark athena on the other hand is good to. I think its a good addition 
 and worth playing as well. One thing that really caught my eye though is that the gun you carry 
 will be at the correct position when you shoot. For example if your taking cover and the only way 
 to pop out would be above riddick lifts the gun above the cover and its all done without pushing 
 a button to go into cover. I think this form of cover is the best ever created cause you can move 
 out and in by just pushing the stick back or left.... etc. Another part that I liked were the new 
 Ulaks riddick uses. They are really fast and realiable when their are alot of guys around but the 
 problem is they can only be used in dark athena. One part that dissapointed me was the fact that 
 boxing is slower and you can't make long combos like you could in 04. Not that its a big problem 
 but its noticable to us who played the old version. The acting and voice acting is probably the 
 best Ive ever seen in a video game period. They really seem like real people and its weird cause 
 its a video game but I guess thats a good thing. One thing I also didn't like was the last half 
 of dark athena. First off your in the sunlight which doesnt fit in well with the riddick character 
 and your forced to use a SCAR gun the rest of the game. Then you fight the same boss like 6 times 
 and then the 2 final boss fights come after that. Its like playing Halo here and not riddick it 
 just doesn't fit here. Other than that the final question is: Should I buy this game? I say Yes 
 butcher bay and dark athena are very good games and dark athena is forgivable at the end because 
 it fits in the story perfectly but not the character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teamparadox2k
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  True they didnt upgrade the AI. True the graphics are not on par with top tier 360 games. True 
 Dark Athena is not as good as Escape from Butcher Bay.
  
  The point here is when all is said and done this game is still amazing. The gameplay holds up and 
 while the AI is somewhat dumb by todays standards it still presents quite a challenge.
  
  The graphics are really good despite some flaws but this is a fresh coat of paint, not an all out 
 revamp from the ground up.
  
  StarBreeze did what the fans wanted. They gave us a way to play Riddick on the 360. Even if you 
 werent a fan of the original this is still a must buy. The gameplay here is alot of fun, the graphics 
 are pleasing and the sound/voicework is above and beyond 99% of games.
  
  Buy this. Chances are you will not be let down. Dont go into it looking for a truly next gen game. 
 Go into it looking for a unique gameplay experience that does just about everything right. Escape 
 from Butchers Bay is the best part of the game. Dark Athena is a decent expansion and while it 
 does have Multiplayer its not amazing but it is still fun when playing with some friends.
  
  Hopefull enough people check this out that they make a truly new Riddick game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teddyboy46
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 6:20 am PT
Review:  It always surprises me when game designers have everything they need to make a great game . Great 
 art and graphics HD & digital dolby, great voice actors. and a really cool hero [riddick]
  
  The surprise is they have no story to tell. Dark Athena is a classic example of this. Even 
 Vin Diesel is uninspired by this game. The story in this game starts 5 different story lines and 
 does not resolve any of them. the story and voice acting are really the heart and soul of any great 
 video game. dark athena has no real story or people that ar einteresting or you could care about 
 , no interesting side quests that tell little bits of the story. 
  
  There is gross profainty for no reason, there is the obligatory little girl that seems to be in 
 every video game the past few years to invoke sympathy. This could have been a great game, but 
 it is a shadow of butchers bay. the remastered pc version of butchers bay is more fun and interesting. 
 
  
  What this game does have just like butchers bay it has great controls. smooth and responsive it 
 is an easy game to play which is always a blessing
  
  Dark Athena is really a 19.99 expansion pack. star breeze cheated the fans of the game and themselves 
 as they are going to have a lot to prove in the next installment of Riddick. save your money and 
 wait for this game to show up on amazon or steam for 9.99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 10/10
  From the brutal stealth kills to the satisfying chug of the assault rifle, this game is still even 
 after 5 years one of the most unique in the genre. Now if your a riddick fan then obviously EFBB 
 is gonna be your favorite since it has riddick doing what he does best, creeping out of the shadows 
 and slicing a guards throat from behind. While DA has riddick using more guns then his awesome 
 new Ulaks, some may see this as a problem, i see it as a great balance act. Its not like DA is a 
 bad game (It's one of the better FPS games out there) It's just that EFBB is so amazing and continues 
 to be.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Slight glitches aside, the reworked EFBB is a great looking game. Though compared to DA it does 
 show some age, since DA has much better animations and lighting effects. But still both games are 
 great looking and the fact that they took time to rework EFBB with only slight setbacks is still 
 a thoughtful move in my book.
  
  9/10
  Again DA shines here better voice cast overall. And again EFBB is still immpresive from the growl 
 of riddick, to the profanity laden lines of jaylor.
  Overall a superb sounding game.
  
  Value 9/10
  It's two games in one, the problem is that EFBB the most compelling part of the deal 
 has been out for 5 years. Though i still picked it up not only because i love riddick but because 
 i want to support developers like starbreeze that put the fan before the profit. Also i had to sell 
 my old copy of EFBB when my Xbox died (sad face) .
  
  The good
  EFBB is still one of the most impressive shooters out there, DA is no slouch either offering more 
 riddick awesomeness, Graphics and sound are superb, two games for the price of one plus a passable 
 but still fun multiplayer.
  
  The bad
  Some slight glitches in EFBB, Multiplayer is only fun in short bursts, DA is to overly reliant on 
 guns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyfromfar
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena 
  is a game which immerses the player deeper in to the mind and world of Riddick. 
  
  This title 
 has bargain written all over it. This is due to the release actually including two full individual 
 games:
  -  Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena
  -  Riddick: Escape from Butchers Bay
  Both of which are presented in a much improved High Definition engine which makes those quiet and 
 dark blue hiding spots extra fun on a full HD setup. However, it would have been nice to see some 
 graphical improvement on Dark Athena, since it is supposed to be newer.
  
  Both games deliver individually. Personally, The Escape from Butchers Bay satisfied me more, bringing 
 me back to my younger days playing it on the PC.
  
  Finally, there are only two criticisms of the game that stop it from receiving a 10/10 score from 
 me. One of them is the mediocre multi-player installment which doesn't feel heavy and is a real 
 let down because the developers promised a good multi-player installment. The other being the lack 
 of any graphical improvement on the newer title of the series.
  
  Otherwise, both games are solid, very enjoyable titles that will bring back good memories of the 
 past and will also shed some more light on the dark world that Riddick dominates in style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vulturr
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest game ever i played and finished the Original on Classic Xbox and PC 4 times 
 and now is going to be the 5 times finished or is going too be a 6 time on the PS3 a game that 
 is going to have one of the best Gameplay and Story in the business ...
  I loved this game for his great Gameplay and for the complex Story from Movie ,Animation ,to Game 
 a true Veteran Gamer know the valor of a Game is not only in graphics is in a felling for the interest 
 for the Overall story
  My times of Gaming or over but that time comes back from time to time for some Game like this One 
 
  One more thing i love about this game is the acting one of the best acting ever is a thing that 
 comes from a Movie game corporation one of the best in the business 
  The action is very good very very good there is no game out for comparison the fighting or pure 
 Crazy 
  Only a gamer who dont know and only plays on easy or very easy is not going to enjoy this Great 
 Game
  So this game have a BIG 10 from me 
  Cheers ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drake_Bell004
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:53 pm PT
Review:  No it shouldn't, and Assault on Dark Athena is really good in its own right. It just doesn't have 
 the impact of the first game. Things like that can happen, not just in video games but also in 
 movies and music, but Assault on Dark Athena does also falter a bit in its own right. Still a great 
 game, but not quite as good as good as the original. But when you look at the total package Assault 
 on Dark Athena delivers, it leaves the prior game in the dust. That's because the prior game is 
 included, remade for the Xbox 360. It makes it a lot easier to recommend people buying the game, 
 especially if they never got a chance to play the original Escape From Butcher Bay. It's almost 
 worth it for that alone. But you're getting two great games for the price of one, plus now there 
 is multiplayer  a much welcome addition to the franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is a difficult game to review, since a part of me loves Butcher Bay since 04, and the 
 other is disgusted by Dark Athena. We'll come back to the latter a bit further down the review.
 
  
  - The graphical engine of this game is solid, with some flaws. Graphical glitches pop in during 
 most cutscenes or dialogs, drawing oddly polygon shaped shadows on the characters. The framerate 
 is far from constant, and the game will lag on you for no reason. At a certain part, the game will 
 strutter. Then, when you come back, it doesnt anymore. Yet, there was nothing to load in that place.
 
  
  Butcher bay uses the same graphics used by the PC version of the game, with some slight improvements. 
 When I say slight, it means you won't notice them. Heavy uses of blur effects and some HDR lightning 
 make an entrance.
  
  Dark Athena looks just like The Darkness ( same engine, duh ) , and while it offers good character 
 models, the world itself is rather bland, and jitterish.
  
  - The audio is perfect. One of the greatest soundtrack and dialog in the past decade in this game.
 
  
  - The gameplay is good, yet very flawed. Butcher Bay was phenomenal in its time, but now, it's 
 not that amazing. Enemy AI is superhuman in some part. See, they know where you are in perfect 
 pitch black and will always point their flashlights at you ( and if they dont have one, they go 
 right to you ) even if you slowly creep next to them. Want to close the lights and then go predator 
 on enemies who already saw you? You can't. They'll find you in the total darkness. So the game 
 becomes a trial and error mess in some part and you'll die often just to remember the correct route 
 to use.
  
  Wich is not acceptable. In the total darkness, even if a dude ran around me, I couldn't pin-point 
 is location. Some other time, they'll just randomly run around until finally using the correct 
 pathfinding to reach you. On the other hand, Butcher Bay has a unique setting and I applaud the 
 game for being different. Sneaking in vents with a shiv to escape a triple-max security prison 
 is awesome.
  
  That said, once you boot the Dark Athena campaign, its starts amazingly well. Until you hit the 
 half of the 6hours expansion pack, where you'll get dropped in a Gears of War ish, or Dark Sector-ish 
 town. Then, the game will force you to use a stupid and ugly mine-throwing gun, in broad daylight, 
 while ditching every other aspects unless you want to trial and error and hope for the best.
  
  Riddick isn't at its best here, really. I loved Butcher Bay, and still does, but replaying 
 it as a 09 game makes it hard to love it like I used to. The 04 version is perfect, because in 
 its time, it was great, yet today some of its elements should have been brought up to the modern 
 times. Less trial and error, for instance, and a working AI in dark areas. As for Dark Athena, 
 the early concept was brilliant, but once your off the ship, turn off your console, snice the rest 
 is a total disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrManhatten
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 11:27 am PT
Review:  The Chronicals Of Riddick is definently one of the best First person shooters i've ever played 
 the mixed between stealth and hand to hand combat with the utaks just make the game very enjoyable 
 to play, Aside from a few graphical glitches the game has very pretty graphics, the story for the 
 game is nice, the combat is great, The controls for the game are perfect, However the game can be 
 pretty frustrating, But really all in all its just a really awesome game the voice acting is really 
 nice vin deisel's preformance is great, Boss fights are fun mech sequences are exciting, Really 
 at the end all that matters is your opinion, for me this was just an amazing game and i hope you 
 think of it the same
  [The good] The combat is awesome, voice acting is very nice, good use of celebrity talent, Fighting 
 with utaks makes watching the Stealth kills with them very cool, story is nice, Stealthing is enjoyable.
 
  [The Bad] some graphical glitches here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halfhorse
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  One of the best original Xbox games has now made it to the people with a revamp makeover is a pleasure 
 to play. Although the game visually is not on par with the upper echelon games like GOW2 it is 
 EASELY forgivable by the game's ability to immerse you in the experience. THE SOUND is great... 
 only drawback is not having a sub menu for sound... VOICE, MUSIC, FX etc... I WOULD RECOMMEND THIS 
 GAME TO ANYONE WHO follows the Riddick franchise and is a big fan of the game THE DARKNESS. STARBREEZE 
 has done an amazing job making these interactive, realistic, cinematic games for us all. KUDOS! 
 Hopefully in the future games will be made with this type of style... adult oriented dialogue with 
 voiceovers during gameplay. I've been browsing on the website for along time with IGN for years 
 and never have I written a review or participated in any blogging etc. Despite the game receiving 
 sub par reviews and scores... to the consumer or average avid game player all the perimeters of 
 judging is not followed or agreed with the mass public. Meaning... don't judge the game by the 
 score.... rent if you must. The game will be work your while....
  
  THE MASTURBATION SEQUENCE IN THE GAME TO ME IS ONE OF THE MOST FUNNIEST MOMENT IN MY DECADE OF 
 GAMING EXPERIENCE!!!
  
  
  
  PICK UP A COPY OF RIDDICK- ASSAULT ON DARK ATHENA TODAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BalefulSpartan
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  When presented with the choice of two games, 2004's Escape from Butcher Bay and 2009's Assault 
 on Dark Athena, only one thing ran through my mind: how has it been five years since Riddick dazzled 
 on the Xbox? At the time Starbreeze's first-person action game was a technical marvel, doing things 
 with the Xbox that didn't seem possible. It also proved to be a highly entertaining game that managed 
 to mix stealth, gun-play and melee combat more successfully than any game in recent memory. Bringing 
 it and a full-length follow-up to next-gen platforms and PC in the shape of The Chronicles of Riddick: 
 Assault on Dark Athena seemed like a very good idea, and we haven't been disappointed.
  
  The two games act as prequels to the surprisingly good movie Pitch Black, once again starring Hollywood 
 hard man Vin Diesel as Riddick. As the titles of the games suggest, Escape from Butcher Bay sees 
 you trying to get out of the high security prison, whereas Assault on Dark Athena picks up where 
 that left off and tasks you with getting off a - you guessed it - high security space ship. The 
 two games share many gameplay similarities, but Dark Athena probably has a slight edge in terms 
 of action, if not in overall quality.
  
  The on screen HUD is minimal with only a health bar (which uses a recharge mechanism similar to 
 that seen in almost every FPS released since Halo) appearing on screen. Lose a block of health 
 completely and you'll only get this back at health stations, but get to cover while that block 
 is still visible and it'll replenish while you're stood still. It's a neat system that mixes the 
 modern approach with a more old-school health pack system.
  
  Riddick has a very well implemented hand-to-hand combat system that the entire game is built around 
 - Dark Athena isn't quite so reliant on fists, but the option to go in for up close and personal 
 kills is still there and by far the most satisfying option. Punches are thrown and blocks are made 
 with ease, making hand-to-hand combat more than just a gimmick plastered on the back of the box. 
 Good timing can result in some impressive combos and you can pull off some wonderfully brutal disarm 
 manoeuvres - Riddick isn't against brutally stabbing someone in the armpit if you time a counter 
 well enough.
  
  Using weapons is equally as satisfying and the controls can be tweaked extensively so they're to 
 your liking. By default targeting zones are forgiving to the player, with a hefty auto aim assist 
 in place, but seeing as gun-play isn't the focus of the game this works rather well. While the 
 enemy AI isn't quite as impressive as it was in 2004 (even with some improvements) they put up 
 a good fight on all but the easiest difficulty setting. Dark Athena introduces a stun gun fairly 
 early on, which freezes enemies on the spot just long enough for you to go in and stab a knife 
 through their skull, but given the more frequent enemy heavy situations it was ultimately a wise 
 decision.
  
  Anyone familiar with the Film Pitch Black will know that Riddick has the ability to see in the 
 dark and that ability plays a major part in the game, even though you don't start Escape from Butcher 
 Bay with it - seeing as Dark Athena follows on from Butcher Bay your Eye Shine ability is available 
 from the start there. After an extremely unnerving section, battling dwellers in some underground 
 tunnels, you learn how Riddick got his special ability and it wasn't by eating a lot of carrots. 
 Switching into this night vision mode makes Riddick's eyes extremely sensitive, meaning it's nearly 
 impossible to see anything if there is more than ambient lighting in the area. This vision mode 
 looks extremely cool too, but must be used in the right situations so you don't hamper your vision 
 unnecessarily.
  
  Both games are built around Riddick being a highly trained killer, able to skulk around in the 
 shadows, so tight stealth mechanics were a must. Thankfully the system developed for Butcher Bay 
 returns and seems as fresh now as it was back then. Crouching will put you in stealth mode, with 
 the screen turning blue and distorting slightly when you're hidden from view. Riddick loves to 
 sneak up on people and break their necks, stab them with a hairpin or slice them up with two razor 
 sharp blades, but killing a guard in the patrol path of another isn't a wise move. The dead body 
 will alert him and the alarm will be raised, creating a very difficult situation for Riddick that 
 will more often than not end in death or an unwanted fire-fight. Riddick can drag bodies around 
 and place them in dark corners of rooms or in unused passageways in order to remain undetected, 
 and this mechanic comes into play frequently during Dark Athena's many light puzzle sections.
 
  
  Ghost Drones make for a new enemy for Riddick to face while skulking around the dimly lit corridors 
 of the Dark Athena. While the remote controlled soldiers are pretty easy prey, they also double 
 as mobile cover (albeit cover that can only move backwards) and weapons. By grabbing a downed drone 
 you're able to use its weapon to take down any surrounding enemies and to break glass (a barrier 
 that frequently blocks your path to new areas) . Riddick can also take control of these drones during 
 the Dark Athena campaign, complete with a slightly overhauled HUD.
  
  What both games have in spades is a sense that you're not just playing through another FPS. Escape 
 from Butcher Bay in particular often feels like an action-heavy RPG, with numerous side-missions 
 needing to be completed in order to progress through the main story. Even five years after its 
 original release there's very little that comes close to offering the same experience, which has 
 perhaps got even better with age.
  
  Starbreeze really knows how to create characters, as it showed most recently with The Darkness, 
 and both these games feature the same high quality acting. While the lip-syncing in Butcher Bay 
 isn't as impressive as that in Dark Athena, the prison is entirely believable and the characters 
 good enough to be placed straight in a movie. One sequence in Dark Athena rides high above all 
 the others though, with a series of conversations that demonstrates just how far behind a lot of 
 other game developers are.
  
  Back in 2004 part of Escape from Butcher Bay's appeal stemmed from its astonishing visuals, and 
 it's fair to say that the two games don't have nearly the same impact today. If you've played the 
 original Xbox and PC versions you'll likely think little has changed, but going back reveals that 
 the graphics have been given a definite boost. Lighting is much improved thanks to more natural 
 colours, character models are more detailed, everything is in HD (the original Xbox game suffered 
 from a rather soft image) and the frame rate holds steady for the most part. Dark Athena does seem 
 to have benefited from being developed from scratch on the new engine rather than being ported 
 over, but Butcher Bay certainly isn't a slouch compared to today's biggest titles.
  
  It's hard to criticise a game so lovingly created as this, but there are a few little blemishes 
 and the odd major bug. During our time playing through the two games we encountered minor problems, 
 like Riddick performing finishing moves on thin air (after an enemy had already fallen to the ground) , 
 an objective that couldn't be completed without a checkpoint restart (a drone with a gun we needed 
 died and fell through a window, and we couldn't follow) and the odd object that needed to be climbed 
 but the game wouldn't allow. More worryingly, at one point the game auto-saved as Riddick was falling 
 to his death, meaning we had to exit the game completely and load an older checkpoint in order 
 to get out of an endless loop of death.
  
  Other problems will vary in severity from person to person, but we're not great fans of the repeatedly 
 used large drone in Dark Athena (bullet sponge doesn't really do it justice) , and one on-rails 
 elevator section was so blood boilingly difficult that, after the entire office had a stab at it, 
 we had to shamefully lower the difficulty in order to proceed. As we said, these issues will likely 
 be more troublesome for some than others, and many of the bugs may well be freakish one-time occurrences, 
 but they blight an otherwise extremely polished game.
  
  Having listened to fans who demanded multiplayer, Starbreeze has delivered but we're not sure if 
 it's enough to tempt away CoD, Halo and Killzone players. Team and standard Deathmatch modes are 
 on offer, but more exciting are those which make the most of Riddick. Pitch Black, for example, 
 casts one player as Riddick, complete with his Eye Shine night vision, while the others try to 
 take him out. It's easier said than done in the dark, where Riddick has a very big advantage. To 
 make things even more interesting, the weapons with the best torches are the weakest, so there's 
 a heavy dose of strategy here that is missing in the standard game modes. My time with multiplayer 
 has been extremely limited, with enjoyment varying wildly from game to game. With a strong user-base 
 a few of the more original game modes might prove to be worth repeated visits, but we can't see 
 many people choosing this over the already popular multiplayer shooters.
  
  With two great games that will take somewhere in the region of 15-20 hours to complete, superb 
 presentation and a sense that you're playing something different to the norm, The Chronicles of 
 Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena comes highly recommended. If it weren't for a few unfortunate bugs 
 and the odd strange design decision my score might even have been a notch higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmovers_02
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay is one of the most underrated games of all time. 
 It successfully blended the FPS genera with stealth, action, and RPG elements. It had brilliant 
 pacing that kept the game fresh and ever changing at all times. The story was good, the acting 
 was excellent, and the graphics were unrivaled. EFBB was one of the very few singleplayer games 
 I played through more than once.
  
  The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena updates the excellent graphics from EFBB and 
 gives you a full blown sequel and throws in multiplayer as an added bonus. The remake of Butcher 
 Bay is just as good as it was in 2004 but with better graphics. While the graphics aren't as good 
 as today's top games they are well above average and certainly do the job. There are a few minor 
 issues with the graphics though. Lip-syncing on non-major characters is just bad. It's almost as 
 if they don't even move there lips at all. Also, the issue with the original game where some of 
 the seems on character models would break apart and show a black line is still present. Outside 
 of those two minor problems EFBB is still the same great game it was in 2004 and actually still 
 feels fresh.
  
  The sequel, Assault on Dark Athena, in my opinion is just as good as Butcher Bay. The graphics 
 are noticeably better than the already pretty Butcher Bay and none of the graphical glitches are 
 present. Also the story and voice acting is just as good.
  
  The game play is more "open" than BB despite equally linear level design. What I mean by that is 
 the way you choose to attack (or not attack) is up to you. You can go in guns blazing if you want. 
 That will work but you'll be going through health like crazy more than likely. You can stay in 
 the shadows and get stealth kills. You can shoot one guard, hide, and when all the other guards 
 are looking where you were attack from a new direction. The way you choose to approach combat is 
 almost always up to you.
  
  DA also does a good job changing the pace though not as consistently good as BB did. Sometimes 
 the change of pace will be an excellent new approach to the game and sometimes it will have you 
 wanting to throw your controller through the screen. 
  
  The biggest complaint that most people have that I've talked to is the second half of DA. The second 
 half has you out in the sun in a town on some planet. This part of the game pretty much forces 
 you to use guns more than stealth kills but doesn't eliminate stealth all together. You'll still 
 have to plan your approach except this time you'll be firing loud weapons that alert everybody 
 to your presence. If your smart, you'll be able to find a new way to use this to your advantage 
 and develop a new stealth style that hasn't really been used in either EFBB or AoDA till this point. 
 IMO, it's a very good change of pace and fits well into the Riddick games.
  
  For me the two biggest weaknesses in DA are the boss battles and weak eyeshine. They're either 
 too easy, WAY too hard (I could just be bad) or to similar to the last 5 bosses you just fought. 
 Yes, DA does have you fight the same boss type at least 4 times and there's only one way to beat 
 that boss. Eyeshine (Riddicks ability to see in the dark) in DA actually makes things HARDER to 
 see than when you don't use it. Also, it only brightens up objects 10 feet in front of you which 
 makes it pretty much useless (this isn't the case in the remake of BB)
  
  Also included in AoDA is online multiplayer (no splitscreen) . I haven't played too much online 
 but my impression hasn't been a good one. It's generally a lag fest (also could be my connection 
 but don't have that issue with Halo) . Online animations are VERY jerky which looks stupid. The 
 online modes are generic and average at best. The best part of online is the Pitch Black game mode. 
 One person is Riddick (who can see in the dark) and the others are mercs trying to kill him with 
 flashlights on there guns. The mode is okay but over all everybody moves too fast and it feels 
 a lot like quake.
  
  Overall this is one of the best deals out there. You get 2 games of legendary quality and replayability 
 (finding cigarette packs and bounty cards unlocks some pretty cool art and vids in the main menu) . 
 Some people will surely find the online mode fun but this is no Halo or COD. So get the game for 
 the single player. I'm now working on my second playthrough and the game still feels very fresh. 
 I could not recommend this game more, even if your not a fan of the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genleesson
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 10:02 am PT
Review:  I am usually not one to get into a first person assult game but I must admit that this game has 
 really surprised me. I can not say that I am really far into the game, but I have gootten through 
 some of the challenges they have to offer. I must admit that I enjoyed the first Chronicles of 
 Riddick game so that says a lot for these games .... but this one seems to not only give its predecessor 
 a lot of credit .... and something definatly to look up to. It has been a wonderful and very challenging 
 game so far ...... I wonder what else I have to look foward to. And again, GREAT GAME!
  
  I really do wonder if they are going to make another one of these games. I think that if more of 
 this type of first person interactive game is made , I may end up getting into this genre more. 
 I like this type of adventure game. It truly opens a different perspective to your imagination. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bateman6
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:43 am PT
Review:  The feeling of this game is awesome. It's almost like you're in there your self. The vocal by Vin 
 Disel just get's my hair rasing. My favourite part is to sneak up and have meele fights with the 
 guards. Now to MP, the Pitch Black mode is original. Love beeing Riddick and crush you guy's. Nice 
 of Starbreeze to make a package of it.... haven't tried Escape From Butcher Bay in high def yet, 
 but looking forward to this too. Remeber when I first played this on my old xbox and the feeling 
 I had back then. The part where you are actually on the outside area with the other inmates and 
 get into a fight just like in movie. That is awesome...! And the best part as said already is the 
 melee action you have in this game. Even though the weapons in Dark Athena are nice it still gets 
 me more pleasure just beating up those Pilts *LOL*
  
  Se you guy's in Pitch Black.
  
  
  
  /P 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
