-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Darkness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/thedarkness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Amazing voice work and dialogue set the mood right out of the gate.
 Stunning graphics, both technically and artistically.
 Darkness powers are a lot of fun to use again and again.
 Compelling, well-told story.
 Can press a button to devour human hearts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most of the conventional weapons are useless.
 Enemy reactions and artificial intelligence feel a little too passive at times.
 Multiplayer feels a little tacked-on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 82 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 8,503 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Starbreeze
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Darkness is a remarkable action game that tells a compelling story from start to finish. 
 

  The Darkness. You work best when you're in the shadows, it's a grisly and occasionally gruesome 
 tale, and it also happens to be the name of the demon festering inside of you. Yes, for multiple 
 reasons, The Darkness is a perfect name for this first-person shooter from 2K and Starbreeze, the 
 developer responsible for The Chronicles of Riddick. Based on a comic book from Top Cow, The Darkness 
 weaves an interesting and authentic tale of mobsters seeking revenge together with an otherworldly 
 force with an insatiable appetite for human hearts.  

  The game opens with an amazing set piece that gets things moving right away. You play as Jackie 
 Estacado, a New York-based mob hit man on his 21st birthday, and you've just woken up in the back 
 of a speeding convertible. A money-collection deal has gone wrong, your two buddies are attempting 
 to get away from crooked cops, and you apparently got knocked out somewhere along the way. As you're 
 speeding along to a construction site to take out the foreman, you're tossed a shotgun to help 
 defend the car from incoming fire. The car crashes, you end up on foot, and the story begins to 
 unfold. Your Uncle Paulie, the leader of the crime family, has gone off the deep end, suspects 
 you of foul play, and puts a hit out on you. So it's on you to tear apart his operation by taking 
 out key moneymakers and money movers. As you do this, Paulie starts to hit back, sending thugs 
 not only in your direction, but also in the direction of Jenny, Jackie's girlfriend and the only 
 person that really matters to him. Luckily, you won't have to fight it out all by yourself.  

 
           Who would have thought that mixing mobsters with demons would work so well?      

  Early in the game, Jackie is possessed by The Darkness, some sort of parasitic creature that 
 speaks to you as a demonic voice in your head and manifests itself as two demonic snakelike appendages 
 that shoot out of your shoulder blades and appear on the sides of the screen. They snap and growl 
 when you whip them out, and over time you'll earn new abilities. For starters, revealing The Darkness 
 gives you a shield against damage, better vision in low-light situations, and a move that lets 
 you plant one of the snakelike creatures onto the ground and take control of it. From there, you 
 can crawl into ventilation ducts, sneak around, and kill enemies with a bite attack. You'll also 
 earn a demon arm attack, which causes a big, sharp appendage to thrust outward and through your 
 enemies. Eventually you'll get guns that use The Darkness' energy as ammo and a black hole attack 
 that lets you open up big vacuums that suck enemies in, killing them quite easily in the process. 
 The catch is that The Darkness has a limited amount of power, and all of these attacks drain it. 
 It's restored automatically when you're standing in shadows, making shooting out light sources 
 wherever you go a pretty big part of the game.  

  You'll select your darkness powers much like you'll cycle through your conventional weapons, with 
 a touch of the D pad. There aren't very many different types of guns in the game, and what's more, 
 the dual pistols that you start with are also the most effective weapon from start to finish. You'll 
 get a shotgun, assault rifles, and an auto-shotgun that isn't accurate enough to be of much use. 
 The game's auto-targeting seems to make your aim naturally gravitate toward the heads of your foes, 
 and one shot from a pistol is almost always enough to take care of them. Considering the artificial 
 intelligence isn't always swift enough to duck and cover, the game usually isn't too much of a 
 challenge on its medium difficulty setting.  

           While you'll have the opportunity to go on a few side missions, the main storyline is 
 where all the action is.      

  Most of the game takes place in New York, and despite its world being reasonably open-ended, the 
 story itself is strictly linear. You'll always know where to go next, and you'll have a good idea 
 of how to get there. If you end up lost, an objectives menu will point you in the general direction, 
 and a map will show you which sections you'll have to travel through. Along the way, particularly 
 in the game's two active subway stations, you'll run into people in need of a little help. This 
 gives you some side missions to play with, and most of these seem to involve going somewhere and 
 shooting and/or talking to someone. They're usually not very difficult, and there isn't really 
 much of a payoff, either. You'll usually get one of the 100 pieces of bonus content, which gives 
 you a few issues of the comic books, as well as plenty of concept art. Unless you're a sucker for 
 concept art or an Xbox 360 achievements fiend, most of the extra stuff can be safely skipped, though 
 the world looks so nice that you might find yourself wanting to complete as much as possible just 
 to spend more time with the game. The main storyline definitely has some length to it, though, 
 so even if you ignore all of the extra little elements, you'll still feel like you got your money's 
 worth out of the game. Thanks to a handful of especially mind-blowing sequences and well-crafted 
 plot twists, you'll feel like you've covered a ton of ground by the time you reach the game's final 
 confrontation.     

  Not every single aspect of the story is a winner, though. There are a few weird spots that stick 
 out, given the high quality of the rest of the game. For example, enemies rarely even make mention 
 of your unique curse, making you wonder if it's invisible to others for a good third of the game. 
 How would you react if you saw some guy with glowing eyes and a bunch of demonic tentacles sticking 
 out of him running right at you with pistols in either hand? Then, you run into a cutscene where 
 a storyline character specifically references "that demon s***," making it apparent that it's totally 
 visible to all. Shouldn't some guys be running away, screaming like banshees when you reveal yourself 
 and eat the hearts of their friends? Even civilians don't freak out very much if they catch a glimpse 
 of your power. This makes some parts of the game feel slightly disjointed, though all in all, the 
 action and the story are both very satisfying. It's especially fun to eat the hearts of every enemy 
 you take out, which occasionally causes the two demon heads to fight over the heart. Weirdly enough, 
 the head on the right always wins, but it's cool moments like this that help give The Darkness 
 a unique feel.  

           The Darkness isn't an especially long game, but by the time you complete it, you'll feel 
 like you've seen a lot.      

  In addition to the single-player mode, there's an eight-player online mode that gives you the basic 
 first-person shooter modes, like deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. You can do 
 some configuring from there, such as turning on one-hit kills. You can also morph from human form 
 to that of a skittering little demon called a darkling, which is weak and unarmed but has a powerful 
 melee attack and can crawl on walls and ceilings. Modes like survivor play off of this; your goal 
 here is to be the last human standing, and death from a darkling makes you join the darkling side. 
 The online is mostly functional, though the game really falls apart when one player is lagging. 
 Your movement becomes erratic and the game becomes basically unplayable. When it works, it's a 
 decent diversion, though it does feel tacked-on. Being able to actually call upon The Darkness 
 and use the powers you get in single-player might have been cool, though having eight players use 
 a black hole at the same time might have been a little too crazy. Either way, it's immediately 
 clear that the single-player is the star of the show.  

  Visually, The Darkness looks superb. It's got a very smooth frame rate and a large, nicely detailed 
 world. It goes up to 1080p on both the Xbox 360 and the PlayStation 3. The texture clarity is such 
 that there's a secret sequence of phone calls you can hear by reading phone numbers off of billboards 
 and flyers put up around town and calling them from the nearest pay phone. It also has a great 
 art style to it. New York looks appropriately grimy and urban, with a lot of graffiti. And the 
 Otherworld, where you'll spend a bit of time, has a nicely hellish look that applies to both the 
 environments and the enemies you face. Most of the animation is good, and you have to give it up 
 for any game that features motion-captured break-dancing for no reason other than to provide a 
 bit of flavor in one of the subway stations. About the only disappointing aspect of the game's 
 look is that people's lips don't move very much when they speak, which makes some of the dialogue-heavy 
 sequences look slightly off; but that's minor in the grand scheme of things.  

           Great dialogue and voice actors help the story move along nicely.      

  The voice 
 acting in The Darkness is universally awesome. You'll encounter plenty of raspy-voiced old-school 
 mobsters who sound like they stepped right off of the set of  Goodfellas . Jackie himself comes 
 across perfectly as the tough-guy hit man that he's supposed to be, but he still shows flashes 
 of vulnerability. And then, of course, there's the voice of The Darkness, which is supercreepy 
 and perfect at giving you a case of the willies. Even the random people you run into on the street 
 have believable voice performances. On top of that, the script is really something, so these great 
 voices have solid dialogue to work with. The rest of the sound effects are appropriate, and as 
 you take damage and near death, things slow down and start to sound as though you're underwater, 
 which is a nice effect. The snapping and chomping of The Darkness' twin heads is pretty cool, too. 
 Most of the music in the game is ambient background stuff that helps set the appropriate mood. 

  The Darkness is available on both the Xbox 360 and the PlayStation 3, and the differences between 
 the two versions are pretty minimal. The PlayStation 3 version seems to have slightly better color 
 than the 360 version, but the 360 version looks a bit sharper. Also, the Xbox 360 version has achievements, 
 and the PlayStation 3 version gives you the same tasks, but calls them accomplishments. Regardless 
 of what you call them, they're evenly spread, with a few that come from winning more multiplayer 
 matches than you'll probably be willing to endure. Overall, both versions are equally recommendable. 

  The Darkness' appeal comes from its many different parts coming together in a really great way. 
 The believability of the characters mixed with this hellacious demonic force fits together in a 
 really interesting fashion; the gameplay is very satisfying, even if it isn't especially challenging; 
 and the presentation is top-notch. If you're a sucker for M-rated action -- and really, how can you 
 pass on a game with a human-heart-eating mechanic? -- you'll definitely want to play The Darkness. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (563 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  Starbreeze has a way with all there games and that way is darkness. Jackie is a lot like riddick 
 but the main thing is that they both are most powerful in the dark. While the guns are fun to play 
 around with, later in the game they are pretty much reduced to lightbulb shooters, I mean with 
 the darkness arm, guns and the black hole most basic guns are useless. Aside from that there are 
 slight framerate issues, but nothing that will stop you from loving the over the top violence and 
 compelling plot.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  From the subway stations to the city and even the depths of hell, the darkness is a fantastic looking 
 game. And it's the little things that really shine like the ability to look down and say" I have 
 feet!!" but also the look and feel of the darkness is constantly reminding you that this game is 
 totally awesome and one of the best looking games out there.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Terrific voice work and the chilling croak of the darkness keep you on the edge of your seat for 
 the somthing like 18 hour ride. Guns also sound great as well as the sound of breaking glass and 
 hearts being ripped out.
  
  Value 8/10
  The single player is amazing and worth going through multiple times, but the multiplayer is pretty 
 much dead now so it depends if you like single more then multiplayer games.
  
  The good
  One of the most brutal games you can play and it's also one of the most beautiful, Heartfelt story 
 that deals with loss and revenge, Truly satisfieing in every regard (save for the multiplayer) , 
 The darkness gets my vote as #1 super villian.
  
  The bad
  Some slight framerate issues, Over the top violence and the sometimes pervasive swearing might not 
 be for everyone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 3:57 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is developed by Starbreeze Studios, best known for their critically commended first 
 person shooter/brawler, The Chronicles of Riddick, released on the Xbox and PC in 2004. Now, I 
 personally loved Riddick and played through it several times. It was a truly grand achievement 
 at its time, successfully combining stealth, hand-to-hand combat, large fire fights and adventure 
 elements; all wrapped up with a neat little bow with one of the best graphics engines in the generation. 
 So it would be truthful to state that I was expecting a similarly awesome game when I picked up 
 The Darkness. It's disappointing, then, that The Darkness is not up to the same standard as Riddick, 
 nor is it even close. What it is, is a well realised and exciting story-driven game, suffering 
 from lots of little problems which drag it down considerably.
  
  You play as Jackie Estacado, who on his 21st birthday is possessed by "The Darkness," a malevolent 
 spirit of great power which invades his mind and body and lives inside him, slowly making him more 
 evil as he pursues revenge against his enemies for ruining his life, and tries to get rid of the 
 curse put upon him. The story is presented in a truly compelling and shocking way, which will keep 
 you on edge most of the journey, with few swerves in consistency, and no questions left unanswered. 
 Fantastic voice acting and an atmospherically moody style helps to drive the experience, with your 
 immersion in the game only hindered by some dull level design and frame rate issues.
  
  The graphics are detailed, though rather yesteryear, and a little bland. As was just mentioned, 
 the level design isn't very exciting. The game basically consists of one very similar looking street 
 after the next, a few subway stations which all look the same, and uninspired World War One levels; 
 only broken up occasionally with a more open area or some underground place. All of the levels 
 are very dark, and while it contributes to the moody storyline effectively, I felt like they could 
 have mixed things up a lot more. All of the outdoor areas are unusually cramped and make you feel 
 claustrophobic; none of them really feel like they are actually outside, and more like a linear 
 straight set piece like you're on a stage or something (it reminded me of Vampire: Bloodlines) . 
 Some of the visual effects on the screen feel too strong and overdone, and while you can change 
 the colour profiles in the options, none of them give a look that is very easy on the eyes. However, 
 the game has some really great animations, despite the characters talking with their hands a little 
 too much.
  
  Now I should probably write about the 'game' part of the game... Having the Darkness 'possessing' 
 you grants you a number of abilities and powers. You can create a black hole that sucks in everything 
 around it, summon little imps to do your dirty work for you, and kebab enemies on an enormous spiky 
 appendage and then fling them in the air, to name a few. The Darkness can also eat the hearts of 
 your foes as you pass by their bodies, making for quite a satisfying 'fatality' as you finish them 
 off. This isn't to say that you can't disable your enemies by conventional means though. The usual 
 arsenal of pistols, shotgun, assault rifle, etc are all available for you to use, and are your 
 most effective means of combat early in the game; but the controls aren't the best out there for 
 a console FPS game, so sometimes it does feel a bit clumsy using them. But it's mostly good fun 
 with no major problems to speak of. The artificial intelligence is rather basic though, with enemies 
 often just standing there and shooting rather than fleeing for cover or trying to flank you.
  
  My biggest problem with the game is the World War One levels, which I touched on before. The 
 game is set in modern day, but something happens which takes you deep into the realm of the darkness 
 itself, resulting in you playing in a very twisted and never-ending version of World War One. While 
 it's imaginative and crucial to the story, I found the levels to be very boring in terms of gameplay 
 and scenery, and they sadly make up about a quarter of the game. You go there twice, and each time 
 you end up fighting the same faceless enemies over and over in the same old brownish rusty areas 
 whilst seeking some arbitrary objectives and listening to stereotypical British war heroes tell 
 you cryptic things. It's just weird, and not in the good way, in the annoying get-me-out-of-here 
 way. Most of the time you just end up running in circles wondering where exactly you're supposed 
 to be going.
  
  That's the other thing. Why doesn't the game have some kind of mini-map, or at least clearer objectives? 
 Sometimes your objectives tell you what to do, but not where to go, leaving you clueless to talk 
 with random people who try to shove side missions down your throat. This isn't just the war levels. 
 It happens a couple of times. Near the end of the game I was given an objective which I was so 
 oblivious to I was left dumbfounded, and decided GameFAQs was the best way out of this predicament. 
 While I appreciate exploration, this is supposed to be an action FPS; it is not an RPG, and neither 
 is it an Adventure game. Even if it was, those types of games usually have better descriptions 
 of where to go than this game sometimes has.
  
  I encountered a painful glitch during my play-through in which the game wouldn't let me load a 
 checkpoint, and I had to load in from the start of the chapter, losing some of my game time. While 
 it's probably a rare glitch down to sheer bad luck on my part, as I haven't heard about this anywhere 
 else, it was still a highly irritating bug that loses the game some points from my end.
  
  The Darkness is a game best played in short bursts. The game's issues will get on your nerves and 
 keep pushing you away, but the story and production values will keep you coming back for more. 
 I don't recommend this game for the impatient, but if you're someone who can stick with it to the 
 end, you will be rewarded with a well-rounded story that shocks you, ends on a high note and doesn't 
 get tedious. If you can appreciate that, The Darkness is most certainly worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phishyphishy
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game in one of those spur of the moment, 'I feel like a new game'. I remembered it 
 coming out and thinking, 'I'll get used for cheap'. And it is definitely worth the used $17 I paid 
 for it.
  
  Up sides: - Fantastic voice acting
  - good story
  - entertaining "darkness" powers
  
  Downsides: -too short
  - too helpful of an auto-aim
 
  - bad direction
  
  So, the game offers a compelling storyline with a tad bit of headiness, without going overboard. 
 The story has a concrete element of young gangster trying to do right. And an abstract element 
 of fighting internal demons (which manifest itself in the "darkness" and WWI levels) . Sounds kind 
 of weird, but good writing makes the story work and keeps it assessable to people unfamiliar with 
 the comic book. And the very well done voice acting makes it all come together. I'm big on story 
 in video games and this game delivers. 
  
  However, the big downside is the lack of in game direction. There are multiple points in the game 
 where there is no hint on where to go, especially during stages. The best example of this is where 
 you are running away from a helicopter and are on top of a roof. You have to jump on a air conditioning 
 unit and walk across and ledge around a building. Unfortunately the game gives no indication that 
 this is how to proceed. I found myself turning to FAQs more than I like too.
  
  Overall this game is definitely worth getting and Darkness 2 should be awesome.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrHyde
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 10:52 pm PT
Review:  In a video game world filled with first person shooters, it's hard to find one that's unique. The 
 Darkness is one of the rare few. Based on the comic series (heavily I might add) , I was skeptical 
 that a game based on a comic with a character who has virtually godlike power would work as a FPS. 
 I was pleasantly surprised.
  
  The core mechanics of the game are pretty much similar to any other FPS that you've played. One 
 joystick to move, the other to aim, and a trigger to fire. What separates this game from others 
 is your Darkness powers which not only make for cool kills, but also advance the game itself. With 
 the Darkness one can use special guns with ammo powered by darkness, a snake-like tentacle that 
 can kill, scout, or open up areas, a lashing arm that can move large objects, or create black holes 
 to kill enemies. These differences along with the ability to summon darkling minions separate this 
 from any regular FPS.
  
  However, not just the mechanics of the game make it great, but an amazing single player storyline. 
 It's rare to see a game with such great voice acting and music that completely immerses you into 
 the world as this. Jackie Estacado is voiced by Kirk Avecedo of TV shows Oz and Fringe, so anyone 
 who's seen his work knows it's going to be quality. Even the background characters sound natural 
 and realistic. You actually feel as though you're dealing with mobsters or New Yorkers based on 
 the way they speak. The storyline even advances during load screens by giving you insight into 
 Jackie making sure there's almost never a dull moment.
  
  Visually, the game is dark and ambient, just like the title would suggest. A perpetual nighttime 
 atmosphere looms over the game creating the effect of a stereotypical New York City. No landmarks 
 make an appearance, but you do get the feel that you are actually in the city. Unfortunately, there's 
 not a lot of interactivity outside of shooting lights which is essential to you using your Darkness 
 powers. When you shoot a car tire and it doesn't deflate, it robs some of the realism. The same 
 can be said that leveling a shotgun to a mobsters head doesn't completely blow it off. Also, the 
 characters lips don't move correctly and they sometimes seem to lack expression. Still, what is 
 does deliver, it does well. Shadows extend from your character as he moves in front of light creating 
 realistic effects.
  
  Aside from the vocal work itself, the music in the game fits perfectly. When in a non-combat zone, 
 you're treated with a music score that sounds very reminiscent of the Spider-Man movies. Combat 
 zones deliver grinding metal guitars that heighten the sense of urgency. Guns sound realistic and 
 taking too much damage creates a sort of underwater, slowed down effect until you heal.
  
  The game takes about a little over 10 hours to complete, but could probably be done quicker. There 
 are some side quests to do and a multiplayer mode. The multiplayer mode, though, seems tacked on. 
 The usual fair of deathmatch, etc. is included and I liked the ability to quick respawn rather 
 than waiting like a lot of other games force upon you. You can also play as a darkling. However, 
 I felt the multiplayer isn't nearly as unique as the single player campaign is.
  
  I came away from this game very pleased. It usually turns up in bargain bins and doesn't get nearly 
 enough credit for how good it is. When your allies are killed, you want to punish every mobster 
 you can (which you can do with execution moves by getting close to an enemy and push the fire button 
 for a satisfying animation) . When the Darkness itself tries to torment you (which is a highlight 
 for vocal work) you want to push on. When everything is said and done, you want to punish those 
 that wrong. It's rare for a game to draw in like this one does and The Darkness does it in style. 
 If you haven't played it you should definitely check it out.
  
  The Good: Amazing vocal work and music, deeply engrossing storyline that makes you want to play 
 more, cool Darkness powers separate it from ordinary FPS.
  
  The Bad: The Darklings sometimes seem worthless other than enemy distractions, facial animations 
 need work, multiplayer so-so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HailToTheGun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Through You, I Am Born
  
  There is a darkness in all of us; lurking in the most hallowed recesses of our mind, haunting us 
 with pain and agony. It is a sensation we all learn to suppress in our youth. It is perhaps the 
 fear of growing older; the fear of death; the fear of rejection; the fear of the unknown; or, simply, 
 fear in its most basic, primitive form. It was the daunting, lingering consciousness; the devil 
 on our shoulder; the serpent in the garden. It is a timeless, formless, omniscient, and omnipotent 
 entity. A parasite of the weak and suffering. A harbinger for a much worse fate, a fate which offers 
 no light at the end of the tunnel. A fate shrouded onlyin darkness.
  
  You are Jackie Estacado. It is your twenty-first birthday. You work for the New York mafia under 
 the helm of "Uncle" Paulie, who has just placed an assassination hit on your head. As the attempt 
 fails, you slowly become consumed by the voices in the shadow, that lingering malignant force known 
 as the "Darkness." So begins the downward spiral as Jackie's life becomes enveloped in the continuous 
 efforts of Paulie and New York's corrupt police force, the increasingly-possessive Darkness, and 
 the implication of all those Jackie holds dearest to him. What unfolds is a brilliantly woven tale 
 of crime, revenge, and an enduring perseverance towards redemption.
  
  The Darkness is loosely based on the comic series of the same name, created by Top Cow Productions, 
 and made its first appearance in the tenth issue of the Witchblade franchise. Pound for pound, 
 The Darkness is easily one of the best adaptations of a comic series into a video game. Presented 
 in the format of a post-narrative with Jackie confessing his past (the events of the game) to the 
 player, or otherwise some outside third party observer, the story is brilliantly paced and chillingly 
 atmospheric; from the dimly-lit streets of a modern day New York City to a desolate and infernal 
 wasteland in Hell eternally trapped in a World War I-state of despair, the game is absolutely a 
 thrill to experience.
  
  Stay In The Shadows
  
  The game manages to blend conventional first-person shooter combat with the unique powers of the 
 Darkness, though by the late game, as your abilities develop and grow, you'll soon find yourself 
 less reliant on your firearms. If you've played games such as Chronicles of Riddick: escape From 
 Butcher Bay (which Starbreeze Studios also made) , or Thief, you'll find yourself at home with The 
 Darkness; there is a definite emphasis on shadow management in the game, a little phrase I like 
 to apply to the act of shooting out lamp posts and ceiling lights. The Darkness fuels on, you guessed 
 it, darkness: if you can remain in the shadows, it will serve as a type of body armor, absorbing 
 and quickly healing through a tremendous amount of damage. Likewise, every time you manifest the 
 darkness in the form of a various power - tentacle arms, snake, etc. - you'll expend some of the 
 darkness absorbed. If you head back into the shadows, you'll see the two protruding serpentine 
 heads from your back sucking in a vapor-like mist, replenishing your darkness. When their eyes 
 shine, they are finished.
  
  Use of conventional weapons takes a backseat for the second half of the game; however, up to that 
 point, they are your primary means of fighting off the onslaught of bloodthirsty mobsters after 
 your head. Most weapons can be dual-wielded, and feature a double crosshair mechanic that seems 
 purely for aesthetic purpose, as you cannot individually control each arm. Rather, both arms move 
 simultaneously with the right analog stick. Far too often, though, you'll find the crosshairs automatically 
 locking on to the heads of enemies when you move them even remotely close to the body. This, combined 
 with the later immensely powerful Darkness abilities, make the game overall too easy.
  
  But I could not conclude this section on combat without mentioning the Darklings. As the name might 
 imply, Darklings are tiny demon-manifestations of the Darkness power that you cannot control, but 
 rather, spawn from various seeping voids in the ground and set to wreak havoc on everything in 
 sight. There are four types of Darklings; the first of which, the Berserker, is as the name suggests, 
 a crazed miniature warmonger who will attack anyone it sees. The others are Gunner, who uses a 
 Gatlin-gun; Kamikaze, who will sacrifice its own body to destroy various barriers throughout the 
 game world; and Lightkiller, who will zap out any light sources within the immediate area.
  
  Like yourself, keeping these little guys in the darkness is the key to their survival. Should 
 they stay in the light for too long, even the slightest bit of damage could take them out. You 
 are only allowed to summon one of each type of Darkling, but can have all four active at any given 
 time.
  
  In Darkness, There Is Light
  
  In a contemporary gothic modern New York, The Darkness manages to blend the rough urban city streets 
 with a borderline-dystopian atmosphere to create a very eerie, very distinct setting. The landmarks 
 are beautifully drawn and the game runs at a solid, steady frame rate even during the most hectic 
 scenes, perhaps only suffering a minor slowdown when the Void power is used. Character animations 
 are very clean and sharp, and the design of the Darklings - and the Darkness itself - are stylishly 
 creepy.
  
  There are two specific portions of the game where you are thrust into an Otherworld; a hell-like 
 realm where World War I is eternally fought. The presentation of this world is perhaps the most 
 stunning the game has to offer, and each of these segments are easily the most memorable of the 
 game's impressive campaign.
  
  Devour The Hearts of The Impure
  
  The game's story is remarkable in and of itself, but it's the pacing and the presentation of that 
 story which make it stand out. The Darkness, like Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay, 
 combines the distinct qualities of First-Person Adventures, western Role-Playing Games, and to 
 an extent, Platformers, for a uniquely engaging hybrid. The story is fairly linear, and allows 
 the player to proceed from beginning to end without a hitch. Within that midst, however, are various 
 side-missions you can pick up from the citizens of New York. They're mostly superficial, but always 
 reward you with a collectible item which contains a phone number, that you can then use on one 
 of the game's many public phones to listen to various funny, often hilarious recordings.
  
  The game is limited open-world; you have the freedom to explore the streets of New York through 
 whichever route you wish to take, but there are certain areas with restricted access until a later 
 portion of the story. Likewise you can enter many buildings in the game, and as previously mentioned, 
 all lights can be interacted with. Perhaps one of The Darkness's most entertaining features is 
 a fully realized, living, breathing world. At any time during the course of the campaign, you can 
 approach and turn on one of the many television sets and see constantly-changing broadcasts. Most 
 notably of which, during a scene early in the game while in the apartment room of Jackie's girlfriend, 
 you will start watching "To Kill A Mockingbird" - the actual, live version. Should you be dedicated 
 enough, you could sit there and watch the movie in its entirety.
  
  But where is my head? How could I have forgotten the game's most brutal mechanic. Upon killing 
 an enemy, Jackie can summon his Darkness powers to devour the heart of the lifeless body. There 
 is a dual purpose to this (not including the simple entertainment factor) : the more hearts you 
 devour, the more powerful your Darkness powers will become; additionally, one heart will serve 
 to instantly replenish your Darkness powers should you not be able to find shadows to hide in. 
 You'll only be able to devour the hearts of those who seek to harm you. If you kill an innocent, 
 the Darkness will make some snide comment about filth or unworthiness.
  
  There is a very loose multiplayer tagged on which allows you to play as the Darklings themselves, 
 but overall it's a feature that seems to have been included simply to please an online crowd without 
 showing as much depth or individuality that the single-player flourishes in.
  
  A Symphony In The Night...
  
  The music is mostly on the average side; some very few orchestral 
 themes which serve to emphasize the game's very dramatic storyline, but otherwise nothing you'll 
 be humming while ripping hearts out of mobsters. The voice work, on the other hand, is outstanding. 
 Featuring the talents of Mike Patton (of former Dillinger Escape Plan and Faith No More fame) as 
 the Darkness, and Kirk Acevedo (from the popular TV show "Oz") as Jackie Estacado, the conflict 
 between Jackie and his literal-inner demons becomes much more emotional. The complete dissonance 
 between Acevedo's soothing, suave voice and Patton's raspy, serpentine hiss lends toward a wonderfully 
 torn anti-hero found in Jackie. The secondary characters also provide some very emotional, well-delivered 
 lines to create a brilliant ensemble rarely put together for a video game.
  
  And The Verdict Is
  
  From comic book to game console, The Darkness is perhaps one of the 
 best translations between two mediums this generation, and any other. With an exhilarating campaign, 
 memorable and well-voiced characters, and a heart-wrenching story about revenge you're likely to 
 remember for years to come, The Darkness invades your mind and body, and it's in every way a thrilling 
 experience.
  
  Pros: Entertaining Darkness powers; remarkable voice acting; memorable story and characters; excellent 
 pacing between gameplay and exploration; some very beautiful environments
  
  Cons: Difficulty remains relatively easy throughout; anti-climactic ending leaves a lot to be desired; 
 multiplayer lacks lasting appeal and value
  
  The Final Verdict: 8.5/10
  The Darkness is wholly a one-of-a-kind experience; with its empathetic main character, his haunting 
 personal villain, and the melancholy of his anguished life, The Darkness is one of this generation's 
 greatest unsung heroes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraunoftheDead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 1:33 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is truly a distinct experience. In a sea of mundane first person shooters, this title 
 shines in all it's bloody, gruesome glory.
  
  You play as Jackie Estacado, a hitman for the Mafia who is cursed with 'The Darkness' on the night 
 of his 21st birthday. Basically put, you sprout huge demon appendages of destruction. Early on 
 you'll be able to go into Creeping Dark mode, which allows you to control The Darkness like a snake 
 and devour any enemies in your path. As you progress, you'll unlock the Demon Arm, Darkness Guns, 
 and Black Hole abilities.
  
  Your new found abilities center around one key factor: how dark it is. You're going to have to 
 shoot out a lot of lights in the earlier sections in the game, but later on you'll gain powers 
 to destroy the light more efficiently. Shooting lights is slightly annoying, but there is an auto 
 aim that makes it less of a hassle. Oh, and don't think you have to shoot out every single light; 
 it's a good strategy to only shoot out lights in a certain enemy occupied area rather than as you 
 go because you'll quickly get bored of it. Once you get the Demon Arm power, you'll be able to 
 destroy any lights (in close range) with the single push of a button. Then after you're done with 
 that, stick that Demon Arm right into someone's ribcage.
  
  The Darkness powers never really get old, and they're dished out at just the right times to keep 
 things feeling fresh. The only power that is flawed and somewhat a pain to use is your first power, 
 Creeping Dark. When you go around the environments, you'll constantly be stopped by invisible walls 
 created by objects such as mail boxes, light posts, etc. and have to get un-stuck. I just feel 
 that that aspect could've been polished a little better.
  
  Along with your Darkness abilities you'll have the option of summoning Darklings, which are little 
 imps that do chores for you like: killing, killing via suicide bombing, killing with guns, and 
 last but not least, destroying lights for you. Let me just say that none of them are very useful 
 at all. You can order them in any direction, but their poor A. I. will cause them to stop 5 feet 
 in front of an enemy and just stand there and die.
  
  Every time you kill someone, you'll be able to press a button and devour their heart. The more 
 hearts you've eaten, the more powerful your Darkness becomes. It's really a gruesome sight to see, 
 and I never really got irritated by the process.
  
  The game, is, at it's core a first person shooter. The controls when handling guns aren't incredibly 
 accurate, so the game relies heavily on it's auto aim, which can be adjusted to different levels 
 in the options menu. It feels different, but you'll get used to it right away. Then there's the 
 execution moves. If you get really close to someone with your guns, you'll do an automatic execution 
 move which varies by weapon. It's satisfying to watch every time, and it's bloody as hell.
  
  The artificial intelligence isn't as advanced as what you may be used to seeing. You'll see 
 characters running around back and forth like idiots or popping their head out of cover at exact 
 intervals, waiting to be shot. They may be stupid, but they're more than able to kill you if you 
 don't get rid of 'em fast.
  
  Overall, The Darkness is a nice change of pace from just running and gunning like you see in most 
 games. The story is one of revenge, and entertaining throughout. It's a very unique experience 
 that shouldn't be passed up by anyone for it's minor flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AwgersBane
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 4:31 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness Review~AwgersBane
  
  The graphics of The Darkness are great. Good shading effects, good blood smears and all gore realated 
 stuff. The Lip Sync is absolutley great, good sound effects. The moonlight glow in the night looks 
 stunning. The visual is great too. The multiplayer is good, doesn't satisfy too much, but its good 
 enough. The Darkness power obiviously adds a real kick to the game, with devouring hearts, using 
 tentacles/claws to hack and slash, causing black holes, etc... Without the powers, this game would 
 be nothing. The guns are not to useful, but its still cool getting up close and personal is fun.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ~Once again, The Darkness review~AwgersBane 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dliv666
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that this game has a Great storyline and atmosphere (constant strong points in 
 most 2K games) . It is a sort of RPG Shooter, which is a concept 2K have developed further with 
 the LEGENDARY "BIOSHOCK" (My favourite game of all time) and will hopefully take to another level 
 with the much anticipated "BORDERLANDS". The game has horror elements, but doesn't often step over 
 the line into the disturbing like Monalths F. E. A. R and Condamned, meaning that more people can 
 enjoy this game. The environments you play the game in are very well designed, especially the Subway 
 stations, which feel very real.
  There is also a good variety of tasks/missions the game gets you to do meaning you are never bored 
 from repetition or doing the same sort of thing over and over again (I'm thinking of the highly 
 overrated GTA4) .
  
  There a few flaws in the Darkness, but they are unfortunately very noticable:
  1. All the weapons 
 feel the same, both in the damage they do and how they handle (aside from the shotgun) . You can 
 easily go through the game never using anything but the dual pistals.
  
  2. There are no decent scopes on any of the weapons, which adds to the feel that the guns lack 
 variety.
  
  3. The weapons feel like they lack any real stopping power (something 2K worked very hard to improve 
 in "THE LEGENDARY" BIOSHOCK) . 
  
  4. You can die far too easily, and there are not enough checkpoints to compensate for this meaning 
 that sometimes you will have to replay big chunks of missions for a moments slip in concentration.
 
  
  Overall this is a charismatic game with a Darkside worth examining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrUmAk117
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:05 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness
  Some of you may not know The Darkness is a video game adaption of the comic book, i didn't know 
 either until i unlocked a comic in the game. Anways
  The story is based on a Contract Killer Jackie Estacado ,his parents died when he was a kid. He 
 is adopted by his uncle a mafia mob Paulie Franchetti who sells drugs and works side by side with 
 the cops, he also trains him to be a Contract Killer at the age of 12. On his 21st Birthday he finds 
 out he wields a terrible inherited power The Darkness. You use powers such as Creeping Dark ,Demon 
 Arm and you can summon darklings the open doors and kill dudes. And you can find in game collectables 
 to unlock concept art and other comics such as Witchblade and some of The Darkness comics.
  Hope your satasfied a real Masterpiece worth buying go put some pants on and go buy it ,its worth 
 it man Think about it.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sampagan
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 1:51 am PT
Review:  There really doesn't need to be a lot said about this game that you won't glean from playing the 
 demo. This game is a pleasant surprise for people who expect a lame shooter with tentacles. Even 
 though there are tentacles involved, they're not only evil but they eat human hearts to restore 
 health. How can you pass that up?
  
  The storyline is that Jackie Estacado, a known name in the mob business, is part of a long line 
 of Estacados who were chosen by an evil entity known only as The Darkness to be its host. It is 
 said that The Darkness could see into the future of the Estacado's bloodline and see the evil that 
 would breed in their hearts, and The Darkness feeds off of that evil; that darkness. 
  The Darkness manifests in its hosts as soon as they hit their 21st birthday, and if they have sex 
 at all or pass on their seed that host will die and the Darkness will have to lay in wait in the 
 new host until their 21st birthday. I'm not sure why it has to be 21, perhaps the Darkness wants 
 its host to be of legal drinking age, who knows.
  
  This game doesn't go into the history of this ancient evil until about the middle of the game, 
 so the entire time you're playing until then you're wondering how it came to be, what makes it 
 this way, and how you can defeat it so you can stop listening to Mike Patton's voice growling through 
 your speakers (which is actually very cool, especially when you know that he did the voices without 
 any special effects added.) For fans of the comics, it will be a nice flash-back into the origins 
 of the Darkness but it will also bring something new to the tale as it brings in some of the game 
 elements as well.
  
  This game is better than the comics mostly because you actually get to be the bad guy for a change, 
 and even then the bad guy (Jackie) is still struggling with his morals and the influence that the 
 Darkness has on him. At times, the Darkness will take control in-game to do the things that Jackie 
 won't do and it gets pretty scary to see just how powerful it really is. It's also a bit disappointing 
 that you don't really get to harness that power yourself when you're the one in control, but perhaps 
 that's something to be used for the sequel.
  
  The Darkness game not only boasts quality voice acting, but the graphics are pretty top notch as 
 well. There are no generic wall textures or tiled flooring, every level is unique. When you go 
 to the subway, you believe you're in the subway because one look around will show you the cracked 
 porcelain tile on the walls, the graffiti, the homeless people, the scam artists- everything you'd 
 expect to see in the bad part of an already corrupted city.
  
  Another thing that is to be said about this game is the characters. From the NPCs to the main characters, 
 they all have their own personality. The fine voice acting really brings them out and makes them 
 real. Never in this game do you see or hear the same character twice, everyone plays their role 
 in the game as if they were really going about their own business and not just filler in a game. 
 I love just listening to people talk, the writers made sure lines didn't loop over and over again. 
 Two characters will have five minute long conversations without looping and that's fantastic.
 
  
  Between all of this and all the other stuff that keeps the game interesting- such as the graffiti 
 that was created by actual Swedish graffiti artists- there is nothing but praise for this game. 
 If you're unsure about it, download the free demo and try it out. I dare you not to like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbag
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The Good - 
  - Incredible Graphics
  - Incredible Soundtrack and sfx
  - Voice acting is very well done and the script is excellent
  - Engaging, original and incredibly 
 gritty story of the struggle between good and evil
  - Darkness powers are unique and great fun to use
  - There are a LOT of ways to kill a person
 
  - Collectibles and acheivements add replay value
  - The story is about 20 hours in length and there are a few side missions on top of this
  - Eat 
 the hearts of the fallen to replenish your health
  
  The Bad - 
  - Extra content is uninteresting
  - No Boss Fights
  - Incredibly intrusive auto-aim (but it 
 can be turned off)
  - Guns aren't very useful in comparison with darkness powers 
  - Game is incredibly difficult if you do not use the darkness 
  - Multiplayer is average with 
 only the expected modes
  
  The darkness is a unique experience that you aren't likely to forget for a long time. There are 
 a lot of shooters to pick from, but this offers an experience ulnike any other and you would not 
 regret adding it to your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reeal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness display an amazing care for the voice acting ranging from the dead serious mafia voice 
 to the deadly dark voice of the darkness. Adding all of that with a engaging story that makes you 
 want to play on, really helps a lot too. On the other side the story is based in the big apple! 
 Where are the people?
  
  Game play...
  The Darkness is a interesting first person shooter not because of the guns but because of the darkness 
 power. Having the crawl and stalk a foe then ripping his or her heart out is really enjoyable. 
 The guns is another story. It could have been better to match up with the special darkness power 
 you'll get through out the game. 
  
  Audio/Graphic
  Great graphics & like I said amazing voice acting that will keep you engage... I mean even the 
 loading keeps you engage with the story! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2steak2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  OK The Darkness the goods in The Darkness the game length is reasonably long and its fun roaming 
 the streets the last level would probably be the best level out of all of them its long and is 
 fun because there is lots of cut scenes witch are cool and it has never lagged or glitched up on 
 me before EVER but there is also some bad things in the game like how it could be a little quicker 
 in getting all the ability's with The Darkness and how if u get shot once with any gun whilst you 
 are creeping around as the darkness you go straight back to the character (I sort of forgot the 
 name of the main guy :P ) and as you can tell by now i am just making up lame excuses to write 
 bad about it because there isn't really anything bad about it its actually one of the best games 
 I own there is one thing bad about it though u cant freely roam around the city after you finish 
 the game but apart from that get the game
  
  
  
  p. s could anyone tell me where to find some achievements in the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  The first thing one notices when playing "The Darkness" is the incredibly stylized visual aspect 
 of the game. It seems fair to assume that a game called "The Darkness" would be dark but the game 
 isn't just dark, it's pure darkness. The game starts of in New York City and it's a shock to see 
 every street, corner and alley so gloomy and absent of light, with only a few lamps bursting small, 
 but bright, rays of light. But even those are not warm pleasant lights; they're cold, dry white 
 lights that contrast perfectly with the blackness that surrounds them. The result is similar to 
 the "chiaroscuro" ("lightdark") style photography that will reminisce with anyone who has ever 
 seen a "Film-Noir" or a German expressionist film like "Nosferatu". Though it's a common technique 
 in cinema, this is the first game that actually was able to emulate it on a game (and so many have 
 tried) , and for that fact it must be commended. The way the lighting shapes objects and scenarios 
 is superb, thanks to the quality of the volumetric lighting engine and the sheer detail of the 
 sets. Whether it's the New York subways, with its grayish and slab tones, or the hellish land of 
 the Darkness, engulfed in its dead brown and fiery red, every environment of the game feels unique 
 and organic, pulsating with life and death.
  
  The dark visuals fit perfectly as the counterpart to a story of corruption that transpires in the 
 soul of one man: Jackie Estacado. Jackie is a "wise guy" from a crime family ruled by his Uncle 
 Paulie, and on his 21st birthday, he's possessed by a demon-like being called "The Darkness". Coincidentally, 
 on the same day, his uncle decides to have Jackie killed. "The Darkness" will agree to save Jackie 
 by giving him power, but in return, will demand a significant price to pay. The story is beautifully 
 crafted, filled with fatalism and dread; in a nutshell: it's "The Godfather" meets "Faust". Not 
 a bad combination, is it? And though it's based on a comic book, don't expect a cookie-cutter plot; 
 it's not revolutionary, but it's engaging and deep. Narrative develops through dialogs and cut-scenes 
 where the player has control of the character ("a la" Half-Life 2) ; and this is where "The Darkness" 
 shines really brightly, with character animations bordering life-like, thanks to one of the best 
 motion capturing ever seen in games. Add great voice-acting, and the result is a series of emotionally 
 powerful sequences that actually resonate with the player, and thus give a whole new level of dramatic 
 impact to the plot.
  
  As a FPS, "The Darkness" fares well: it's not groundbreaking, it's not perfect, but it is enjoyable. 
 The main character can use a lot of guns, which feel extremely powerful, thanks to the care given 
 to model and sound design. But apart from the ability to use of some cool finishing moves, gun 
 use feels a bit formulaic and shallow. Adding spice into the mix, are the "darkness" powers that 
 allow the disposal of enemies in a number of "unpleasant" ways. Stick a huge tentacle through your 
 enemies' bowels? Check. Summon a kamikaze imp to blow everything to smithereens? Check. Darkness 
 powers are fun, and do a nice job of adding a touch of dark-humor to the otherwise serious tale. 
 The downfall is that most powers don't seem well implemented, and more than once in a while, their 
 effect will be unpredictable, either because the controls aren't responsive enough, or because 
 the AI just doesn't cut it.
  
  Level Design is ok. Action sequences are balanced and straight-forward, allowing the game to flow 
 smoothly. But, "The Darkness", like the companies' predecessor ("Chronicles of Riddick: Escape 
 from Butcher Bay") also has a few RPG/adventure elements that add variety: speaking to characters, 
 finding collectible items, and performing small quests are just a few of the possibilities. The 
 problem here is that, unlike "Riddick", levels are enormous in size, and usually, have little going 
 on in most of their areas. This means, the aforementioned elements become long and somewhat boring 
 fetch games filled with backtracking . So unlike "Riddick", instead of helping the game, these 
 elements end up hurting it.
  
  Like its "Chiaroscuro", "The Darkness" is game of contrast; on one hand, there's a powerful and 
 moving story, beautifully told through the sights and sounds of the game, and on the other, an 
 uninspired game, that doesn't show the same amount of care and production value as the rest of 
 the package. All in all, it's a great game for those who don't mind suffering some uninspired shooting 
 to appreciate some great artistic design and a cinematic narrative. So if you don't belong in this 
 group, then forget about "The Darkness", but if you do embrace it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Innovation in first person shooters is hard to find. When the basic formula involves the player 
 going from check point to check point and shooting a whole bunch of bad guys in between to move 
 the story along, it makes it hard to find ways to set yourself apart. Most shooters focus on things 
 like improvements in graphics, presentation, AI, and in-game interaction to set themselves apart. 
 Fortunately, The Darkness does all those plus gives the player some supernatural abilities not 
 seen in any other game and packages it up in a very original story. The plot revolves around Jackie 
 Estacado, a mob hitman, and Uncle Paulie, the don of the mob family. Uncle Paulie goes nuts and 
 thinks Jackie is out to get him so he puts a hit out on him. You take control of Jackie to attempt 
 to tear down Uncle Paulie's operation and kill him before he can do the same to you. Along the 
 way you become possessed by The Darkness, an evil force that needs a human host to live on. It 
 seems like The Darkness has chosen and has been using the Estacado family to wreck evil on the 
 world. The Darkness may be evil but it does grant some pretty cool powers to it's host, which fortunately 
 you can use to your advantage in fulfilling your goal to take down Uncle Paulie. This game looks 
 fantastic and plays great, the story is compelling, and The Darkness powers are a whole lot of 
 fun to use. There are some disappointments but they're very minor. Like poor lip syncing during 
 cut scenes, very limited Darkness Powers, and inconsistent enemy AI. Those minor flaws put aside, 
 The Darkness is a must play for any action fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7089
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  If you come into the darkness hoping that it will engulf the entire story and be about nothing 
 but that, you'd be making a mistake. Because most of the game is still about the mafia and Jackie's 
 own plans for his problems in that world. He simply uses the darkness in order to do so. But what 
 is this darkness? It is a magic power that possesses your main character. It lets you control it 
 "most" of the time, but won't let you summon it in uninteresting areas, such as sitting in the 
 subway around unarmed civilians. It also shows you sometimes, in non-pleasant ways, that its the 
 one in charge. These forced features are just one of many great things The Darkness offers you. 
 Every game limits you in some way, and in the ways this game limits you, it always manages to do 
 so in an interesting way. But the story is Grade A, and although the traveling may get a little 
 repetitive in the game, the story, suspense, and anticipation of whats coming next is more than 
 enough to take the edge off.
  
  Just like the story, don't expect The Darkness to replace your combat either. It is more of an 
 addon than anything else. Its still a shooter and you'll spend most of your time doing just that. 
 Still, its fun to impale someone with a demon arm while you are reloading, or send out the worm 
 to knock out a few from that annoying pile up of soldiers around the corner that keeps killing 
 you. The guns aren't more than you'd expect from a shooter, pistils you can dual shoot, SMGs you 
 can dual shoot, several machine guns, and a shotgun. You'll find yourself switching often due to 
 ammo shortages if you keep to one for too long though, its best to loot most enemies for more ammo.
 
  
  One area the game falls short is at its attempted use of minions. These little critters that you 
 can summon are next to worthless. They tend to vanish randomly as you move around, with no warning 
 or notice unless you see them poof on your screen. If you sit and watch one, it'll never vanish, 
 proof that it isn't timed. But run around, and it poofs for some reason. So you'll charge into 
 combat thinking you have their support only to notice they are suddenly no where to be found. They 
 tend to get lost most of the time, with or without your redirection input. You'll summon them over 
 and over, only to have them vanish randomly most of the time. The times you can actually get them 
 into combat pays off, as they do a good job of distracting enemies and even killing some of them. 
 But you won't put them to much use, its frustrating summoning them over and over since they don't 
 want to stay out, and then get stuck everywhere in the environment. Stairs, open doorways, tight 
 hallways, you name it, they'll get stuck or confused. It falls like a tacked on and little-effort-went-into 
 system, why is their pathing so terrible? Why do they vanish randomly? Why do they not listen to 
 you so much?
  
  An even bigger failure for the game is its multiplayer. On paper it looks decent, but lack of bots 
 setup another game for its failure. (When I looked, there was a grant total of 2 ppl online in 
 1 game) It could be worse, and it is, because there's no balance between Humans and Darklings. Unlike 
 the great game AVP, here the Aliens do next to no damage, and can't even outrun the Humans while 
 they backstrafe shooting you to death. You can pounce forward, but it doesn't stun them even if 
 you do hit them, so its impossible to stay on someone to do any damage. And why do the Humans suddenly 
 have power ups they can grab to heal unlike the great singleplayer? Wheres the slow autoregen that 
 should be here to prevent them from instant healing and not dying? Why is armor even here? Fail, 
 Fail, Fail, hit the company with a stick. You'll spend no time playing this dead and failed multiplayer, 
 it'd have been better if it wasn't part of the game.
  
  The Storyplayer shines through on the package, being the star of the deal and the money maker. 
 It is suspenseful, and has a perfect blend of action, great voice overs from Jackie and any other 
 character for that matter. The game looks and sounds like a star, regardless of whether or not 
 you like that annoying darkness voice. But in some areas you'll talk to what seems like the same 
 people due to having the same voice or face. 
  
  There are some peaceful scenes or moments to break momentum and give you some time to think. And 
 you better to use that time to do so as well, because side quests are another tacked on feature, 
 some of them tend to bug and cannot be completed without a restart of the quest or entire game 
 itself. Its also hard to remember where to go for them or anything for that matter, things tend 
 to get written down in this game, but it doesn't catch everything, so you better remember yourself. 
 The good news is that all the side quests are skippable, if you don't want to bother, you don't 
 have to, there is no reward; other than that happy feeling in your heart. Another thing that may 
 punch you is performance, during a "few" moments in the game, the frame rate will bog down, and 
 I mean on my 360. I'd say it makes up less than 5% of the game, so you may even not notice, but 
 I did. It happens in areas with too much night vision glow or grass. It was annoying, but the second 
 you leave the area you get over it.
  
  I give a hug to games that I play that put that Mature rating to actual use, and this game really 
 does. It isn't there for looks, there's a whole lot of blood to be found here.
  
  For 20$ this game is a bargain, just stick to its single player, unless you want to host a Gimp 
 Perfect Dark with no bots and wait hours for opponents. If you want multiplayer, this isn't the 
 game.
  
  Single player: 
  (Experience) A (Good)
  Presentation: 
  (Video/Audio) A (Good)
  Performance: B (Acceptable)
  Multiplayer: F (Fail) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RecklessSplash
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The difficulty is just right and the story line is very compelling. Graphics are great on both 
 PS3 and xBox360, sometimes it might be too dark or gory. All AI is great and they provide a challenge 
 if you up the difficulty. Sometimes it gets to easy because the target gets locked on to people's 
 heads. I hope they make a sequel. Multiplayer is not so great because no one every plays anymore 
 and it didn't really have any modes to play on at all. I would buy the game. 9.0/10
  (The difficulty is just right and the story line is very compelling. Graphics are great on both 
 PS3 and xBox360, sometimes it might be too dark or gory. All AI is great and they provide a challenge 
 if you up the difficulty. Sometimes it gets to easy because the target gets locked on to people's 
 heads. I hope they make a sequel. Multiplayer is not so great because no one every plays anymore 
 and it didn't really have any modes to play on at all. I would buy the game. 9.0/10) FILLER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mishaboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is a really great game. It has great graphics and everything looks good. It has a decent 
 amount of space. What sucks about that is that sometimes its hard to figure out where to go. The 
 story is really interesting. All of the action in the game is really fun. The game has some funny 
 things, but for the most part, the game is very dark and serious. The game isnt really short but 
 it isnt the longest game either. Its worth every dollar it costs, which isnt very much. Any fan 
 of action should definitely buy it. The game is mostly an easy game but there is a few parts that 
 are a little bit hard. It's really fun using the powers that you get. graphics-9/10
  gameplay-10/10
  story-9.5/10 i didn't like the ending
  replay value-8/10
  
  the bottom 
 line is that this game is definitely worth buying. It's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja_of_ninja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  basically i saw a game were u kill people with a good story line and u have a demon or something 
 living in you that can kill people and eat hearts for power. your a guy called jack brought up 
 to kill people and u make a mistake and the person who raised u wants to kill u. and guess what 
 he dose to piss u off, kills your girlfriend wow who saw that coming and your demon thing stops 
 u from saving her so u kill your self but no u go to hell see your grate grandfather and go back.
 
  
  i like the graphics, sound nearly all of it but it didn't appeal to me i felt some thin was missing 
 from the game but cant put my finger on it but good game no the less
  
  it reminded me of condemned as far as i can see and a very bad map system it can get frustrating 
 at times try to finger out were u are but good game good games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved this game. From the smack in the face like intense & brutal opening to the victory 
 over your main enemy that will have you punching the air, its one hell of a thrill ride.
  
  First of all the backstory. You control a guy called Jackie that lived in an orphanage as a kid, 
 who then gets adopted & brought up by a mafia family. I dont want to spoil any of it, but something 
 happens & you end up chasing the head guy of the mafia down. However he has help with this, Jackie 
 has inherited something off his family called The Darkness. Its basicaly like another character 
 or demon within him & it means he can sprout 2 Demon heads out of his body & loads of sharp tentacles. 
 It sounds ridiculous but its actualy handled in such a brilliant way that I never really found 
 it odd or questioned it.
  
  But my God, its an evil little thing. The first cut-scene where you find out about The Darkness 
 is one of the most brutal & cool scenes ive ever seen. The heads can extend & slide aong the floor 
 (this is one of its powers you can use but more on this later) & buildings like a cross between 
 a snake & a spider. the camera follows it & you'll see it bit half of somones face & tear out other 
 peoples necks. Its so horrible, yety cool at the same time. 
  
  In fact all the story scenes & cut-scenes are brilliantly done. The voice acting & dialogue is 
 superb, easily some of the best in a game ive ever played. The story is one you may have heard 
 before quite a few times, but because of 2 particular, incredibly powerful scenes. I doubt you'll 
 have ever cared so much & I doubt you'll have ever connected with your main character & his task 
 so much in a game, ever. Even with the strange Darkness powers. It really will pull you in by the 
 jugular & you'll be just as eager to carry out the task as Jackie is. Even the loading screens 
 are brilliant. Each one hidden by a little story from Jackie, each one entertaining. Although they 
 do sometimes repeat. You can also use phones in & ring numbers from the game world & some have 
 honestly made me laugh out loud. Very rare in a game. 
  
  The Darkness also carries its own consciences & therefore, motivations & reasons for helping Jackie. 
 He's a different character in its own right. You can hear its thoughts (which are damn creepy & 
 have a brilliant voice actor BTW) & when you have the two heads out, they carry a real personality. 
 Fighting with each other & snapping the air with their huge teeth around enemies. You can also 
 control little Darklings that come out of holes in the ground. Even these are full of personality 
 & charm. They are little playful things that wil kick about dead bodies & even urinate on them. 
 Full of great one liners too. 
  
  The connection to the game world is also superb. Its a FPS, but unlike others where you're just 
 a floating gun. In this you ar an actual characer, with legs & everything. Its a small touch that 
 adds quite a lot as it makes your movement around the game world that much more realistic. Its 
 even full of neat little touches & animations such as holding the gun up at walls & poking them 
 round corners as you are walking round them. Its all so natural & fluid. In the end it makes it 
 one ofthe most immersive & atmospheric games you could hope to play. 
  
  Next the Darkness powers. Now I'll only explain the ones you start with as the others are just 
 exciting to find & experience for yourself & I dont want to ruin it. But you start off with one 
 where you can extend one of the heads & it can scope out the landscape & enemies as well as jumping 
 up & tearing their throat out with the touch of a button. You can also scale walls which is a nice 
 touch & adds a layer of vertical depth to the game. However there are some invisible walls, which 
 is understandable but disappointing nonetheless. When the heads are out, it also grants you with 
 a shield & can repair wounds which is a novel way of explaining why Jackie can take so many bullets 
 & heal. If you havent got the heads out in combat you'll die much quicker. But you can only call 
 on the Darkness if its, well, dark. So its a good idea to shoot out street lights before engaging 
 in a fire fight. 
  
  The guns are also very satisfying to use. All apart from the pistol, really shake up the screen, 
 caryry massive recoil & can be disorientating to use. Just how they should be for your average 
 Joe. With Darkness powers.... Well you get what I mean. 
  
  However there are a few problems that stop it getting full marks. The biggest of which is the scenery. 
 Theres just not much variety. The main 'hub' as such is set in an underground subway station. You 
 will have to visit this [i] a lot [/i] & it does get a bit tedious. Also the overground bits are 
 mostly set in the streets of a very dark & very real - ie boring - city. All areas are set out 
 different & have different names but the look is almost identical to the last. Now this is realistic 
 & is part of the tone of the game & what helps it be so immersive. But that doesnt stop it becoming 
 quite dull. You also have to back track & visit the same areas many times. Again, it fits in with 
 the story & I understand why, but it is a problem. 
  
  But dont let any of that stop you buying the game. These really are small, insignificant problems 
 that only stop it getting full marks, but dont stop it being a fabulous game. While your playing 
 the you wont really mind anyway, you'll be toi immersed & enjoying yourself too much. 
  
  A very powerful & brilliant experience. Recommended to anyone that likes bit more to their games 
 other than blasting the crap out of anything that moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmullen666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Going into this game I did not expect anything new or original. I played it for about 3 hours and 
 pretty much got sucked into the visuals and gameplay. The game is not Gears of War perfect, but 
 it is very detailed and huge. The gameplay is a normal first-person-shooter with a few additions 
 of demonic intentions.... normally that wouldn't go together, but this is an exception. I ran through 
 the beginning and have to start over to completely know what is going on with The Darkness powers 
 and why this guy was chosen.... i just rushed to get in it.... not watching the cut-scenes. The presentation 
 is very good and starts off fast and gets flowing early. Sounds, Music and lighting effects are 
 a big surprise... and very nicely done. The game to let anyone that don't know... is very violent.... NOT 
 FOR KIDS. Now that's out the way.... The game's multi-player due to my internet connection runs 
 smooth and has some good gun play.... a few hick-ups in the rooms, but I'm saying my router wasn't 
 running perfect.... try it again tonight. The game to my is a solid buy over-all. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RJtheShadow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  For starters, the story is fascinating.
  You should get the game just for that.
  It grabs you by your head, slams you in your seat, pulls its slimy tentacle to your head and forces 
 you to watch.
  And it won't feel an inch of resistance...
  
  THATS how the story is to me.
  From the moment Jackie discovers, to where Jenny dies.
  All 
 the time I have hoped to see Jenhy back, alive.
  I got halfly satisfied on that, but its worth it.
  
  Gameplay is solely fps.
  Which can be 
 irritating if youre doing a longer distance.
  (for example, to the docks, you pass through a neighbourhood you've probably seen more then five 
 times by then)
  Aiide that irritation, its all good.
  
  The powers of the Darkness are moving.
  And each of the four tricks (actually three, but you'll 
 see why)
  are special in their own way.
  Personal favorite: the tentacle.
  Glad I didn't need to spend more bullets on shooting out lights. ^^
  
  The game's gun feel 
 loose.
  Whereas I would try and save up in other game,
  here I njoyed the pistols to the max.
  Not shy to use the other ones. Not to forget that you 
 can keep stocking ammo as long as you want.
  Sometimes switching gun to fit the situation, but mostly The Darkness would fill that gap.
  
 
  Not a big replay value, unless you want to fill gaps you mightve missed before.
  And achievements of course.
  
  By now it'll be at a cheaper price, THE moment to buy it, people. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXChronopolis
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  I dont know why im going to put this out there now, but after purchasing my xbox, I was incredibly 
 hyped to play vast amounts of amazing games but I was disappointed. Overall there were some good 
 games like Gun and Hitman: BM but mostly bad (Tony Hawks Proving Ground... wow) . But then I stumbled 
 upon this beauty, except that wasnt my first impression.
  
  I saw my friend playing this one day and I thought to myself, Wow what a horrible and cheesy looking 
 game. But I decided to try it out myself. What I first noticed was the inability to run faster. 
 Secondly, I despised the aiming system and the difficulty of the AI (My friend was playing on hard 
 mode, which I learned later.)
  
  So time passed I didnt think much of it. Then months later I saw it sitting there and I asked my 
 friend "Why havent you returned this for 5$ or used it as kindling?" He told me to give it a chance 
 and let me borrow it. I was not expecting to be so amazed.
  
  After playing the first part again on hard, because I thought I could, I got mad again but put 
 it down a notch onto Normal and voila, that was all that I needed. Although still somewhat hard, 
 it let me fully appreciate the game and the storyline as I was finally able to pass the first part 
 of the game. After the first few hours I was hooked. Once immersed into the storyline, theres no 
 turning back. It was filled to the brim with an infuriating darkness which left you on the edge 
 of your seat, petrified and at the same time it got to you emotionally, sympathizing for our protagonist. 
 I learned to appreciate the controls and the aiming system after a few tweaks in the options. One 
 major setback, apart from some minor glitches, was the ending. The last boss was easy peasy and 
 once again, like I find with many games, it left me hanging, wanting for more. Now looking back, 
 I still wonder what is to become of our hero.
  
  Overall this game was amazing and everything I expected it not to be. I always like to comment 
 on the achievements and use them as a deciding factor in whether to rent or buy the game but this 
 time, I would say this is a definite buy no matter what. By now it cant be too much and even if 
 it was still 60$, it would be well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShockSplicer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is, quite simply, a beautiful game. I'm not just talking about the graphics here (although 
 they are excellent) , it is the game itself. Everything about the game is just perfect. The gameplay 
 is definately unique, and probably not for everyone, but it works. The story takes a unique twist 
 on the old revenge story, and has solid voice acting to boot. One of the few problems that I experienced 
 was that the main character, Jackie, often fails to move his lips in accordance with his dialogue, 
 but this is only a minor blemish. A beautiful story, brilliant and emotional characters and thoroughly 
 enjoyable gameplay make this a great game for the ages.
  
  Length: About 8-10 Hours long, but you'll want to play again.
  
  Graphics: 9 Nice, Gritty realistic 
 visuals
  
  Sound:9 Solid voice acting
  
  Story: 10 Truly amazing
  
  Gameplay: 9 Lots of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xprimentyl
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  What's to say about my experience with The Darkness? It was like finding a bloody $20 bill in my 
 winter coat pocket after a scorching Summer season; it was a great and gruesome discovery that 
 I really wasn't expecting.
  
  I picked up the Darkness from a local Game Stop's 50%-off bargain bin for about $5 expecting little 
 more than some easy achievements. I remembered the game getting hyped up pre-release and almost 
 immediately witnessing a price drop. I remembered seeing scads of this title lining the "Used" 
 shelves everywhere. I couldn't remember any of my friends saying anything about the game; I knew 
 no one who'd even played it. I just KNEW it sucked. But it was only $5, right?
  
  Long-story-short: $5 was an absolute steal for this game; truly a must-have, IMHO.
  
  The Darkness 
 puts you behind the eyes of one Jackie Estacado, a young Mafioso upstart who, on his 21st birthday, 
 is gifted with the knowledge that he harbors a maniacally evil demon-esque creature inside of him 
 which goes by the name of (and survives on) the Darkness. The initial root of the story is Jackie 
 trying to make heads or tails of his crime world which he's found himself running from, but through 
 it all, he's relying on his new found "powers" which allow him to control the Darkness in a myriad 
 of violently grotesque fashions ranging from a snake-like extension of the Darkness that creeps 
 out and bites off the faces of its victims to summoning Darklings, hilariously vile demon creatures 
 that basically wreak havoc at Jackie's command.
  
  As an FPS, The Darkness fails, just as a strawberry fails at being a grape: it's not bad, just 
 different and GREAT in it's own right. I found that I all but eschewed the guns in favor of the 
 Darkness powers which are a complete blast to use. The actual gun mechanics are pretty straight 
 forward, but are a bit wonky; it's fairly evident that the Darkness was the intended focus. The 
 Darkness powers are too much fun to use and most involve an amount of gore that borders on absurd, 
 but strangely enough stays within believability. Let's just say snatching out the hearts of your 
 victims and eating them on the spot (lips and teeth gnashing) shocks at first, then satisfies greatly 
 even after the 300th time!
  
  The story is amazingly engrossing. It's nothing 'new' per se, but as it is told relatively modernly 
 with this different "arcane evil" spin, it's a brand new flavor and extremely interesting. I found 
 myself sucked in by the environments and the people, especially the dynamic between Jackie and 
 his love interest Jenny. Honestly, the first encounter with her is a great gaming moment. I won't 
 ruin it, but it will either turn some gamers away as a pointless diversion or it will suck you 
 in and you will identify with Jackie and stake a vested interest in the way the game plays out. 
 I was of the latter school and I'm glad for it.
  
  The environment is a limited sandbox essentially; you'll be constrained (mostly...) to a few city 
 blocks, commuting via a subway system around which the tale will unfold. The people don't really 
 bring the world to life, but their artificiality makes for a disturbingly eerie world at times. 
 Still, the music is haunting, the voice acting fantastic and the details put into every nook and 
 cranny are hard NOT to appreciate. The graffiti was done by actual graffiti artists and transposed 
 into the game. A personal highlight for me are the few TVs scattered throughout that show actual 
 programs: music videos, movies, cartoons and TV shows, etc. I don't know how long they go on before 
 repeating, but I know I sat and watched a solid 5 minutes of a REAL movie through the eyes of one 
 Jackie Estacado! Even the load screens: instead of samey, generic still shots or rotating designs, 
 you're privy to short sequences of pertinent dialogue from the lips of Estacado recalling his youth 
 or explaining his motivation for the upcoming sequence of events.
  
  When all is said and done, The Darkness is a great game and an amazing experience worthy of the 
 attention of any gamer, from the most casual to the most hardcore; the story is deep and involving 
 and the action fast, furious and bloody. Easily one of my favorite purchases I've made for my 360 
 in a long while and one I'm already looking forward to taking on again! Enjoy your own inner demon...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rated-R-83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is one hell of a great game. I really enjoyed the story and how the plot kept thickening 
 the further you advanced in the game. The arsenal of weapons is average, but still suit their purpose. 
 The Darkness itself has some rather interesting and unique kind of weapons. My favorite would have 
 to be the black hole because it helps you out in some of the tough situations throughout the game. 
 The little darklings add a comedic aspect 2 this game in a very gory way mind you. The graphics 
 of the game are very well put together especially the scenery. The level structure really captures 
 the subway system and streets of new York, but I love the WWII levels. Fighting the zombie Nazi 
 its to much fun. To be honest this game would look great on the big screen. The voice actors are 
 really cool because they're not nobodies. They're people you've heard of in the movies or television. 
 All in all this is a very well put together game. It's not the best, but it's definitely up there. 
 I recommend everyone check this game out because it's definitely a sleeper. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckE_Cheese
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Good: 
  i was going to rate darkness as 85, but i realized that there are much more to it than meets the 
 eye. did you ever feel pissed whenever you play a horror related game where you blow up monster 
 and demons to smithereens, it scared the **** out of you because it may jumped out of nowhere from 
 the dark corner, closet, graveyard to chew your head of.. well,, in darkness you are the demon, 
 you are the boogeyman, you are the one that scare the hell of people and rip their hearts off. what's 
 cooler than that?? huh? huh? plus jackie is so coool.. its not everyday you get to meet a chill 
 mafia dude with tentacles and eels in his back. voice actings are great, graphics nice to look at, sadistic 
 capacity is greusome enough
  
  Bad:
  the game is a bit easy though, cos you have these tentacles that protect you, leaving you almost 
 invincible in the dark. but that is our privilege as a demon right? 
  
  Overall:
  I especially love the part where jackie give his testimonials and get to share his feelings and 
 thoughts. his badboy act is likeable. darkness had sucessfully catch the theme of the genre. demon 
 powers are fun, satisfying, and fun to look at 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is at a glance your typical Mafia drama story, of course that's only a glance. As 
 a child Jackie grew up an orphan and quickly became friends with Jenny, this obviously becomes 
 the stories love interest. When Jackie was adopted in his early teens he and Jenny were torn apart, 
 his adopting father being who he now calls Uncle Paulie. Paulie didn't adopt him because he wanted 
 a kid though, no Paulie is pure Mafia family and because of this felt if he raised a kid with the 
 intention of making him a mafia hit man he'd grow up to be the best and this as it turns out is 
 true. The Darkness comes from Starbreeze, the developer of Escape From Butcher Bay; naturally I 
 had high expectations of The Darkness before I even purchased it. Unfortunately, I never really 
 got around to playing The Darkness until recently. The gameplay also shines in many respects. The 
 shooting is solid and the game never feels unfair, albeit there are a few frustrating checkpoint 
 issues. There are plenty of guns to keep the player occupied and the Darkness Powers are a blast 
 to use. Aside from the main missions, Jackie has some downtime that can be spent doing unique side-missions 
 in New York's subway stations. Dark, Brutal, Gloomy, heartfelt, are all words that describes my excellent 
 experience with The Darkness and the game itself. is a very different game to start with. it is 
 not the usual fps games we get to play. this one has a whole new way of combat and a lot of new 
 things to offer. the action is way different and can be only felt and understood by playing the 
 game. the graphics is top notch, some marvellous touch to every detail of what environments the game 
 offers, superb lighting, very vivid details which is very well suited to the tone and manner of the 
 game, weapons are nothing special although the shooting is fun and gory.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: quietguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  Dumping you right into the gist of it, The Darkness opens with a moving scene that transitions 
 the player to more, diverse varieties of scenic scenarios, scripted beautifully in ways that makes 
 this game seem like a story book etched in elaborate venues of black ink.
  
  You play as Jackie Estacado, a former hitman who's life just turned 21, is now seeking desperate 
 survival after a failed "retrieval" has drawn the wrath of a ruthless Uncle Paulie out for blood. 
 Eventually the plot thickens with allures of betrayal and vengeance, bringing you will to over 
 8 different locations within the city of New York. While avoiding or devouring the hearts (literally) 
 of Mafia hitmen or corrupted Cops pouring in to bring you down, you're typical tasks will indulge 
 in sabotaging operations & eliminating key individuals essential to Uncle Paulie's phase of operations.
 
  
  Whether by ingenuity or guns ablazing, The Darkness will play out just as any typical shooters 
 out on the market. The key differences are that the combat systems has been adapted to retro-fit 
 dual style shooting. With respective L & R trigger functions corresponding to the hands vice versa; 
 Backed up by a flexible aiming module that allows gunfights to occur behind obstacles or around 
 tight corners. Also assisting the system is a semi-auto aiming system that will allow the player 
 to ease through difficult gunfights from hip point. If the player also wanted to do things manually, 
 manual aiming also has been included to include precision shots.
  
  The player will also be provide with an inventory of guns to play with, each standardized according 
 to their class. From dual pistols to assault rifles, even shotguns are included for that close 
 range blast, you're given a range of weapon choices to carry out your entourage of mayhem. But 
 damage aspects and conventional weapons unfortunately does very little to outgun the en-mass of 
 cops and mafia men that surrounds you.
  
  That's where the darkness comes in. A breathing, living entity of death and suffering, that inhibits 
 Jackie's head and can control the actions of the player at certain plot points within the game, 
 over 90% of the game's combat will rely on this "thing". The Darkness provides a slew of tactical 
 options a normal human being could not have, from gunfire shield to a block hole power that will 
 suck enemies into a black ball of death and fling them across a room afterwards. You'll also be 
 able to unlock a demonic arm to impale your enemies and a pair of guns that feed off the power 
 of the darkness to slay your enemies with in the event conventional weaponry fail to thwart off 
 threats. Another invaluable tool includes a snakelike appendage that acts as an extension of the 
 main player but yet leaves the player unharmed to physical damage as it can scout areas, and even 
 eliminates enemies or act as a retrieve unit for items unreachable. 
  
  Unfortunately for the player however, the darkness has limitations that keeps Jackie from becoming 
 a dark walking God machine of death. For instance, where as there is darkness, there is also the 
 light: an environmental preset that will strip you of your dark powers and leave the player vulnerable 
 if left exposed for too long. Also, the player also has a limitation to how much dark energy must 
 be expended before reverting back to human form; but thankfully, you can pop out the light bulbs 
 and create your own dark place to regenerate expended powers.
  
  Thrown into the mix is the ability to draw up minions from the dark world and have them assist 
 you in any type of situation. Though there are relatively few instances where darklings are essential 
 to complete rare puzzle sequences in the game, most of the time they will endure their roles as 
 support units or fledging melee attackers. Like wise, these darkling minions also dependent on 
 darkness for sustenance, else frequent exposure to light sources will make their stay in the physical 
 shortwhile. However, despite some residual assistance against hostiles, only one darkling can be 
 summoned at a time and even then they cannot follow you everywhere within the world boundaries. 
 To even make this worse, the same AI deficiencies that plagues the enemy AI also leaves their marks 
 untouched among your spawned minions. Sometimes they'll stand still during a gunfight, other times 
 they may run in circles with a broken pathfind; leaving another area of the game experience undesired.
 
  
  There are also more oddities that may or may not mar this game & the high quality content that 
 it delivers. For an example, citizens will not go screaming or panicking in quips of great fear 
 when you display your powers in plain light; Or the fact that enemies will often prefer to hang 
 at a distance, not run away by chance, and put holes in you even though there are moments in the 
 game that they acknowledge the darkness that the protagonist carries inside. This makes the world 
 theme of having a great and dark power confusing and dislodged proportionate to the game world. 
 Also there are tangible camera issues when it came to answering the phone or character interaction, 
 placing the view frame at the most awkward or convoluted angles that just sprays the game of jiffy.
 
  
  All is not lost since The Darkness also includes a rich batch of side quests and unlockables that 
 will keep you entertained for the duration of the single player experience & out of it. From compelling 
 characters to sips of comic or illustrated concepts, the incoming contents unlocked, or characters 
 with their own problematic backgrounds keeps the experience up and going till it has been milked 
 thoroughly.
  
  To append an even greater shine is the grade "A" voice acting that graces this game. Even making 
 the characters look like real human beings living in a bleak world, or the mafia hitmen look like 
 the real deal reminiscent of the Godfather. Not does Jackie have the looks of the tough and quiet 
 but he also have the heart of one; Even the sub-characters have a *bleep*ing heart. Though I lament 
 to say that a minor lip synch problem may irrefutably mar these great works of voice acting, it 
 is bearable if one wish to ignore the glued teeths or stiff upper lips.
  
  Despite high quality single player entertainment, The Darkness fails to address it's multiplayer 
 contingency. Plagued by player latency issues where one is affected, they're all affected, and 
 over a period of time can be overwhelming during a frantic battle where powers are being thrown 
 left and right in chaotic fashion. But within local ranks, it can add more enjoyment to an 8 way 
 party.
  
  Now how can we forget about the glazed candies that makes this game look like a glorified cupcake? 
 From a standard visual representation point: the graphics has been superbly balanced to allow for 
 a rich overall mapping and texturing of an empty Manhattan streets filled with layers of graffiti 
 & dirt, grime, or blood to sate the hunger of the adrenaline'ly challenged, and run with the smoothest 
 frames, smooth enough you can read the billboards without worrying of an eye twitch. Even better, 
 you'll wonder how many combinations of phone numbers you can place into the telephone while being 
 able to actually read it.
  
  The unique blend that The Darkness mixes together like coffee introduces a great way to play game. 
 With a injected richness of characters combined with the believability of a taunting inner darkness, 
 the overall gameplay can be very enjoyable on a single player run if the cracks in multiplayer 
 is too much to bare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhh34c
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  The game in my honest opinion is fantastic and I will explain why. Keep in mind I am not that far 
 into the game but I will do my best. 
  
  Graphics- Ok now this is where I think the game really shines. The look and feel of the city around 
 you just feels right and has that New York style feel to it. The subway area for example just seems 
 really in place here. Instead of being clean you are shown a gritty area with graffiti (maybe a 
 little to much but it works) . Also the character models look fantastic. Whenever you get into a 
 conversation with some one you have a bit of freedom on the camera control meaning that with some 
 close up shots you can really see the detail in the character models. The streets themselves are 
 also very pretty to look at but you start to feel like you are moving around the same environment 
 every time you are about to enter a fight (been in three big street fights) . I am hoping that things 
 really change as the game progresses (environment wise) . Yet the one thing I love most about the 
 graphics is that they give you a feeling like you are in a movie and when you play through the 
 opening of the game you will know why I say this. 
  
  On top of that add some great animations and you have a great looking game (can anyone say execution 
 moves) . Plus just watching the snakeheads when you are just standing there doing nothing is quite 
 funny. For example the one snakehead that always devours the heart from dead bodies always gets 
 a really angry look from the other snakehead as to why it can't have the heart. Just watching the 
 two almost fight each other is really funny. Also the Darklings add so much to this game. Not only 
 do they look some what like a mutated dog/something else but they do have different outfits that 
 they wear. One Darkling that I had was naked and did my bidding but once it died I went to summon 
 one just like it and got one the came out with a machete and a scottish cap. What else can I say 
 but that to really understand what I am talking about you have to play this game for yourself. 
 
  
  Also the animation for the mouths aren't the best. Jackie (the guy you play as) is kind of distracting 
 up close because you expect to really see the mouth moving when he talks but you see him talk almost 
 as whispering. Oh and another thing I like is that instead of loading screens you are shown these 
 little sequences that show Jackie saying something or doing something with his guns. Also the reflection 
 of you in the mirror with the "Darkness" power activated makes you look pretty bad a**. 
  
  Oh and when you are in the subway station and hear hip hop music walk to that areamake sure to 
 give put some money in the box and you won't be disappointed. 
  
  
  Sound- Another great thing about what this game has to offer. This game has the most variety of 
 sounds than any other game I have played. I mean everywhere you go you hear something new whether 
 it comes from one of your Darklings, the many enemies, or a person in the subway area. Also much 
 of what you hear has a comedic type spin to it and that really isn't a bad thing. What else can 
 I saythe sound is great in this game. Oh and make sure you pick up the collectibles scattered 
 around the world because they act as phone numbers that you call and each one has something funny 
 to say. The emergency hot line is the best so far.
  
  Lastly 
  Gameplay- Since I am not that far into the game I really can't give a final score but I can give 
 a score based upon what I have done so far. Ok so this aspect of the game is actually really simple 
 as you have three options of attacking the enemy (so far) . One is by shooting the enemy with the 
 guns that they drop. Now this is of course the simple way to get things done but what makes this 
 extra special is when you get close to an enemy and press your right trigger. What then happens 
 is you pull off what is called an execution move or kill if you may and this really stands out 
 as something that is just insanely cool to do. Want to feel like a bad ass just shoot a guy in 
 the kneecap and when he/she wobbles up pull that right trigger and watching as you gruesomely get 
 rid of them. 
  
  Second means of attack is by your Darklings and here is simple as they attack ANYONE whether it 
 be an enemy or a friendly. What makes this fun is the different ways in which your Darklings dispatch 
 of the enemy. Just wait till you see what the darkling with the machete will do to the enemies. 
 
  
  Lastly the snakehead and this one I can see being used the farther you get into the game. The only 
 reason I say that is because the snakehead doesn't take any damage from bullets and this makes 
 for an easy kill when all you have to do is press the right trigger when close to an enemy and 
 then you have an instant kill. Not saying this is a bad thing as you do need to take out the lights 
 first if you want your snakehead to travel some distance. 
  
  Besides that the enemy AI is not that bad. They constantly run for cover and look around corners 
 to check where you are. Besides that they also run to other guys in the area so that if you chase 
 them you may be very much surrounded when you catch up to them. Another thing that I like about 
 this game is the fact that everything seems to have a realistic weight about it. Characters move 
 around the environment realistically and you yourself are not the fastest person in the world but 
 I think that helps bring you more into this character you are playing as. You won't run and it 
 seems as if you are running on air but that you are actually stepping on the ground in the world. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniak4life
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  This game really came in under the radar and i wasn't even aware of it until a friend recommended 
 it to me. At first glance i must admit it seemed like another shooter, however the minute i started 
 playing it i realised this would be something special... the graphics are crisp, clean and shiny 
 whilst the atmosphere still manages to give off an air of unease. The game itself sucks you in 
 from the get-go and immerses you in a fantastic story that is moer original then 90% of shooters 
 out there. However, this isn't just a shooter, and as soon as the monster mechanics were introduced 
 the game the became 10 times as fun. I must admit however, that the enviroments are very samey, 
 as are the enemys, as are the guns, as are the cheesy one liners, and the monster mechanic does 
 become drawn out as it becomes more of a chore eating all the hearts, however the monster animations 
 are fantastic, as are the physics.
  
  Overall, The Darkness is a flawed gem, that with a bit more thought, could be one of the best shooters 
 on XBOX360. If the flaws are ironed out and the developers but a bit more substance in the locations 
 and weapons The Darkness 2 could have the possibility to be amazing.
  
  Good:
  
  Fantastic story that draws you in and doesn't let up.
  Great characters with wicked script and 
 voice acting.
  Shiny, crisp graphics.
  Brilliant atmosphere.
  Good physics.
  
  Bad:
  
  Shooting & monster mechanics do become more of a chore.
  Samey enviroments and scenarios.
 
  Too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  I went to Gametop recently to reserve Fable 2 and saw that they had The Darkness at a discounted 
 price, only $17.00! I ate it up immediately, mainly because I loved the Demo.
  
  The Darkness stars Jackie Estacado, a gangster who works for his Uncle Paulie. Today is Jackie's 
 20th birthday and Paulie leaves him a present of a bomb, Jackie escapes and then dicovers that 
 there is an ancient evil known only as The Darkness. Which allows Jackie to ravage his assailants 
 with crazy powers like impaling them with a Demon Arm and suking them up in a miniature Black Hole. 
 The darkness is a power that only wants 1 thing, domination. And for this to happen, Jackie needs 
 to become so twisted that it can take over him. In the course of the game you'll go from the grungy 
 subways of New York to the dank back alleys all the way DOWN to the pits of Hell itself. The Darkness 
 features some truly grotesque scenes. Such as the demon heads that appear when you manifest the 
 Darkness devouring human hearts to people getting their Gray Matter spread against the wall behind 
 them thanks to an M16 being shoved into their mouths by Jackie. The game also features some pretty 
 entertaining humor in the form of these little notes called Collectibles. Each one has a Phone 
 Number that you can call and listen to a humorous phone call. There are however some points in 
 the game that keep it from being perfect where the game presents you with a situation and does 
 not properly explain what to do. However after some trial and error you can get through these. 
 The game isn't exactly hard but it isn't easy so I'd say its pretty good on difficulty. The multiplayer 
 can either be really fun or really bad. It all depends on the game mode, latency of the server 
 and the players themselves. Some servers are super laggy, some have unbalanced game modes, and 
 some are really fun to play on.
  
  Over all The Darkness is a really fun game that I'd reccomend to anyone who is a fan of gore, FPS 
 games, or of dark games with a rather engrossing story. My final score 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterarbider
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  While the game is very compelling and ripping out peoples hearts never really gets old, there are 
 some flaws. The game is very long and the AI gets really annoying, the online multiplayer is ok 
 but could be better and the story is very long and pointless really.
  
  One of those games where the main character does really stupid thiings and always makes the wrong 
 decisions and leaves you yelling at him, you will also get pretty anoyed with how long the game 
 is.
  
  The game does have some good features though, the combat is pretty good and using your demon powers 
 is pretty fun, not to mention darklings, the game plays best on medium difficulty.
  
  All-in-all though i think that they could have put in a little more effort like better multiplayer 
 or more guns. I personally feel that the game is worth the 9.0 and hopefully the next game will 
 be a perfect 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drd85
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Another classic from Starbreeze studios who brought us the awesome Chronicles of Riddick: Escape 
 from Butcher Bay. Sad I couldn't play CoREFBB I picked this one up. I was strange at first but 
 I really got into it. The story is great, the characters feel real, the graphics are top notch 
 and sound is fantastic. I never read the comic so I wasn't familiar with the source material but 
 I found myself getting sucked in. I wanted to know what the darkness was and why it attached itself 
 to Jackie. The darkness powers are a blast to use and I relied on them heavily - really only using 
 the guns to knock out lights. I also love the TV's - they show real movies, tv shows and cartoons. 
 I watched about 30 minutes of To Kill a Mocking Bird while hanging out with my girlfriend in her 
 apartment.
  
  WARNING SPOILERS
  
  
  
  I was shocked and excited when you killed yourself and wound up in some World War I like environment 
 with strange creatures and zomies. It was spooky and I found myself confused and wondering where 
 this game would take me. For that alone I recommend the game. I haven't felt this way since I played 
 The Suffering (another great game by the way) .
  
  
  
  END SPOILERS
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HioMyMan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  so your jackie estacado who is a hitman for the francetti crime family, and on your 21st birthday 
 "the darkness" comes to life from inside youre body. so with that you get to destroy pretty much 
 anything in your way.
  
  growing up jackie was stuck in a foster home because both of his parents died, and while there 
 he met his future girlfriend jenny romano. anyway onto the story your set to stop your uncle paulie 
 to stop doing whatever he's been doing. throughout the game your set on killing cops, and and whatever 
 other mobsters there are working for uncle paulie. they eventually end up kidnapping jenny and 
 unfortunatly kill her which sets you up for putting on your revenge on all of them. after that 
 happens you kill yourself and go into the world war 1 era where you begin to find out what exactly 
 the darkness is. you find everything out from an old relative named jimmy franchetti. who eventually 
 also gets killed after you die the 2nd time. onto that whole part, you steal a brifecase from this 
 prick eddie shrote who is a captain from a police station. you end up putting a bomb in the brifecase 
 and somehow as your going after shrote they have you tied up with lights glaring on you. while 
 in this you convince the girl office to stand infront of the light and hit the brifecase so the 
 bomb goes off and kills everyone in the church. priceless. 
  
  onto the next part of the game your pit back in the WW1 era and this is when jimmy dies and you 
 end up embracing the darkness. so after that your back in your normal time era and start going 
 after uncle paulie who is hiding out at this lighthouse mansion thing. which is also the most brutal 
 part of the game because while inside the mansion the darkness takes some things into its own hands 
 and kills many people which is just brutal. after all that you case down paulie and kill him. sadly 
 you cant make him suffer as much as youd like so its just a simple kill and thats it. 
  
  as the game now ends it goes into a cutscene with jenny and jackie talking. jenny explains that 
 the darkness has allowed them just one final moment together, and then the credits roll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness takes you to a new experience of FPS, and that's awesome!
  
  be Jackie Estacado, a hitman work for his 'uncle' Paulie, a jerk @$$ mob boss. for some mistake 
 he even not understand, his uncle turn angry and try to hunt him down. One thing that those mobster 
 don't know is Jackie possesed a demon inside his body. A demon called Darkness that, i think, more 
 dangerous than any weapon on earth.
  
  the gameplay, innovatively, The Darkness felt a little bit like free roaming game, where you can 
 go around about 10 maps and freely decide when you will complete the mission. You can also play 
 side mission which mostly about doing a favor for other persons you meet. you can get a reward 
 after finishing these mission. The most fun part of this game, of course, is using the darkness! 
 there are 4 demons you can use, darkling creature, demon arm, gun, and black hole. every demons 
 is unique and pretty hostile! the shooting part is standard.
  
  the graphics are awesome! Starbreeze sure know how to make an amazing engine! every part of the 
 game like the characters, surface, lighting, everything is awesome! (it can be compared with COD 
 4) too bad sometime low framerate occur, but that is not a problem. i love to see Jackie body and 
 legs when he look down, i don't like to see floating hand and gun. we can also see his reflection 
 when look on the mirror. Jackie will raise his hand too if he get too close to obstacle (it's very 
 realistic!) i hope every fps could be like this game. (we can only see a couple of legs on Halo, 
 Condemned, Turok, and F. E. A. R.)
  
  some glitch come to this amazing game, mostly, the motion capture didn't work very well, the characters 
 movement is limited (except for pre-rendered event video) . On the game, Jackie almost never open 
 his mouth when he is speaking, that's poor.
  
  Well, The Darkness is highly recommended! every FPS lover must have this one! enjoy taking your 
 enemy's heart! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TShanks42
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  This game is no good. No good at all. Sure the graphics are fine and I guess you could say the 
 story is okay but other than that this game is total crap. Its glitchy, it has bad controls, and 
 weird voice acting. And did you see that dudes face. Man that is one fugly dude! There are just 
 so many problems with this game I just can't get past. Another thing is the aimings horrible too! 
 One last thing, what's up with the jumping. It's so rigid and straight. Even Red Steel had more 
 realistic motion. Red Steel was a masterpiece compared the this thing. At least I had a little 
 fun playing Red Steel but The Darkness was so bad that it was unpleasent. I don't care what others 
 might have to say about it but this is not a good game. Final word? Unless you feel like taking 
 a chance on a lost cause sure why not? But I'm just here to warn you, IT AIN'T GOOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cringle88
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 9:37 am PT
Review:  When i find out a game is based on a graphic novel it usually makes for a great game and in this 
 case its true. Darkness Falls has you hooked from beginning to end. The idea that you have a creature 
 that erupts from within gave me reason to play. Tearing gangsters faces off, piercing tentacles 
 through a gang lords torso and throwing him away like cth-ulu on a rampage gives the player a sense 
 of extreme power. When you play call of duty on line and make into the leader board it gives you 
 feeling of power as a player. Darkness falls makes you feel like your an unstoppable para-normal 
 being. Darkness Falls is a game worth buying. Its a game you can come back and play for fun long 
 after you've finished it. Its only flaws are its slight glitches from time to time and the aiming 
 system can be quite annoying to stay locked onto a target but after a while it get easier to use. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainduncan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness comes from Starbreeze, the developer of Escape From Butcher Bay; naturally I had high 
 expectations of The Darkness before I even purchased it. Unfortunately, I never really got around 
 to playing The Darkness until recently. I saw it from a mere $10 on the shelf and figured "why 
 not?" After playing through it there is no reason for any of you not to own this game: it is one 
 of the most impressive first person shooters I have ever played on all fronts.
  
  If you're not a fan of FPS's, at least pick it up for it's incredible storyline. Not a moment of 
 The Darkness is wasted time- practically everything you do advances the story in some way. The 
 team behind The Darkness did an incredible job of making the main character, Jackie Estacado, interesting 
 to the player, in addition to forming the cast of characters the player meets on their journey. 
 Never before have I hated a character like I hated Uncle Paulie, and the pity I felt for Mrs. Hazelgrove 
 is on par with some of the emotions evoked by Mass Effect. The voice acting is also top-notch; 
 especially The Darkness's voice; it's creepy as hell.
  
  The gameplay also shines in many respects. The shooting is solid and the game never feels unfair, 
 albeit there are a few frustrating checkpoint issues. There are plenty of guns to keep the player 
 occupied and the Darkness Powers are a blast to use. Aside from the main missions, Jackie has some 
 downtime that can be spent doing unique side-missions in New York's subway stations. 
  
  In all, The Darkness is a game that is incredibly immersive; once you're in, it's incredibly hard 
 to put down. Go. Now. Buy it. What are you waiting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  I completely enjoyed playing this game it was by far the best and most exciting XBOX360 game that 
 I have played yet to date. The entire game was great and would have been a perfect 10 (as I rated 
 RE4) but there were a few glitches that completely pissed me off.
  
  There were times where I got impatient and did not want to sit through the talking scenes so I 
 tried to proceed, at these times the game would noot continue or allow me to progress because I 
 didn't stick around for the talk scenes. Making the game completely stop and you could not progress. 
 This happened notably at the house shooting scene towards the end of the game, by not standing 
 to listen to Jimmy the Grape and the Butcher talk I had to restart my checkpoint and play the house 
 shooting scene over and over again for nearly an hour of repeated attempts!!!!! It probably wouldnt 
 have taken me another hour, but I was pissed and impatient6 that I had to do it all over again 
 that I kept dying and having to reply the scene. Had it not been for glitches such as this... a 
 perfect 10 would have been in order!
  
  Another annoyance comes from using the Demon arm, it appeared completely useless at most times, 
 because it can only kill some people and not others, and there is no way to tell who can be killed 
 by it or not. So you will stand there with a gun in your face trying to use the demon arm to rack 
 up your deman arm kills and get the gamerscore but you will have no success and be shot to death 
 by the enemy.... completely stupid that it doesn't kill everyone. It was a useless demon power.
 
  
  Another annoyance is from using the creeping darkness, it slithers around and sometimes the controlling 
 of it appeared to be off and the snake would not move in the correct direction or become stuck 
 at a dead body or obstacle which would hinder its usage. ANNOYING, but when this feature worked 
 it was completely awesome to slither up behind people and take them out, eat their hearts, and 
 progress around corners.
  
  There were some amazing features in the game, most notably the push button heart eating by the 
 darkness inside of you, racking up 300 hearts made me enjoy killing goons and eating hearts one 
 by one. I enjoyed utilizing the darkness guns, for one touch kills (with the left trigger ad that 
 gun shot a much more powerfull blow compared to the right gun) . Enjoyable levelling like the trenches 
 going through the depths of hell to fight nazi German soldiers was a blast, and eating their hearts 
 before they re-energize back to life was a thrill! Also the level towards the end (last part in 
 hell) when you run into the castle and forfeit your demon powers to the hellish machines that extract 
 them from you was amazing. It was SICK, GRUESOME, BLOODY, and AMAZING!!! I had my friend watch 
 me play that scene and he said it was the sickest thing he had ever seen in a game. If you like 
 Horror and blood this is the best part of the game and has the most evil in it.
  
  I would recommend this game to everyone who enjoys horror games. The story is well played out, 
 the levels are great and the killing is awesome. An absolute GEM in my eyes and I found it at 14.99 
 used in the bin at Blockbuster and could not have been more happy with this choice. The game had 
 a long time to play which makes you feel like you are getting more for your money. Well worth the 
 cheap price and I do not know how people did not jump all over this game, it should be in the top 
 10 list of all time Xbox 360 games for sure. You WILL enjoy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  From the creators of Chronicles of Riddick comes an unusual story driven FPS game, which you will 
 remember afterwards.
  
  The Darkness is based on a comic book series, but you don't need to know anything about it to enjoy 
 the game. Jackie Estacado is a member of Franchetti crime family in New York. On his 21st birthday 
 Uncle Paulie decides to get him out of the picture by murdering him. Jackie survives the hit, but 
 is now hunted by Paulie's minions. At the same time something happens: an ancient demon called 
 The Darkness manifests itself and gives Jackie some incredible powers, as long as he stays in the 
 darkness. The downside is that Jackie is almost exclusively a mere puppet in Darkness' hands. So 
 it's now up to Jackie to learn more about this demon, while trying to figure out how to control 
 it and at the same time put an end to Uncle Paulie's madness in New York.
  
  Story is quite different from other first person shooters and it is told well. In the process you'll 
 come across quite a few twists and turns you'll never expect. This is a due to the fact that the 
 whole setting in itself is weird and different and that should be considered an achievement in 
 first person shooter genre nowadays.
  
  Graphics are up to modern standards in every respect and since light and dark are so essential 
 factors it's nice that the lighting effects are impressive through and through. Character models 
 are nicely done, but for some reason facial animation is surprisingly stiff and clearly the weakest 
 thing in otherwise great visual presentation. Frame rate stays solid almost all the time and loading 
 times are hidden intelligently: as the game loads you'll see Jackie sharing his thoughts or just 
 doing some aiming with his guns. It's a much better design choice than just look at loading screens.
 
  
  Musical score is very heavily influenced by heavy metal and hard rock, which is appropriate since 
 Jackie Estacado looks a lot like a person who enjoys heavy metal music. Sound effects are done 
 well and at times they make chills going down your spine when opening a screeching door. Mike Patton 
 from Faith No More does the voice of The Darkness and he gives clearly the most memorable performance 
 in the game.
  
  Gameplay is a traditional FPS game, but some cutscenes are seen in a third person perspective, 
 while others are done in a first person view. There are those traditional guns to use when the 
 shooting starts, but most of the time you'll find yourself using acquired Darkness powers. This 
 includes things from Darkness guns to summoning small minions (called Darklings) to aid you all 
 the way creating an entire black hole to suck in and kill your enemies.
  
  Controls do their job and an auto aim feature makes shooting a little easier, but no matter how 
 much you do some fine tuning the controls always feel loose. It looks like your skating on ice 
 rather than walking normally. This is something that you can forgive, since using the different 
 Darkness powers is so much fun and rewarding.
  
  Structure of the game half open, which means that in order to trigger the next chapter in the story 
 you need to travel to a certain location by yourself with a subway. You can wander around the city 
 anyway you want, but by doing just that you will not progress the story. There are also some side 
 quests to do, but you don't really get anything of importance by doing them.
  
  There are some small RPG elements here as well, since Jackie gains more abilities by devouring 
 his enemies' hearts. Of course he doesn't eat hearts himself, but The Darkness does, which manifests 
 himself as 2 big snake looking tentacles from his back. Other thing is that in conversations there 
 are a few options to make, but your choices will not have any effect on the overall outcome of 
 the game.
  
  I must emphasis that The Darkness wants you to play it in a certain way and it can take a while 
 for you to realize, what that way is. Once you find this right path to play it all comes much more 
 enjoyable. Don't come here and expect Halo or Call of Duty: come expecting Bioshock or Metroid 
 Prime.
  
  There's also a multiplayer component, but it's clearly an afterthought and strips away everything 
 that makes The Darkness what it is. Result is a fast paced Quake clone and will not interest you 
 for long. If you buy this game, I strongly recommend you to buy it for the story.
  
  The Darkness tells a tale worth playing, but outside that basic setting there's not much else to 
 do and see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  darkness is a very different game to start with. it is not the usual fps games we get to play. this 
 one has a whole new way of combat and a lot of new things to offer. the action is way different 
 and can be only felt and understood by playing the game. the graphics is top notch, some marvellous 
 touch to every detail of what environments the game offers, superb lighting, very vivid details which 
 is very well suited to the tone and manner of the game, weapons are nothing special although the 
 shooting is fun and gory. the blood splash is well portrayed and the new combat system with the 
 power of darkness and the demon in you is new and gripping. the creatures that assist you arent 
 very useful although it adds to fun in the game. a good storyline is what makes this one very gripping. in 
 short darkness is a great game, an even better fps, and a top notch cinematic action experience for 
 the new gen consoles. i played it on the xbox 360 and loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  In The Darkness, you play as Jackie Escatado, some guy who's been adopted by the Mafia and made 
 you into a contract killer. The interesting part of the game is when Jackie gets these powers that 
 only work if you're in the dark. It's difficult to explain what the darkness is (I'm not sure if 
 it's explained in the game either) , but it's been passed down from generation to generation and 
 now it's reached Jackie. Well Jackie is screwed over by his Uncle and now his Uncle (who adopted 
 him/head of the mafia) put out a hit on him now the people who were once your "friends" are out 
 to kill you. The story gets WAY cooler as you progress through the game, so I won't spoil any more.
 
  
  Anyway, the gameplay in The Darkness is just like your typical FPS, you have your assortment of 
 guns and you kill enemies to get ammo for them blah blah blah. The Darkness switches the FPS elements 
 up with the Darkness powers, these powers allow you to take out your enemies without having to 
 waste ammo on them, kill all the light sources in an area so you become even more powerful and 
 so on. Once you've down an enemy you have the option of devouring their heart, if you do the Darkness 
 will grow stronger giving you access to new abilities. The Darkness also gives you the power to 
 summon your own little dark monsters, which are helpful in some cases, such as a kamikaze darkling, 
 a gunner darkling, a beserker darkling and a lightkiller darkling. 
  
  The graphics look nice and polished, the voice acting is excellent. The only downside of the game 
 is that you're going to have to walk (and it's very slow) your way around a part of the city, and 
 it's a big city, you'll have to rely on maps and information from the objective to get to your 
 destination, and this is going to take you sometime, so get familiar with the city as quickly as 
 possible.
  
  
  Verdict: The game is worth AT LEAST a rent, I would by the game, it has extra content you can unlock 
 and the multiplayer is average, but it's just an extra in this fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game. The story was great, voice acting was great. The effects of the graphics 
 on the environment when all light sources had been removed was really cool. On easy to normal difficulty 
 this game isn't to bad, there are a couple spots where you will die a few times, but perserverance 
 will always get you through. Frustration factor is kept to a minimum. The load times were a little 
 annoying after death though. I restarted this game on hard difficulty after beating it on normal 
 , but soon gave up, saying it's hard is an understatement...... It's brutal. Better take out the 
 enemies quick, because they are mercyless and it won't take much to kill you. Needless to say I 
 don't see myself beating this game on hard.
  
  The auto aim feature in the game is pretty good, and it does always seem to go right for there 
 heads. Once you start aquiring your dark powers weopons start becoming useless, the Vortex you 
 aquire later on does tend to make dispatching foes a little easy. I used the traveling snake head 
 to kill most of my foes. 
  
  If I have to list the cons in this game I would say that the level designs seem a little to simple, 
 not very inspired. I feel the creeping snake head that can go into grates, vents, pipes feels underutilized..... It 
 would have been great if the game included more puzzles to have to circumvent with your dark powers. 
 There are some, but you really don't have to think a lot. you'll find yourself wondering around 
 sometimes, not always a bad thing if you're looking for collectables you might have missed. I completed 
 all the extra "help" missions, it was disappointing that you were only rewarded with a scrap of 
 paper that let you hear a sometimes funny answering machine message... find all 100 for awesome 
 accompishment "geek" points. 
  
  All in all a really good game that once you start, you wanna stick out until the end, for the story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gAmEmAn69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Some of you may remember the game Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay that was a prequel 
 to the hit movie Pitch Black. That was probably one of the only movie based games that totally 
 kicked the most ass on this side of the scrotum. Now about 4 years after its release, the developers 
 Starbreeze bring us The Darkness. An adaptation of the popular comic book series is brought to 
 life on the next generation consoles. (Which I'm now granting the right to say CURRENT-GEN.)
  
  Gameplay:
  The Darkness implements a FPS gameplay mixed with some adventure elements as the 
 protagonist Jackie is allowed to progress through the story or choose side missions in addition 
 which adds enormous replay value to the game. The Darkness is given to Jackie on his 21st birthday 
 and is composed of 2 extra sensory limbs which are on each side of Jackie for the most part of 
 the game. The can be utilized in such ways as collecting the hearts of the fallen, ripping an enemy's 
 throat out, killing lights in the area, causing a black hole sucking in numerous foes, or just 
 plain crawling and exploring the general viscinity. The gunplay is so fruititious and vivacious 
 and is presented like a flowing stream of water being that it is so fluently performed. Executions 
 are by far the best I've seen in a game to date, being the most rawly executed and brutally honest 
 I've laid my pupils on in quite some time. 
  
  Graphics:
  Orgasmic is the only word I can use at this point. Starbreeze aims high and nails the bullseye 
 in the graphics department. Smooth animations, relatively limited pop-ins, and textures on objects 
 and environments are such a treat to lay your eyes upon. The detail on the darklings and darkness 
 powers as well as character animations are extremely vivid and great to view.
  
  Sound:
  From the critically acclaimed gritty voice acting, to the bone crushing sounds of a dark-arm ripping 
 through the chambers of a foes heart to brutally rip it out with force and devour it is extremely 
 a treat for ones ears. The sound effects of weapons are extremely accurate and on par with todays 
 modern weapons. The score is eerie and subliminal messages that pop up throughout the game once 
 Jackie hears and finds out more about the darkness is truly frightful.
  
  Control:
  Smooth as bbbb-budda'. Moving Jackie is fast, accurate, and on a keynote with the 360 controller 
 as mostly every FPS would be. Controlling the dark-arms can take getting used to at first, but 
 once you learn its movements it will move with ease. Performing executions never was easier and 
 addictive to complete. Although aiming from afar could have been tweaked a bit, you never seem 
 to miss your target for the most part.
  
  Overall:
  Although it may appeal as an ordinary FPS game, it's far from the truth. The Darkness portrays 
 itself as a deep and dark yet gruesomely attractive game with use of dark elements and firefights 
 that will keep you more than amused throughout the story as it unfolds. My 2 only problems are 
 its length and online component. If you're into it you can complete the game in just under 10 hours. 
 The online mode is fun at first, but can become tedious and repetitive after about 2 or 3 playthroughs 
 and seemed as another add-on to extend the life of the unforgiving length of the single player 
 story. Overall, The Darkness should be experienced by anyone with a sense of action and imagination. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is at a glance your typical Mafia drama story, of course that's only a glance. As 
 a child Jackie grew up an orphan and quickly became friends with Jenny, this obviously becomes 
 the stories love interest. When Jackie was adopted in his early teens he and Jenny were torn apart, 
 his adopting father being who he now calls Uncle Paulie. Paulie didn't adopt him because he wanted 
 a kid though, no Paulie is pure Mafia family and because of this felt if he raised a kid with the 
 intention of making him a mafia hit man he'd grow up to be the best and this as it turns out is 
 true. Time has passed though, the game begins where the real story begins on Jackie's 21st birthday. 
 Over time Jackie and Paulie have become something of enemies, Paulie wants to turn the family into 
 more of a street gang while Jackie respects the old codes of the family because of this the family 
 is splitting and this threatens Paulie. To add to this Jackie doesn't even truly want to be a part 
 of this life anymore, as he and Jenny are now together and in love he feels that he isn't worthy 
 of her. Jenny as the world would say is an innocent. A pure soul and a good person, Jackie on the 
 other hand isn't such being a gun for the Mafia. It matters little though because on the night 
 of Jackie's 21st birthday Paulie sends Jackie (that's you) on a job, the job is a farce though 
 and it ends up being a set up by Paulie. All of this is just your typical Mafia drama, except for 
 that Jackie hears a voice in his head and it's not because he's crazy. 
  Just like this review, The Darkness takes a little bit of time before things get interesting. For 
 a start the game feels under developed especially for all of the hype the developers put into it, 
 give it some time though and the game shines. Without a doubt the game has its flaws but trust 
 me, they are worth the gold within. As you progress through The Darkness you'll come to find that 
 Jackie's blood line is cursed, not in your typical sense either. Your curse is that on the first 
 born males 21st birthday of every generation an ancient god known only as The Darkness takes over, 
 thus turning the host into a puppet. Lucky for you though, you've got a little more will power 
 than previous generations. Where things truly pick up is the struggle between you and The Darkness. 
 You have two choices in the game, to complete your missions while trying to stay away from the 
 darkness in your heart or to succumb to the raw primal power of The Darkness and harness its power 
 to become an instrument of death. 
  
  Graphics  Right up to par, no not quite awe inspiring by themselves but the game has probably 
 the best art design I have ever seen. This is most apparent when you go to hell, yes you actually 
 go and get to play and kill people in hell. While the graphics are by no means cutting edge, the 
 art style and overall well directed design completely washes away the fact that everything doesn't 
 look perfect.
  
  Controls  For the most part the controls are just the way they should be, there will be times 
 when you find yourself wishing certain features or abilities were a little easier to access but 
 it's not common and usually not a dilemma. When it comes to the darklings though, small little 
 demons you can summon to do different tasks, things do become perplexing. Overall they are quite 
 useless, only at the end are they of any use and that's only because they begin auto summoning 
 themselves by mass instead of by single. The interesting thing is that only one of any of the four 
 types can be alive at once, also they're sensitivity to light varies. Sometimes just a little light 
 will instantly kill them while at other times what feel like full on sunlight doesn't even faze 
 them. The biggest problem I found with the Darklings though is two things, one they can only go 
 a certain distance from their spawn point and if they go any further they pop out of existence, 
 two is that they really aren't all that smart and even found a few times they would stand and watch 
 me get shot and stabbed without aiding in the slightest. Still they have some moments where they 
 do help somewhat and the Gunner class certainly is useful if you can get him set up before they 
 get attacked as is the story with most summoned creatures in games, as the creature becomes more 
 powerful they can take less and less damage. So the more useful a summon the shorter its life span. 
 
  
  Story  Wow is all I can really say, few games get the emotional response this one got from me. 
 The story is driving and heart breaking, mainly because the primary characters are given a level 
 of depth not normally seen these days. I'm sure this will be overlooked by most but for a few of 
 you out there this will be a shining achievement for the creators that you'll love. What it comes 
 down to is by the time the game ends you'll be wishing it wouldn't end. This is coupled with great 
 voice acting, the actors not only feel like they got into the characters but also the dialogue 
 truly does help portray the character even further. This is slightly hindered though by horrible 
 lip sync, many times a character facial animation aren't even close to the dialogue being spoken 
 and I don't just mean Ps and Os being made with the lips I mean it isn't uncommon for a characters 
 mouth to be moving when there is no dialogue or vice versa dialogue being spoken but the characters 
 mouth not moving. If you can over look that poor sync work though and focus on the audio part this 
 game is amazing.
  
  The Overall  I could say a lot about the pure game play, I'll be honest though. The game play 
 it's self is good quality but nothing that hasn't been done before. Where The Darkness truly shines 
 is with its story and directing. Your Darkness powers are very cool I will admit, and shooting 
 someone while using your powers to impale and toss another baddy like a rag doll is VERY satisfying. 
 The games balanced pretty much perfectly, you'll usually feel like you're barely mortal in the 
 sense that you can die. Of course for you death has no hold it's only a nuisance. There are a very 
 vexing technical issues, mainly you fight legions of baddies yet when you unleash your powers and 
 demons come out from your and begin eating people, or you use your demon arm to impale someone 
 OR you rip someone's heart out and eat it the other around you would think would run in terror 
 but instead act as if nothing has happened and continue to come at you. The open world also adds 
 as you can take quests to aid those in need, the overall purpose to this though I'm not sure as 
 these quests don't offer any real reward unless your into Xbox achievement points or just game 
 unlockables since completing these side quests get you both. The fact is The Darkness was a lost 
 gem, a truly well made game that was over looked in the wake of larger titles upon its release. 
 While I can see that it's not everyone persons cup of tea, it's worth a try and since now the game 
 only costs 20 bucks brand new I highly recommend adding this to your collection. The final downside? 
 Online play, very uninteresting unless your into old Quake style death match game play. It offers 
 little as from start to finish it's just run and gun, really it just feels like an after thought 
 to the single player game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jthrockfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Well, lets start off with the good. 1) It has decently good graphics and the effects look fairly 
 real.
  
  2) The animations (other than the facial) are smooth and look good
  
  3) Game is entertaining and tells a good story
  
  4) Few bugs, everything seems to run smoothly 
 without causing you to fall through the environment.
  
  The poor.
  
  1) The facial animations are poor.
  
  2) The story is not the longest ever and is easily completable 
 in a week for the average gamer. 3) The controls are sluggish or over sensitive depending on how 
 you adjust them, takes some getting used too.
  
  4) The only real complain is that the game is not very re-playable. Once you finish it, there is 
 no real desire to go and play it again.
  
  Overall it is a good game to buy, and i would recommend it, just plan on getting it used, and then 
 selling it back. No reason to go out and spend 60 bucks on a new copy since you are only going 
 to play it for a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robheisel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  the darkness is based on the comic from top cow now in the game you play as jackie estacado infamous 
 mob hitman that for the mob in the game you forgot to bring paulies money and your dear uncle is 
 very mad at you so he sends his boys to kill jackie now you later get the darkness these snake 
 eel or tentacle things that comes out your back so then you need to get payback the voice-acting 
 is great with top notch writing from the top-cow comics now the story is just really darker then 
 i imagined now the powers you get are 5 powers im goanna do this by order by each level and also 
 no cheat codes yep no cheat codes to like unlock all powers and god mode well there are cheats 
 but its not one i said lets take ah look at the powers of the darkness.
  
  1. crawling tentacle thing wich or the crawling in the dark.
  
  this one lets you use one of 
 your snake demon things to slither around the enemy then for ah stealth kill and you can go back 
 with your power to go back to your back by pressing the lb button then it takes so much time.
 
  
  2. the tentacle stab or the darkness arm.
  
  this is your second power you get i lets you stab your enemies in the stomach then there dead ouch 
 thats got to hurt its also to pick up stuff like trash cans and people WWWWWWWEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!!!!!!! 
 ok its fun but there dead its not marry go round people.
  
  3. the darkness guns or as i like to call the PISTOLS FROM THE UNDERWORLD!!!!!!!!!!
  
  this 
 one is duel-weid pistol that lets you thats right you can able to shoot one is like ah rocket and 
 one is like ah machine gun arrff but its one of the most weakist ones of all but it does the damage 
 but it cant expolde police cars and expolde people its not like ah rocket launcher.
  
  and now the last and the most powerful of all.
  
  4. the black hole or the dark portal that 
 sends you up in the air.
  
  its one of the most powerful darkness powers to ever use but i have to say it is awesome but theres 
 another thing you can do.
  
  5. darklings.
  
  these orc like creatures come from the ground of the darkness and theres the berzerker and the 
 gunner and bomber and that electro thing that you can do well this has to be proably the best.
 
  
  so the whole thing is good but you shoot the lights to return your powers and you can shoot the 
 lights or you can eat human hearts.
  
  well i give this game
  
  8.5 out of 10.
  
  The Good: ah dark story for you interisted its not ah fan-fic soild voice-acting and charcthers 
 realistic graphics and new york looks radical some of the best blood and gore ever to be made.
 
  
  The Bad: the darkness powers are pretty fustrating some the bad guys arent that fun thanks to bad 
 a. i.
  
  The Ugly: the multiplayer gets tackted on for while but when will there be ah darkness 2 please. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblenator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Darkness is one step off perfect.
  The game play, sound and even lip syncing are terrific!
  You play as Jackie Estacado and the darkness takes over his life at precisely 12 o clock at night 
 on his 21st birthday, now I won't go too much into the plot but I have to say, it's brilliant.
 
  
  The graphics: are beautiful with every little detail taken care of, from the graffiti on the trains 
 and walls to the darkness itself, the mobsters all have a real look to them and the demons have 
 leather like skins and sharp teeth like they should. But the best part is the lighting, it looks 
 like the developers have gone all out, to the shadows of humans and other things to the bright 
 lights around the city, the graphics overall are top notch
  
  Sound: What can I say? The sound is excellent from the darkness's creepy tone to the voices of 
 the characters. On that note the lip syncing is unreal the only downfall is the people's lips don't 
 move much when they talk.
  
  Value: Ok so this is the downfall of the game, once you've beaten it there's nothing else to do 
 except play the game again on harder difficulty or play the laggy multiplayer so hopefully if they 
 make the darkness 2 it will be a bit better in this area
  
  Game play: Is awesome and always has a fresh feel to it, whether your hiding in the dark to regenerate 
 or blow chunks out of enemies while opening a black hole beside a helicopter the game play remains 
 fun and fresh through the whole game.
  
  Overall: This game is brilliant with outstanding game play, sound and graphics, however the value 
 lets it down a fair bit
  
  Defiantly worth looking at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is just fun. Very fun with just a few flaws.
  
  Its a basic FPS with some fun additions thrown into your arsenal. Those additions being heart eating 
 bad ass demos who scream at you and torture you from within.
  
  Need I say more?
  
  The graphics are about average during gameplay an actual above average for certain cut scenes.
 
  
  The combat mechanics are just right and the control scheme is very intuitive. Gunplay can at times 
 feel week, but it balances out when you consider the awesome powers of your demo counterparts.
 
  
  The sound and voice acting are superb. 
  
  The story line is great and really draws you in and also features one of the most shocking moments 
 in recent gaming. 
  
  Just a few flaws I can think of. 
  
  1) Why are the streets of NY so vacant?!? 
  
  2) Some of the.... umm... er...."Middle" levels 
 (don't want to spoil it for you) seemed a bit out of place, pointless and honestly tedious.
  
  Overall a great game I have played through to the end several times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is About a Two hundred Year Living Thing on earth
  fallen from a Dark meteor it a entity with power who seem almost unlimited it a parasite being 
 who need a human to drain is energy and survive
  it is truely evil but it doesn't hurt what he call the crowd of cow
  that are innocent to him 
 he only want to kill and Destroy who work for Evil Business Like the mafia : corrupted cops : and 
 Criminal in the street
  he as no mercy for any one who are with sins he just kill them
  so basically the Darkness is a Evil entity but it as only one thing good about it 
  
  It Destroy 
 any Sins full persons wich would be in case our Gouvernement
  it try to win aboslute possesion of jacky to obtain what the entity seek 
  to kill anybody who 
 sin bad the Story is About a poor guy who was abducted as Children at orphelinage with the girl 
 he love he Being forced to do everting the God Father say so to be corrupted and even for fix someting 
 he went to send is man & him to die but apprently jacky fate was not to die 
  to know more finish game. and rate it after or Review it 
  it an awsome game and if there is 
 a Two I'm neither buying it or Rent it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Dark, Brutal, Gloomy, heartfelt, are all words that describes my excellent experience with The Darkness 
 and the game itself. Even though it lives in 
  Bioshock's shadow, 2k has another heavyhitter in its gym, and it will blow you away, its not entirely 
 better than Bioshock, but in some ways: in its own respects, The Darkness does just that. you won't 
 need any expertise of the comic or be a hardcore fan or anything to play the game, as it delivers 
 an experience that anyone would enjoy. the game is downright scary in its own right, and the atmosphere 
 and gameplay is there to back it up, with its incredibly decorated world. 
  
  I felt a huge connection between the game's main protaganist. myself, and the other characters. 
 which is partially due to the games fantastic story, its soley based on the comic but is branched 
 out to the developers tastes, but it remains faithful to the orignal material, it doesnt cover 
 everything from the series but it gives just enough of the main plot points to flesh out the experience. 
 The story is the strongest aspect of the game. Everything revolves around it, it is very dark and 
 emotionally packed, filled with thrilling sequences and suprises, The Darkness is a very powerful 
 force and it takes a whole lot to posess it, effecting everything and everyone around it, even 
 the weather, which ties perfectly in the story, the connections with the characters, and you. Jackie 
 Estacodo is not your typical hero, he is involved with the mafia but he lives by no code and believes 
 in human values, he has no ego and is the type of person that i would to like as a friend, hes 
 the type of person that we will all like to be with his qualities, he is respectful but still cool, 
 he doesnt strive for the best but for the best for himself, he doesnt believe in dhrama and nitpicky 
 arguements, he is the type of guy that lives day by day, swinging life away. On his 21st birthday, 
 his world comes crashing down, and the reality of it kicks in. The Darkness is a gift or 'curse" 
 that was granted by Jackie's great great grandfather, every man in Jackies family aquires The Darkness 
 on their 21st birthday, The darkness has a wide range of powers, and it grants its host immortality, 
 leading into the games gameplay, (which I will get into later.) As I left off, Jackie is part of 
 the franchetti crime family, which is used to be very respected but now is caught up on the wrong 
 side of the tracks causing chaos and sorrow, Jackie is sent on a hit but soon discovers that he 
 has been set up and incidnently the darkness is unleashed and wreaks on the paulie's men, Jackie 
 is suprised of the Darkness and learns to find the meaning of it, the originality, and how to use 
 it during the game, while fending off paulie and the rest of the family bringing it to order. you 
 also interact with many memorable characters and complete quests. The story is evenly paced, but 
 sometimes you are left with not knowing exactly where to go next, but its made up for by everything 
 else. The story couldn't have been done better, and its is oscar worthy. Two thumbs up.
  
  The graphics in the Darkness is an aspect that shouldn't be taken lightly, it is one of the stronger 
 points and is some of the best visuals i've seen all year, artistically and techniqally. Light 
 shines on everything realisticly, casting shadows and so forth, everything is so beautifully crafted 
 and the world is too, inch by inch. You better back up for a trip to uncanny valley because The 
 Darkness fits the criteria. Along the stunning visuals, it comes with a Dark and rich musical score, 
 fitting the settings perfectly. The voicework is also great and lifelike, i felt like i was thrown 
 into the game and was communicating with these characters, although the lip synching needs a lot 
 of work though, as well as the visual's animations, which really arent up to date.
  
  Gameplay wont make you fall head over heels in love with the Darkness like bioshock but its still 
 very decorated and fun to play, The game is ripe with gore and blood, leaving everything you kill 
 in a mess, The Darkness can devour hearts, slither across walls, grab and toss enemies, and create 
 black holes, you develop your character by eating up hearts which i think is a pretty cool gimmick, 
 The basic gunplay isn't really captivating, its decent but the gameplay is really about the execution 
 kills and Darkness powers. you can summon darklings to do your building, and when everything is 
 going well, you feel like an unstoppable force, much like a superhero. 
  The game rarely gets intense, but when it does its a double delight. although there are times when 
 you can die too easily, I mean you are a supernatural force.... The controls are very easy to use 
 and i had no troubles during my rain of terror.
  
  the Darkness is a must play for anyone who loves a bloody good time, with monsters, badguys, an 
 touching story and face to pavement gameplay. Its not better than Bioshock, but it brought the 
 core elements that Bioshock was and it shows no sign of wear, get it. The only problems I had with 
 the game is that i felt the combat was fairly weak, and the game ended too quickly, and multiplayer 
 isnt really good, only hope there is a sequel to fix these wrongs. The Darkness is just great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  One thing you need to remember about movie based games or even comic based games is that there's 
 a 50-50 chance that is going to be bad game. However, get Starbreeze involved, and theres a 90% 
 chance it's going to be great. The Darkness is yet another example that starbreeze are awesome.
 
  
  If you're a comic book reader, you've probably stumbled across one of these comics before, or you 
 may even be a reader of The Darkness comic anyway. If so, this game is basically a story about 
 the main character, Jackie and how he gets possessed by this wierd creature called The Darkness 
 (voiced by Faith No More's Mike Patton) . From there you must try and stop this Darkness from fully 
 taking over your soul while also enjoying some of the Darkness's neat tricks like the impaling 
 'Demon's Arm' or the handy 'Black Hole', a very handy trick indeed. You must also find you ex-mafia 
 boss, Uncle Paulie and kill him for what he's done to Jackie... (NO SPOILERS IN THIS REVIEW)
  
  The graphics are somewhat stunning and the gameplay keeps you on the edge of your seat, begging 
 to find out what happens next, kind of like reading a comic! And if you try to put the disappointing 
 multiplayer behind you, you've got yourself an essential next-gen game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 2:13 am PT
Review:  The Darkness (TD) is an FPS released for PS3 and XBox 360. Modulated from the cartoon of the same 
 name by Marc Silvestri, game has succeeded in retaining the mien in the original: romantic and 
 violent, love and enmity, everything dissolves in a dramatic and absorbing story. The plot is built 
 around the life of Jackie Estacado, an orphan brought up in the mafia family Franchetti. A tremendous 
 upheaval comes in his 21th birthday: an accident happens during Jackie's regular "delivery" for 
 the godfather Paulie Franchetti, following by his falling into a trap. Firmly believe in Jackie's 
 betrayal, Paulie orders his underlings to chase and execute him. At this fatal moment, Jackie suddenly 
 realises his supernatural abilities through a parasitic being called The Darkness, which is said 
 to fulfil the process of occupying its owner at the age of 21. Knowing that Jenny, his lover, was 
 killed by Paulie, Jackie starts a struggle on 2 battlefields: annihilating the godfather to revenge 
 and wipe out The Darkness to free himself. 
  
  The main character is successfully built by Starbrezze Studios as an cold but attractive killer, 
 always unruffled in vagabondish appearance. His firm stuff is proven through the fights against 
 members of Franchetti family, with perfect skill at many types of weapons: shortgun, submachine 
 gun, and especially the ability to fire 2 guns at once. TD offers several ways to survive a battle: 
 Using telescopic sight to "headshot" like in Resident EVil 4 or approaching to deliver deadly, 
 sharp blows. But this does not mean you can easily mop up the mafia. Though controlled by a rather 
 dumb AI, their aiming skill is considerable. Game does not use hit point bar, but instead changes 
 the color of the screen to indicate Jackie's status (like many recent shooting games) . Once enemies 
 have been wiped out, things will return to normal state. However, side effect of wounded state 
 can cause trouble since your speed is reduced and it becomes harder to locate enemies in a red 
 screen. Luckily, TD arranges its checkpoints close to one another to spare players from redoing 
 a long process.
  
  Of course Jackie could not fight alone against the mafia if he were a normal man. The Darkness 
 offers several special dark powers and this is where the game differs from a standard Shooter. 
 Most impressive is Dark Tentacles which allows Jackies to create black, thorny tentacular organs 
 and grasp opponents like in Aliens versus Predator. He can also nap items and throw them. With 
 Creeping Dark, you will experience thrilled feeling of stealth-kill when sneaking behind and sharply 
 finish enemies, or crawling through narrow passages to activate some controls, collect precious 
 items ect... Feel free to combine dark powers with gunning skill to create fatal attacks. A rather 
 overpowering ability is black hole which perfectly suits for sweeping horde of gangsters waiting 
 for you in a close room. In addition, Jackie can summon Darkling to support him in battles. There 
 are 4 types of them: Berserker (fierce melee executioner) , Gunner (machine gun wielders) , Kamikaze 
 (suicide squad) and Light Killer (annul light source to keep your force in safe darkness) . Nevertheless, 
 you can not abuse these powers since they are not available in bright light. Such situations requires 
 your skill with guns.
  
  It's not exaggerating to compare TD with another Starbreeze's success in the past The Chronicles 
 of Riddick. Play scenes follow each other in two separated worlds: New York at night and The Hell, 
 where The Darkness governs. This design pattern makes players feel like being attracted from two 
 opposite direction, and every moment in the game is very stressful. Graphics is not at the same 
 level as Gears of War but still can lay a strong impression thanks to its distinctive features. 
 Not only Jackie but every other character is carefully designed. They can even express emotions 
 suitable to the situation. For example, using Creeping Dark to assassinate a gunner will makes 
 the rest of them panic. Automobile, interior and exterior scenery can also satisfy you. Certainly 
 most of the time background of TD is set at night, appearing at high frequency are dark, quiet 
 alleyways that stir up a frightened feeling. Poetic delight and cinematic style is exposed in many 
 scenes of TD. Contributing to the whole impression, sound parts has fulfiled its role: Music in 
 horror style, typical conversations and voice play in Italian accent are of such high quality that 
 you feel like watching a real episode in "The Godfather".
  
  However, the corona of TD is eclipsed by some flaws. Over 10 hours to complete the game seems not 
 enough to satisfy the hunger for high quality FPS. "Rag-doll" contains many errors so you will 
 easily find many weird postures of the dead bodies. AI of both the mafia and your darklings is 
 not very good, sometimes a gunner spend the whole cartridge belt to a wall behind which is the 
 real opponent, or light killer does not annul every light source. Maps are rather hard to follow, 
 and if you listen carefully to conversations, you can find the way on your own. It's also necessary 
 to consider violent killing actions that raise ESRB index of TD to M (Mature only) .
  
  Released in the time when we lack high quality FPS, TD really stands out as one of the highest 
 recommendation of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Doomsayer_
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is an intense FPS mixing quick gunplay with demonic powers that put a unique spin 
 on the experience. The game is based off of a comic from Top Cow, and developed by Starbreeze Studios, 
 who also developed The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay.
  
  The story revolves around Jackie Estacado, a mafia hitman who is betrayed by his former employer 
 and adoptive father, "Uncle" Paulie, on the night of his 21st birthday. However, as the clock strikes 
 midnight Jackie "inherits" demonic powers in the form of The Darkness, a being who offers Jackie 
 the strength to seek revenge against Paulie. This revenge tail is very emotionally driven, and 
 develops into so much more as The Darkness begins to gradually take control of Jackie. I highly 
 recommend this game to anyone seeking a compelling story. Starbreeze has also done a great job 
 with casting the voice work for the game. The characters seem very real and are voiced terrifically. 
 For instance, Mike Patton (Faith No More) voices The Darkness itself brilliantly and his performance 
 will send chills down your spine. Another thing I really liked was that during load times Jackie 
 would recall past happenings or comment on characters and stuff like that, which seemed really 
 awesome rather than staring at load screens.
  
  Gameplay is very fun, containing a wide range of guns, with the addition of Darkness powers that 
 you will acquire throughout the game, such as the ability to impale an enemy with the demon arm 
 and throw them, summon a dark hole to suck in enemies, or The Darkness' ability to feast on the 
 hearts of the corpses of your enemies to boost your powers- this never gets old. Also you can summon 
 Darklings, little demons with quirky attitudes who will help you out in various ways and urinate 
 on dead bodies. They add a touch of dark humor and are a welcome addition. With guns you are able 
 to perform close up executions with many violent and slick looking animations. I found the guns 
 fun to use due to the little details Starbreeze has added such as if you are near the edge of a 
 corner you can point your gun around it and fire. As for AI, I found the AI on easy to bewelleasy, 
 as enemies do not take cover as often and tend to run around a lot without firing too many shots. 
 On the harder difficulties however, enemies will often hide from and take shots at you, but the 
 game always makes you feel somewhat indestructible with your powers. You are given an extra shield 
 while The Darkness is active, and as such you must shoot out or stab lights with the demon arm 
 so you can energize your darkness energy in shadows. On the hardest difficulty without this shield, 
 you will die after taking a few bullets. Hidden collectables are scattered throughout the game 
 that unlock bonus content, such as concept art and comics.
  
  As for graphics, Starbreeze has done an amazing job. The textures and lighting look excellent and 
 make the world look very real and immersive. The characters also look really great. The world is 
 filled with so many little details, such as graffiti, faded paint on walls, etc. Also, bullet holes, 
 stab wounds, and such remain on bodies after battles. The Darkness sounds very creepy and the guns 
 sound great.
  
  My only complaint is that the multiplayer mode seems tacked on. It comes with your standard, deathmatch 
 and capture the flag modes, but adds in the ability to play as darklings. In my experience it was 
 very laggy unplayable.
  
  
  Overall, I recommend this game to anyone seeking a great dark-themed action game with a gripping 
 story. To complete the single player mode it took me 14+ hours, but I have replayed it over many 
 times. The Darkness has become an instant favorite of mine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: savagedesire
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  This game, or at least what very little I made through of this game, is completely and entire a 
 bunch of crap. It honestly looks like they got about four minutes into the opening scene, realized 
 their idea was pointless and painful, and still went on their merry way unleashing this demon onto 
 the world. This game plays and feels like a classic movie game but without the things people enjoy 
 from those games such as familiar characters or at least a common goal. The look of the game is 
 just terrible, the graphics are more then blocky and effcects are about the equivalent a fourth 
 grade power point presentation. Also the controls are sketchy and more often then not end in your 
 death rather then helping you out any. With horrible graphics, steep learning curve and a very 
 pointless story line earn this "game" a place at the bottom of the trash heap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  Do you like collecting all the best action games on the 360 or PS3? Love gore? Of course you do! 
 This well crafted, slick and grim first person shooter offers thrills and chills that you won't 
 forget. The horrifying tale of the unfortunate Mafia Hitman Jackie Estacado has plenty of standout 
 moments that shock and excite, like "The Silence of the Lambs". It's that good.
  
  The most important thing for games like this is making that feeling of killing people as exhilarating 
 and brutal as possible. The Darkness succeeds at this with flying colours. Eating their hearts 
 and brains out is sort of like chainsawing those locust on Gears of War, a classic gory moment. 
 You get the picture. There are five chapters in the game but no levels as such. Three chapters 
 are set in New York, the other two?, play it and see. Both New York and the other mystery place, (keep 
 it a mystery for now) are open ended and you will need to go all over them during the game. There 
 are short loading times between certain areas unfortunately, so it's not like there are two seamless 
 worlds. New York is covered in back alleys and subway trains can get you from A to B. The level 
 design does not confuse you or challenge your mind, the focus is on the combat and rightly so.
 
  
  This is one of the better looking 360 games that feature Anti Aliasing. It looks better than COD4 
 in fact. Expect decent presentation and provocative environments
  
  Throughout the 10-12 hours your first run through the game will probably take, you will experience 
 a crazy, powerful and unconventional story that ends, well, amazingly and leaves room for a sequel 
 or two. If something happens that makes you think, "what he hell is going on?!", keep playing, 
 things will soon be made clear and become ever more compelling.
  
  Tearing of flesh, guns blazing and the shiver making voice of the Darkness. It sounds harsh and 
 merciless. The brilliant sound is complete with a heart pounding orchestral score
  
  This is a powerful heady game which achieves it's great potential. It will leave you hating the 
 Darkness and raring to get medieval on more evil men. Play through it too the end and you will 
 see why it's fans want a sequel. This saga must continue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jokul
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a game based on the hugely succesfull comic book line. The story in both the graphic 
 novel and the X360 game revolves around a Mobster hitman called Jackie Estacado who on the arrival 
 of his 21st Birthday inherits the demon like power of "The Darkness". Just in time really, his 
 'uncle' Paulie wants him dead and Jackie ain't to pleased about it.
  
  So that's the backround in a nutshell, on to the game. The Darkness game for the Xbox 360 has been 
 written by 2K and Starbreeze, a fantastic combination of companys who have previously brought us 
 the Chronicles of Riddick game for the original xbox a game which had far supieor game in terms 
 of graphics and gameplay than any other game of its time.
  
  Once again this winning team has delivered an immensely packed game with more polish than French 
 Cleaner. The graphics, sound, gamplay, story and extras are all really well pulled together to 
 make one of the best games available on the X360 to date. (In my opinion :D)
  
  The graphics are very well done with smooth textures and enviroments that don't take very long 
 to load at all. The world is pretty much free roaming which is really nice, allowing you to roam 
 at your will. One thing you should be rally aware of at any time of the game is how much light 
 level there is in a level, once you have Darkness powers the light is the one thing that will affect 
 it, basically think of what Kryptonite was to Superman, light is the same for the Darkness.
  
  The people you encounter along your journey look great in terms of facial detail and shading, 
 in fact most will have their own storys and distinct personalites which all help to pull you into 
 the gaming experience that bit more.
  The cutscenes as well are very well done, you'll mainly see Jackie sitting on a chair speaking 
 mobster philosphy but each one is entertaining and in depth.
  The sounds in the game are really well done, with a fantastic amount of voice over dialouge and 
 a good number of actors enabling each character you meet on the way to be very distinct from each 
 other. 
  The story is very well written with plot twists and action from the get go, I'm not gonna go any 
 further in explaining this as it is really good to get the story youself from the game, but trust 
 me here, its a good one.
  
  The gameplay is essentially a shooter at first with "The Darkness" powers coming in bit by bit 
 as you advance thourgh the game. 
  The Darkness powers manifest themselves in various ways, you will have the ability to summon various 
 Goblin type Impy creatures called Darklings, from a hand to hand combat Darakling, to a Gunner 
 Darkling, to a bomber darkling to a light killing darkling, each has their own use and merits (and 
 the voice overs are great and really amusing) .
  
  Your four core powers however are like living extensions of your own body, you can detach a tentacle 
 and take control of a snake like creature to sneak up on enemies and get in small places inaccessable 
 to Jackie himself. Another power allows you to strkie at lights, cars and people with a large talon 
 like arm which is probally the most usefull power in the game. The other two are very different 
 to the others, one is a set of special guns that pack quite a punch and the last is the ability 
 to summon a black hole which will suck all your enemies into the Darkness itself, very cool to 
 watch.
  
  In short, given all the merits of this game you should at least try it and form your own opinion, 
 even if you don't normally play FPS games, this should have more than enough to keep you entertained. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hrdcorenick
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is overlooked by alot of people, but in reality it is a really great FPS with a horror 
 element. You play as Jackie a gangsta, and your uncle has put a hit on you to kill you. On the 
 night of your 21st birthday you become possesed by the darkness. You grow tenticals and these cool 
 looking monster things that can eat peoples hearts.
  
  It's quite a unique game, its not like all the other FPS games out there, you can do so much more. 
 You go up darkness levels and learn new attacks, like black holes and things. The graphics are 
 really good, the colours suit the game, they are pretty dull but it looks good.
  
  Great storyline that you can easily get into, the only thing would be it is far to easy, even on 
 the hardest difficulty, beacuse you can spawn monsters to help you and you have your darkness powers!
 
  
  overall this is a great game that is overlooked by lots of people but its great and definatly worth 
 getting! i highly recomend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richgreen26
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Superb from start to finish. Great voice acting, atmospheric music, slightly dodgy sound quality 
 of some of the music over the end credits mars an otherwise awesome game. Even the voice of the 
 Darkness (Mike Patton of Faith No More) which could have added a cheesy feel to the game ends up 
 being a malevolent narrator with an eerie line in death threats. And as there is a possibly ambivalent 
 ending, we could well be looking at a sequel. Also, as this is the first game I've ever played 
 on an Xbox 360, it is a great introduction to the world of HD gaming, as the graphics are excellent, 
 although it may be worth turning up both the brightness and the movement sensitivity.
  
  Lets hope, if there is a sequel, we see more of the world of the Darkness, including the introduction 
 of the Angelus, the Magdelena and possibly even the Witchblade!!
  
  I look forward to playing this again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8
Date: May 9, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing The Darkness, but there were a few details about the game that I did not 
 like. Firstly, the repetitiveness of the videos during the loading screens. Secondly, the character 
 animation was of poor quality (or not poor, but not amazing) . The storyline is very linear and 
 there's no opportunity to go back and get things that you've missed, once you've passed them up 
 in the game. Also, I found the ending to be very confusing. I know there are multiple endings, 
 or the achievement "find a peaceful solution" would not be available. So needless to say, I could 
 not find a peaceful solution, and didn't know what the solution was to in the first place. So in 
 that respect the game was a bit confusing and dissapointing. But I thoroughly enjoyed having mutant 
 powers and snake arms that could impale people, rip their still-beating hearts from their chests, 
 rip their faces off, etc. It made the game sick but thrilling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  While the Darkness isn't the best FPS I've ever played, it's easily one of the best presented I've 
 seen. Everything from the graphics and sound are extremely polished which helps the player become 
 immersed in Jackie's world. Gameplay: The game's main mechanic is of course, a FPS. The first thing 
 I noticed while playing the game was a extreme amount of auto aim. This is a good thing in the 
 early stages of the game when you're rapidly pressing the triggers to fire your pistols at enemies 
 and when your pin pointing your aim to shoot out lights. I don't know how well this will play out 
 farther down, but it could get annoying to people who don't like auto aim. Anyways, the thing that 
 really shines in the Darkness is well The Darkness (oxymoron) There's nothing like using your 
 demonic best friend to sneak up behind a mobster, kill him, then devour his heart. Other powers 
 include a tentacle that lets you impale objects and people which allows you to throw them around, 
 creating black holes, and summoning Darklings which really are the comic relief of the game. It 
 really is quite funny to see the first Darkling you summon come up out of a hole in the ground, 
 move a car, and randomly attack some guy standing on the street. It also is very funny to shoot 
 them in order to make them say things like "I'm telling mommy!" or "I HATE YOU!"
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the Darkness are extremely well polished. Everything looks very realistic 
 and highly detailed. The lighting is also very well done, well at least that what you get to see 
 of it (you really are meant to turn off the lights) The only gripe I have with the graphics is 
 when you get a close in on a hand or a face; you'll start to see sorta muddy textures on the character 
 models. Other than that, I have no big gripe with the game.
  
  Sound: This is the best part of the game. The voice acting is top notch, everyone from Jackie, 
 Jenny, Paulie to The Darkness is so well done, especially Mike Patton's work on the Darkness. I 
 already knew he was a great vocalist, but damn does he do a great job for the voice of The Darkness. 
 It's just so creepy and demonic and at some points his voice is going places I never knew a human 
 voice could go. Another great thing about the sound is the music. During down time there will often 
 be classical music playing in the background which gives a sense of tension even with down time 
 and as soon as you bust out your guns a fast aggressive guitar riff starts setting the tone to 
 your gun fight. So basically everything from voice acting to music in this game is 100% perfect.
 
  
  Value: It's your standard FPS, yeah you can rush through the game and finish it 8 hours or so, 
 or you could spend your time with the game, look for collectibles/darkling costumes, be a good 
 boyfriend, help the people of New York, and do side missions which causes that 8 hours to turn 
 into more. There is also multiplayer which is actually pretty funny. What other game do you get 
 to be a hyperactive darkling that can crawl on walls and leap much farther than a human while letting 
 out some crazy scream?
  
  Tilt: the Darkness is over all an extremely well polished game that is worth every penny spent. 
 Everything from the great graphics and the wonderful sound to the story that immerses you into 
 even caring about Jackie's fictitious girlfriend is so high quality, it hurts. There's no getting 
 around it, this game is just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In this game called "The Darkness", you play a character named Jackie Estacado is a man 
 cursed with a birthright that emerges on his 21st birthday. This darkness power passes down from 
 generation to genertaion and it is this tentical monster thing with a head of each side of you, 
 which eats the hearts of fallen foes. Also as you progress in the game you get darkness powers 
 such as, one of the tentical heads being able to go in to small corners, creap on people and bite 
 them to death and also this tentical which you can use to lift things and to stab your enemies 
 with. But your powers only are strong when you are in the dark. To further complement your ability 
 to kill, you can summon four different Darklings (Berserker, Gunner, Kamikaze, and Lightkiller) . 
 These little gremlins are vulnerable to light, but can also be quite useful. So you start out in 
 this game in a car chase because you want out of the mob but Uncle Paulie is not pleased. So he 
 sends hitmen to go kill you. but it all failes. So you go about killing mobsters and destroying 
 your Uncle Paulie's trade deal and such. At one point your girlfrend gets kills and you end up 
 killing your self and you end up in hell in a WW1 setting which is weird, then you have to manage 
 to bring yourself back to life. So you end up doing some more messing up of Uncle Paulie's things 
 and eventually take revenge. 
  In addition to the single-player mode, there's an eight-player online mode that gives you the basic 
 first-person shooter modes, like deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. You can do 
 some configuring from there, such as turning on one-hit kills.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are amazing. Everything is well textured and colored in this 
 game which makes it looks quite real. Even the character models and there facial expressions are 
 really well done. Everything is smooth when something is moving, so if you like graphics and stuff 
 (though graphics is not everything in a game) you will be in for a treat. 
  
  Sound: I have to say that the sound is great. The voice overs are really well done and the sound 
 effects of gun shot and the soundtrack are really well done aswell. No complaints on how things 
 sound in this game.
  
  Value: Overall I am very satisfied with this game. It had a great mob story which made me want 
 to continue playing and there is tones of blood and violience which I like. The only thing that 
 stuck out to me was for a good part of the game, people seemed to be completly oblivious to your 
 darkness power when you had it activated. Should they not like run away in fear after the darkness 
 kills a few of there friends? But all in all this was quite an enjoyable game and I would recommend 
 this game for everybody. I give this game 8.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  i never expected much from this title... I played the demo offered on XBL and it never compelled 
 me to go out and get the game. I found it for a decent price, so i picked it up and thought id 
 give it a shot. Straight to the point, the graphics are pretty good.... the animations work well 
 and provide a good sense of atmosphere. The voice acting is well done, the accents are dead on 
 and bring the story to life. I love the no HUD concept (or minimal) . The control over the monsters 
 is good and all but gets very boring over the course of the game... myself, i would say i was tired 
 of it at about 80% done the game.... by the end i was happy the whole thing was over. Its a decent 
 game that tries something new, does some things interestingly... but doesn't keep the love flowing 
 throughout. The multiplayer just feels tagged on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarshSnake
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a very good quliety game, and very high end voice acting combined witha compelling 
 story. Playing this game was like immersing yourself in a movie in witch you are the main character. 
 The powers and demons you get to use are very creative yet basic, but in a way that it makes you 
 want to use them over and over again. Although not a game i would play twice mainly because after 
 you have played the game once you feel like you have seen alot in the story and game itself. And 
 the cinemtic scenes are sometimes combined with the loading screen in wich it shows Jackie talking 
 to the player in a dark room with a spotlight, was both fun and very creative. I use the word "very" 
 repeatedly to show that this game was very good should be rented by any type of gamer whether it 
 be shooter, role playing, action, or even just a pure multiplayer gamer. If your done with the 
 campeign there is a fun online multiplayer matches you can play on if your bored and actually bought 
 or "gameflyed" the game. Overall a very good game, and is open to a wide range of gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffcub
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  Bought on a whim, I wasn't expecting great things from this title, but was pleasantly surprised. 
 The variety of weapons is OK, the game play reasonable, but it's the acting that won me over. Great 
 voices add real menace and ambiance to the game, and the voice of the darkness itself is mean and 
 scary - this could have been done so badly.
  
  Control method is OK, and learning how to control the darkness does take a little time, but soon 
 becomes second nature. This is quite a vicious game, and some of the deaths are, let's say, interesting! 
 It's not a straight hack and slash, and you do have to think about the game to some extent.
  
  Overall, I really did enjoy this - it's quite addictive, and some of the achievements do determine 
 the way you play, which is unusual for games of this type - you tend to try and be a bit more creative 
 with your kills than you might otherwise be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360nly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  the darkness is a very unqiue game. it has good graphics, great dailogue, and a amazing storyline 
 from start to finish. the game is all about a man named Jackie Estacado who is in the Mafia. when 
 his "uncle: Paulie decides to kill him for not bringing his money. throughout the game you are 
 fighting of his men and he police not only to stay alive but to get your revenge and respect. throughout 
 the game you will have people that will help you and give you info but you wil be doing all the 
 dirty work. another very cool thing aboutt he game is your darknes powers. on his 21st birthday 
 is when he acquires these powers and when you start to wreak havoc. all the power are amazing and 
 you will never get bored with them. in the game you must stay in the dark to kep your power and 
 to stay alive the light is your enemy and will make it difficult for you in the game. the execution 
 moves are awesome and the game has alot of blood and gore. exspecially when you devour your enemies 
 hearts. enough with the single player the multiplayer is pretty good as well. you know the usual 
 shoot em til their dead thing but this ime you can transform into a demon and climb walls, run 
 really fast, and claw your enemies wich makes online for interesting. to sum it all up for you 
 if your into Sci-Fi horror FPS then this si the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cutter9792
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is an interesting mix of ideas. The graphics and sound are absolutely fabulous, and 
 the story keeps you very interested. The game introduces you to one of the most interesting characters 
 in a game to date- the darkness itself. It has a personality, a goal, and interesting quirks to 
 keep you entertained.
  
  Of course, this is where the great parts end. The gameplay is choppy and unresponsive, the interaction, 
 while cool, adds nothing to the experience. The multiplayer is not much better than the singleplayer, 
 and by that I mean it's far worse and choppier. The lag is unbelievable, and the limited supply 
 of weapons make things uninteresting. Being a darkling, though at first rather neat, becomes sloppy 
 and unplayable after a while.
  
  Still, it is made well enough to make me look forward to a possible sequel.
  
  It's true. A 
 great story can save a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  ya well, no much to say, the game is well based 2 a standar shooter, but also has some kind of 
 RPG topics.
  i thought gears of war was the game with most mild lenguage... i was wrong, i mean no judgment, 
 the game context needs it actually.
  
  the game through colect better ways 2 exterminate ur enemies... making a diverse matter... lol, now 
 i feel a bit guilty, such a masacre, but is only a game
  
  what is my opinion?
  the game is great!
  has good graphics
  good gameplay
  fair weaponry
  fun!
  
  the game 
 is a bit short, as mostly shooters, but will worth the while, (i played it on hard dificulty n 
 takes a while some places 2 beat)
  (my warning: explicit n overwhelmingly violent game... rly, not the same doom 3 or such, u kill 
 monsters... here u kill persons... but bad guys lol)
  sometimes has a scary enviroment... but no that much.
  my opinion
  gl
  hf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krepency
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  In my opinion many people completely underappreciated this game. Where the gameplay and multiplayer 
 lacked the story definitely made up for it.
  
  Story: The story for this game drags you in from start to finish. The story is told and executed 
 wonderfully throughout the game and the comic books that the game is based off of are amazing. 
 Story gets a 9.5 out of 10 in my book. One of the greatest stories in a game for awhile. Story 
 = Epic!
  
  Sound: Voice acting is done beautifully in this game and is another element that coaxes you in 
 the this amazing story.
  
  Gameplay: Controls are good. Aiming is a little weird but nothing to make the game significantly 
 less enjoyable. 
  
  Multiplayer: If you ignore the multiplayer, this game is beautiful. The multiplayer lacks quite 
 alot but this game wasn; t made for multiplayer. It was made to tell a great story and that is exactly 
 what it did.
  
  Rent it, but make sure you finish the story mode before returning. I promise that you won't be 
 dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrodrz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Most of what makes The Darkness fun is its story. The way the story is told and developed is the 
 main thing that makes you get interested in the game. I don't say the game is only good because 
 of the story, because it's not. It has a great shooting gameplay, and using The Darkness powers 
 is plenty of fun. Every darkness power is very enjoyable and cool to use. Also, the graphics are 
 amazing, every place of the game is fully detailed with things you would find in these places in 
 real life. Interaction with characters and objects on the game is preety cool too. You have numerous 
 people to talk to, so you can do other things that don't have anything to do with the main story, 
 but they are fun to do. The Darkness is an amazing game, it has a great story, great shooting, 
 great environments, and great fun. C'mon, embrace The Darkness! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I didn't enjoy this game at all. It became a chore to play but I stuck with it as long as my patience 
 would allow but in the end I had to stop - my sanity depended on it.
  
  The early levels are very impressive and the story is interesting but things go very wrong about 
 half way through when you suddenly end up in World War I where you have to endure some of the blandest 
 level design in gaming history. And the A. I is just terrible and I mean terrible. One level has 
 you in no-mans-land as you search for some tortured soul and the enemy just pop up out of the ground 
 and shoot you while walking sideways, like a Space Invaders. They don't run, dodge or show any 
 signs of intelligence at all, they just walk and shoot. 
  
  The game looks great in some areas and terrible in others and the frame rate regularly dives to 
 an almost unplayable state (forget accuracy, just shoot like mad and hope you hit something) .
 
  
  It's not all bad though. There's enough in the early levels to keep you entertained for a short 
 while and your girlfriend in the game is a total hottie. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is without a doubt one of the most underrated games on the xbox 360. Based on the 
 comic series, The Darkness tells the story of Jackie Estacado, a young hitman who receives evil 
 powers on his 21st birthday thanks to a family curse that goes back generations. Thats about all 
 I can say without spoiling parts of the story so I'll just sum up the game now.
  
  Visuals: The Darkness has excellent graphics, the faces of the characters look amazingly real and 
 the weapons and environments are perfectly shaded and detailed. Another area where this game excels 
 is the gore. Sometimes you just feel guilty about pulling off that headshot because it leaves your 
 target without a face.
  
  Audio: Sounds are pretty clean and real, especially when your walking around the subway stations 
 with the trains bustling and the different things going on.
  
  Story: The story is pretty good and, from what I have seen, keeps the feeling of the comic books.
 
  
  All I can say to finish is that this game is very underrated, even with its good score from gamespot, 
 and is definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy10009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Everything was good.... graphics, gameplay, giant snake things ripping from your back to eat hearts, 
 the audio, and most of all, the storyline itself. 
  
  i cannot complain about much of anything on this one, actually, infact i cannot think of anything 
 at all on the spot. 
  
  its just finally great to see a fps thatallows you to have control over something so powerful instead 
 of you having to kill it as the "end boss" you can use terror, firepower, and a giant tail-harpoon 
 to scare...... and implale...... your enemys. to a wall. there is an amazing ammount of detail put 
 into the storyline, so DONT FALL ASLEEP! i would have rated this game a perfect 10, only because 
 sometimes the graphics get a tad glitchy. jackies arms ill appear to do a little dance when you 
 walk towards walls and press yourself againced them for cover. because this game had totally nothign 
 wrong with it, its just the little things like that that stick out like a sore thumb. anyway, dont 
 rent! BUY! 
  
  (online sucked, unfortunatly) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDuskwalker
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a interesting title based on the comic of the same name. Since I don't want to 
 really spoil anything for those who have never read the comics I am not going to say very much 
 on the plot. I will just say on the eve of Jackie's 21st birthday a great darkness awakens within 
 him and then all hell ,and a lot of fun, breaks lose.
  
  Gameplay: 
  The gameplay for this game is pretty interesting. It's a FPS/Adventure title, and all of you who 
 played Riddick will recognize the laser sight aiming system for guns, although it's done much better 
 in this game and gives the title a very cinematic flair. You have your basic assortment of weapons 
 ranging from pistols and revolvers, sub machine guns, shotguns, and assault rifles that all work 
 very well. Obviously what separates this game from other titles is the powers of The Darkness. 
 The Darkness as it's name implies works the best in the cover of dark so you will want to shoot 
 out lights and attack in the dark so your powers will be at there peak since you will die fast 
 running in guns blazing. As the game progresses you will get more powers starting with a stealth 
 move which releases a tentacle that you control so can go threw vents, climb a building or wall, 
 to cut powerlines, or eat a guys face for a sweet instant kill, then you get the darkness arm which 
 is a big tentacle that you can use to lift objects, knockout lights, or impale a enemy, then you 
 get the darkness gun, and finally, and my personal favorite, you get blackhole which as the name 
 implies makes a blackhole sucking enemies and objects into it and all life out of them. A interesting 
 aspect of this game is during load screens it has Jackie telling little stories from his life and 
 such. You usually get a new one each time, however when you're doing sidequests and have to go 
 to a area more times than you would have strictly staying to the story path, it will start showing 
 some of the same ones over and over which get's slightly repetitive, but since there is one for 
 every story section you won't see the same one twice during the main quest. The only flaws of the 
 game is AI can sometimes be really stupid, some small contact sensitive issues, and extremely weak 
 multiplayer. But overall it's a solid lengthy adventure.
  
  Audio:
  This is wear the game truly shines. This is in my top 5 games for best audio. All the voice acting 
 is extremely well done and movie quality and Mike Patton as the voice of The Darkness, he just 
 played it so perfectly and creepy. Music is dark and atmospheric and add to the mood very well. 
 Sound effects are also very good with weapons giving a nice sounding punch. As I said earlier this 
 is some of the best stuff out.
  
  Graphics:
  Again very solid! The game is dark and gritty to fit the mood of the world very well. Everything 
 is nicely detailed and the attention to detail is very amazing. Lighting obviously is very well 
 done for this game and one of it's strongest parts with every light being destructible and lots 
 of environment interactivity. The Darkness powers and effects looks really nice especially when 
 it comes to heart eating, which looks really cool, and obviously nice blood and gore effects. There 
 is a few problems with character animation here and there and some strange shadows on characters, 
 but barely noticeable. Also sometimes the game is a little to dark and sometimes a little to bright, 
 but it's not much of a issue. Overall it's very nice looking game, especially when it was first 
 released last year.
  
  Closing comments:
  Overall this is a great game that shouldn't be missed. If you like The Darkness comics, liked The 
 Chronicles of Riddick Escape From Butcher Bay, or just enjoy a good shooter, then this is a game 
 you definitely want to check out. It's a lengthy, solid adventure with a cool concept and interesting 
 powers.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  
  Pros:
  Great voice acting
  Cool powers and concept
  Great story, especially for a FPS
  Very violent
  
  Cons:
  Tacked on and very weak multiplayer
 
  Sometimes weak AI
  Small contact sensitive issues 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  this game happens to be the greatest fps ive played in a long time, its graphics, sound and twists 
 are all fantastic aswell as its fantastic style of attack where anything goes... really, whether 
 it be a bullet between the eyes or a snake like creature you are controlling biting off someones 
 face. what i found disapointing about the game was its overated gore effects, only some things 
 can me make me feel sick and this is not one of them... but anyway this a must try game for anyone 
 who likes a fps with a twist, a large demonic twist. you will also encounter some creatures called 
 "darklings" which can be of some use and are extremely funny to watch and listen on what they have 
 to say, like one was pissing on a corpse and murmured "drown you piece of **** huh, just wanted 
 to share that". well it is a really fun game that i recomend to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuVZ-tOo-SPoogE
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Again I feel this is one of those great games that isn't given the credit it deserves. Another 
 review by willy wombat...... Just as what I wrote about Jericho, I feel this game is brilliant 
 yet people rate it before they play it! I am proud to have it in my collection, I know theres nothing 
 special about the graphics in this game, its pretty normal but the fantastic storyline makes it 
 all worth while. You play as Jackie Estacado, a hit man on the run from Uncle Paulie (how original-CHORTLE) 
 but on the night of his 21st he realises the truth about Paulie and the darkness within him breaks 
 out. Come on, who the hell doesn't love evil little insane critters who run around brutally murdering 
 people at the touch of a button. The storyline, bonus material and especially the voicing in the 
 game are superb, I mean you get a collectable, go to a phone, dial the collectable number and you 
 get a random person on the other line, including an indian restaurant (that my personal favourite) , 
 a disco and another hitman. Also the ability to get new clothing for your beserker darkling (the 
 fashion critic of the demon world) is great. I find that it is very realistic how you have to blow 
 up light bulbs to stay out of the light and the part of the game where you go back to WW1 really 
 shows the hardship that soldiers went through on the front line. I love this game and would recommend 
 any sort of horror gamer to get it, it ain't scary in the slightest but it rocks all the same. 
 PEACE OUT!!!!!!!!! :) :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkknight21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Ok, so the Darkness came out last summer and I purchased it two weeks after it was released onto 
 the 360. This game tells an awesome story with great voice acting and great visuals to back it 
 up. The game starts out with Jackie Estacado, your character, driving in the car with some of your 
 mob buddies. The two guys you are with end up dying and you keep on going. I don't want to reveal 
 to much more except for the fact that Uncle Paulie is dick and he gets what he deserves. The game 
 tells a great story which is deeper than you just killing guys and eating their hearts, which would 
 still be a great game. It is an interesting twist on the first person shooter genre. It shows that 
 unique backed up with some familiar features is what makes a great game. The dark powers that you 
 recieve from the darkness get very cool throughout the game and it makes you feel like you are 
 actually there. Its length is just right because when you are done playing it you don't say finally 
 and you dont say already. You go through some interesting plot twists and you meet some interesting 
 characters. Ok so for gameplay i give this game a 9.6. For story a 10. For visuals a 9.7. For sound 
 9.9. For online multi player 3. As you can see i was not pleased with the online play because the 
 connection was always crappy and the games lasted for about a minute or two. I haven't played it 
 in a while so maybe they updated it but when i stopped playing the game the multi player was not 
 nearly up to par. All in all, this game is must have for anyone who wants to eat some hearts or 
 really wreck some people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  How do most people spend there 21st birthday? Most go out and get drunk beyond words and have a 
 one night stand. Well For Jackie Estacado his one night stand becomes somewhat of a nightmare. 
 THe Darkness is a First Person SHooter made by starbreeze. It is also based of a comic book series, 
 and most would tell you it does the comic justice. 
  
  The Darkness is a story about Jackie Estacado who on his 21st birthday becomes possessed by a dark 
 power known as The Darkness. Pretty simple, but he also has personal problems as well as Jackie 
 is a hitman. His Uncle Paulie (the current head of the mob) wants him dead and will hurt him or 
 his loved ones at any cost. This lead to many events where you meet some cool characters like your 
 Aunt Sarah and the BUtcher. You even end up going to hell to meet your great grandfather. WHile 
 on paper this sounds kind of corny, the way its presented and the way its told in The Darkness 
 is just awesome and definantly worthy buying.
  
  Through out the game you will take the subway, fight mobsters in new york city streats, in NYC 
 tunnels, fight crooked cops, and even fight some demons in Hell. The voice acting done in this 
 game is very good. THe animations of the characters really make these characters believable. Jackie 
 for instance has the Italian Hitman thing down. 
  
  Now as you can see the story is such a big selling point, so i bet your wondering what keeps this 
 game from perfection. Well to start this game does have 1 tacked on feature. Its multiplayer. THe 
 multiplayer in THe Darkness is downright mediocre to Average. With all the better FPS games out 
 there, especially on the 360 this games MP is a huge mistake. ITs not enjoyable in any way other 
 than being average at best. The other thing is that the gameplay isnt fantastic. 
  
  While some of the darkness powers are aweosme, and eating hearts is just so much fun. The actuall 
 gunplay is kind of just average at best. The AI isnt very bright, and when you see all the cool 
 stuff done in the cutscenes it makes the actual gameplay look boring and meh in someways. The other 
 thing is, because you need to be in the Dark for your powers to be most effective, a big part of 
 the game is knocking out lights. It does get annoying sometimes and feels corny. 
  
  But the saving grace are the Darkness powers to take mediocre up to good. THe Black hole power 
 is just something you will want to have fun with. Taking out multiple enemies with this movie is 
 just fun to watch and makes you feel like a true monster. Other cool tricks like the demon arm 
 where you stab the oppenant with one of your darkness tentacles and then chuck them around is hilarious. 
 Also bringing up Darklings can be really enjoyable. However the coolest little bit of action is 
 when you get to eat hearts. When you kill a bad guy, you get to go up to them and eat there heart. 
 The more you eat the stronger you get, and its one of the coolest animations I have ever seen. 
 
  
  The graphics for the Darkness are also a good thing for the game. Its no Gears of War but it is 
 beautiful. The character models look good, the textures are very well done, the lighting is also 
 pretty good, and the atmosphere in New York City and Hell is just awesome. The graphics truly help 
 immerse you in Jackie Esticados Universe. 
  
  So here is the final comments. You will be extremely dissapointed that the multiplayer is average 
 but not bad, that the single player is short in terms of its main story, and that some of the gameplay 
 could have been even better. However you will enjoy The story, there are many cool sidequests in 
 this first person shooter, cool unlockables, and the overall game experience is just worth it IMO. 
 IF you want to wait for a price drop then do it. However, dont plan on missing the Darkness, it 
 is definantly worthy of purchase.
  
  Final Rundown 
  
  Graphics- 9- Beautiful, Immersive, and Atmoshperic
  
  Gameplay-8- Cool Darkness powers save 
 the average gunplay and dumb AI. 
  
  Soubd- 10- Some great voice acting, great music that gets you pumped at the right time, and hearing 
 The Darkness eat a heart is just satisfying
  
  Concept/Intangibles-9- The story is done very well and is definantly the best part of the game. 
 The game is told very well and the sidequests can be fun sometimes. However the game could have 
 done the actual darkness powers more like some of the cutscenes and the final sequence could have 
 been better. 
  
  Value -8- A great story, fun single player with a pretty average multiplayer is just good enough 
 for 60 bucks, but its no problem for 50 for those who want to wait. The single player story is 
 good enough that you will want to replay it, and the unlockables help alot as well. 
  
  Tilt-9- All in all this is one of the most enjoyable games i have played. The story was very good, 
 the darkness powers were fun, the atmosphere and immersion was done very well. 
  
  Overall 8.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yorkieman91
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  Plot:
  This is an absolute great plot which is full of excitment and fun where gangsters met their match 
 and the powers are so fun to use. My favoruite level is Hell (Chapter Two) .
  
  Graphics:
  8/10 I have seen better but then this game has been out a while but still where it lacks in graphics 
 it builds it back up with the great blood effects.
  
  Sound:
  9/10, good sounds and I really like the ammbience such as Tv's on in the baackground and all the 
 other noises. They sound so real its almost as if you are in the game.
  
  Replay Factor:
  Very high I really would like to reaply this game when I have completed it one to get all the collectables 
 which seem to be impossible to find and to go through the great storyline again.
  
  Other Notes:
  This is really worth buying and playing over and over again really you should go 
 and buy it. No kidding.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RHCPfan24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is one of those games that no one expects to be THAT good, but I was very suprised 
 when I played it. The game as a whole is very cohesive and well-done, I am suprised by the quality 
 of such a game. The story is you are a member of a modern mafia who gets these "darkness" powers 
 on your 21st birthday. A lot of stuff evolves from there, and the story can be very violent and 
 just sick at times. If you have heard about the "break-up" between your girlfriend in the game 
 and you, you know what I mean. For those who don't, it was extremely powerful and rivals some of 
 the most intense scenes seen in cinema. It is a very good scene that is well-deserved on Game Informer's 
 "Top Ten Moments of 2007" list. Basically, the story is very good and serves as an excellent backdrop 
 to the gameplay. In fact, the story is some of the best of last year, and, unfortunately, games 
 like Mass Effect and BioShock stole the spotlight when award season came for story telling.
  
  The gameplay, on the most part, is excellent. Some people have criticized the gunplay, but 
 I feel that the shooting in this game is very realistic and unique for the genre. All guns have 
 laser sights and you use them to aim, and there is a assistive auto-aim that aids with shooting 
 from a distance. The guns in this game are standard fare, but still a lot of fun to shoot. AKs, 
 shotguns, battle rifles, TMPs, and a LOT of pistols are what you shoot for the most part, and it 
 works very well. The whole premise about the game, however, is the Darkness powers, and they are 
 some of the most unique gameplay innovations of last year, portal gun included. There are different 
 powers, like "Demon Arm" which is impaling weapon of sorts that can basically spear any enemy in 
 close range (it is awesome) . "Black Hole" is also pretty cool as it can send a black hole in the 
 middle of an enemy crowd and you can watch as they fly across the room. Still, some of the missions 
 are dull. The first "act" (similar to Gears of War) is excellent, then the 2nd one is really boring, 
 and the 3rd one is pretty good, but the 4th one is not much fun. Still, the game's last act is 
 very good, and has a decent ending. I won't say what happens in the 2nd and 4th act because it 
 is quite interesting, but the gameplay is repitive. 
  
  Overall, "The Darkness" is an excellent game. I bought this during the summer and I couldn't ask 
 for anything more with a summer game. It really is magnificent. The multiplayer is very mediocre, 
 but the rest of the package is solid. It is extremely violent and sadistic at times, but those 
 elements themselves probably lend toward its excellence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kluc05
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is an amazing video game adaptation of the comic book of the same name. The visuals 
 are immediately capturing, as is the narration by the protagonist Jackie Estacado, whose dry wit 
 mixed with an Old Testament notion of revenge make him a highly likable character.
  
  The game is not devoid of flaws, but by the games end you will find them all to be forgiving. Character 
 lip motion is non in sync, and in fact Jackie's mouth barely moves at all with what he is saying. 
 It seems he is the LEAST in sync, which is bizarre since he has more dialogue than any other character.
 
  
  Other animations seem very slick. The way he pivots his guns around obstacles in a firefight seems 
 very authentic and just plain awesome. However, small things like his long hair seem very poorly 
 animated, often looking more like straw, never really moving fluidly. This is understandable, though 
 it is hard to comprehend why they didn't just give him shorter hair to avoid this problem.
  
  The Darkness powers are easily the best part of the game. By the end, you will be striding 
 into the middle of a gun fight tearing up your enemies, hurling cars and leaving bodies littering 
 the floor. Hearing your enemies go from overconfident to terrified is very empowering, and is a 
 great touch.
  
  The voice actor behind The Darkness is quite possibly the best voice actor of the game. He is altogether 
 creepy sounding, and definitely the best voice imaginable for such a character.
  
  The issue with the Darkness comes in the form of its powers. There are really only two powers you 
 may find useful, the other two are just kind of novelties. 
  
  The creeping dark, your first ability, is basically just used for stealth and for reaching things 
 out of your range. Somewhat useful, but not all that cool to watch or perform.
  
  The darklings are useless. You will find yourself summoning them and then discovering they somehow 
 died, and you have no idea how. Their AI is non-existent, often leaving them running into dumpsters 
 while you get shot. 
  
  The Dark Tentacle is probably your best power to use, and it is surprising this power was not given 
 earlier on. Impaling enemies, cars and objects and then hurling them away with ease is just as 
 addicting as it sounds.
  
  The Black Hole is your ultimate power, and will level basically anything thrown at you, including 
 helicopters. 
  
  As stated, the biggest disappointment with your powers is how they don't seem to come at a time 
 that is convenient. The first half of the game is spent basically using the Darkness as a shield, 
 and then the latter half it becomes a deadly weapon.
  
  The story is one of the more involving stories to date. A classical tale of love, revenge and redemption 
 told from the perspective of a Mafia hitman who will do anything, even sell his soul, to avenge 
 the woman he loves. Very deep.
  
  This came is HIGHLY recommended for anyone who enjoys a good FPS with a good story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7121984
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a game about a hitman possessed by a demon which was inherited from his great great 
 grandfather. The hitman is known as Jackie Estecados. Jackie grew up in an orphanage and was raised 
 by his Uncle Paulie. The game kicks off with you waking in the backseat of the car while being 
 chased by police. The mission went wrong and now Uncle Paulie is not happy so he placed a hit on 
 him. Then the story starts...
  
  Graphics: Very artistic. The demon thing that assists you and how the screen animates when it speaks 
 is just creative. The level designs are beautiful and well polished. Along that, it has good framerate.
 
  
  Sound: Great sound effects and voice acting. Especially on the part of Jackie and the demon thing. 
 Jackie sounds like a heartless hitman. His voice is calm but tough which perfectly suits a hitman. 
 On the other hand, the demon, the voice really sounds like... uhmm... demonic?! Can really scare 
 you off! Others such as scream from people being thrust are equally great!
  
  Gameplay: Very nice controls. Summoning demonic beings to carry out your bidding is great. Using 
 your demon powers is AMAZING and not to mention FUN. The autoaim is great and really helps you 
 finnish your opponents quickly cause it automatically targets the head.
  
  Story: Playing as a hitman wanting to get revenge from his boss is old story. Using demonic powers 
 to kill and demons to scavenge hearts from those you killed is new and addictive!
  
  Overall: A must buy and definitely worthwhile! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdc1394
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a game bassed on a comic book. It tells the story of Jackie Estacado, a member 
 of a mafia group. On his 21st birthday he gains the power of the Darkness, a mystical and demonic 
 force that acompanies Jackie throughout the game. Thats just to give you an idea of what the story 
 is about. In order to learn more of this well told story full of twists and turns you will just 
 have to play the game yourself, which is a very good game. 
  The single player story is really fun. You get to use the Darkness' power to kill your "Uncle Paulie's" 
 goons. You also get guns, but using the power of the Darkness is way more fun since the game has 
 a auto-aim feature that has you reticule go at the ememies head. This makes the pistols probably 
 your weapon of choice for most of the game. Whenever you kill an enemy you can have the darkness 
 eat his heart, which makes the Darkness more powerful. You aquire new powers for the Darkness gradually 
 throughout the game as well as new Darklings which are demons that attack your enemies in different 
 ways.
  The multiplayer was dissapointing to say the least. You get your basic game modes and you get a 
 choice of playing as a human or a Darkling but unless all the players have a really good connection 
 the matches are increadibly laggy. The laggyness makes multiplayer less fun than it actually was 
 to start with.
  
  Gameplay-The game runs at a smooth framerate and using the Darkness' powers is really fun. Jackie 
 runs slow but that really doesn't ruin the gameplay. The AI is alright. They use cover and other 
 basic teckniques to make them okay adversaries. 
  
  Graphics-Really good. All the character models look great. Some of the environments look a little 
 bland but overall decent.
  
  Sound-The voice acting is superb and really enhance the great story. All the guns sound fine.
 
  
  Value-The single player take about 10 to 15 hours to beat. It may be worth a second playthrough 
 for some. The multiplayer is a waste of time.
  
  Overall- A really great game from start to finish and should be enjoyed by everyone. Although the 
 dissapointing multiplayer may turn some people off from buying the game, now that the game is not 
 full price it is worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RocKtheCasbaH
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  I was dubious about getting The Darkness as I'm not a big fan of gangster or horror games so putting 
 them both together didn't bowl me over.
  
  But it's had consistent strong reviews and no ones really had a bad word to say against it so when 
 I saw the game on play. com for 17 delivered I thought why not... 
  
  I have to saw it's been one of my better decisions.
  
  The graphics are serious 2nd generation, 
 gameplay is well thought out and polished and the story brings it all together to make a great 
 game. It manages to keep you going through the levels without becoming repetitive and still keep 
 you coming back for more.
  
  For those that like achievements they are set at sensible, achieveable targets and by the end of 
 a normal play through you should have an extra 500+ points under your belt without going out of 
 your way.
  
  If you aren't convinced by the 100's of good reviews out there then download the demo and give 
 it a try. if on it's own that doesn't make you rush out and buy it, don't write it off or you'll 
 be missing out big time on a real quality game.
  
  Don't let this one slip by! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a great game. Simple as that.
  
  The developers have managed to combine two worlds (the Darkness and Jackies Mob family) and mesh 
 them seamlessly into one fantastic story that sits on being the perfect gameplay length.
  
  In truth I have never read or even heard of the old Darkness comic character before, so I have 
 no reference to complain from. But as a newbee to Jackie, I think he had been fleshed out to a 
 make you believe that he is a real person who has to deal with a whole lot of **** both on the 
 ground and under it. 
  
  The voice acting in the game is second to none. Which may not seem like its always that important 
 in games, but when there are so many characters you can talk to who help to drive the plot along, 
 it would be very noticable if someone had been miscast in this.
  
  Violence, evil beings, world war trenches, mob stories, First person shooters, Black Holes, Demon 
 arms, eating hearts. 
  If you like any or all of the above, then The Darkness really is a must own. 
  It doesn't get 
 top marks, but it's almost there.
  
  Its just a shame that the Multiplayer is possibly the worst for lagging and has obviously just 
 been tacked on as an after, after, after thought.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpartanSniper1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I think The Darkness was a good game, full of fun suprizes. I always have enjoyed being the hero 
 in games but I find that being the "evil guy" can be fun too. And theres nothing like ripping the 
 heart out of every enemy you kill to level your satanic powers up! ( = I love the gore in the game, 
 it adds to realism. The dual weild feature is fun but at times i wish i could just pull out a single 
 pistol for more classic killing. I experianced a glitch with picking up the quarters the lady throws 
 into the subway tracks, and i cannot complete the objective which pissed me off a little but i 
 can handle it. The game has a good plot, but a recreational gamer (not a crazy game head like myself) 
 may not understand it. I think the creators of this game should have added more darkness powers, 
 and allow you to summon even more darklings, but oh well teh game is fun anyhow, and i enjoyed 
 every face ripping second of it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moscardino
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  When i first bought this game i thought i wouldn't like it but when i put it on it grew on me.
 
  Whoever thought gangsters and gothic monsters would go together must have been nuts ut somehow 
 this game makes it work.
  The graphics are very good and character models are pretty detailed even if they are used over 
 and over. Environments and very detailed and you will find gafiitti and hobos aswell as some hidden 
 goodies along the way. voice acting is some of the best i've heard since the getaway, but secondary 
 characters are either the same hispanic voice or english voice.
  gameplay is good and gunplay is fun, when you get close enough you can let a very cool execution 
 move unleash on an enemy. Darkness powers are also cool where you can impale enemys and even eat 
 there hearts. The darklings however are ner useless as either the will be easilly killed or will 
 not do what you want.
  AI is bad and enemys will usually just stand and shoot, but this means if you do the same you will 
 be killed in a second. Some enemys will hide behind objects but will not do anything else.
  You will get lost at least once in the game as when you have to go from train station to train 
 station trying to find people and you will also have to deal with some enemys along the way.
  
  overall a fun game but is pretty repetitive and once you complete it you pobably wont play 
 it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  Thyis has been a goodyear for FPS fans as many good titles have been released such as Halo 3 and 
 Bioshock but one game was looked over and that game is the Darkness.
  
  You play Jackie Estacado a Mafia Hitman who is young and in love but keeps his work life secret 
 from his personal life. The game opens up with you in the back of a car being chased by the Police 
 in a massive gunfight. Your boss "Uncle Paulie" has double crossed you and before you know it your 
 on the run from Hired Mafia and Dirty Cops. Also to top it off you are possessed by the darkness. 
 An ancient evil which is shown as two snakes coming from each of you shoulders which whisper suggestions 
 to you on your mission etc.
  
  The game is set very similar to an open world style RPG. I use the team RPG loosley as there is 
 no real RPG element to the game except some character interaction but no sort of character upgrades 
 etc. The game is open world and allows you to explore the seedy city on your quest to get revenge 
 on your former boss with the help of the old timers who also want him out of the picture. The levels 
 are seperated by the subway station which kind of acts like a hub to allow access to all parts 
 of the city. Also you will get a lot of your side quests down here as well from helping the needy 
 to taking out traitors etc.
  
  The gunplay is very intense in the game and you will find yourself being overrun by Swat team members 
 later on who use tactics against you such as shining flood lights at you which prevent the darkness 
 from manifesting leaving you exposed as a weak human and to rushing into rooms after you etc. Also 
 the darkness powers allow for added fun. you can use one of the snakes to crawl along the floor 
 and sneak up on his victim then bite their heads off. Also your demon arm can pick up and throw 
 cars and people etc. But the most fun has to be the ability to summon darklings which are little 
 gremlin like demons who attack the enemy for you.
  
  The graphics are very well done. The lighting affects are amazing and the character details and 
 voice acting are spot on. You feel as though you are sucked into this world with all the various 
 characters and dialogie and cannot wait to see the final conclusion with Jackie and his Uncle Paulie. 
 the Darkness is a very good looking game with excellent locations and animation to go with it.
 
  
  To sum up the Darkness is an excellent game dserving a solid 9/10. The gameplay is top, the story 
 is amazing and the graphics back everything up. Even if you are not a fan of FPS then play the 
 game just for the story as there are lots of twists to keep you on the edge of your seat. Your 
 quest for revenge has begun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Don't believe the negative hype surrounding this title, I did and I now wish that I hadn't. The 
 Darkness is a spectacular Xbox 360 Next Generation release. I'm not sure how close the game resembles 
 the comic created by Top Cow, but there are many treats to be experienced both visually and game 
 play wise in The Darkness.
  Lets start with some of the positive aspects of this game:
  
  Graphically, this game is absolutely stunning in its graphical beauty.
  The dark gritty New York 
 City streets really give off that "real-city" vibe.
  Garbage litters the streets and the subway systems, graffiti covers practically every wall (and 
 this graffiti looks like actually graffiti that you would see in real life) . So much detail has 
 been put into the floors, ceilings, walls and in your general surroundings that it is very easy 
 to get deeply immersed in The Darkness. Following in true Next Gen graphic style, all the wood 
 surfaces in the game look like real wood, metal resembles real metal, concrete looks amazingly 
 realistic. You can see chips in paint, cracks and chips in the concrete - its literally stunning.
 
  The Darkness relies on the use of shadows, and the lighting engine is superb. Light shines off 
 of virtually every surface that would reflect light (including leather!) . Every object casts a 
 proper shadow.
  Since you are in a city, there are lights everywhere and in order for your Darkness power to work 
 or re-charge you need to be in the shadows.
  Basically this mean taking out every light you come into contact with.
  
  Character models 
 look really good. Not as good as Gears of War models, but the characters look believable, most 
 of the time body parts move like they should, clothes look somewhat realistic. Cloth looks amazing. 
 The bodies still look a little clunky, but nothing major.
  Face models are wonderfully detailed, you can see wrinkles and imperfections in the characters 
 faces. Sometimes you can see facial expressions however not too often. The faces are probably the 
 most detailed aspect on each character. The eyes in this game look full of life.
  
  The darkness powers look awesome. Your character acquires two demonic serpent heads on either shoulder 
 and they look amazing. Each darkness power is represented very well graphically. Weapons look realistic, 
 some of the most realistic depictions I have ever seen in a game. On a side note, you get to learn 
 where the darkness comes from.
  
  The physics are downright cool. Everything seems to move as it should. With one of your darkness 
 powers you can pick up objects and people and fling them around. This looks very cool and makes 
 you feel like a real "force-to-be-reckoned-with".
  
  Some claim that the story line in The Darkness is clichd and boring, but I beg to differ. While 
 it is true that the storyline is steeped in New York Mob Scene and carries along with it the good 
 ol' revenge angle and other Mafia generic-ness, the story is told really well and keeps you nevertheless 
 engaged throughout. There are also some twists to the sotry line, and lets just say that New York 
 City is not the only place you will visit in The Darkness. There is some twisted stuff here!
  
  Another great aspect is how the some of the main characters history is told. Instead of loading 
 scenes, you are treated to monologues given by the main character. In these monologues he is either 
 telling a story from his childhood, re-telling or elucidating on current plot elements, or just 
 sitting there gazing at his guns.
  This adds much more to the whole "cinematic" element of The Darkness and gives you something to 
 look at while the game is loading. Much better than staring at a flashing loading screen.
  More unique things include televisions that you can interact with. These TV's show five or six 
 channels of real material. Some have Cartoons, others music videos and there are two movie channels. 
 They show real movies and you can watch them all the way through.
  
  The musical score fits each scene perfectly and ranges from Death metal (fight scenes) , to orchestrated 
 music (during talking scenes and in the subway) . Also there are other areas where music being either 
 played or listened to by NPC's can be heard (there are people who play the harmonica and Break 
 dancers who will dance for you) .
  
  Character development has been well done, you ACTUALLY do care about the characters close to you 
 and you grow to hate your arch enemy. You will grow especially close to your girlfriend Jenny. 
 I grew really attached to her over the course of the game. By the way her face model is one of 
 the best I have ever seen in a video game.
  
  Okay, lets talk about unique aspects:
  
  Summoning Darklings: In The Darkness you gain the ability to summon Darklings (look like little 
 goblins) to do your bidding. Each Darkling has its own special ability and funtion. The darkling 
 models look really cool, and they each have an attitude that could only be attributed to a darkling. 
 They urinate on dead corpses and make rude comments.
  
  Control is done really well, despite what some reviewers may say. I find the controls easy to use. 
 From summoning darkness powers to calling up darklings to using the regular weapons and moving: 
 I found this all easy to understand and control. Much easier than most FPS titles, even Halo.
 
  
  This is a FPS but with some role playing elements.
  Your darkness powers level up after a certain amount of hearts have been eaten (that's right, your 
 darkness serpents eat the hearts of fallen corpses, only the evil characters though) . With each 
 level up you will gain a new darkness power. The powers really make you feel super-human.
  They range from being able to open up a black hole portal to suck everything in and kill all enemies 
 around it, gaining control of an arm that can grab objects and impale enemies, to duel wielding 
 guns that harness the darkness power into bullet projectiles.
  Each power has its use and is very fun to use, never getting stale or boring.
  
  Another RPG 
 aspect is the side missions and free roaming nature of this game. The game is basically broken 
 down into streets and certain landmarks, with the subway system acting as a central hub. In the 
 subway system you cannot use your weapons (this area acts as the "safe-village" that can commonly 
 be found in most RPG's) . The subway is where you get all of the side missions from NPC's. They 
 range from simple to time consuming, but nevertheless add to the overall fun. The game is free 
 roaming to an extent. You can roam the streets but they are visibly cut off at a certain point. 
 You cannot walk into just any building either. But these constraints don't mean much, since The 
 Darkness is meant to be more of a story rather than an open ended experience. Overall, the areas 
 to explore of decent. There are even collectible items to collect throughout. You have to do some 
 searching to find them, but its worth it, because you unlock the Dark Horse comis in it's entirety 
 if you get them all.
  
  The developers incorporated a neat system for unlocking these collectibles too. The collectibles 
 you pick up are actually phone numbers which you can call at any pay phone in the subway system 
 (most of the pay phones out on the street are broken. Go figure!) When you call them you usually 
 reach someones answering machine. And most of the time the message is a funny one. There are also 
 secret numbers scrawled on walls and such, and when called will prompt another side mission involving 
 you finding about 16 secret phone numbers to unlock a secret achievement. Speaking of achievements, 
 there are plenty to be had. And they are fun ones too. I won't tell you what they are, but I will 
 say that you can track your achievements via the pause menu.
  
  There is so much scripted dialog in The Darkness, the cinematic and realistic qualities of this 
 game are further enhanced. Passer-by NPC (non-playable characters) that are not key to the plot 
 or side missions don't really say much. But those that ask you to do side missions, key plot characters 
 and enemies during battle all have plenty to say.
  I love it when the enemies that I am fighting talk trash to me or cower in fear when I am fighting 
 them. It really adds to the game play.
  
  If you have ever Played Condemned : Criminal Origins, you will really like this game. The Darkness 
 seems to be closely related to Condemned in spirit. However, The Darkness is much more fast paced 
 in terms of action and fighting.
  
  I have yet to try the multiplayer Xbox Live deathmatch gaming, but overall, I recommend The Darkness. 
 It is a true experience of Next-Gen gaming, you will not be disappointed. There are so many little 
 nuances thrown into this game that just give it a realistic feel and liven up the game in so many 
 ways. This is a real treat to watch unfold before your eyes, from beginning to end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I had heard many good things about this game but told myself i would rent/borrow it before i bought 
 it... well I didnt wait, and im happy i didnt! This was/is one of the greatest 360 games yet. The 
 graphics are extremely real, and i mean real enough to put you in the game yourself. The graphics 
 are insane and well done. The story is also well done, when i first played this game i sat there 
 and was all... this is the most boring opening of my life, but after 5 minutes i was hooked... the 
 graphics and animation just blew me away... i could not believe i was playing a game that was extremely 
 well done and i was excited. The weaponry is well too, because i hate when i play games where the 
 weaponry sucks, but this game was well done. The story is well flowing too, where you dont have 
 to question anything, well maybe you ask yourself a few questions but none that wont be answered, 
 this is definately the game to buy... screw renting it! Just buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dribblecake
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  From start to finish through this game you will experience a feeling of flabbergastion, due to 
 it's realism, horror, anger and a feeling of complete power.
  An easy way to describe it would be to say it's a first person, graphically advanced, GTA with 
 monsters coming out of your shoulders!
  You could go through the game without even using the powers given to you and still feel overwhelming 
 satisfied at the gameplay element of the game.
  It's delicate and wonderful control system allows graceful use of all weapons - from it's masses 
 of pistols to it's Jackhammer Shotguns.
  You can travel anywhere, do anything, kill anything. 
  Take branching side missions where your 
 guns and violent powers may not get you what you want - with multiple ways to complete these side 
 missions experimentation it at your hands!
  
  The reason I mention these things is to stress the fact that they are all so good and addictive.
 
  Let me give you an example of one day of playing.
  - I was walking through the Canal Street subway about to ring someone in which a woman approached 
 me. She asked me if she could help me get her apartment back from her ex-boyfriend. As I was in 
 a sporting mood I accepted her offer. Her apartment was in Chinatown so I took off imeadiately, 
 reloading and preparing my weapons in the shadows of the city streets. I would be unaware of anything 
 that would happen.
  I arrived at her apartment. 
  A rough looking fellow replied to my knocks on the apartment door by opening it. I was either going 
 to pop him a question or pop his neck. The choice was mine.
  I decided to go with the first idea although my trigger finger was getting itchy.
  I asked him 
 for his keys to the apartment. He replied saying that he was not going to give me them. Upon this 
 I pulled out my shotgun and pointed it at his face. He, in response to this, fell to his knees 
 and screamed in horror "I don't have the keys!". The trigger of shotgun was being pulled ever slightly 
 by my finger. The shotgun did not go off, it simply showed that it's trigger was being pulled. 
 His screams further persuaded my decision.
  I took the butt of my weapon and smashed it across his face, breaking something in the process. 
 This thing was not ,however, a part of the shotgun. He consequently fell almost lifelessly to the 
 floor of the dirty apartment. I picked up the keys from his blood stained pocket and left.
  
  That was fun.
  
  I could go on and on about the game but I'm simply going to leave this 
 review with one simple thing.
  I have played dozens of 1st person shooters. 
  This is the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToddHagen
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  Be warned - this title has a very mature concept - the player is placed in a very dark and dangerous 
 world, and you are the unwilling companion to a very evil entity. You rip the hearts out of your 
 adversaries and your "power" eats them.
  
  That said, this title is a TON of fun to play! The story is overly dark (never daytime (except 
 in the otherworld) and complicated. Definitely has a lot of story - you are a NY mafia family enforcer 
 that has a familial curse that is the "Darkness" a seemingly mad entity that feeds on evil and 
 draws its powers from the dark. It's the interplay between these that makes things so good, and 
 so unusual.
  
  Everything about the title screams high production values - there are side quests and collection 
 games beyond the base story, and many of them are quite challenging.
  
  You have dual enemies - both the mafia don that has gone mad with power and the Darkness - also 
 mad. One wants to destroy you and the other wants to possess you entirely.
  
  Level design is very cool, the gameworld is very well done and even smallish details exist everywhere. 
 Without spoiling it, the ending seems very appropriate to the tone and focus of the story. Highly 
 recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about 'The Darkness', I wasn't all that interested to be honest. Then I heard 
 that Starbreeze was the development company behind it, and I instantly couldn't wait to play this. 
 As most of you probably know, Starbreeze is responsible for the excellent Xbox FPS 'The Chronicles 
 Of Riddick'. That game combined great FPS action with a excellent story driven by a anti-hero type 
 of character. Well, I basically just explained 'The Darkness' with that last sentence.
  
  The first thing that drew me into this game was the story. It's a very interesting tale about the 
 main character, Jackie, who is a hit-man for the mob. His uncle is currently in charge of the business 
 in their area. Jackie has a girlfriend and it's his 21st birthday. Then while on a hit, he finds 
 out his uncle thinks he double crossed him and tries to blow him up. Then Jackie goes to get payback. 
 It's a revenge tale that gets even more intense as the game moves along. Of course, I don't want 
 to reveal spoilers..... but there was one moment where I actually wanted to kill the villain in 
 the game myself!
  
  Maybe the biggest draw of the game is the use of your Darkness powers. You see, early on in the 
 game you are infested by some demon. This demon gives you great power, but it has it's own agenda. 
 The powers are quite fun to use and by the end of the game I wasn't even using the actual guns 
 in the game much anymore. In fact, by the end of the game you will feel very overpowered and it 
 almost makes the climax too easy. And like I mentioned, the regular guns aren't very impressive. 
 I know the main draw here is to use the Darkness powers, but the firearms that they give you are 
 an average lot, at best.
  
  So that's about the gist of the game. You can partake in some side missions, if you so choose. 
 These will get you some unlockables that eventually unlock some achievements. But for the most 
 part, you will be following along with the excellent story and killing a bunch of bad guys. It 
 sounds simple, but there is so much meat in the story that you never feel like the game doesn't 
 go anywhere. And a nice touch is the fact that you can build up your Darkness powers over time. 
 After you kill an enemy, your demon can eat the heart of the vicitim right from his chest. If you 
 collect enough of these hearts, you're Darkness powers level up. It's a fun thing for awhile, but 
 I had my powers maxed out way too early on in the game. Don't get me wrong, you won't confuse this 
 with some RPG-type of character progression. But I just thought I would mention it, as it does 
 play a big part in the game and it gives you a little bit of incentive to kill every bad guy you 
 see.
  
  The graphics are incredible and the voice acting is even better. In fact, the whole presentation 
 and visual style of the game is off the charts. It really immerses you into the game, and of course, 
 that is essential when a game is trying to tell a great story. It's like playing a movie, which 
 is never a bad thing. 'The Darkness' does have a multi-player mode, but it's not all that great. 
 There are countless other FPS for the Xbox 360 that excel in that area WAY more than this game, 
 so I can't really recommend spending too much time in that area.
  
  'The Darkness' is one of the best FPS I have played for the consoles. The single player game is 
 too short, but it's mostly because you don't want it to end. Just like their previous game ('The 
 Chronicles Of Riddick') has crafted a unique and cinematic FPS that any fan of the genre owes it 
 to themselves to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  The game's story is a very well scripted and told one. The main character, Jackie Estacado, is 
 a hitman for his uncle Paulie. But as the game starts, your Uncle Paulie who supposed to be this 
 kind and loving person ends up putting a hit on you. Eventually things happen to Jackie that put 
 him into rage and more and more he excepts the darkness as his friend to help him exact revenge 
 for what his uncle and others have done to him. You actually feel sorry and kinda might get emotional 
 for what happens in the story. Thats how good the story is. Also the action and gameplay is very 
 well done and the controls aren't confusing, they are just right. This game is a definite buy for 
 360 owners or if you have a PS3, get this game. It's a great story that any great story lover wouldn't 
 want to miss. Just awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polsci1503
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is appropriately titled as it is a dark and brooding game filled with brutal violence, 
 hard language and a visual style that befits the comic book roots from which the story came. It 
 is not a game for everyone and it's no compromise approach to the story will likely turn off gamers 
 who are offended by curse words and copious amounts of violence, but for those of us who happen 
 to enjoy games of this type, this game is a gem.
  
  Developed by Starbreeze, who gave us the surprise hit Riddick a few years back, The Darkness is 
 directly inspired from the comic book series. The story follows the transformation of young mob 
 hit man Jackie Escavedo, who on his 21st birthday begins to morph into an evil entity called The 
 Darkness (eerily voiced by Mike Patton, the lead singer of Faith No More and Tomahawk) .
  
  As the game begins you learn that Jackie has been targeted for assassination by Uncle Paulie, the 
 local mob boss who is taking the crime operation into drug distribution and upsetting the older 
 crime lords. You must take Uncle Paulie down while outwitting The Darkness for control of your 
 body and soul. During the course of the game you will be battling it out in the streets of New 
 York City with a couple of trips to Hell thrown in. 
  
  Visually the game is sharp and looks great. New York City was well done and I especially liked 
 the subway stations, which were pretty accurate (I worked in Manhattan for 9 years) . Hell was modeled 
 as a World War 1 battlefield, complete with bi-planes, tanks and trenches. There are lots of little 
 touches in the game you'll stop and look at including watching television. Old movies and music 
 videos will play as long as you watch.
  
  The gameplay is interesting as you are given two routes to fight - weapons and your darkness powers. 
 Darkness powers come in the form of Creeping Dark (send out a long slithering snake-like demon 
 to sneak up and chomp on heads) , the Demon Arm (a long arm with a spiked tip to skewer enemies) , 
 the Black Hole (creates a vortex that sucks enemies into it) , and the Darkness Guns. These are 
 all fun to use and it opens up the gameplay so that it's not just a straight ahead shooter.
  
  You are also given control over Darklings. These are small creatures that you can conjure in 
 certain areas to help you. There are 4 different Darklings - a chaingunner, a beserker, a kamikaze 
 and a light killer. They are not always absolutely necessary to use, but they also open up the 
 gameplay a bit and keep things interesting. Plus, the Darklings will make you laugh with some of 
 the things they say.
  
  Voice work for this game was pretty good. I thought maybe they could have someone who sounded more 
 New York do the voice for Jackie, but he still sounded good. Mike Patton's voice for The Darkness 
 was killer, great job there. The other cast of characters were well done, except for one key character, 
 Jackie's Aunt Sarah. How does a New York crime family's matriarch sound southern? That was weird. 
 
  
  I only had one peeve while playing the game and that is whenever you're entering an area where 
 you're going to do battle, instead of being totally focused on the guys coming at you, you're scanning 
 around trying to locate the lights so you can shoot them out. Your Darkness powers only really 
 work while you're in the dark, so trying to shoot out tiny lightbulbs while guys are shooting at 
 you gets annoying, especially if you miss the bulbs or the game's auto-aim targets a part of the 
 light fixture and not the bulb itself. It's not a major complaint, but some way of dealing with 
 the lights to keep the action more fluid would have made a difference.
  
  To sum up this review, The Darkness is a must play for shooter fans who like their material served 
 up spooky, atmospheric and violent. It looks as if this game will not do as well commercially as 
 Riddick did, which is a shame. The game's commercial inaccessibility is likely due to it's uncompromising 
 approach to the material, however it is precisely this approach that makes the game a memorable 
 one. Starbreeze has proved that Riddick was no fluke and I'll be looking forward to their next 
 offering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Snake_91
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game, I was a little weary of the 40 price tag, but after the first ten 
 minutes, I was hooked! This game is totally worth the 40 and more! The graphics are incredible, 
 the gunplay is exciting and the story is out of this world! Its like the offspring of a top-notch 
 Tarantino/Rodriguez/Scorcese movie! I was stunned, and so will you be! And also, you really get 
 into the story too, as you feel for Jackie when Jennie gets killed. You want to slaughter Paulie, 
 which makes it all the more sweeter in the end! An excellent achievement in the visual, dialogue, 
 story, and character department! 
  I hope this gets made into a movie! Its the perfect recipe for a masterpiece! The new era of a 
 monster-mob-movie! HAHA!
  
  P. S. Jackie Estecado rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a great game. I picked up a few months ago, and have started playing it more lately. 
 It's a fairly underrated game, because I don't hear about it much. The visual and audio qualities 
 in this game help to pull you into the unraveling story and its characters and the world.
  
  The Darkness could have been a bit more polished in the game play. There are some really annoying 
 glitches that cause a player to have to restart a chapter from the beginning if they want to get 
 some of the achievements. This just happened to me this morning. Argh... wish I would have known 
 how to handle the Warburton side mission.
  
  Overall it's a great game. I paid full price for it, but now that it's starting to come down in 
 price it's worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTriviumx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a game where on your 21st birthday, your life completly changes, and your faced 
 with darkness, death, and destruction. The lead character is a mafia-type gang member who becomes 
 possessed by a dark force, which he then tries to take over himself. Its filled with blood, gore, 
 and a nice chill-through-the-spine feeling as your kill enemies and eat the hearts for levels and 
 newer powers. These powers help you throughout the game as you try to defeat the force that gave 
 you the powers in the first place. The only downside is confusing story-line and a bit frustrating 
 during sometimes as you run around looking for what you are supposed to be doing. The fighting 
 and shootouts are pretty nice though, and making otherworldly beings to kill people for you is 
 always fun, am i right? But its story is lacking a bit and lacks a sense of direction. Worth buying, 
 but it leans a bit towards the gamer who likes finding how to beat the game themselves. (Which 
 isn't me.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarKlown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a whole new epic to the FPS genre. This game has gone for a whole new look as well 
 as a whole new gameplay style. The car chase at the beggining is an excellent way to begin the 
 game and is the coolest interactive cutscene i have ever seen. The games new styles allows you 
 to summon darklings to do your biddings against your uncle Paulie's mafia army.
  You also have darklings attached to your shoulders which is a cool because they are your second 
 weapon to your guns and you will need to be able to master them if you want to pass the game. The 
 game includes an awesome level in Hell which is a lot like World War 2. The story is great and 
 it is filled with great characters and terrific voice acting. Its one of those games that just 
 keeps you hooked in because you need to find out what happens next.
  However there were a few glitches in the game and one that stood out and really annoyed me but 
 the good thing was it was near the beginning of the game. There is a part when you have to tell 
 this guy a password and the only way you can get the password is by asking this hobo. You should 
 not be able to kill characters that are important to the game. As all gamers would do since i was 
 aloud to I shot the hobo and went down to the password station where you get a checkpoint and the 
 guy wouldn't let me in since i didn't have the password but i couldn't revert to last checkpoint 
 either so I had to start the game again which was frustrating at the time. Another disappointment 
 to The Darkness was the ending which i found a bit corny and I reckon they could have creatively 
 come up with an ending heaps better. The Multiplayer was no where near as good as Call Of Duty 
 4's or Halo 3's but I still found it a bit of fun being able to shapeshift between darklings and 
 humans in an Down Town gangster fight set in the Alleys of New Jersey. The Darklings moves are 
 the best thing about this game from ripping enemies hearts out and devouring them to ripping them 
 in half with your darkling tentacles.
  Overall I reckon this is a really cool game lots of blood and fans pf the comic will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbasque78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  The Darkness plays like your typical FPS but adds a whole new layer of gameplay elements by giving 
 different darkness powers and being able to summon Darklings to help you. The darkness powers range 
 from a the ability to get one of your tentacles to crawl everything and reach tight spots or do 
 stealth kills... or to open up a Black Hole that spins any close enemies / objects to their deaths. 
 You can also summon different types of Darklings from little holes from the ground to aid you... 
 they range from gunners to kamikaze. All of these powers are given to you as you progress in the 
 game.
  
  The graphics are really excellent and pretty much everything looks high-res in this game. The streets 
 of New York kinda looks the same but at least it looks good. The character models are superb but 
 usually when they talk their lips barely moves which is odd. 
  
  The sound is really good and the game offers first rate voice-acting. The voice-acting is filled 
 with swear words.. but hey.. that's gangster talk for ya.
  
  The game is a FPS but it's slow-paced and you need to take cover and shoot out the lights in order 
 to be in the dark so you can use your dark powers. There's a very forgiving auto-aim system that 
 makes the gun fights pretty easy if you take the time to back away into the darkness again. Once 
 you get used to shot and use the powers at the same time you'll be tearing up the foes which is 
 good fun.
  
  The storyline is one of the best part of the game and you'll enjoy it even if you didn't read any 
 of the comic books (I didn't myself) . The game is of average length and took me probably 9 to 10hrs 
 to complete. It wasn't too challenging except in maybe 2 spots and I had a good time.
  
  Recommended to anyone interested in something different! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl4rty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  I've been awaiting this game for a good while since i saw it was being developed by starbreeze 
 , the creators behind the phenomenal Chronicles of riddick: escape from butcher bay. The game starts 
 off with Jackie, a hitman on his way to carry out a hit for his uncle Paulie, a local crime boss, 
 after an awesome intro and a double cross within the first mission, you soon inherit some evil 
 demonic powers through a brilliant little scripted sequence and set off on your mission of vengeance 
 against uncle Paulie and his associates. So this sounds like your run of the mill gangster story 
 plus super powers, but it soon escalates into a much deeper more complex story and one hell of 
 a ride. You'll be transported to an evil underworld and do battle with evil demons clad in German 
 WW1 gear, You'll have to take out SWAT teams single handedly, destroy uncle Paulie's crime endeavors 
 and you can even take on side missions from the elders of the mafia family. In fact its the best 
 story I've seen all year within the gaming medium and has one explosive finale and many memorable 
 moments through out.
  
  The textures all well defined and crisp, and look very realistic as do the character models and 
 their animations, and the lighting does a brilliant job of stirring up a realistic atmosphere. 
 Though a few graphical glitches here and there theres nothing really to put to much of a dampener 
 on it. Though one thing that did annoy was the rag doll effects didn't seem to apply to corpses.
 
  
  The overall game play is like a FPS and RPG hybrid, which seems to becoming more and more popular, 
 you have a limited armory of weapons at your disposal but they made the most out of what weapons 
 you have by choosing good weapons like duel wielding pistols shotgun etc, though they are standard 
 weapons for a shooter, they work well in what context they are presented in, you can also sneak 
 up behind enemy's ( or civilians) and execute them in a brutal fashion, one such fashion is to 
 kick the person to the floor, tread on his back and put one in his head. This is quite satisfying 
 to relieve some stress as sick as it sounds :P
  Along with the weapons you have several powers, a snake like thing that can scout ahead and perform 
 stealth attacks on enemy's, this is the first power you receive and the most difficult to master 
 but probably the most useful in solving puzzles. As the game progresses and the more hearts you 
 eat of your victims you receive more powers, such as a tentacle arm, which is great for moving 
 heavy objects and spearing them pesky pigs and mafia gangsters, the most impressive is the black 
 hole which sucks everything around it in and spews it back out, killing everything. You also can 
 call upon an army of dark minions all with different specialties and their own personalities. These 
 powers draw their energy from the dark though so the darkness exhibits a lighting system just like 
 CoR: EFB where nearly every light source is destructible.
  
  All in all this is the darkest and most immersive game i've played since chronicles of riddick, 
 but due to a few graphical issues and the slow start it loses on a few points, i give it 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaziechameleon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  Simply the best story telling this year, and a must play game if you are a sucker for such a thing. 
 one of, if not the best comic book game ever. again this dark story really gets under you skin, 
 but in a good way. you don't see romanticized heroes, or supernatural villains, you see people 
 in their worst of times, the entity that is the darkness, effects game play yes, but as far as 
 the story goes it effectively conveys a idea more, the darkness is symbolic of your characters 
 uphill struggle against his worse nature, and his horrible situation. don't think this game is 
 about the darkness, it's about letting your self become enveloped in darkness. i could really just 
 go on and on about the games story, but at the end of the day it isn't as if it's a story that 
 hasn't already been told, albeit a different medium the game features, some genuinely great gunfights 
 and frantic bloody action, a small but detailed persistent world, and some fantastic animations 
 and character models, the meta game experience is fluid and immersive you see no loading screens, 
 only cinematics. the design of the presentation for this title is top notch. super powers are well 
 designed, and generally well executed. AI is also good, sometimes.
  
  THE BAD:
  level design is very real, but doesn't always work well, or allow for good use of your powers in 
 a challenging way, but rather the levels flow between too hard and too easy all to often. AI can 
 be horrible, but in general works well, level design doesn't give you enough dynamic gun fights, 
 basically I'm complaining that outside of the open areas the levels break down into corder crawls 
 or rail shooting sections, were the linear and controlling nature of these areas allows the player 
 to realize the flaws of the game play, and the fact that you are forced in a sense to see everything 
 their way it's like having your face shoved into every shortcoming that arises, this area is to 
 tedious, that area is to easy, wait why am i stuck, oh a random puzzle with no cue. if the story 
 wasn't so good and the powers so fantastic this game would be somewhat of a chore. 
  
  THE RANT (skip if you don't like stream of conscious style blogging, go to the breakdown)
  
 
  Ok so i covered allot in my good/bad area, but this game opens with a fantastic car chase/ integrated 
 cinematic, you can look around a take some shots but you won't effect the outcome, i instead payed 
 attention since what is said here is the cause of the rest of the game. the funny thing is if you 
 don't like the opening you won't like the rest of the game. the opener is indicative of the game 
 design. basically the goal was to tell a story, make it interactive, but basically tell a linear 
 story with fluid design, and allot of flair. think half life, or halo but if they focused on presentation 
 before game play, they would be like the darkness. the interactive cinema experience is good, except 
 that at many points they demand to much of you, for example every time you get a darkness power 
 you must use it to solve a puzzle, funny thing is, you often don't have a cue's that you have a 
 puzzle to solve, you just get stuck. all the guns in the game are rather generic, but are a ton 
 of fun to shoot, and just look and sound awesome, the darkness powers and even more fun. but then 
 you come to the problem of level design as i siad earlier, it isn't that you have a bad arsenal, 
 or horrible AI, or even bad levels, it's that they never feel like they go together well, sure 
 there are moments and levels that just blend and feel great, one where i ran into a room with some 
 cops, the lady cop screamed and ran, while every one else took cover. i knocked out the lights 
 with my demon arm while simultaneously firing my duel ozies. this is a example of how the game 
 should have been through and through, but unlike f. e. a. r. a game that mastered the ten seconds 
 of awesome for 10 hours, this game just doesn't maintain itself. first off you are waiting nearly 
 the first half of the game to get the demon arm (your coolest ability i think) then you get it, 
 then you get even more abilities and it kind breezes over the coolest feeling darkness power in 
 the game, the only thing that compares is the black hole. yeah you get darklings, yeah they are 
 hilariously disgusting, and are awesome to watch, but their AI is horrible, you have command options, 
 but they often don't listen. sometimes you get that feeling you are being over whelmed, as you 
 should so you summon some stupid demon creature who just die over and over again. the end scene 
 of the game is so dramatic and dark it's rather unsettling, to watch, but it's the way i think 
 they meant it to be. gosh i love every second of the story of this game it, one of the most impactful 
 games I've played second only to bioshock, or half life. no matter how inconsistent the action 
 is the game is pumped full of high quality design it really feels like they let it out the door 
 half a year to early, before play testing was complete, don't worry there isn't any bugs, or glitches, 
 just under developed combat.
  
  THE BREAK DOWN:
  GRAPHICS
  a great looking game, with consistent visual appeal, great character models, better animations. 
 these guys really knocked it up a notch after riddick.
  9.5
  GAME PLAY
  wow, fun at it's best, vanilla to frustrating at it's worst, not bad enough to scare people away 
 from this brutally riveting story.
  7
  SOUND
  great voice work all around, another example of how a game should sound, i love how good game audio 
 got in the last year.
  10
  VALUE
  it's a linear 12 hour romp, with horrible multi-player not worth your time.
  6
  TILT
  gosh 
 despite any amount of beef i had with this game the story is just so good even after a fall of 
 great titles this one holds up. still my favorite story this year.
  9
  FINAL SCORE
  8.5
  like a quick but devastatingly impactful game pick this one up, it's probably already on 
 sale. oh almost forgot, this is the most viscerally violent game I've ever seen, can't imagine 
 manhunt would be much worse. i don't recommend to anyone under 18, for extreme violence.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonkeyKong8765
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  At first, when I bought The Darkness, and I was like wtf? This game BLOWS! That was before I devoured 
 a heart with a demon growing out of my back, then did my first execution move, and finally ripped 
 a New York City cop's neck out with the fore-mentioned demon (s) . 
  This game is breathtaking in almost every way except gameplay. A lot of gamers do not like people 
 that have a dot in the middle of the screen (likeUnreal Tournament) to guide the gun rather than 
 the traditional circle. Also, you can see your own feet in this game, unlike many FPS's, and that 
 leads to some problems when you are trying to move around.
  The storyline is absolutely one of the best of any games ever made. You slowly learn about each 
 character and their past. You play as Jackie Estacodo, an orphan who was adopted by his clearly 
 insane uncle/Don of the New York City Mafia, Uncle Paulie. On your 21st birthday, the crazy demon 
 only known as the Darkness reveals itself to you, and takes you over. The Darkness really doesn't 
 have that much effect on Jackie, as shown by the fact that he still acts the same around every 
 character even though he is currently possesed. You are evantually killed, and sent to hell while 
 The Darkness "rebuilds your broken head-ball" which is creepy and awesome at the same time. Eventually 
 you get out and the story continues to build.
  You can also spawn little demons (each with a different skill) and send them after your enemies 
 to either stab them, gun them down, blow them up, electrocute them and much more. 
  The graphics are better than Halo 3's, yet you will never find yourself in an enourmous area in 
 which to do fighting.
  Also, the loading screens are replaced by little cutscenes that have Jackie talking about one or 
 more experiences in his life. This is an element that allows the gamer to put themselves in Jackie 
 Estacodo's shoes and learn more about the character.
  Another thing that struck me as awesome, Is the fact that you are required to actually take the 
 subway to your destination, and in some cases, find the street you are looking for.
  There are sometimes in the game, when you are really close to the enemy, you can do what is called 
 an "execution move". It's kind of like a counter-attack in Assassins's Creed, only with one or 
 two guns.
  If you are a multiplayer buff, than don't plan on buying this game because multiplayer on The Darkness 
 is like a see-through night gown on Renee Zelwigger, just plain ugly. The maps are bland and flat 
 out boring, along with LAG the likes of which I have never seen before in a game. There is a literally 
 80% chance you will lag in an online session. Another reason it sucks is because there is no way 
 you can use your demons in online games because most of the demons' moves are fatal, and would 
 not be fun in a multiplayer environment.
  Like I said, this game is breathtaking and revolutionary in many ways, including its AI, the graphics, 
 the waiting/loding screens that are replaced with cutscenes to offer stimulation during awful loading 
 screens, the demon abilities, and the constant dualwielding. It's Ai is great because they never 
 just shout out random phrases that are so generic that they don't mean anything. They actually 
 shout environment specific terms. 
  Overall The Darkness is an extremely fun game with a lot of "WOW" moments throughout, and applies 
 the demons abilities' without you getting the feeling that you are required to use them. It is 
 now in my "must-own" collection of Video Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gauntlet2021
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:01 am PT
Review:  In The Darkness you are thrown into the game as Jackie Estacardo, a mafia hitman, shortly after 
 a failed mission. As an introduction, you sit in the back of a car driven by two allied men which 
 ends up being chased down by the police. As generic as this may sound, the chaos that goes on around 
 you is a great way to begin the game.
  
  Before too long, you experience a simple tutorial, followed by becoming possessed by a demonic 
 presence called The Darkness. The way this is introduced is repeated occasionally during the game 
 for dramatic effect: The Darkness takes over for you and assumes control of Jackie during in-game 
 moments. This is a very nice touch to the game, it adds to the belief that this entity is actually 
 taking control of Jackie's mind.
  
  One of the first thing's you'll notice is the shooting. When wielding duel pistols, your hands 
 seem to dynamically shift along obstacles to help hit your target. When you run out of ammo, instead 
 of reloading Jackie casts asside his current pistols and retrieves two fresh ones from his jacket, 
 saving the time it takes to reload. You'll get alot of the conventional weapons, pistols, SMGs, 
 shotguns, nothing too special, but they work well in the setting.
  
  
  Additionally, you recieve certain demonic powers from The Darkness. At first this basically means 
 being able to send one of the tentacle-like manifestations across walls or through holes to attack 
 enemies, or the ability to summon a Darkling minion; eventually developing into a brutally fun 
 Demon Arm, which impales enemies from afar; a Black Hole; and numerous other Darkling summons. 
 You spend alot of time in the shadows too, which gives you a sort of shield. While everything seems 
 to be made for action, on higher difficulties some gunfights are too hard to do with action, but 
 easier with sneaky tactics or firing from cover. That said, generally it's quite easy to finish 
 missions.
  
  You get a total of 4 Darklings through the course of the game. A Berserker, Lightkiller, Kamekazi, 
 and Gunner. All of which have there own uses, and occasionally act as comic relief... such as when 
 one would urinate on the corpse of an enemy.
  
  Now the darker side. The Darkness is quite gory in some aspects. In particular the moments where 
 you ... eat human hearts. By pressing A when over a fallen human body, one of the heads on your 
 shoulder will lunge downward and feast on the bloody heart inside. Eventually you get desencitised 
 to this though, and basically just concern yourself with 'how many hearts until my Darkness Level 
 goes up'. The more hearts you consume, the stronger you get.
  
  Graphically the Darkness is amazing. Obviously, since you spend the majority of the game in darkness 
 to maintain your demonic power, lighting is important. For the most part this is done well, some 
 occasions it does however seem that lights are coming from the wrong source. The characters are 
 well designed, and the environments are amazingly rendered. 
  
  The storyline is probably one of the best to be in a game in recent times, particularly if you 
 like the darker side of things. Without giving much away, the story is basically one of revenge 
 while solving the mystery that is 'The Darkness'. The voice acting that follows this plot is excellent, 
 particularly in the Darkness itself. Even the voice acting of extras like people in the subway 
 or telephone messages are performed greatly, assisting the immersian into the story. If you understand 
 the ending, you'll likelly be left with it stuck in your mind, in a good way, for years. If not, 
 don't worry. There's plenty of forums of people who didnt understand.
  
  As for extras, the Darkness features collectable alternative Darklings, plentiful Phone Numbers 
 to dial, side quests, and a rediculous amount of television content which holds hours per channel, 
 on about 5-6 channels running real time. The soundtrack is great at all times, but often you get 
 wrapped up in the moment and get yourself killed. You'd be best off taking the time to enjoy these 
 things while you can, the game is unfortunatelly short even if eventful.
  
  If you enjoy FPSs, and are after a bit of gory chaos, or just after a fairly rare dark plot, the 
 Darkness can't be missed, even if just as a rental.
  
  ---
  
  What to Change:
  1- Split Screen would have been nice
  2- Perhaps some more darkness abilities
  3- At times 
 the amount of damage you take forces you to hide alot, regarless of the game being focused on action
 
  4- Autoaim is too strong for those who use it
  5- Taking the extras up a notch would be great! ei. pinball games, vending machines or the like 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isayama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  It's very surprising that not a lot of people have played this game. It's probably one of "the" 
 best dark shooters you can find. Visuals in this game are spectacular. Character interaction in 
 this game is great. Very creative weapons and combat system. And in my personal opinion, this game 
 has the best story line i've ever seen. Voice and sound effects fit perfectly with the game's mobsters- 
 all have that stereotypical gangster talk. The power of the darkness is simply amazing! Literally 
 devouring the hearts of your dead, sending them through a black hole, or using your sword like 
 arm to pick up your enemies and through their bodies towards the distance. The creativity of the 
 darkness's power is beautiful. Yet some of the weapons have no purpose, and you must shoot pounds 
 of bullets into your enemies to truly kill them. Also, the multiplayer is terrible-so i've heard, 
 don't even try to play online because there are exactly zero amount of people playing it online. 
 Overall, if you love dark settings, and want to be a bad-ass mobster with supernatural powers this 
 is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoonDockSaint15
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is better then i thought that it was going to be and that fact that I can understand 
 what is going on in the game alot more times then i can with others games is much better still 
 younger kids might not be able to play it but I do have to say it makes you think and the sounds 
 is so real it is like you are that person doing what the person is doing it blows my mind how much 
 better it is then alot of other game that are out there right now .Bt for now this is the game 
 i am playing and I must say it is a FAV!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  From the makers of the most critically acclaimed movie tie in game, Chronicles Of Riddick: Escape 
 From Butcher Bay, comes another adaptation game, The Darkness. Based on Top Cow's comic of the 
 same name it casts you into the role of Jackie Estacado. He works for the mafia and on his 21st 
 birthday he finds out he has this lament power inside of him, aptly named "The Darkness" that consumes 
 him and gives him evil, malicious powers. What turns out to be a basic mafia hit story turns into 
 something quite supernatural and unexpected. It's refreshing and the story is absolutely fantastic, 
 told through superb writing and even better voice acting than most games combined. So is it any 
 good?
  
  Yes, yes it is. This is a fantastic take on a stale genre. Much like Starbreeze's previous effort 
 with Riddick, this is well realised game with a convincing atmosphere and respect to the franchise. 
 The controls are as predictable as they come, yet the presentation and the tiny details set it 
 apart from the rest. It's possible to sit down with your game girlfriend and watch an entire movie; 
 call random numbers do sub missions and so on. Though it's not a by the by RPG, by going through 
 this route it becomes engaging and makes the world a living, breathing space that is real. Even 
 Jackie responds to the environment by pressing his hands against the wall for example. It's moments 
 like these that makes the character feel like he's in a real world, rather than a floating head 
 and arms that glides everywhere.
  
  I hate to say that the gun combat is a completely mixed package. The guns are fun to use, the executions 
 are slick and fun to watch. But the majority of the game is dependent on bullet exchanges and for 
 the most part, it's pretty basic and just not that fun. Using the Darkness Powers is cool yet get 
 repetitive in a short while, particularly how the right tentacle seems to beat the left tentacle 
 into submission. The powers are introduced gradually and serve good moments, yet the juxtaposition 
 of bystanders seeing your dark side and the goons not is bizarre. But because of the attention 
 to detail, this is the only reason why such an incredible flaw exists. That doesn't mean the game 
 is crap because of it, far from it. But it's little moments like these that spoil such an immersive 
 and convincing atmosphere. If it wasn't for the very strong narrative and fantastic attention to 
 detail, this game would suffer greatly from its average shortcomings.
  
  This title is one of the best looking games to date on the next gen consoles. Highly detailed, 
 highly stylised and no compromises (maybe a slight dodgy lip synch here and there) it's a stunning 
 game. I always wince at the tentacles devouring hearts from freshly made corpses, fighting over 
 them and so on. Like I say, the attention to detail is staggering with graffiti on walls made by 
 real graffiti artists, for example.
  
  The game is a good 10-15 hours and this is one of those games that you have to complete to see 
 the conclusion of such a well told story. The multi-player is completely tacked on and obviously 
 an afterthought. This is quite possibly a game you may wish to play again because of branching 
 conversation lines and so on.
  
  The Darkness is a fantastic game because it's unique in a sense of story and style. It has a captivating 
 story from start to finish and some of the finest written dialogue in any medium. The sound is 
 thoroughly brilliant and because of the slight dips in actual gameplay, it stops it from achieving 
 absolute greatness. However, I can recommend this because despite the shortcomings, it's a cool 
 game that you can't really miss out on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is one of those unique games that hasn't seemed to get as much attention as it deserves. 
 Last Spring I read previews, found out that it was based on a comic book character that is a mafia 
 hitman that acquires supernatural powers and I thought the game looked very intriguing. When it 
 came out this Summer it received good to great reviews so I was very interested in playing this 
 game, though only a couple of people that I knew had tried it. As always, it didn't hurt that the 
 price had gone down on it so I quickly bought it at my local game store and wasted no time playing 
 it. Here are my impressions:
  
  GAMEPLAY: (9) At the out start this will seem like a basic FPS, and there will be many times throughout 
 the game where you will play it that way. However, as you get near the end of the introduction 
 you are introduced to what makes this game special, Jackie's (your protagonist) Dark Powers. These 
 take the form of two huge snakes that appear over your shoulders and allow you to eventually call 
 forth four different dark powers - Creeping Dark, which allows you to explore areas that would 
 normally not be accessible, Demon Arm, which can be used to put out lights and attack enemies, 
 Darkness Guns, a powerful set of handguns, and finally the Black Hole, which creates a very impressive 
 vortex that destroys anyone and anything in its path. In addition to this you are also able to 
 eventually summon four different helpers known as Darklings. One is a basic melee attacker, another 
 is a suicide bomber, another a machine gunner and finally another specializes in putting out any 
 nearby lights. As you might imagine the powers of the Dark do not like lights, and it weakens them 
 considerably. So, even though almost the entire game is set at night, pretty much everywhere you 
 go there are numerous lights that you'll want to put out using either your guns, your Demon Arm 
 or you Lightkiller Darkling. The Darklings are a great addition as they constantly make humorous 
 remarks as they are tearing apart your enemies, though admittedly their AI sometimes doesn't work 
 as well as hoped. The Darkness Powers are very impressive and I never grew bored with using them. 
 In order to level up your Darkness Powers you need to "feed" it. This is done by going up to dead 
 enemies and letting your serpents devour their hearts in an appropriately gory manner.
  
  GRAPHICS (9) This game does take place mostly at night in a very gritty New York City. The colors 
 are very subdued, I can't recall anything that was bright or pastel, and it did a great job with 
 creating a dreary atmosphere. You can tell that a lot of time and effort was put into creating 
 a very detailed environment, at times appearing photo realistic. While the typical enemies were 
 average, the main characters you interact with are also very detailed and lifelike. 
  
  SOUND (9) Nothing too memorable as far as the music goes, generally your average fast beat when 
 the action picks up. Sound effects were fine. Where this game shines is the voice acting. Between 
 Jackie, who sounds to me a lot like Robert DeNiro, and the characters he interacts with you'll 
 hear some great conversations that are very believable, though be ready for a fairly high amount 
 of profanity.
  
  VALUE (7) I don't know exactly how long this game took. Reviewers have listed it at 8 -10 hours, 
 though it seemed like it took me more like a dozen. Decent for a FPS. Throughout the game you while 
 have numerous optional sidequests, and if you ignore these then the game will be considerably shorter. 
 I tried to complete every sidequest I came upon. As you go into new environments you can look for 
 glowing pieces of paper, and as you collect them you can turn them in by using a payphone which 
 will first give you a humorous phone message and then will unlock a bonus feature. Most of these 
 were artwork from the comic book, and now I really want to try to find a copy so I can read it 
 in full. Many of the collectibles are in areas you wouldn't come across and that's where the Creeping 
 Darkness comes into play as it can go through open windows or vents to get into areas that would 
 otherwise be inaccessible. There are multiplayer modes which I haven't tried but I see at least 
 one of them involves being able to play as the Darklings, which sounds interesting.
  
  SUMMARY - This game turned out to be just as much fun as I had hoped. The story was excellent, 
 much better than what you would expect from a FPS. You'll really begin to care about what happens 
 to Jackie and also be intrigued as the origins of The Darkness become revealed. This is definitely 
 an adult-oriented game with some extreme violence and language, another one of those "don't play 
 when the kids are around" type games. As long as you are not offended by those issues I highly 
 recommend this to not only FPS fans but to anyone that wants to experience a great story with some 
 very unique gameplay.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  
  The story revolves around the Mafia hitman Jackie Estacado, whom on the night of his 21st birthday 
 finds himself targeted for assassination by his evil "uncle" Paulie, Jackie shortly after finds 
 himself being possessed by an evil entity called The Darkness, from here the story unfolds.
  
  
  Graphics : Excellent, realistic Graphics make the characters look very real, most models 
 look great, aswell as the environment, which the company who created The Darkness hired professional 
 Taggers to make spray paint samples for the City's environment, all authentic, you will find many 
 swedish words around the city, as the creators are Swedish. Another thing that adds to realism 
 is the fact you see your own body when you look down, which i think is neat.
  
  Sound : Superb Voice acting by the main character aswell as The Darkness itself (Mike Patton) not 
 to mention all other characters. Jackie sounds very authentic as an Mafia associate and makes a 
 great character, as does the other characters, they all sound real and mafia-like, The Darkness 
 sounds very creepy and evil, works perfect!. Weapon sounds sound pretty good, mostly authentic 
 sounds i'd say. Not to forget the Great soundtrack too, perfectly capturing the feel of the game.
 
  
  Gameplay : Unlike most run of the mill shooters, The Darkness has many good features which makes 
 it different from the rest. For example shortly into the game you possess the darkness ability 
 which you can use most of the time as you please, you must however stay out of bright light areas 
 or take out the lights, with The Darkness you can devour hearts to fuel the tentacles among other 
 things, you can use a demonic arm that impales whatever it touches, or you can use it to move/throw 
 large objects. There's an ability called Creeping dark which you send your tentacle head out, you 
 control it and you're able to pull off stealth kills or get through otherwise impossible areas. 
 Darkness guns yet another feature, two powerful guns that blasts your enemies to kingdom come, 
 they are fueled by darkness so best stay in shadows while using them. The final ability is Black 
 hole, player summons a huge black hole at set location which sucks enemies objects into itself 
 and then implodes killing them all, however most of these abilities are unlocked gradually as the 
 story goes.
  
  
  Story : The Story while pretty short its very well told and unfolds at a nice tempo, some good 
 plot twists, some emotional stirring moments, and so forth. The characters do such a good job voice 
 acting that you end up feeling attached. The story while being short, like gamespot says you feel 
 you covered alot of ground in the end, thats true, i got closure and it was a good story, worthy 
 of a sequel.
  
  
  AI : The AI works great most of the time, but the reaction coming from people when you come up 
 close with a bunch of tentacles coming out of your back aswell as dual wielding two cannons, isn't 
 what you'd expect, the enemies seem too passive and fearless, but not a major problem.
  
  Multi-player : boring broken Multi-player indeed "tacked" on just for the purpose of having a multi-player 
 mode, but its better than nothing.
  
  Conclusion : Superb game with a great story brutality and good voice acting, more than enough reason 
 to get it. 8.5 Score
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pure_Awesome
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  The Darkness Review.
  
  The dark, deep, and demonic game does not disappoint! The Darkness is the much anticipated game 
 from Starbreeze Studios, the creators of the brilliant Chronicles of Riddick for the original Xbox 
 have pulled off another successful title!
  
  
  The Darkness is based around the life of the main character, Jackie Estacado. Jackie is an orphan 
 who is eventually adopted into a Mafia crime family by a man you come to know as Uncle Paulie. 
 The game starts on Jackie's 21st birthday, where Jackie wakes up in the back of a convertible with 
 some mates from his gang escaping from a money collection deal gone wrong. Before they even think 
 about returning to home base, they have to take out the boss of a construction site even with cops 
 speeding up behind them. Little do they know, is that Uncle Paulie suspects Jackie of deceit and 
 has set a hit out for Jackie himself. Being the type of person that won't go down, Jackie makes 
 it his personal vendetta to get revenge on Paulie. Once Uncle Paulie gets the message he brings 
 his attention to Jackie's girlfriend, Jenny... This leads onto a brilliant cinematic story!
  
  
  Very early on in the game you get to play with your new friend, The Darkness. Who is some 
 demonic entity that has decided to possess Jackie that likes to talk to you in a very entertaining 
 nightmarish voice. The Darkness takes the form of two snakelike heads that appear to come out of 
 your back and stay on both sides of your shoulders. 
  
  
  The Darkness is very powerful even early in the game, when you bring them out for some air, you 
 can get one to slither across the ground, up walls, or in vents, and then rip the unknowing enemies 
 face off and then devour their heart. Later in the game, you can use the Demon Arm, to pick up 
 objects and kill people. The Darkness Guns that harness darkness power as ammunition and the Black 
 Hole that creates a rift that sucks everyone in and spits them back out. The Darkness has some 
 flaws unfortunately for you; every move you use drains your darkness energy. Moving in the light 
 with the darkness out will automatically drain their energy until it's depleted, moving into the 
 shadows replenishes your energy very quickly. Devouring enemies hearts is your ticket to getting 
 stronger, this can get slightly repetitive and its slightly disappointing that its always the right 
 head that gets to eat the hearts, it would be nice if both sides had their fair share of dinner.
 
  
  
  Game play in The Darkness is great, using darkness powers on your enemies always feels satisfying, 
 especially since the difficulty of enemies do not get harder, meaning the more powerful you get, 
 the more you own everything. Gun work is not as impressive. Guns include pistols, shotguns and 
 rifles. Your starting weapons, dual pistols are the most useful guns in the game. Pistols have 
 the most execution moves to perform and are easier to pull off. Execution moves are one hit kill 
 close combat animations that don't expend ammunition. But as the game progresses and The Darkness 
 becomes much more powerful, the guns become just a tool to shoot out lights so you can exploit 
 your darkness powers. Shooting lights can get annoying as you just want to blaze through your opponents 
 without remembering to shoot lights to be in darkness. 
  
  
  The Darkness bestows you one more power, to be able to summon forth Darkling's, your new companions, 
 there are 4 different types; Berserker, Gunner, Kamikaze and the Light killer. All have their own 
 different abilities, but once you are able to use the Light Killer, you will use that one the most, 
 so you don't have to shoot as many lights.
  
  
  The Graphics are pretty good in the game, but there is not much to say about them. It's more about 
 the presentation; no HUD makes you appreciate everything more. The names of people appear very 
 neatly displayed when you talk to them. The subway appears like a real station. Attention to detail 
 is realistic such as graffiti on walls. Voice acting is superb; you can actually believe that the 
 person talking actually sounds like that person, the voice acting can be very emotional as well 
 and you sometimes feel for the characters mood.
  
  
  Overall the game is a brilliant single player storyteller with gruesome violence, and with multiplayer 
 not worth mentioning.
  
  
  I embraced the Darkness 8.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazingEternity
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Let me admit something off the bat right now - FPS gaming on the consoles has never been a favourite 
 of mine. After playing FPS's heavily on the PC for years, I could never get past the controls and 
 general rigidity associated with console FPS games in comparison to the PC. I knew that if I really 
 gave a console FPS a fair go I'd probably get used to the controls in time and warm up to the idea 
 slightly, but to be honest, I never really found a FPS on the console that either didn't have a 
 PC port which was better, or if it was console exclusive, wasn't replaceable for a better recently 
 released PC FPS anyway. That is until I got my hands on 2KGames' latest release, The Darkness.
 
  
  Heading up to its release this past week, there had been a reasonable degree of pre-release media 
 such as trailers for The Darkness showcasing the gameplay and the in-game abilities, and while 
 I knew based off of these trailers and videos alone the game was going to offer something slightly 
 different than what the FPS genre is typically used to, I had no idea it was going to be this unique, 
 and not only in its premise and concept, but its actually execution too. Simply put, despite some 
 noticeable short comings, every FPS fan needs to play this game.
  
  The Darkness, on the surface, appears to be like any other FPS - the human controlled character, 
 Jackie Estacado, is a newly turned 21 year old New York City Mafia hitman, who somehow manages 
 to piss off the resident Don who, paired with some crooked cops, puts out a hit on you, and you're 
 left fighting for your life, forging allies on your way to making things right again. It's a story 
 we've seen before, but where The Darkness separates itself is with its second unrelated yet intertwined 
 storyline - on your 21st birthday, Jackie is possessed by an evil force known only as 'the darkness'. 
 With this possession comes unrivaled power for Jackie in his mission, and boy is that an understatement.
 
  
  Being based on the reasonably popular comics books of the same name, The Darkness won't be a brand 
 new concept for everyone, but for the FPS genre in general, it's a type of premise we're not used 
 to seeing. Your character, Jackie, is not the underdog in this story per se. Like other FPS's, 
 he may be a sole force up against what is basically an entire army, but 'the darkness' has given 
 Jackie so much power, it's really nothing more than a bloodbath - for them, that is.
  
  After an interesting opening sequence on your way to a routine hit, the game doesn't take very 
 long to get into the action because at the start there isn't really any storyline to speak of - 
 as you progress, events start to develop, and the game starts to take shape. This is pretty much 
 how the entire game is played from start to finish - you never really know where you'll end up 
 next in regards to your mafia connections, and 'the darkness' possession side of things is similar 
 in that when it does reveal itself, its power increases as you progress, as does knowledge of its 
 purpose and origin.
  
  So what is 'the darkness', exactly? Basically, as far as the gameplay is concerned, 'the darkness' 
 is a mode you can enter during the game that allows you to tap into your new found powers of pure 
 evil. To enter this mode, you hit the left button/bumper, and sure enough, from your body a few 
 tentacles with demon heads emerge. Once in this mode, Jackie is more or less invincible - he can 
 take damage, but 'the darknness' takes most of the impact, consuming its darkness energy in the 
 process, which you simply replenish by standing in dark areas. Due to the extremely minimalist 
 interface during gameplay, there is no easy way to determine your current darkness energy level, 
 but it replenishes very quickly and fades away when you are in well lit areas, so when you're in 
 'the darkness' mode, it's a good idea to stay as far away from light as possible.
  
  'The darkness' can do much more than just take damage however, it also has four distinct powers 
 which shape the entire gameplay. While the game features usual gun play from dual handguns to shotguns 
 and assault weapons accessible in both normal and darkness modes, what you can do with your possession 
 far outweighs the simplistic nature of gun fights. At the beginning of the game, you will be given 
 access to a power known as the 'creeping dark', and out of the four this is actually probably the 
 coolest, so it was a good game design decision to have it appear very early in the game. This power 
 allows you to control one of your 'demon heads' attached to your body like it was a snake, allowing 
 you to go into air ducts, through gaps in gates and doors, and basically anywhere else it can fit. 
 You can kill enemies and collect items such as ammo, guns and hidden objects with this demon head, 
 but it too consumes your darkness energy so the more powerful you become, the longer (and further) 
 you can use it.
  
  The 'creeping dark' really is a very cool element to this game and can totally dictate how you 
 play. While it can be a nuisance to control at times since it seems to want to travel along any 
 surface it can often screwing up your camera angle, once you get the hang of it you might find 
 yourself killing more baddies this way than with guns, but it's totally up to you - there are only 
 a few points in the game where using the 'creeping dark' is absolutely vital, and these are usually 
 for opening doors or destroying locks. Perhaps the game should have put a larger emphasis on this 
 power as it is generally far more useful than the other three darkness powers that come later in 
 the game - which are two weapons in the 'black hole' and 'darkness powered guns', and the ability 
 to use a tentacle to pick up or attack things (such as street lights to create dark areas) with 
 a power known as 'demon arm'.
  
  As stated before, staying in dark areas maintains your darkness level, but there is another way 
 to keep your energy up and also add to your darkness powers overall, and that's eating the hearts 
 of your victims. Once slayed, the hearts of enemies can be taken by simply standing over them and 
 pressing "A", or by using the 'creeping dark' power on them from a distance. This is a pretty gruesome 
 and cool feature at the start of the game, but it does start to wear a little thin as you get deeper 
 into the game becoming somewhat of a burden, but then again the game does refer to 'the darkness' 
 possession as a burden on occasions so I guess it has got to have its drawbacks somewhere.
  
  Finally, 'the darkness' also has one last major plus side, and that is the ability to spawn 
 what the game refers to as 'darklings'. These are little gremlin like creatures that each offer 
 a unique characteristic. Like the major powers, four are on offer, consisting of a 'Berserker' 
 which is like a scrappy fighting sidekick, a 'Light Killer' which does exactly what it says (eliminates 
 lights) , a 'Gunner' which deploys a chain gun on any near by enemies, and a 'Kamakaze', who comes 
 with a backpack of explosives whiling to take one for the cause. These darklings are only available 
 where the game allows via randomly places spawn points, and only one of each can be used at a time, 
 but you usually won't even get a chance to have all at once anyway. They are quite useful at times, 
 but they can also be very dumb such as trying to shoot through walls, and often don't listen to 
 your direction commands, particularly when you do have more than one activated.
  
  So, in a few paragraphs, that is basically what 'the darkness' in The Darkness is, and how it influences 
 the game. The thing about these powers is you are not really forced to use them much at all, in 
 fact if you really wanted to, you could probably finish the vast majority of the game without entering 
 into 'the darkness' mode at all. However, this would take away most of the game's extremely cool 
 and unique gameplay, which is no easy achievement in today's FPS world, so it is definitely something 
 you should embrace as often as possible - which it often tells you to itself via its obligatory 
 deep scary voice. As long as you stay in dark areas and as long as the current map is "combat approved" 
 (not all are) , then you can stay in 'the darkness' mode for as long as you like.
  
  Despite its coolness factor though, there is one underlying issue with 'the darkness' powers, and 
 that is it can make the game quite easy. These powers enhance Jackie so much, that it really isn't 
 that hard to stay alive by making sure to stay or create dark areas where ever possible, because 
 as stated before, your darkness powers will take the brunt of bullet damage and at the same time 
 replenish its energy when in darkness. Seeing as the game only very rarely strays from human enemies 
 with guns, there is also little variation on offer combat wise so once you get the hang of how 
 to deal with a few pistol toting thugs, the game doesn't become much more difficult than that. 
 Even if you do die, you are simply respawned at the last checkpoint, which are generally very regular 
 in occurrence, because as 'the darkness' will tell you upon death, you are invincible, and "it 
 isn't your time yet Jackie". The game does have three levels of difficulty that you can choose 
 before entering the single player mode, but the mechanics of the game still remain the same.
  
  With that said, in many ways The Darkness does rely heavily on its storyline to keep you going 
 rather than overly challenging gameplay. It's a good thing then that it is an interesting game 
 in this aspect because, while it is perhaps one of the coolest FPS's ever made in what you can 
 do and how you do it, without the presence of an interesting storyline this coolness factor would 
 probably wear off after a while and leave the game hanging. While as already pointed out the mafia 
 side of this game is hardly the most innovative, it still feels authentic and even though at times 
 your darkness side of things start to take over in very surreal ways, the contrast between the 
 two works well and does a good job of telling two stories at once without confusing you excessively 
 - although confusion is definitely part of the game as Jackie himself struggles to understand what 
 is happening to him.
  
  If I could offer one criticism for the game's storyline, it would be that not only does the game 
 tend to rely on it heavily to keep you interested at times as already mentioned, but it also occasionally 
 relies on it far too heavily to play events out. Sometimes the game will take over and do stuff 
 that would have been better off leaving to you, the gamer. What's odd is these can occur in rather 
 crucial moments too, and the stuff you do while under the game's control are usually far more extreme 
 than anything you can do yourself during normal gameplay, so they tend to highlight the shortcomings 
 more than they 'wow' you. Don't be too concerned though, these only pop up on a few occasions and 
 actually do have a practical reasoning behind it - that is, 'the darkness' is taking control over 
 you and doing what it wants - they just don't work as great as I'm sure the developers hoped.
 
  
  Despite the unique gameplay relative to what we've come to expect from FPS's, perhaps the best 
 achievement in The Darkness is the sensational job it does creating its authentic atmosphere. Set 
 in the gritty city streets and subways of New York City, The Darkness really does a good job drawing 
 you into its world, enthusing you to explore and experience what it has to offer. While the areas 
 are not huge, and outside of the two subway stations you have access to the amount of other people 
 around in the city maps is far less than what would be realistic, they are very nicely constructed 
 in the game's superb physics driven engine, featuring graphics up there with the better Xbox 360 
 titles. Unfortunately there were a few instances of frame rate stutter, but nothing that effected 
 the game play significantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DisturbedMDD
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I myself am a fan of the comics and I loved the game, but you don't have to be a fan of the comics 
 to get addicted to this. Now while this isn't the best FPS out there *cough* Halo 3 *cough*, the 
 gameplay is great. Being able to control something like the Darkness is just plain fun. The storyline 
 is amazing and will keep you wanting more:
  
  Much like the comics, you are Jackie Estacado, a mafia hitman, who, on his birthday, inherits a 
 power that changes his life. 
  
  I know thats not very in-depth, but I don't want to go any further, because that will spoil some 
 of the fun. But basically, if you love FPSs and games with a great storyline, The Darkness is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooljacs10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  Straight up THE best FPS ive played, the darkness is not only the mona lisa of video games, if 
 you squinted slightly you could be forgiven for thinking what your seeing is real. But also the 
 darkness proves how powerful a storytelling medium games are. You can genuinly feel the pain of 
 the main protagonist 'Jakckie'. 
  The gameplay is also awsome, the darkness itself adds another element to the regular FPS with abilities 
 which you wouldnt see all put together in any other game.
  The only down side to this game is the multplayer being laggy, hopefully a patch will be out to 
 sort this soon however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I rented this expecting nothing more then uninteresting romp through another boring dark FPS. I 
 was wrong!
  
  The Darkness is up there as one of the best games I have played in my life. Which by now is a big 
 list along with Bioshock, Half-Life... etc. From its story to its gameplay this game is worth the 
 rental if not a buy!
  
  The story is you are Jackie (and some last name I can't even spell!) and on your birthday your 
 uncle leaves you a gift that brings out "The DARKNESS". An evil presence that lets you use evil 
 powers. Theres so many twists in the game I can't go past this point! To say the least this is 
 an amazing story!
  
  The gameplay is mixed. You have your normal shooting and duel wielding and then you have your darkness 
 powers! Black evil headed tentacles. As you progress you earn more powers. But with these you can 
 eat people, stab them (through the gut) , going under doors, through vents... etc. Then you have 
 other powers like making portals that swallow up everything and summon demon like minions! It sounds 
 complicated but its really not! This all makes for really fun and addicting gameplay. In no time 
 flat your playing really evil! 
  
  But like any game this stuff isn't infinit. You have to stay in the dark to recharge your powers. 
 Which at a bad time means everything. So you can use your guns to shoot out lights in your favor. 
 Or if you prefer lets say grab a car and hold it over you for some shade. There are other things 
 gameplay wise to do like side missions on the game. The only real problem is you can get lost sometimes 
 and since you use the subway to get around its pain with all the loading when you realize your 
 at the wrong end of the city.
  
  The graphics are impressive. They are obviously dark and grim for a reason. Always making you feel 
 evil yet depressed at the same time. Later on in the game during certain stages I cannot mention 
 they definitely did a good job getting the point across.
  
  The music is better then average. The audio really shines. The voice actors are amazing and bring 
 through the story so well you feel for the characters. And the "Darkness" itself its just awesome, 
 its voice alone makes you wish it was real.... just not part of you of course.
  
  The controls while looking hard are simple once you start playing.
  
  The replay value is rather 
 low. There is MP but I didn't care for it, it reminded me of F. E. A. R. but without the fun factor. 
 Although there are phones in the game you can dial to unlock stuff if you find the hundreds of 
 numbers in the game to dial. So definitely a rental at th least. Buy if you want a good story game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:26 am PT
Review:  As long as the game lasted. Which was, 7 or 8 hours. I had a great time. I shot, mamed and chomped 
 down the blackened hearts of many a pixellated gangster. But 40 (yes I am English) is a steep 
 price for such a short game. It is rediculously polished looking and uses the same sticky looking 
 wet effect found in the more recent Jericho game which could be construed as either a good or a 
 bad thing. The storyline genuinely shocked me which is a rarity in the current climate of vengeance 
 stories and mindless soldiering so this game gets a gold star from me for raising not one but both 
 of my eyebrows at the same time acheiving something that I haven't felt playing a game in some 
 time.... surprise. It is not to say that The Darkness is a stonewall classic game, it is short and 
 the multiplayer is laughable. But if you have some money and no other game to buy then you could 
 do alot worse than the Darkness. It is a story you will remember for a long while after playing 
 it which is more than I can say for most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  As the game sets in you instantly realize that this game is different from most game, and something 
 completly new from other games based on comic books. To begin with it has the pacing of a hollywood 
 movie from beggining to end. To those who don't know, The Darkness is a Top Cow Comics character, 
 it's the story of a mafia hitman named Jackie Estacado who gains the power of darkness on the eve 
 of his 21st birthday, however he can't have sexual relationships with women (if any of them get 
 pregnant he'll instantly die) , which proves a big problem to someone like him, bigger than that 
 problem is this lady called Angelus, she leads an army of Angels, she's a creature who's sole purpose 
 is the erradication of darkness, and last but not least there's Sonatine and his dark cult, his 
 cult has been behind everyone who carried the darkness within 'till this very day. How things trun 
 out at the comic books doesn't matter however: none of the characters so far show up in the game 
 but Jackie himself. Other characters that do show up are Jenny (who is his girlfirned since the 
 beggining in the game) his aunt, his uncle Paulie and the butcher ; also, the darklings obviously.
 
  The story here goes that your uncle is placing the fault of some bad business on you, and now 
 he wants you dead. It's not your fault so you try and escape, when you're close to getting killed... 
 BANG! Happy Birthday, the darkness shows up and turns the scenario into a slaughterhouse. From 
 there forth you need to learn what the hell is this power and what it really wants (the darkness 
 taunts you the whole time) . After some events you go on a suicidal frenzy followed by a resurrection 
 followed by a destruction vendetta rampage.
  It's very bad that it takes quite some time untill the game gets its hooks on you, but when it 
 does the wait is worth it! You'll eventually die and go to hell to meet, among other things, your 
 origins. Hell for you is an eternal World War I, where the Germans keep comming back from the dead 
 as vicious creatures.
  Graphics are pretty good: characters and scenario look real, but I just can't get over the fact 
 of how they messed up on Jackie himself. The MAIN CHARACTER is looking horrible, his face has no 
 expressions at all and he looks nothing like the comics Estacado, actually he look kinda dumb.
 
  Controls aren't as good as they should, but they're good enough,.
  You'll be carrying a bunch of weapons (which are kinda useless) and four devastating powers. Most 
 of the times you'll be destroying lightbulbs and such in order to allow the darkness to heal itself 
 and help you fight enemies, while inside the darkness it's very hard to get killed and you can 
 do some pretty amazing stuff, not to mention use a completly crazy weapon that shoots darkness.
 
  All in all it's a great game, that looks more like a cinematographic and serious adaptation of 
 the comic book rather than a game based on the comics per se. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megahaloman64
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are amazing, the story is really good and easy to follow, theres plenty of action, 
 the blood effects look so realistic, it almost made me cry when one of the characters died, best 
 voice acting in any game and not to mention motion captioning.
  
  The Story: your a mafia hitman and on your 21 birthday you inherriet this power called the darkness 
 and your uncle paule wants you dead.
  
  In my oponion this is the best 360 shooter, way better than Bioshock and Halo 3
  
  people complain 
 the story is short, but it's AT LEAST TWICE AS LONG AS HALO 3 AND ACTUALLY MAKES SENSE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sleepysmoo2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  I rented this game to give it a try, and found myself unable to play anything else until I beat 
 it. First off, the storyline is great. It's a classic tale of revenge, and there are moments in 
 the story that will make you wince, smile, and curse as you play. One memorable scene forces you 
 to stand by, (and I do mean forces) , while you look on helplessly as something truly horrible happens. 
 (I would say more, but don't want to spoil it) . By the time this thing is over, you truly do want 
 the bad guys to pay. The voice acting is terrific; the guy who plays the Darkness is creepy, and 
 you find yourself sympathizing with Jackie as things unfold. He is truly caught up in a world that 
 he's only partially responsible for. As for the gameplay, it's awesome. True, the stand gun weapons 
 aren't that interesting, but that's because the Darkness powers are so cool. By the time you get 
 the Demon Arm, you will definitely be using that to impale squirming enemies on it rather than 
 just shooting them. In fact, the Creeping Dark power is quite cool too.... sneaking up on mobsters 
 with a thing that looks like something out of a Clive Barker film is great! One thing I thought 
 was odd about the Gamespot review is that if you listen, you CAN hear people freaking out about 
 you if you change in front of them. I do agree that some of the main characters take your transformation 
 a bit too laid back, that is weird, but at one point a guy walks up about to mug you. If you change 
 in front of him, he screams out el diablo and pulls his gun. From there, you know what happens 
 to him... heh heh.
  
  Anyway, the game is a bit short, but as the review says, by the time your done, it will feel like 
 a lot longer. The game was fun even on the medium difficulty setting, and I'm about to try hard. 
 There's plenty of stuff to unlock, if you're an achievement junkie like me. Even some secret stuff, 
 if you keep your eyes open. I definitely give this game a 9.0... more if the multi-player was more 
 interesting. Cheers! (One thing, the difficulty on medium is a bit easy, but try hard) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haza1995
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  a really good game but in patches very boring i spent quite a long time playing it and tbh ejoyed 
 it. it could have been better online. i love the story line to it ,it is quite interesting and 
 i like all of the blood and death in there 2. i like the way u can use the darkness pretty much 
 wen ever u want and u can become the darkness and sneek up on all of ur enemies. ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrimsonSheep
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  The Darkness does an incredible job of taking over you soul, figuratively speaking. The game begins 
 like a movie and stays interesting from beginning to end. You play as Jackie Estacado, the perfect 
 imaged Italian, bad ass, mobster with a knack for weapons. The games main story is basically trying 
 to kill Jackie's uncle Paulie who has screwed him over in business some how. Until you are possessed 
 by demon like snake things called The Darkness . Pretty freakin cool. These snakes feed off the 
 darkness in your environment and act as a shield to protect you from bullets and what not. So to 
 keep them present , you want to make sure your constantly shooting out the lights around you. As 
 you progress through the game, you have to devour the hearts of your enemies to increase your Darkness 
 level, which gains you new powers and makes you stronger. Some of your new abilities include The 
 Demon arm, (lets you lash out a sharp tentacle to take out lights or impale enemies) , Creeping 
 Dark, (lets you control the head of one of your snakes to kill people or unlock doors) , and The 
 Black Hole ability which speaks for itself. There is also an additional power that I won't spoil. 
 Its safe to say that on normal mode, this game is pretty hard. I must have died at least 20 something 
 times by the end. The only real dislike I had about this game was trying to figure out where you 
 had to go. I ended up wandering around on certain parts for 45 minutes just to discover that the 
 solution was mockingly simple. Some level layouts will make you want to inject yourself with boat 
 cleaner but the solid game play and originality more than make up for it. Your weapons range from 
 dual pistols to a m4 like machine gun. And the weapons are well balanced, so you'll still be using 
 your pistols a lot on the last chapter. This game has a very strange plot twist and a decent ending, 
 so you won't want to stop playing until you beat it. The Darkness is a swell game and a must play. 
 And its still at blockbuster, so I would strongly recommend renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  From the start of the game you can tell you are in for a well directed experience. The graphics 
 will leave you in awe, but add onto that a culturally diverse and interactive world that almost 
 feels like it is living around you. There is some throwback to Half-Life in this game and TVs, 
 phones and other inanimate objects aren't just in the background for show.
  The voice talent pits Kirk Acevedo, who has appeared on such shows as Law &amp; Order: SVU to The 
 Black Donnellys as playing Jackie Estacado, the nephew of a mob boss who has just turned 21 and 
 is just waking up from a mission he was sent on by his uncle Paulie. Although the biggest star 
 in the game is Mike Starr, Lauren Ambrose voices Jenny Romano and steals virtually every scene 
 she is in. Suffice to say, the voice acting is superb and really adds to the game. I haven't been 
 drawn in this much in awhile.
  My only negatives about this game were that I didn't really care for the levels set in fantasy/WWII 
 type atmosphere. The game was really rolling along and I didn't care that I was only able to go 
 to 6 parts of the city beside the subway. It still ended up decent, but kind of pulled me out of 
 the experience some. Another negative is that the A. I. really isn't going to stalk you, instead 
 wait for you most of the time. A good mix of both would have been nice. They run from the darklings/darkness 
 power but only a few feet and then wait. Which makes the A. I., even on hard, pretty easy.
  The final negative is the multiplayer. On-line the movement feels a little clunky, it is laggy 
 and the level designs are pretty basic with there really only being two memorable levels. In CTF, 
 if you can control a darkling well then you are golden, as they move incredibly fast and it only 
 takes 2 hits from them. So it seems like they may have never really gotten the balancing right 
 between the two, although you can play as a shapeshifter as well, it just isn't worth it when there 
 is so much better on-line to play.
  The sound, factored in with the voice acting I mentioned earlier is very good. Surround sound helps 
 bring the city to life more but it isn't top tier when the shootouts start. The 2 levels I didn't 
 really care for were actually where the surround stood out in terms of action. Just casually, in 
 the subway everything is visceral. You know what direction the train is coming from, if people 
 are walking behind you or where music is coming from, etc...
  The gameplay is fun using the darkling powers is very essential since early on in the game your 
 ammo is limited. Aiming is very spot on, and for some it will take a sensitivity adjustment, because 
 the crosshair is a small red dot. I actually liked that. Moving felt a little mechanical at first 
 but you get used to it. If you enjoy achievements Starbreeze tied them into this game very well, 
 and I normally hate collection achievements, but it was pretty interesting to hear what was on 
 the other end of the dial when you used a number you found.
  Value is what you make of it. If you just want to go from the beginning to the end (which was kind 
 of a let down) you can do it probably in 4-5 hours. Maybe less. If you collect, do the side missions 
 and talk to everyone and experience the world around you it is more of a standard 10-12 hour shooter 
 in terms of length. I would recommend the later. Multiplayer is added, but no one is really playing, 
 which does and doesn't help the value at the same time. Overall 8.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimateWWEfan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  the game has the best story mode that i have ever seen in any game its a good length for the game 
 its not too long or too short and there is always new powers and weapons up till the end the graphics 
 an amazing and the voice overs are perfect the only problem with the game is that the computer 
 characters in the subway can get in your way and can get you stuck at points but the added ways 
 toi get around them soo it fixed itself. best game i've played and recommend it for anyone with 
 a 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is about this demon-infused mafia hitman named Jackie Estacado. The game is a cross 
 between The Godfather and Aliens with a bunch of cool abilities to boot. From the folks at Starbreeze 
 Studios who made the Xbox smash The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay comes a deep 
 and grisly story of a hunted hitman.
  
  Gameplay in The Darkness is awefully compelling, and will have you ooohing and aaahing at many 
 parts of the game. The Darkness starts off with an intense car chase with some backstory. Basically 
 Jackie was on a mission for his mob boss uncle named Paulie and he botches it, and now Paulie wantes 
 Jackie's head for his goof up. The story begins very strongly with a mafia mindset, soon it gets 
 deeper than that as it delves into the occult. I won't say anything else to give away the absolutely 
 enrapturing and exciting storyline. The game offers the three standard difficulties of easy, medium, 
 and hard. Surprisingly, the game is tough but it doesn't make it unfair to a point where you are 
 feeling like cursing up a blue streak or even becoming a little angry. Even when you die you see 
 a little disturbing clip of friends and family in a really wierd state then you are revived. On 
 the easiest difficulty dying is not likely too often if you play it safe, and the game offers plenty 
 of automatic checkpoints where it saves. Jackie's health is replenished after a few seconds of 
 no damage and enemies actually miss you from time to time. Ammo is pretty plentiful in the game, 
 but even if you run out of ammo you can resort to your extremely useful Darkness powers when you 
 learn how to use them well. I'll go as far as to say you could safely pass through the game with 
 just your Darkness powers, though I would not advise it on later difficulties. You should just 
 use the firearms just because they're available and pack a punch quickly. The Darkness is an evil 
 entity that has taken up home in Jackie's body on his 21st birthday, and the game will do an ample 
 job of filling in the player with the story and cause of the Darkness's existence. Despite the 
 evil of Darkness you'll find disposing of enemies and bypassing obstacles such as locked doors 
 quite easy. You can use the useful creeping Darkness to scurry along the floor and attack enemies 
 and even squeeze through windows to unlock doors Jackie can't get through. Another useful Darkness 
 power is the Darkness tentacle which shoots out of Jackie and can impale enemies and shatter lights 
 to create darkness. The only thing about using Darkness powers is the prerequisite of darkness. 
 You only need a patch of darkness to use your power, or you can create your own darkness by shooting/gun 
 butting light sources. Beneath the veil of darkess the entity within you can be summoned with a 
 press of a button, and also under this darkness you have virtually unlimited Darkness power. The 
 same goes for an abundance of light. If you have too much light, the Darkness entity will weaken 
 and if in the light too long with the entity present it will eventually flee back into Jackie until 
 you find darkness. So needless to say finding a good patch of darkness as soon as possible from 
 time to time is imperative for your survival. Aside from your Darkness powers you can summon what 
 are called darklings which come in several forms, but I'll name only two: the gunner darkling is 
 a soldier demon that packs a nasty minigun and can be used to kill foes, and the berserker darkling 
 can be used to attack enemies by means of melee. Again, these darklings must remain in darkness 
 to stay alive, though they will eventually disappear. Allowing the easy use of these powers and 
 darklings also allows the player to think about solving certain situations out-of-the-box so to 
 say rather than blast through each level with firearms. Another quirk about the Darkness is a mechanism 
 I've never seen applied so well in a game: the ability to press a button to devour people's hearts. 
 You can do this as Jackie with the Darkness entity present or by using the Darkness creeper. Devour 
 hearts to gain a Darkness level which is displayed on the pause menu. Now what about the firearm 
 aspect of the game? Firearms, as mentioned earlier, would not even be totally necessary to pass 
 through the game. They do, however, offer some additional insurance against foes especially when 
 darkness is not present. They are also useful early on in the game for gun butting lights as mentioned 
 prior until Jackie gets the Darkness tentacle ability which automatically targets light sources 
 and smashes them at a distance. Aside from the fact Jackie automatically wields dual pistols the 
 firearm aspect is nothing new or very special. And despite firearms' relative uselessness in the 
 game they should not be ignored or disregarded. Control mapping for me actually came across as 
 very similar to the Riddick game from Starbreeze back when, and I really had no difficulty in learning 
 the controls. They may seem clunky and slow at first to a new player, but they really do work very 
 well with the game. Levels in the game are varied, though you will find yourself coming back to 
 the same general area from time to time for objectives and such. Objectives can be anything from 
 visiting your girlfriend to getting this chick's apartment keys back from her jerk boyfriend. It 
 is needless to say there will be plenty of missions involving shooting. Gameplay in The Darkness 
 mixes a ton of different elements that are seemingly unmixable, but the game does it to an extraordinary 
 standard with amazing results.
  
  Graphics in this game are in a word: amazing. From the large and varied environments to each unique 
 NPC the game takes the graphical standards to a new high. Environments are varied such as downtown 
 or in the subway, and they are each rendered very well. At one point Jackie will spend some time 
 in the domain of the Darkness and that place is just unbelievable. I will not spoil any of it for 
 the player because it just plain blows my mind. The character of Jackie himself resembles the Gothic 
 version of Michael Corleone with long black hair and a black trenchcoat. During conversations Jackie 
 will make simple hand gestures that are fluid and just plain fun to watch and add so much to simple 
 voiceover and facial movements. Speaking of facial movements, the mechanic that controls the mouth's 
 movements is kind of off in some places, but it is a small detail that can be easily overlooked. 
 The representation of the Darkness itself is awesome as well as often amusing to watch. You have 
 two large, almost fishlike demons on your right and left, and they often will snap at each other 
 with their razor-sharp teeth. And sometimes when you devour a heart they both will catch a piece 
 of it and struggle to consume it. Graphics in the game are very well done.
  
  Sound in The Darkness is wonderful with superb voice acting and terrific sound effects to boot. 
 To begin with, voiceover is done very well, and nothing sounds forced or exaggerated. Despite the 
 mouth movements not always working as well with the top notch VO the game manages to pull it together 
 more often than not. I would have to say the voice of Jackie is my favorite voice in the game, 
 and I'll go as far as to say of all time. He has a low-key and monotone voice, and this very voice 
 reminds me of Michael Corleone. There's definitely a gangster-style tone there, but without being 
 forced or stupid. Other voices such as from NPCs are also done well. Sound effects range from recycled 
 gun shots to ripping out someone's heart. Gun shots are just fine for this FPS so I won't bother 
 to expound upon them, but the other sounds make The Darkness that much more grittier. The sound 
 of either the creeping Darkness or Jackie devouring a heart is disgusting, which is the way it 
 should be. Overall sound is the best aspect of the game just after graphics.
  
  The value of The Darkness is mid-range as it offers three difficulties and even an online multiplayer 
 mode which is really nothing special. The game's solo game is what it's all about here and you 
 will most likely want to go through again and make different choices than you did before. Or perhaps 
 you want to do a little more exploring, or even try going through with just your Darkness powers 
 just for laughs. There's also plenty of extra content to unlock by finding phone numbers people 
 will reward you with after completing missions or by you finding them around the levels. The content 
 would include the ordinary assortment of stuff like concept art, level art, and even the full first 
 edition of The Darkness comic book.
  
  Ultimately The Darkness serves up enough uniqueness and bloody fun to make it totally worthwhile 
 for any Xbox 360 owner. It may not be the most revolutionary shooter ever devised but it certainly 
 adds a ton of new ways to push the envelope for future games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bladecutter56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a well-made visual masterpiece, it's graphics rivaling those of Gears of War. The 
 first time I played this I was too busy looking at all the visual effects to care that I was being 
 shot at most of the time. Now, storyline-wise, it is rare that a FPS has a good story, and I was 
 glad that this one was so well thought-out. This has got to be the only game to date that played 
 with my emotions so well. For example...
  
  *Spoilers*
  
  When Jenny gets shoved against a door, and The Darkness is holding you back from helping her, and 
 she gets shot in the head right in front of you, I visibly flinched. I stared, gaping, at what 
 just happend. It was an Oh snap! moment for me, and I had mixed feelings of rage and sorrow for 
 what just happened. Now I normally wouldn't express such emotions at that time, if I didn't first 
 see their romantic moment in her apartment and some of Estacado's memories of them together at 
 the orphanage. The dark, sad violin music fit so well in most of the game, that one moment especially, 
 that it expanded the emotions I was feeling at the time. I loved the sound it made too, by the 
 way, but I'll get to the music part later. Now, that whole situation that happened with Jenny getting 
 shot sent me in to such a fit of rage that I played non-stop until I beat the game, the whole while 
 having even more emotional moments, and the end, when he was laying in Jenny's lap after the Darkness 
 took over had to have been the second saddest part of the game for me. It pains me to see such 
 sweet, feminine innocence die in such a way, after knowing who she was almost personally, and they 
 played on that well.
  
  Now, the music is fantastic as well. When there is a storyline element happening that is supposed 
 to be sad, or a flashback or something, you get the sad violin music that I love so much. During 
 a firefight or some really angry part of the game, you get heavy metal and hard rock music playing 
 in the background.
  
  I havn't been in the multiplayer yet, so I won't review that.
  
  Now, replayability, personally it wasn't so good since the surprise factor of most of the emotional 
 parts goes away after the first playthrough, but that doesn't stop it from bein' damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merciless911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Unlike some 1st person shooters were the stories get old and repetitive this one always keeps u 
 interested. The darkness powers are alot of fun and helps this game vary from most shooters only. 
 Unlike some people say the guns are actually very usuall, I don't know what there talking about. 
 The background music pulls you right into the moment and the dark voice of the darkness inside 
 of you always make every situation feel a little bit creepy. I personally like the part in the 
 game were you go to hell the most.'
  
  (P. S) don't bother playing the multiplayer game its very laggy and not worth playing at all, it 
 would have been better if they added another five hours to the online story and just kept the online 
 out...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggleJUGGLER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  the graphics in this game hold up very good and at times you won't know if your playing the game 
 or its a cut scene. you play as a mafia hitman who gets betrayed by his uncle and now has a demon 
 inside him which now allows the hitman awesome guns, an arm, two more heads, and a black hole. the 
 game story line is that of a big time movie ITS THAT GOOD. it also has a deeper meaning behind 
 it like revenge and power consumes all but thats not important. the guns in darkness seem more 
 realistic. you shot a dude 3 times in the chest with your average pistols he wont die. as long as 
 you don't hit the heart or head of course. the guys will drop their guns and fall on the ground. 
 they will try to get their guns and shoot you but they are at your mercy. at this point you can 
 impale them shoot them or just watch those S. O. B. squirm like worms. the powers are the coolest. 
 you can get 2 guns one auto and the other shots an air wave of doom. the arm can impale your enemies 
 and pick up things. the head can sneak up behind enemies and kill them. the black hole does what 
 it name says. the game is short and the multiplayer is useless but the single player while it lasts 
 is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bankisa
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  At first this game looks amazing. The intro sequence with you in the back of a car while being 
 chased by the police is stunning, and visually the game continues to deliver throughout. However, 
 things start to go wrong as soon as you have to fight. The shooting feels clunky with poor aiming 
 and weak, inacturate weapons.
  
  The Darkness powers are very impressive to look at, and on paper they seem like they should be 
 a lot of fun. Sadly this dosnt come through in the actual game. The Darklings (Small minions you 
 summon to help) are next to impossible to control, the Creeping Dark cannot straif and so is very 
 hard to target (Not to mention it gets stuck on the smallest object on the ground) and the Demon 
 Arm and Blackhole just feel weak and pointless.
  
  The story is not bad, but the dialogue is very contrived and arty which feels like an excuse to 
 not have to write a real story that actually makes sence. Worst of all though has to be the fact 
 that you cannot play the game without spending most of your time shooting out lights. I completed 
 the game over two days , and I think that I shed more bullets on lightbulbs than on enermies. Considering 
 the importance that the game places on keeping to the shadows you would have thought that they 
 could have made a better system for keeping things dark, since constant precision aiming at tiny 
 lights is less than fun.
  
  All in all, this isnt a bad game. It looks quite nice (Although be warned it ALL looks the same, 
 nothing in the way of variety here at all) and the dark powers seem quite cool if you can overlook 
 their weak feel. It should keep you going, and the story is good enough to pull you all the way 
 to the end (The gameplay is not) however it will leave a very bitter taste when you realise that 
 it really is as poorly written as it seems. The Darkness may be short lived fun but at the end 
 of the day there is no light at the end of the tunnel, rather you shall be left with a feeling 
 of gloomy disapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  The darkness is a standard fps with darkness powers at your side. The darkness abilites and the 
 intense story-line keep this fps from being really mediocere. The darkness abilites can often be 
 quite fun to use. You get abilites where you can impale someone, bite someone, suck them into a 
 black hole, or even get your own darkness guns. I found the black hole and impaling people to be 
 the most fun of all the darkness powers. Besides the darkness powers this is a basic fps. You go 
 from point a to point b and shoot some guys down with your basic set of weapons. You get your machine 
 guns, pistols, shotguns, but not any snipers or grenades unfortunately. The game is not challenging 
 even at the hardest difficulty, and the a. i. is not very interesting. You can basically run in 
 and shoot guys down, then occasionaly use your darkness powers when you're in trouble. The action 
 is almost never intense, and beyond the shooting the only thing that breaks up the monotous action 
 is the interesting cutscenes. This is one way the darkness is really cool. The story it tells of 
 Jackie Estacado and how his family always inherits the darkness on their twenty first birthday 
 is fantastic. There is also a lot of emotional moments that really keep you hooked. The multi-player 
 mode in the darkness is sub par. It lags so bad you can't even shoot anybody and it gets old really 
 fast. There is also very little options with just basic deathmatch and capture the flag games. 
 Overall the darkness is a decent shooter that doesn't do anything really new or interesting. It 
 does have a great story, but there are many other shooters way better than this on the 360, but 
 if you're into the story and are in the mood to be really evil, the darkness is worth a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  The longer I tracked The Darkness over the long while that it was in production the more it captured 
 my attention. Being an avid comic fan and a gamer, this game whispered to me with eerily dark words 
 while i slept at night... you must play me.... . The release day came and i was among the first 
 to pick up a copy.
  As i arrived at my house, with my newly purchased game clutched in my hand, my only hope was that 
 it wasn't going to be another poorly made franchise game. (Those who remember Fantastic Four, X-men 
 3, etc. know what i mean.) So let me tell you, The Darkness does what no other comic to video game 
 product has ever done before.
  The first thing you will notice is how immersive the game is. The world around you and everything 
 in it lends to the ultimate feeling that you are the lead role of this game and you are really 
 in the world it portrays. Another aspect that helps in all of this immersion is the story. My personal 
 favorite part of this title. The strongest point of this being the personal srtuggle of Jackie 
 Estacado (The lead charcter and who you control) with his new powers granted to him by the darkness 
 and the evil taint it has left on his soul.
  You will be thrust into numerous visceral gun battles which in all reality aren't much different 
 than other shooters. But the powers which you gain from the darkness over the course of the game 
 is really what sets this game aside from all the other fps titles out there.
  Throughout the game you can devour the hearts of your enemies via a couple of demon heads that 
 are protruding from either side of the screen. By doing this you level up Jackie, thus giving him 
 extra abilities such as the demon arm which allows you to impale enemies and cast them across the 
 level, a very satisfying feet if i may say so myself. Another of these powers is the Black Hole, 
 which is... well... a black hole, and yes, it does exactly what you think it does.
  The feeling of a comic book really isn't all that present because the story of Jackie Estacado 
 is derived from a darker more realistic and gritty comic versus the tight spandex and bright colors 
 that you normaly see in other comic stories. But this lends a hand to people who aren't fully into 
 the super hero scene because if you didn't know better, you would never realize that The Darkness 
 was a comic at all. But for those who do know, it is a very satisfying video game interpretation 
 of the beloved story from Top Cow.
  The game is an extremely fun experience from beginning to end but some may find that the ending 
 itself a bit of a disappointment. Myself, i only see it as a hope for a sequel.
  Another Con could be the difficulty. Early on in the game, when you have less powers, the game 
 seemed to have a descent difficulty. But as i progressed through and gained more powers as i went 
 along the easier the game begun. In other words... you become a mortal God so to speak. This hinders 
 the difficulty but makes for a good satisfying experience at the same time, it all depends on how 
 you look at it.
  All in all, The Darkness is a dark and gritty world that can capture shooter and comic book fans 
 alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SopranosFan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  Here is my plan I rented it from Gamefly and I will purchase it when it gets down to under $20. 
 I really like the game but it is a little short, I am far from being a great gamer but I will be 
 finished in under 10 hours, that is why it is hard for me to spend $60 for it. I really love the 
 story, the graphics, and especially the voice acting. This is probably one of the best stories 
 and voice work together on the same game I have ever played. The music however I often found annoying 
 and nothing special at all. My final part is the darkness powers were awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RealKilla_789
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  This is the long awaited first person shooter for the 360 and it only dissapointing thing about 
 this game is that it ends before your ready for it. Jackie is the host chosen by the darkness on 
 his 21st birthday. The darkness had two tenticle-like things that stick out from Jackie's back 
 and can rip enemies apart. This game is rated M for a reason. It is extremely violent with the 
 darkness biting peoples heads off. In the game you have a girlfriend but later is killed by your 
 Uncle Paulie who is the bad guy in the game. The darkness had good graphics and the player models 
 look good. As for gameplay, you start out with duel-wielding pistols, and these are probably the 
 only guns you need to use for the rest of the game. There are other weapons in the game but they 
 arent that strong. The aiming is bad in the game because there are laser like aiming with all guns 
 and it always seems to aim for the head. But the story is very well done and it could be turned 
 into a movie easily. If you like first person shooters and you want to play a game in while you 
 are waiting for another game your going to get. The Darkness is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  **First off this game is gory and includes lots of language, so play with discretion**
  
  The Darkness was one of those games that when you heard of it, it sounded bizarre to the point 
 of being awesome. 2k, Top Cow and Starbreeze have come together to bring this game out, and read 
 on to see if the weirdness actually made a good game.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  To start, an explanation of the story should help. You are Jackie Estacado, a hitman for a big 
 crime family. On Jackie's 21st birthday, The Darkness awakens in you. Thats all I'm going to say 
 because that is a story in itself. You also work for your Uncle Paulie, until a series events sends 
 him on a rampage to kill you. You only have a few allies to side with, and to name a few: Jenny, 
 your girlfriend and orphanage friend, Butcher, the go-to for information, and your Aunt Sarah, 
 you'll find out about her. Basically, you are trying to kill Paulie, and everything in between, 
 even more so when they take away something very dear to Jackie.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The gameplay is where the other twist comes into play: you are the enemy, and the enemy with helpful 
 demons to go ape**** on. You have plenty of powers to mess around with, and all are fun to use. 
 You start off with a creeping dark, which lets you crawl on floors and walls and tear off vent 
 covers, pop electrical wires, and stealth kill your enemies; and also eat their hearts. Yes you 
 can eat your fallen enemies hearts to gain new darkness levels. I cant stress enough that this 
 is a very gory game! Even using guns is fun, thanks to the great arm animations. Depending on the 
 direction you walk, what position you are, weather crouched or standing, and what gun (s) you are 
 holding, determines how Jackie will react on screen. It's a neat system, and I haven't seen it 
 done in many games.
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 The graphics are average, despite what most critics say. Jackie is moderately modeled, and the 
 guns are hardly detailed. Enemies' design are also average, and overly repeated near the end of 
 the game. Now the sound, on the other hand, is pretty good. You hear different grunts, yells and 
 curses in throughout the game, meaning there is a surprising amount of speech to be heard. There 
 is also no shortage of language, with F-bombs being dropped nearly every second of the game. Even 
 the gunshots are loud and clear.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  All in all, this is a decent game, while it lasts. Once you finish it, you're done, unless you 
 play online. I tried it, and didn't like it very much, after it took forever to find someone to 
 play against. I'd say that this is a rental at best, because the campaign only lasts around 6-12 
 hours, which is decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diehardgames2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I spent the past day going through the campaign on the Hard difficulty. It's really not that bad 
 and I wanted a challenge anways. You might notice that you're almost completely worthless in the 
 beginning of the game when you dont have any powers just yet. This is completely true, stay behind 
 cover and pick the right times to pop out and shoot. This tactic is useless once you get your Darkness 
 powers, where there is hardly any need for hiding, unless you're playing on Hard. By the time you 
 get your Demon Arms and Black Hole powers you're pretty much invincible and the most powerful person 
 in the entire game. This is a nice feeling, and the fact that you're almost god-like (or a mega-devil 
 sort of person) constantly gets drilled into your skull when your enemies will yell I'm getting 
 the f**k out of here! , He's too much for us! , SH*T F**K!! . Yeah, your enemies are pretty frustrated 
 with you by the end of the game. However, by hour 5 (which is sadly only halfway through the game 
 or so) the repetitive gameplay gets old. There are several ways to kill your oponents, such as 
 running on up on someone and impaling them with your Demon Arm when flinging them arcross the street 
 or sneaking up behind a guy and performing an Execution move (there aren't too many of these, but 
 they're short little action moves that are done for you where you can execute someone with your 
 gun, like sticking your gun in his mouth and firing, or tripping him and shooting him in the head) . 
 There are a few boss fights, but even on the Hard difficulty they are relatively easy. Use your 
 brain, think of what you want to do to kill your opponent and do it. There are achievements for 
 killing people in different ways, such as killing 7 enemies within 15 seconds or killing 20 people 
 with Black Hole, so cycle through your powers and use them all, don't just focus on one. ***STORYLINE 
 SPOILER!!!***
  The storyline starts out where you're some bad-ass mobster that works for your uncle, and hey, 
 he hates your GUTS! This doesn't make life easy for you, especially him attempting, and succeeding, 
 to kill your lovely girlfriend, Jenny. Well I'd be pretty depressed after an event like that, wouldn't 
 you? So you (Jackie) stick your gun in your mouth and blow your brains out. Well death is no obstacle 
 when your name is Jackie Estacado. You end up waking up, with your darkness powers still intact, 
 in the middle of a battlefield. But this is Hell, remember? You're stuck in World War I, but instead 
 of it being The War to End All Wars , the war never ends. You'll encounter waves upon waves of 
 Commies , as your darklings refer to them as. Sadly they're undead, so they will continue to get 
 up from the ground even if you've blown their heads off. The only way to stop them is to use the 
 Devour Heart command once they're down, that will end them for good. Now I'll leave the end of 
 the game for you to find out, but I assure you, it is very good and at points it can be very suspenseful. 
 (It's definitely open for a sequel...) Jackie's Darkness Abilities- (press RB to activate once chosen 
 with the D-pad)
  Creeping Dark: Have one of the serpents on your shoulders go out and explore small areas (air ducts, 
 shafts, tunnels) or silently kill off unsuspecting enemies.
  Demon Arm: Shoot out a long tentacle that can break lights, impale enemies, or pick up/throw large 
 objects (cars, crates)
  Black Hole: Summon a black hole that sucks in everything around it. After it dies down though, 
 the objects it sucked in aren't dumped in an alternate dimension like it SHOULD, but if it did 
 suck in any enemies, their bodies will remain on the floor for you to Devour Heart, if you so desire.
 
  Darkness Guns: A near-useless power. Summons two weapons, one for your left and right hand. The 
 left hand gun sends out a small shockwave that can destroy lights and knock enemies down, while 
 the right gun is a simple, cool-looking machine gun.
  Darklings (press and hold LB then pick corresponding button, A, B, X, Y)
  Berserker: All-around 
 resourceful killing-machines (will often urinate on your dead foes)
  Gunner: Carries around a Gatling gun (you might notice that it's smoking a cigar and yes, it's 
 a girl darkling) Kamikaze: Suicide bomber, get your enemies in a group and summon this dude for 
 a massive kill. Lightkiller: Destroys nearby light sources for you, which saves you the hassle 
 of doing it in some areas that are full of lights.
  With each Darkling there are outfits that you can unlock for them to wear during the game. You 
 do this simply by finding the outfits lying around in random places in the campaign. There is a 
 lot of collecting in The Darkness, you aren't required to do it, but it makes the game last longer. 
 There are a lot of side-quests that are available to you as well. Some require you to do a good 
 deed but most of the time it involves someone telling you to kill someone. The side-quests can 
 lengthen your singleplayer campaign by up to a few hours. I wanted to make the game last as long 
 as I could so I did every quest I could find, adding about 3 hours to the campaign. In the end 
 this game will last you about 7-12 hours depending on how much you complete it or how much of a 
 rush you're in. If you beat the campaign faster than this, you missed out on a lot, I don't recommend 
 it. NOTE: This is NOT including multiplayer, where you'll most likely get bored of it after an 
 hour or two.
  Up to eight players can get in on the fun through System Link or over Xbox Live. But rather than 
 having eight people playing as Estacado, gamers take on the role of mobsters or Darklings (or Darklings 
 that morph into mobsters) . The Darklings are fast and can leap incredible distances. But they aren't 
 as strong as mobsters, who can also carry guns. Only four multiplayer modes are included, with 
 a little under a dozen maps total. You can play Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, 
 and Survivor (one against all) . The maps are claustrophobic, which gives them a unique feel over 
 the average FPS. But they aren't particularly well laid out. Of the modes, only CTF has really 
 proven to be worth repeated plays. And that is mainly because the strengths and weaknesses of the 
 humans/Darklings come into play throughout the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doisemeio
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:58 pm PT
Review:  I never read the comics on this one and that didn't change the much for the experience as Starbreeze 
 team did a wonderfull job telling the story, from the verry begginig I was overlly excitided about 
 this game, the voice acting is amazing, the controls very responsive and the graphics are nice 
 to look at. upgrades varie from very usefull to man I never did use that move oh well maybe next 
 time. This game had me thinking how come other games don't use the loading screen to give you more 
 of a feel to the main character? well good luck finding the answer to that one. I played the game 
 for 30 min and said okay this is good, but I have to go to sleep its already 3 AM around 8 AM I 
 realized I was still playing the game and told myself well there is no going back now a few 6 hours 
 latter I fell asleep for 2 hours just so I could get back to play it till the end. One of the things 
 that made me play for such a long time is that I really wanted to Kill Paulie, man did they do 
 a good job making me not like the guy. After I killed him a settle down a bit and played online 
 just to find out that online play isn't its strong point but well still a great game. Funny thing 
 is that this game in some manners strike a resemblance to PREY if you beat this game and if you 
 have beat PREY think about it and you will see some funny resemblance to it. So the bottom line 
 is.
  great story, good game play, good voice acting, nice power ups, not that many kinds of weapons, 
 character all look different, linear story with minor side missions, graphics look good, funny 
 dialog, not so good online play. final thoughts Buy IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeof-persia
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a great FPS for the 360 that you must rent/ own. The game has good controls, great 
 graphics and sound. It has an amazing atmosphere and seems faithful to the comics, but has some 
 artistic license to it. The characters fit their roles well and the voice acting is top par. The 
 character models are well done and so is the environment. The frame rates are good and the animations 
 are very good. However, this seems to act as a double edged sword somewhat as the bodies seem to 
 have the plasticly look to it. With that aside, the lighting and the feel for it is top notch.
 
  
  The inclusion of an execution also bring game play up from the traditional run and gun FPS, but 
 the game does have that in it a bit. The Darkness powers adds a very cool element as you can sneak 
 behind the enemy with your creeping arm and kill him, then eat his heart. The powers are good, 
 and being forced to be in the shadows could make the player more cautious, especially on the hard 
 difficulty. However, the power's can seem somewhat over powering, and with the lack of any real 
 bosses to fight, it is somewhat easier than it could be, than if they just say put The Angelus 
 into it. In the audio department, the game is very good, With a cast of talented actors/actress 
 makes the game more fleshed out than if they got interns to act the roles of the voices. The sound 
 effects are also really good, and so is the choice of in-game music.
  
  With the multi-player the game goes downhill. It seems that they took the traditional MP styles 
 and added in the the change form ability. It is nice to have that, and the matches are very fast, 
 like FEAR, but the internal lag for the servers is terrible. Even if you have a fast connection, 
 you could lag terribly, and inversely affect you Kill rate.
  
  The game has in game unlockables by finding mail (the WW1 sections) and phone numbers. Drop off 
 the mail or call the number and you get the unlockable (and progress for Achievement points for 
 the 360) . There are also costumes for you Darklings to wear, but you do not need them unless if 
 you want to get some more achievement points. There are also TVs that you can watch some bits of 
 really old movies, if you want to find them out and then just watch it on a little in-game TV.
 
  
  With that said, a great game to play. A definite play for anyone who has the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliDiamond
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  This review will be broken up into different parts. The final score is NOT the average.
  
  Graphics: Very good. Lends a cinematic feel to the game. A lot of the people and environments seem 
 lifelike. 9/10
  
  Sound: Some of the best voice acting to date is brought down by a weird soundtrack. The sound could 
 have been great had they worked more on the score. 6/10
  
  Story: A great cinematic story. 10/10
  
  Gameplay (SP) : Single-player in The Darkness is very 
 short. An experienced gamer can breeze through the game in 4-5 hours. The gameplay is also very 
 easy. However the main drawback to the gameplay is that normal weapons feel useless. Why use a 
 pistol, when I can impale somebody in the chest? 4/10
  
  Gameplay (MP) : Don't bother. 1/10
  
  In the end, the Darkness would have made a great movie, 
 not a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: localgod325
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  A fantastic story, and by far the best comic-to-game adaptation to date, but it does get a little 
 long and thin at parts, still a fantastic play and would defiantly pick it up! It plays as a movie 
 in action which is rather impressive to say the least, and the fact that the Darkness is so well 
 implemented with a real hard core mafia feel is great. It does start a little slow, but just be 
 patient, the ride really picks up after the first hour. My only real complaint is that the darkness 
 is a bit hard to control, especially when summoning the darklings, but that can be overlooked for 
 the other things it does great at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed_009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  The most impressive thing in this game is its story line; it&amp;#8217; s really the best story 
 of any game that I ever played, its well structured that put in the world of the game, and the 
 second great thing in this game its graphics. And I really liked that thing which come out Jackie 
 shoulder and eat the hearts of died people and uses its superpowers to kill enemies. And the game 
 textures its very impressive too. The characters are well structured and u can see even the small 
 things like short facial hair and the emotions on any face in the game. The subway stations are 
 very beautiful and bring you to the real life; just like you will see brake dancers in the corner 
 of the station and if you donate money to them they show a dance. And you have many side missions 
 that you will have to complete to unlock extra content. So in the end I must say that this game 
 is really a masterpiece and worth its money. So go AND BUY IT NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrayHalo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Starbreeze has done it again, and making a name for itself with games that look and play like being 
 in a movie. An experience many attempt and very few succeed in doing. The story is engaging, and 
 interesting. The interactions between characters is believable and lifelike. The mobster meets 
 supernatural demons is a new spin on both mobster and demon horror games neither of which is over 
 done. While Jackie Estacado is little like his comic book counter-part he is definitely a great 
 main character, he's likable, charismatic, loyal, reasonable (as far as a mobster is concerned) 
 and humorous. He is comparable to main characters of Good Fellas or the Sopranos in likability. 
 The voice acting is spot on for the entire cast, and brings all of them to life. Each voice fits 
 each character surprisingly well. I can only reiterate that the entire game looks, sounds and plays 
 like being in a great action movie. The Visuals are top notch. The art direction is new and makes 
 a dark world that you can almost taste. All of the weapons look clean and authentic. For mechanics 
 the darkness abilities that you gain while progressing through the game are powerful, interesting 
 and definitely new. The gun play, is not believable but certainly keeps you in the action and the 
 game fun. The most basic is dual wielding pistols, instead of reloading you drop them and grab 
 another pair, this makes an almost invisible reload time and makes use of pistols interesting by 
 cycling through a variety of semi-automatic revolvers and clip feed hand guns. The automatic machine 
 pistols follow the same reload principle but doesn't have the same variety. The only choices are 
 TMP and silenced TMP. A few other machine pistol models would have been nice. These are accompanied 
 by a Spas-12 shotgun, AK-47, M4, and an automatic 100 round barrel-magazine shotgun. I suppose 
 the unrealistic element comes in that you can carry all of these at once with seemingly no limit 
 to ammunition. At one point I realized I had sixty pistols, thirty machine pistols, as wells as 
 four two-handed rifle weapons and twenty magazines for each and rolled my eyes a little. I found 
 that because ammunition was so plentiful I found a two handed weapon I liked and stuck with it, 
 thus accumulating unreasonable amounts of ammo for my other weapons. If I had been forced into 
 carrying one two handed gun I might have used more of the weapons. But there are a few advantages 
 to having so many weapons and ammo. On a few occasions during the big fire fights, I would waste 
 ammo by unloading at my enemies with every weapon I had, and to say the least expending ammunition 
 with every weapon available is both fun and satisfying. I understand that the developers might 
 not have fleshed out the gun play in favor of the darkness powers, but even with all the powers, 
 guns still play a large role in the game. I only have a few grips with the game. To keep the HUD 
 clean, the designer made the reticle a red dot, presumably from a laser sight on every weapon. 
 For what ever reason, this makes fine aiming difficult and at a distance fighting enemies or even 
 shooting out street lights that drain your darkness power is a little frustrating. Like the Chronicles 
 of Riddick, one element of the game is collecting. in the case of the darkness its phone numbers. 
 While much of the dialog heard from dialing the numbers is humorous and worth while, collecting 
 them isn't and often bogged down the action. The walking speed in the game is a little slow, but 
 it's not noticeable until your walking around town trying to find a phone number. There are so 
 many phone numbers (100 total, plus a handful of bonus numbers) that you shouldn't concern yourself 
 with looking for any of them on your first time through the game as that tends to make a boring 
 lull of action. Lastly the game does feature a working multiplayer, the lack of which was a huge 
 complaint of the chronicles of Riddick, once you play the multiplayer for the darkness you will 
 realize why it was left out of Riddick. It simply isn't one of starbreeze's strong points. I'm 
 not suggesting you can't enjoy the multiplayer but it is certainly for a niche crowd and even if 
 you were one of the few that enjoys it, that experience is brought crashing down by lag. In conclusion, 
 the darkness is a fantastic cinematic game that really feels like playing an action movie, but 
 when its over, it only offers short lived collecting and a lackluster multiplayer. You should definitely 
 play this game, but buying it is a different story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryuthekaizer1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  You Play as Jackie Estacado, A mafia Hitman IN trouble with his uncle ( a capo) and he take control 
 of his darkness inside him, the gameplay is very simple, You have either a choice of rifles of 
 Dual Handguns, You can scroll them with the D-Pad, when you start of, your in a *****-scene, you 
 soon take control of Jackie, and you get given a pair of dual handguns by a fellow mafia member 
 when you crash. During the escape of the build site, Jackie is being shot at everywhere by build's 
 men, but upon escape, your inner 'Darkness' starts talking to you! 'Maggots, kill those maggots' 
 upon escape of the underground build site, you end up in a cemtery, where you get jumped by a bunch 
 of Uncle Paulie's hitmen (Jackie's uncle) You'll find yourself out numbered so you flee to a nearby 
 toilet. Whilst in the toilet's you speak to a bum living there, You ask him where to flee the cemetary, 
 so once your done talking, Jackie get's overpowered by his darkness powers and get's some black 
 tenticles coming out of his back! They completly take control him, this 'darkness' gives Jackie 
 a whole new power to take control of his enemies! Once you cap (kill) The hitmen, The darkness 
 will devour the hearts by coming up to the corpse and hitting A or X (X for ps3, A for xbox 360) 
 and each heart you devour, makes you stronger! when you devour a certain amount of hearts, you 
 gain a darkness level! Soon you'll be gaining new abilities. Such as opening Black holes! When 
 Jackie commits suicide and dies' when he's not supposed to, he end's up in this hell like place, 
 it's set in athe battle of the somme (world war 1) and you must askJackie's great great grandfather 
 for aid on how to escape this nightmare! Soon you'll discover you can actually control the darkness 
 by channeling all the darkness into any gun! upon escape, You'll start ruining Uncle Paulie's life 
 and enraging him by going to his warehouses and burning them down along with his drug, s and all 
 his other financial items! he get's enraged! Later on you'll get you revenge on Paulie! This game 
 Is let down so badly by the poor, shallow online experience, There is too much lag, over 14 players 
 a match which ruins the whole game. But this game is still worthy of a gold award! The Darkness 
 offer's a totally fresh, original experience everyone could enjoy (if your mature enough (its 18=) ) , 
 It's difficulty is immense, you'll find yourself angry at the game, but at the end it's truely 
 worth it! Graphics-10- A technical masterpiece! it show inspiration and loads of hard work put 
 into it! Sound-9.5- Fantastic voice acting, great bleeps but feels a little bit tacked on gameplay-8.5- 
 Multiplayer let's it down big time, but lasts a good long time, witha perfect difficulty, that 
 will make you come back for more! Lifespan-10- Over 30 hours of mafia killing fun! Overall score 
 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  One thing you'll find different about the darkness compared to generally other FPS is there's alot 
 more story than action. This may not appeal to some people and you could almost class this game 
 as more adventure than fps as you'll probably spend more time listening to dialogue and running 
 around getting missions than actual killing time.
  
  If you know the comic you're aware that Jackie inherits the darkness on his 21st birthday. You 
 start off the game with no powers and get them within half an hour of gameplay. Problem was jackie 
 goes from being a normal dude to suddenly being possessed by demon arms and seems totally unphased 
 by it. I was expecting something like him at least freaking out. Gamespot also addressed a similar 
 problem in that other civilians/people you fight also seem to be fairly unperturbed by this glowing 
 eyed, demon consumed, heart eating killing machine. You get 4 abilites through the game, a demon 
 head you can detach that is needed to unlock some doors. It can be used to scout and take out individual 
 targets but you generally don't need to bother as you'll find there isn't really any hard opponents. 
 A demon arm that is used for moving objects, you can knock out lights which is handy and it can 
 be used to impale people but you have to be fairly close so it doesn't get used much. You'll basically 
 spend most of the game using your darkness guns, they are unlimited and only need to be recharged 
 in the dark and unlike your regular guns it has a wider damage area secondary fire. Your final 
 skill is the black hole which is pretty much the ez mode i win key whenever you come up to a room 
 full of enemies. You can also summon imp like creatures to help you, they are vulnerable to light 
 though and can only be spawned from specific locations and generally you'll find you don't need 
 them as anything more than a novelty factor as your powers are enough.
  
  The graphics are very good, not as good as gears I though but still. This game excels in the voice 
 dept. though, the guy who voices the darkness absolutely nails how you'd expect the darkness to 
 sounds, very rasping and evil. The story as well is just excellent, the lipsyncing for the characters 
 is very well done. As I said earlier there's alot of dialogue in this game, it's very story heavy 
 and comes together nicely. Even the loading scenes has jackie giving a sort of retelling of the 
 story bits. You can deviate off the main story to do side quests, which added a nice element of 
 adventure to the game.
  
  I did get stuck a few times in game so the level designs weren't always clear on where you had 
 to go.
  
  Overall it's hard to fault this game much, excellent story, excellent dialogue, fun darkness powers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  Thankfully nothing to do with grating falsettos, taut Spandex or a sub-Spinal Tap rock gag that 
 long outstayed its welcome, The Darkness is the latest gun-toting spin-off from a hip comicbook, 
 this time focusing on the dark work of publisher Top Cow rather than more familiar behemoths such 
 as Marvel or DC. But while most gamers are resting their trigger finger in preparation for the 
 next instalment of Microsoft's all-conquering Halo series in September, The Darkness is still a 
 worthy competitor to Master Chief's visceral gunplay that stylishly tweaks the first-person formula 
 with stunning cinematics and a liberal measure of supernatural weirdness.
  
  Developed by Swedish coders Starbreeze - whose last game, The Chronicles Of Riddick: Escape From 
 Butcher Bay, elegantly eclipsed the patchy movie licence it was based on - The Darkness follows 
 the adventures of a surly Mafia hitman possessed by demons and cursed with magical powers that 
 can be callously turned against his enemies.
  
  As the gory action unfolds, feasting on the still-beating hearts of fallen enemies unlocks a wild 
 assortment of powers that can be used to solve puzzles and defeat adversaries: two enormous tentacles 
 can sprout from the hero's shoulders, allowing him to impale cops, toss heavy objects or flick 
 remote switches; a spiritual helper can be called on to scuttle ahead of your physical body and 
 scout for dangers that lie before you; and the infernal mobster can also fashion a diminutive black 
 hole that sucks screaming enemies and anything else that isn't bolted down into the void.
  
  Most satisfying, though, are the mischievous Darklings that can be summoned to do your depraved 
 bidding, the cackling imps using hammers, hacksaws and whatever else they can lay their claws on 
 to dismember rivals in the cruellest way possible.
  
  Crucially, however, these uncanny powers will only work when the hero is cloaked in darkness, giving 
 rise to a clever gameplay mechanic where players must shoot out lights or lurk in the shadows to 
 make the best use of their eerie abilities. And as many of the game's challenges are staged on 
 the grimy streets of New York, players will often have to rely on their shooting skills rather 
 than enchanted limbs to save the day, adding depth and variety to the carnage.
  
  Imaginative slaughter aside, The Darkness also excels in its stellar presentation. Like Half-Life 
 2, many of the game's story elements are presented as cinematics in which you play an active role, 
 rather than forcing players to watch pre-rendered movies that can make you feel isolated from the 
 plot development. Moreover, the many characters you meet along the way - with whom you can have 
 convincing conversations using the game's branching dialogue trees and get a different response 
 each time - are all brought to life by alarmingly-convincing facial expressions that subtly convey 
 emotion and betray hidden agendas, helping create the illusion that you're taking part in a slick 
 interactive movie, rather than blistering your fingers in yet another conventional blaster.
  
  On the downside, the enemies you'll encounter during the course of the game lack the cunning 
 and guile of rivals in a shooter such as Gears Of War, and the controls - although tight and logical 
 - can be confusing when getting to grips with your demonic powers. But as a game that transforms 
 butchery into an art form and makes you feel like the star of a big budget Hollywood fright flick, 
 The Darkness is essential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  Anyone who has read the comic The Darkness will of course know all about Jackie Estacato's plight. 
 Its both a gift and a curse although more of a curse. The video game helps to give The Darkness 
 fans what they longed for since the comic is no longer being produced. The game however is not 
 as good as the comic in terms of production values and over all quality.
  
  You play the aforementioned Jackie who is a member of the mob. The mob is controlled by Jackie's 
 Uncle Paulie. Paulie is a mean SOB and has it out for Jackie. The game basically tells Jackie's 
 story of revenge against his Uncle Paulie all the while dealing with the fact he has become possessed 
 by The Darkness. Without going into to many details about The Darkness that might ruin it for those 
 who have not played the game, The Darkness has been with Jackie for a while but decides to manifest 
 itself on Jackie's 21st B-Day. The game's story basically delves into Jackie's attempt at figuring 
 out what The Darkness is and how to control it. The story is the best part of the game IMO and 
 really drives the gamer on to the finish.
  
  What the game fails to deliver on is mainly the controls. Aiming feels haphazard with an auto-aiming 
 feature that is as much frustrating as helpful. Movement is slow and tedious and you have little 
 ability to run or move at any speed other than plodding. While you get a plethora of guns to play 
 with throughout the game, you basically feel like they are all the same. I used mainly pistols 
 for the most part and I really never had any trouble dispatching with enemies. The AI is very average 
 and overall the game on normal is way too easy. Its not until the very end that you actually have 
 to use some strategy to get through the level. Thats a shame because the game's dark and gory nature 
 combined with better action and more difficult fights may have made this game a sleeper hit of 
 the year.
  
  The only real unique aspect of this game is your ability to use The Darkness as a weapon against 
 your enemies. You basically have four modes you pick up as you progress through the game. 1) Creeper 
 - which allows you to scout ahead and devour enemies without taking damage. 2) Arm - which allows 
 you to impale enemies and toss objects around. You will need this to figure out some puzzle type 
 events scattered throughout the game. 3) Guns - these guns use the Darkness energy as powerful 
 projectile weapons. One gun creates an explosion while the other acts as a pistol. 4) Vortex - 
 The most powerful weapon in the game and it really makes the game way to easy. You basically create 
 a massive black hole that sucks nearby enemies in and kills them dead. So if you wanted you could 
 basically use this for every fight and you are invincible. Overall The Darkness features are interesting 
 and have potential, but are not very satisfying. While some amount of strategy is created by having 
 to remain in darkness to power the energy, it gets a little tedious having to constantly shoot 
 out lights. You do get to summon darklings that have different abilities as well, but they arent 
 really necessary often.
  
  The Darkness is a game that you want to love. I did enjoy the story and due to in not being overly 
 long, it is a fun game. However its not very challenging, and the gameplay is not as tight as it 
 needs to be. This is a definite rental only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  In The Darkness you play as a mob hitman named Jackie who on the night of his 21st birthday is 
 possessed by The Darkness. The Darkness gives Jackie these powers like Creeping Dark which lets 
 you take control of one of the snakelike creatures, Darkness Guns which are guns powered by the 
 Darkness, Demon Arm which sends a huge arm out and impales your enemies and a black hole which 
 will pull in surrounding enemies and fling them across the room. The Darkness also works as a shield 
 while it is out but to use the darkness you must be in shade so you will have to shoot out lights 
 to create darkness which adds some strategy to the gun battles. Another way to recharge the Darkness 
 is to devour the hearts of your fallen enemies. Of course there are normal weapons like pistols, 
 shotguns and sub machineguns. The game looks great. There is a lot of detail in the characters 
 and levels. This game is very violent. As mentioned before there is heart eating, (and a lot of 
 it) bullet wounds and you can even rip peoples faces off. Also the game has a lot of profanity 
 so this is one you may want to keep this one away from the children. Besides the frequent use of 
 profanity the voice acting is very good. There is an online mode with standard first person shooter 
 modes but it feels unpolished.
  
  The Darkness is an entertaining first person shooter with great visuals, voice acting, story and 
 violence. I would recommend it to anyone old enough to handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishan316
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  Its been a while a game came out, different from the lot, impressed us, and stayed in our minds 
 for years to come, now that requirement is filled up by The Darkness. The graphics seem to be flawless 
 towards the start, but gliches start to progressively appear as you advance through the game, and 
 I'm not saying they are gliches which can't be easily overlooked. The gameplay, unique in its own 
 sense, is an ultimate deviation from the myriad of run off the mill FPSs available in the market, 
 and that deviation I might add, is definitely called for. The sound is absolute, and the bone-crunching 
 voice-acting makes the game formidably more stylish. The Darkness can be called one of the best 
 blends of horror and FPS elements seen in the past. Based on the comic books, the story is awesome, 
 and the horrendous and dark description of death and doom teach you a lesson or two also, provided 
 you can look through the dark... i. e., provided you overlook the fact that its just a game... you'll 
 find the story and its characters are eye-openers in real sense... no dip-sh** talk here... Eh, 
 Jackie??? The game is outstanding, and it is that factor itself more than any other, that makes 
 it worthwile to be owned by anyone who likes first-person shooters, or some nostalgic entertainment 
 for that matter. You shouldn't miss out on this one... Let The Darkness prevail........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This was a game I had my eye on for some time. At times it looked very promising, at times it didn't. 
 Thankfully, this is a very good game that has outstanding atmosphere and story, as well as solid 
 gameplay. Graphics are very good, music is solid. What keeps this game from being great are two 
 things: an abrubt, unsatisfying ending, and a wierd mix of real world story mixed with fantasy. 
 I mean, the game plays mostly as a gangster movie. But as you go on, you get into the wierdness 
 of the Darkness, which really pulls you out of the real world. All in all, it's ok, but it really 
 doesn't fit the plot. And as I've said, the ending is not satisfying. In all, however, the Darkness 
 is a very good game that is worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wavey_gravey
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 19, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  I swing from one extreme to the other with this game. One minute I love it, the gritty, subdued 
 atmosphere, the fantastic voice acting, the mini soliloquies from Jackie while sections are loading, 
 and the, quite frankly, cool Darkness powers. The next minute I am hating it, the endless running 
 through sections where nothing happens, the endless telephone calls to unlock collectibles, the 
 droning dialogue between characters and the lack of clear direction when carrying out your objectives.
 
  
  The game is absorbing to start of with, with an interesting story of orphaned Jackie taken under 
 the wing of uncle Paulie who sucks him in the familys crime business, interlaced with this is 
 the underlying story of the Darkness. However, even this interesting story combined with brilliant 
 voice acting is not enough to give this game any replay value for me. I found some of the missions 
 tedious, and the map that you are provided with completely inadequate so much so that I just 
 sacked off some of the missions because I couldnt be bothered to find out what I had to do or 
 even where I had to go (Jimmy the Grapes mission a case in point  although I did complete this 
 one completely by accident!) .
  
  Having said this though the game is clearly not dreadful and I have given it a solid 7.0, however 
 there is something missing from it that I cant quite put my finger on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladesmen21
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to The Darkness! In this game you take the position of 21 year old Jackie Estacado, a mafia 
 hit man. I wont spoil too much but the mafias family mainly turns on you as your uncle Paulie sends 
 a hit out on you. Not only that but Jackie has inherieted The Darkness which is a demon inside 
 of him festering and slowly growing. The plot is well told and if you didnt know this game is bassed 
 off of the comic book with the same name! Baiscally everything in this game comes directly from 
 the comic book, mainly the story, characters, and setting. The gameplay is well done and the animations 
 are very smooth and lifelike. The Darkness powers are very fun to use my personaly favorite is 
 the demon arm which can cut through your enemies like butter. Id say buy the game if you like a 
 good story or a first person shooter. There isnt much replayability though the game was good enough 
 to make me play it again a few times. All in all id say buy the game and enjoy it! (Please note 
 that i cant review the multiplayer as i dont have xbox live so read another review for that information) 
 Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boosteeohs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  I'm the kind of person who won't buy a game without reading the reviews first (unless it's Halo 
 or something) . So I read the reviews for the Darkness, and I thought, well, it looks kinda cool, 
 but that was all. I didn't really have any incentive to go out and buy it. But after putting in 
 so many hours in sports game lately, I had the craving for a shooter. So I went out and bought 
 the Darkness for $35 bucks used. About five days later I completed the game and I had no regrets 
 whatsoever. The Darkness is flat out, a great game that I think just about everyone who likes FPSs 
 even a little bit (like me) will like it. The gameplay is great and throughout the course of the 
 game, doesn't feel all that repetitive. The highlight of the gameplay isn't the weapons, but the 
 abilities you gain with the power of the darkness. As you go, you learn several different ways 
 to take out the enemy using the darkness, including summoning monsters from portals found in the 
 ground. The abilities are very satisfying when susccesfuly used to kill a bad guy. They also are 
 used in the game a few times to help you overcome obstacles and things, almost adding a puzzle 
 element to it. Throughout the game you can tell the developers took a lot of time into the little 
 details, and I won't point out anything specifically, but if you play the game you'll know what 
 I am talking about. The Graphics are just beatiful. The sound is well done (though during combat 
 seems a little repetitive) . What really pushes the Darkness along is the story. It keeps the player 
 interested throughout and almost toys with your emotions a bit as well. As I said before, I beat 
 the game in five days, but everytime I would start, I would play for a while. The game actually 
 has some nice length to it. Not short at all. On the default setting, the game only gets difficult 
 in a few spots, so if you're more into the story, I would just play on default. Though, if you 
 want a challenge, I would move it up.
  
  Overall, this game was very satisfying. I got a better experience out of it then I had expected 
 and it was definitely worth the $35 bucks. I would recommend it to anyone who likes FPSs and is 
 looking for something a bit different. 8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I was finally finished playing The Darkness the other day after a long ordeal that involved getting 
 my 360 repaired and getting the game back from a friend. From the very first time I played the 
 game, I was wrapped up in its mature storyline, great characters and stylish presentation. Thankfully 
 the gameplay isnt too shabby either.
  
  As I just mentioned, The Darkness is one of those games that has style, nice presentation values 
 and an overall polished look just bursting from the seams. From the monologue loading screens that 
 push the game along to the in-game cutscenes, the feel to the game is that youre playing an interactive 
 movie. Starbreeze does a great job of making The Darkness version of NYC seem gritty and alive. 
 Little things such as spending time with Jenny, This side missions and even the way the Darklings 
 interact with each other help to engulf the player in Mr. Estacados world. The voice acting and 
 dialogue is simply amazing. Jackie might seem like a bland character at first, especially since 
 his mouth really doesnt move when he talks but overtime, his mumblings just add to the anti-hero 
 persona that he is. The Darkness itself has a voice that has to be heard to believe and even then 
 its hard to imagine a guy made those sounds without the help of a computer. Simply put, theres 
 not a bad performance in any of the characters, main or not, throughout the story. The music is 
 dark and atmospheric but never intrusive. I remember a few stand out tracks in the background and 
 thats honestly how I like in-game music.
  
  The graphics were pretty good for the most part and as you can expect, a game called The Darkness 
 had some great lighting effects going on. The only complaint about the engine I can think of is 
 that the city of New York has an amazing maintenance crew but the coroner is severely lacking. 
 I say this because lights that you shoot out are eventually replaced every time an area loads but 
 some corpses stay on the streets for the majority of the play through. Oh and I almost forgot the 
 loading times themselves, they arent bad when youre just going through the main story. However, 
 if youre doing the side quests in the game, be prepared to get quite familiar with Jackies loading 
 screen jokes and antics. The Darkness side quests have you back back tracking far too many times.
 
  
  Also in a game like this, I hoped the AI would be a little more challenging for the enemies and 
 helpful from the darklings. The enemies did all the basics Ive come to expect from the game but 
 often the words that they said didnt mix with their actions. As youd imagine, a hitman with demon 
 tentacles sprouting from his back would invoke fear in most people and the screams from the enemies 
 would reflect this, too bad the animations just had them take for cover while they stayed to fight. 
 I would have liked to see some foes cower in fear, or at least stumble when they ran away like 
 they did in the final battles cutscene.
  
  The friendly AI has a problem with path finding. This was a problem that rendered them useless 
 about 60% of the time. Gunners would spot an enemy and immediately whip out a gun only to mow down 
 stairs or the corner of a building, and beserkers would chase a foe only to end up running in place 
 against a corner of a building. When the darklings worked, they did a good job and were quite humorous 
 but when they didnt, it really made that portion of the game feel tacked on and almost useless.
 
  
  The game progresses wonderfully and has great pacing even if you do a few side quests every now 
 and then. While getting new powers often help you reach new areas, The Darkness doesnt feel like 
 one of those games where youre just hunting down the next upgrade to further the story. The upgrades 
 themselves are fun to use and add new dimensions to the FPS genre, especially on the hard difficulty. 
 When youre pinned down you can call upon the creeping darkness to scout ahead and keep you out 
 of harms way, when you need to reload, the demon arm is a great side weapon. Unfortunately the 
 black hole power does make the game seem a little unbalanced in your favor but that doesnt happen 
 until near the end of the game. When you do get the power though, its easy to abuse it and solve 
 any enemy problem quickly by peeking out and sucking everyone in a black hole.
  
  Besides the AI and the loading, the only other thing that hurts The Darkness is its relative shortness. 
 To get everything you want in the first play through on hard, it takes about 12  15 hours while 
 a second spin through the game only lasts about 6  9 hours.
  
  These complaints seem pretty minor in the face of all the things this game does right. When all 
 is said and done, The Darkness is a great game from start to finish with just a few flaws to be 
 found. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kathrynloch
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  What could a game with great characters, challenging game-play, cool voice acting, and wonderful 
 animation be missing?
  
  The Darkness.
  
  As in, Jackie as The Darkness. Understand I've been collecting the comic books since they came 
 out, I even have multiple copies of the same edition with various collector covers. I also have 
 a limited edition sculpture and have been a voracious fan of The Darkness LONG before it was ever 
 imagined as a video game.
  
  One of the biggest things missing from the game, especially since its a first person shooter, is 
 actually seeing Jackie as The Darkness. In the comic books, he's freakin' awesome, and one of the 
 greatest reasons to get the comic if you have never seen it. His character development, especially 
 when Marc Silvestri was at the helm, is great. The artwork is fantastic!
  
  But we never get to see him. There are times where you can look back at yourself, or see yourself 
 in a mirror, but this is not the comic book Darkness. A major disappointment for me.
  
  Don't get me wrong - I really enjoy the game! Understand also this is coming from a person who 
 HATES first person shooter games. I really wish this wasn't the case, but FPS makes me sicker than 
 a dog. I get dizzy and nauseated while playing them - which is why I never became a fighter pilot 
 or astronaut! LOL!
  
  Seriously, it's gotta say something for the game and the premise that I purchased it knowing I 
 can only play the game a few minutes at a time. But I did and I love the game... but since I'm going 
 to all this effort, I just want to see Jackie as The Darkness like he's in the comic books. *sigh* 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilzombie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  Well, I was intrigued by the plot, and surely this is a very good game.
  Pros:
  The two serpents are really cool.
  You get really cool special powers.
  The game looks great.
 
  The voice acting is superb.
  The story is superb.
  The darkness's voice is really creepy.
  
  Cons:
  Bad lip-sync. Why have great voice acting 
 if the lips barely move?
  Guns all feel the same.
  The darkness guns are next to useless.
  You are virtually unbeatable once you get the black hole 
 power.
  Taking out lights seems to be a chore, not an option.
  
  Ok, in terms of gameplay, this game is a very easy FPS. It looks great on the 360 and is pretty 
 fun. Once you master the controls, it's very simple. The storyline is superb and sucks you in, 
 the graphics and voice acting are superb, but the characters' lips never seem to move. Darkness 
 powers:
  Creeping dark- Great concept, but badly executed, it's controls can be frustraing. But it is very 
 useful.
  Demon arm- Probably the most useful power. You can kill enemies, move heavy objects, take out nearbly 
 lights with just a few clicks.
  Darkness Guns- They are next to useless. You can go through the entire game and not use them.
 
  Black hole- Probably the coolest of your powers, but makes the game very easy once you get them.
 
  Overall, this is a very good game, and with a few tweaks, could be a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  Awesome graphics and voice acting; a deep and involving story; Darkness powers are incredibly fun 
 to use; intense and well paced action
  
  NAYS
  Can be initially confusing; most weapons are useless once Darkness is obtained
  
  I have to 
 say, right off the bat, that this isn't a game for the faint hearted. The Darkness is an entirely 
 gruesome bloodbath from start to finish, with disturbing imagery and an adult story. If you have 
 an appetite for these things, then read on.
  
  You star in the game as Jackie, with an explosive fast paced intro that sets the mood for the rest 
 of the game. With a failed mobster mission, you are chased by the police until you reach a dead 
 end, and you take it on foot from there. Unfortunately, your uncle thinks you've cheated, and he's 
 set all his hitmen and mobsters against you. You're in a pickle, and it isn't an easy fight. Luckily, 
 there are some friends and family who'd help you out throughout the game, and the story exponentially 
 expands with a lot of twists and turns, all of which give you more motivation to reach the end 
 of the game and settle the deal. Rarely has a FPS set out such a deep and involving story before.
 
  
  The pacing of the story is great, too, and is narrated to you through phone calls and conversations 
 with the people involved. Elements of story is given out between objectives, which offers a good 
 break from the action and sets a motivation in motion for you to carry out the next objective. 
 It isn't your typical run of the mill FPS in this regards, so you'd get your money's worth out 
 of the story/action pacing alone.
  
  You initially fight off your enemies with standard guns, but soon early on in the game you get 
 possessed by The Darkness, a for of parasitic entity (think Venom) that bonds with you from that 
 moment on. You can bring out the Darkness whenever you please with the tap of a button, and most 
 likely you'd be having Darkness mode activated because of its beneficial powers.
  
  First off, when in that mode you can take in much more damage from enemies, giving a great deal 
 of advantage of course since you get to die pretty quickly without the Darkness. You also get special 
 powers - 4 in all - by which to take out your enemies. They also often have some environmental 
 puzzle uses. For instance, you can use the extended snake head to slither behind enemies and rip 
 them apart, or you can use it to go through ventilation shafts and obtain secrets or unlock doors. 
 The extended tentacle can be used to pierce enemies as well as move objects around or blast things 
 open. You also get a Dark gun (which is useful enough to replace all other weapons) as well as 
 the amusing black hole power, which is self explanatory.
  
  Aside from these powers, you can also call upon darklings, which are little minions who can help 
 you. There are four different darklings to be unlocked, each with its uses, and you can only summon 
 one darkling of a kind, effectively having a maximum of four different darklings battling with 
 you. They're often very useful, if not for killing but for diverting attention so you can land 
 a kill.
  
  Upon killing enemies, the Darkness devours the hearts of the fallen, which is just as gruesome 
 but sadistically pleasurable as it sounds. Feeding on the hearts levels up the Darkness, allowing 
 you to use its powers for a prolonged period of time. However, sitting in the shadows automatically 
 replenishes your Darkness powers, making the issue of investing time in destroying light sources 
 an essential and often cumbersome task. But it is all part of the good deal and certainly helps 
 for some strategy, especially if there are flood lights involved and too many enemies to kill without 
 the Darkness.
  
  The graphics and music in the game is great. The graphics are especially well detailed and the 
 use of lighting and shadows allows for an atmospheric and dynamically ambient setting. The textures 
 are sharp and detailed and you'd often be reading text off posters from a few feet away, which 
 says a lot about the game. The environments are big, seemingly open ended, disturbing enough and 
 well rendered. The frame rate doesn't drop (except in one case it dropped momentarily) . The voice 
 work though is greatness of a different order, and they all set the moods for the story and the 
 characters well.
  
  Despite the high production values though, there are some points that need refinement. For instance, 
 the lips rarely if ever move while the characters converse, giving them an odd look. Jackie's hair 
 also mysteriously flutters when the phone call is made successfully. There are also some points 
 in the plot that are initially confusing or seem out of place. Finally, the conventional weapons 
 are useless after the dark powers are obtained.
  
  Regardless of these minor gripes, the game is a successful blend of a great story, atmospheric 
 environments and unconventional FPS mechanics. It is worth giving it a shot, if not for the awesomeness 
 of the Darnkess, but for the story, which is among the most involved in any FPS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightmare_King
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  From the intro car chase to the character depth describing the main protagonist; The darkness displays 
 a very cool mature trip into the graphic novel that gave inspiration to this game. You play a role 
 of a mob hitman who along the way lost a part of yourself (sort of speak) and alot of people in 
 the process and due to that gained very powerful demons that seems to love you guessed it.... the 
 darkness! The story line though it lacks in some areas; still makes the character... you get to 
 understand his world and where he was coming from, to where he died and reborn in the darkness; 
 the people around him are just as much darker than the demons themselves but still have that type 
 of humanity which in some cases the game puts out every now and then. As far as Graphics the level 
 of detail is simply pretty damn good you can see the detail in the characters expressions which 
 is fleshed out and the design quality is top notched... you will see that in some aspect on the 
 FMV scenes which you will like; The flaw with this game is pretty much the same flaw with most 
 FPS games... too short. This game is really good and you move thru the levels trying to understand 
 the story and just when the story get's REALLY good... the game's over! Hopefully a sequel will 
 be made cause in the end this is a very fun game and even though this game isn't perfect like Bioshock 
 its still a good game to pick up either to rent or buy... check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobra_nVidia
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 14, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  I really wanted to like the Darkness. I mean, a shooter in which you get possessed by a demon? 
 Get to use guns, demonic powers, and summon minions? Go after the mob boss you tried to kill you, 
 while also gaining the respect of much of older members of your mob family? Sounds like it would 
 be hard, if not impossible, to take this awesome premise and screw the game up so badly it isn't 
 a classic.
  
  Unfortunately, Starbreeze has exceeded my expectations in that department. Let's start with the 
 most core aspect of the game - the shooting. Instead of building on a solid shooter engine, the 
 game features one of the most pathetic attempts to create one I've played on either the 360 or 
 PC. While it looks pretty good (mostly) the game runs poorly the majority of the time, and can 
 occasionally run so choppy it's a pain to look at ; it really says a lot about the developer that 
 they'd rather design a game that's nice to look at in pictures (advertising) than one in which 
 the frame rate is smooth enough to make the game fun to interact with. Also, for some strange reason, 
 the aiming crosshair is tiny, which maybe makes sense on the PC, but not on a console game, and 
 this crosshair tends to dissappear very easily.
  
  Aiming is done by pressing down the left thumstick, which is incredibly awkward. The reason for 
 this is that the game includes some dual-wielded weapons (mostly useless at range) and a melee 
 attack for single wield weapons, both of which use the left trigger. Neither is a justifiable reason 
 to make aiming so awkward, and the melee attack is probably the most brain-dead thing the designers 
 could have added, since there's no point in using it thanks to the execution-style moves you can 
 do at close range.. Ironically, the only redeeming quality of the shooting is the execution-style 
 moves, as there's a few neat animations.
  
  Somewhat making up for the lack of all of this is the darkness itself. Getting possesed by the 
 darkness gives you access to some pretty neat darkness moves such as black holes and a stealthy 
 little creeping dark that you can sneak around to enemies and kill them. The big draw of the darkness, 
 however, is the darklings, and they are in many ways the best part of the game. Not only is it 
 fun to order them around in the middle of combat, but they have a lot of personality muttering 
 to themselves and smoking some fat cigars. But even with the darkness itself, the game is not without 
 flaws. The creeping dark a little too difficult to use, because, ironically, the control scheme 
 is too simple. It really feels like the controls don't allow you enough control over what it does, 
 leading to a lot of frustration as you try to lead it along - especially where your climbing walls 
 and going from room to room. In addition, the game's only indication on how strong the darkness 
 is (in other words, how long until it stops manifesting) is by markings on the side of the darkness 
 tentacles. Which is pretty stupid. Or at least it is in the final product, since the designers 
 ALSO decided to make the tentacles move around, making it impossible to see these markings at times. 
 Considering this game, like most games, can't seem to perfectly correlate it LOOKING like you're 
 in darkness to the game actually behaving as if you were in the darkness, this can lead to some 
 annoying deaths, as you can take little gunfire when the darkness isn't shielding you.
  
  As if this weren't enough, the story is terrible and helps ruin the entire experience. Now, don't 
 get me wrong, a shooter can have a terrible story and be a magnificant game. Of course, that depends 
 on the game not being designed AROUND the story, which this game is. A good proportion of your 
 game time in the Darkness is based around interacting with characters to move the story and game 
 along. These sequences are terrible. No, really, they're terrible. The game has a role-playing-ish 
 way of letting you choose dialog options. Problem is, you have no control over Jackie's character, 
 and the game is so short you probably wouldn't care if you did. All it does is slow down the game 
 and make it more tedious. On top of that, while not really a huge issue, it is kind of annoying 
 how the game shifts needlessly between first and third person perspectives. There are enough first-person 
 games that tell the story strictly through one perspective that it seems incredibly cheap. As well, 
 the loading scenes where Jackie is talking are also kind of dissapointing. Don't get me wrong, 
 the voice work is solid and it's nice to LISTEN to him, but why the videos? They aren't interesting, 
 and he can't even lip-sync the dialog, so it just highlights a weakness in the game's engine. I'd 
 much rather just listen to him and see a normal loading screen. Finally, the game is short (even 
 shorter if you ignore the dialog as much as possible) and there's very little incentive to play 
 it a second time. It's really unfortunate that the designers messed up this game on every level, 
 because it could, is SHOULD have been a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NuQLER
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  thoroughly average, poorly scripted, over-acted and the darkness controls
  (in particular) are just awful... good luck getting your snake-head up a wall.
  the story has 
 moments, but imho simply not enough to warrant the purchase of what i view to be a rough, unfinished 
 and damn near unplayable game.
  maybe i'm harsh because Riddick was so wonderfully innovative,
  but for the love of all that's 
 green, who in God's name LOWERS the bar?...
  c'mon Starbreeze, we're not suckers.... well, maybe some of us are...
  this thing rides on the 
 coattails of this great studio's past efforts as opposed to
  realizing the tremendous potential this title had. really a shame. sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a game that has some real depth to it both in story line as well as gameplay design. 
 The game has a very intreguing story that keeps you interested throughtout the game, however I 
 won't be saying anything about it so as not to ruin the fun of it. The game play on the other hand 
 is something we encounter for the first time, mixing demonic power and fire power is a new design 
 put into this game. you basically have the darkness; a demonic power that tears aprt anyone who 
 tries to mess up with you, tenticles, demon arm , darkness pistols and the blackhole, all of these 
 powers are mixed with the regular fire power (shotguns, pistols, machineguns ..) in this sense 
 the game does a terrefic job in putting all these wonderful weapons in the game for you to use, 
 and trust me , eating enemies' hearts or slicing up the faces of your foes is an activity you'll 
 be wanting to stick to throughout the game, and it never gets old. The graphics of The darkness 
 are very impressive and to tell the truth, the Engine of Reddick is still doing terrefic job in 
 delevering very good looking games; the dark atmosphere fits perfectly with the graphical level 
 of the game and you won't be let down at all, everything looks amazing, from light effects to shadows 
 and textures. however the game does have some framerate drops at times, however, most of the time 
 you'll be enjoying your 30 FPS framerate. The voice acting as well as the acting itself are extremely 
 awesome and I liked The Darkness voice a lot. the only flaws I could notice in The darkness as 
 a whole package was the fact that it doesn't set a challenge for the player, may be because of 
 the amount of power you have over your foes, even the last mission doesn't set up any challenge 
 for you , you can rely on your Darkness powers to get the whole job done, especially that the enemies 
 can be passive at times by just standing out there waiting for you to take'em out. nevertheless, 
 this might not be considered a flaw for some gamers but for others it may be annoying a bit. one 
 morething, the game can be a little short if you run throught the main story but if you are into 
 some side missions you can extend the duration of your experience with the darkness. The darkness, 
 after all is a great title that combines great graphics, interesting story and fun gameplay , it's 
 definitely a game to pick up for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helixius
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  When I first got The Darkness, I wasn't exactly sure what I would think of the game. I'm happy 
 to say that I was ultimately pleased with the experience, even if the Multiplayer is pathetic.
 
  
  One undeniably good thing about this game is the graphics. As you can see from the screenshots, 
 they're spectacular. The only problem is the lip-syncing, which, as the official review points 
 out, is terrible. Still, from the creepy graphics of The Darkness, to the character models, the 
 game is beautiful. Graphics: 9.5/10
  
  Sound is another great thing about this game. From the hisses and snarls of The Darkness (and not 
 to mention the creepiness of it's voice) to the gunfire to the music, the game's sound is also 
 fantastic, and thus gets a 10/10 from me.
  
  The Darkness features all of the classic elements of shooter gameplay, but also shakes things up 
 a bit with the powers of The Darkess, which allow you to do many cool things. The conventional 
 weaponry is nice, though some of the guns could be a little bit more powerful. 9.5/10
  
  This game's story is simply fantastic (for a shooter, at any rate) , and that's something coming 
 from me. (I'm tough to please when it comes to story.) The game forms a strong emotional attachment 
 for the characters and keeps you hooked till the end. 10/10
  
  Controls. This is perhaps one of The Darkness' few weakness's. They are somewhat complex and can 
 be difficult to learn. However, once you get them down, they're alright, so I give the controls 
 9/10.
  
  Overall: The darkness is an overall great game, and definitely one I would recommend buying, or 
 at least renting. (If you are an XBOX Live fanatic, I would recommend renting.) Overall Score: 
 9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  The graphics ar very good in this game. The mouth movment of you character is a little scetchy 
 though sometiimes he doesn't even open his mouth to say some thing. I also wish that there were 
 more powers. They were fun when you first get them but you'll have an urge for something more a 
 garuntee it.
  But the story is very good. The voice in your head can get a bit freaky sometimes but its a very 
 good story. The opening scene is awesome. Other than the fact that you apparently suck at loading 
 a shotgun, but i won't ruin the rest. I like the shooting and how the bullets holes are there. 
 I also like how you can do a bunch of side missions for people and the subway by the way is awesome. 
 If you are playing this game go up to phones and dial random phone numbers it can be really funny. 
 I dialed 911* and it was the international herpes hotline. But all in all this game is good and 
 very fun to play. ( I do also wish you could run or something.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayfi33
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  After I finished my first playthrough of the darkness I realized that the game was very well done. 
 As an FPS it has good action sequences throughout the game and the shooting is handled well. sometimes 
 the aiming is a little too easy but there are so few occasions, other than eliminating light sources, 
 that you really have to do a ton of precision aiming. The game shines in its use of darkness abilities. 
 They are fun to use and offer a nice violent way to dispatch your enemies. The creeping dark power 
 is an especially useful ways to scout areas and adds a bit of stealth to the game which i am always 
 a big fan of. Impaling enemies on the demon arm is a brutal animation and i like the sound the 
 enemies make when you execute this type of kill. In addition, A game where you feed on human hearts 
 to replenish any kind of health meter is super cool and the developers get points for adding that 
 sweet, twisted dimension to the game. The game looks pretty good and the voice acting is among 
 the best on the 360 so there is good value there. The story is also engaging and there are some 
 interesting side quests to occupy your time. The achievments are fun and ensure that the player 
 will be well versed in using their darkness abilities by the end credits. That leads me to my only 
 complaint, not enough darkness powers. If you had say 8-10 to choose from there would really be 
 a lot more variety to every battle scene. I know that summoning the darklings adds some variety, 
 but they act ineptly at times and i never really relied on them to get me through battle. They 
 do say some very funny things and I found just having them around made me feel more demonic as 
 I liberated hearts from the corpses of my enemies. The length of the game is solid and i think 
 i clocked in around 20 hours which seems to be the industry standard these days for an FPS. There 
 is some backtracking but nothing to get in a twist about. Overall the game is solid and you never 
 really find yourself bothered by anything. I feel like if they didnt bother with multiplayer that 
 the single player would have been that much better, but no use crying over split blood. If you 
 dont have anything to play then pick it up (used) , it is worth your time but maybe not your money? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindclown2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is first person shooter based off of the Top Cow comic, you guessed it, The Darkness. 
 It tells the tale of a mafia hitman named Jackie Estacado who finds himself the next hit on the 
 list by his own Uncle Paulie, the head of the Franchetti crime family. But as luck, or damnation, 
 would have it, on his 21st birthday Jackie finds himself bestowed with the demonic like powers 
 of the Darkness. Basically the powers turn Jackie from regular bada$$ into Super Bada$$. After 
 an awesome opening scene (hey, never stick your head out the side of the car window, right?) , you 
 find yourself given two new pistols and have to shoot your way out of a construction site filled 
 with gun totting construction workers. Very early on in the game youre given the powers of the 
 Darkness, although very limited at first. You start off with one major power, the Creeping Dark. 
 Basically you take control of a very viscous snake like creature who has a great ability for sneaking 
 up on unsuspecting victims and devouring their hearts. Even by the end of the game, for me personally, 
 the Creeper was my favorite power.
  
  Later you gain three other powers, a demonic arm which can impale victims and is especially useful 
 for taking out lights, which drain your darkness power. Then you get some cool looking guns that 
 use the darkness power as ammo, and finally, the black hole. You just aim and shoot and a black 
 hole will open up and kill anything around it, throwing people around violently before slamming 
 them back on the ground. Towards the end of the game where youre fighting large groups of enemies, 
 the black hole becomes very useful.
  
  Your darkness power gains strength by devouring the hearts of your victims, which after you two 
 new best friends get through eating so many, your darkness powers level up, which comes in handy 
 with the Creeper power because youll be able to go longer and last longer. And even though there 
 are only a handful of animations for the two snake heads to devour hearts, and even though its 
 always the right one that eats it, I swear, it never gets old. How can you not enjoy a game that 
 lets your eat out the hearts of your victims?
  
  The guns are your standard affair and to me after a certain part in the game, took a backseat to 
 the powers. Youll double wield pistols, knock people back with a shotgun, dual wield uzis, and 
 my personal favorite, the riot shotgun.
  
  Truth be told, theres a lot of backtracking that you have to do, but considering how great the 
 graphics are, it never really got old to me to keep wandering around. The game centers itself off 
 of two subway stations, and at each station, there are different routes you can take that will 
 lead you to the levels of the game. And if by some weird chance you get bored with the main story, 
 you can always find people wandering around the subways that will give you side quests. The story, 
 by the way, was great. Although, being a fan of the comics, they didnt really seem to borrow too 
 much from the comic universe. But the main storyline kept me going all the way through. So much 
 so that the first time I played the game, I beat it in one night. And the game isnt that short, 
 its you standard length for shooters these days.
  
  Like I said, the graphics are awesome. The only annoying things is that the lip synch is really 
 off, almost like everybody is talking out loud but their mouths are just mumbling the words out. 
 And for some reason, when you use a phone and theres that click one somebody answers, Jackies 
 hair will bounce. Nothing major and defiantly doesnt distract from the game at all.
  
  Sound is awesome. I guess the best thing about the sound has got to be the voice of The Darkness. 
 The guy who did that voice is awesome with the way he will change his tone and creepiness in mid 
 sentence. And I even read online that he used no electronic filters on his voice, it was all him, 
 which to me, seems really amazing and creepy at the same time that one could do such a thing. Guns 
 sound awesome with enough bang, and the voice acting of all the characters is top notch. And the 
 slithering noise of a heart going down the throat of your little buddy never gets old.
  
  Theres really not much replayability, except for the simple fact that the game is so good that 
 youll want to play it again and this time maybe use one power more over the others. Throughout 
 the game you can collect collectables to unlock bonus content, which is nice. The game plays smoothly 
 with no real hiccups or frame rate issues whatsoever. Basically, the game is a lot of fun to play 
 and enjoy. Its one of my favorite, if not my most favorite 360 game right now. If you enjoy a 
 good FPS with great graphics, engaging story, being the bad guy instead of the typical good guy 
 out to save the day, and the ability to summon black holes, then you should defiantly give this 
 game a try. And if you havent already, I recommend checking out some of the Darkness comics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Samael-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is.... well, dark. I myself am a pretty Dark or maybe even Morbid person, so I was 
 really already sold on the oppressive atmosphere and story of revenge and retribution. In the months 
 leading up to its release, I started seeing more trailers for the game. I instantly noticed the 
 executions, and the similarity to Equilibrium, one of my favorite, for lack of a better term, Nihilistic 
 future movies. I figured, Hey, I always thought that movie was ripe ground for an awesome shooter, 
 and Starbreeze is a well received developer, known for making awesome shooters, whats not to like? 
 The Darkness itself is a really good licenses to be working with, although I never really read 
 alot of the comics, the few I had seen were really good. Throw in the gratuitous violence, and 
 I was sold.
  
  SO, why the 7.5 rating then? Yeah. You see, the problem is in the execution, and the length. The 
 gameplay at first is awesome, although you notice the rather iffy hit detection every now and then, 
 your mainly using the pistols, which are the most accurate weapons in the game, and pulling of 
 those first few executions is pretty sweet. But, as the game goes on, especially when you get the 
 shotgun and other weapons, you realize, that only the dual wielded pistols and sub-machine guns 
 have more than a front and back execution. Some weapons don't have them at all. I was expecting 
 the executions to be more like the Gun Katas In Equilibrium, a vital mechanic to surviving the 
 intense multi-shooter gun battles that explode all around young Jackie Estacado. They sadly are 
 not. They actually don't even work a good 25% percent of the time, and you'll either shoot the 
 guy in the face like any other shooter, or do this crazy kinda circle strafe dance around him until 
 you pull one off. The aiming can be everything from too helpful, literally pulling off headshots 
 without even wanting to, to nearly broken, especially with the shotgun. I have literally been confronted 
 by mobsters and police, or dead people, and at point blank range missed with a 12-gauge, aimed 
 squarely at their chest. But I had fun watching the wall get riddled with buck-shot directly behind 
 him. The AI can be kinda stupid, especially when you summon Darklings. Those things are stupid. 
 Half the time they don't even do what their names imply they do. Numerous attempts to get the lightkiller 
 to strike out lights were met with so much frustration that I just gave up and quit using them 
 all together. The powers range from kinda cool, to nearly useless. The Demon arm is cool, especially 
 for taking out lights and impaling people, but the Creeping Dark and Darkness guns are almost pointless, 
 except for the few points where you have to use them. The game also is pretty short, even doing 
 the side missions, which were completely pointless, I finished it my first time in little over 
 10 hours. Not much game for $60, considering that I can't play any multiplayer because of my crappy 
 internet connection, although I heard that it was so laggy and tacked on that it was pretty much 
 broken anyway.
  
  There is some merit to this game, though, and that is in the fantasic way that the story is conveyed 
 and played out over those 10 hours. A crazy twist of supra-natural (thats, like, a whole level above 
 super-natural: D) events and an almost Sopranos like Mob-Drama are really well done. The motion 
 capture and voice acting (particularly Mike Patton) are superb. This is one of the few games where 
 you actually make an emotional connection with some of the characters. One point in the game really 
 hammers this home in a way that I've never really experienced in a video game. I would say that 
 it is definitely worth a rental, just because of the story. But once you finish it, your really 
 not going to be given a reason to come back, unless you want some kinda lame collectibles. If you 
 are a big Darkness fan, then you'll probably find a little more love for the game than I have. 
 Its not that its a bad game, its just that it really doesn't seem to live up to its potential. 
 Play it for the story, or some just really bloody action, but I'd be wary of paying the full retail 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azumangaman
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  From Studio Starbreeze, (the studio who brought the The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher 
 Bay) The Darkness goes where few first-person shooters go, which is actually focusing on the characters 
 and plot. The big question is, does The Darkness succeed in drawing you into its seedy underworld, 
 or does it fall on its face and feel just like the mediocre first-person shooters that are becoming 
 a trend?
  
  In The Darkness, you play the game as Jackie Estacado, a 21-year old mafia hit man. Jackie is set-up 
 by his Uncle Paulie. When Jackie opens a closet, there is a bomb waiting for him. Upon the explosion 
 he crashes out of a window and he survives. On his 21st birthday, Jackie is the newest recipient 
 of the darkness, which has unbelievable powers. From this moment, your mission begins to extract 
 revenge and kill your Uncle Paulie. The story is told in a very unique way. Much of the story you'll 
 find out through Jackie talking about his past, the present, and the future. These scenes are usually 
 short in length (1-3 minutes) but are a fascinating way to get you interested in the game. The 
 developers do a great thing with getting the story across. Most of the plot development is done 
 with the narrative by Jackie in a dark room, so you're always focused on Jackie and what he's saying. 
 This way, the excellent story comes across very clearly, and I remember it perfectly after months 
 of not playing it, which I can't say for very many games.
  
  The Darkness has some very solid gameplay. On top of your everyday guns, you are in control of 
 darkness powers. There are four of these powers, and you earn them as the game progresses. You 
 can also control darklings, little minions that perform and assist various tasks. There are also 
 four of these that you unlock throughout the game. The most fun form of combat options is easily 
 the Darkness powers, which are simply too fascinating for their own good. One has you creep up 
 on enemies and attack them, one impales, one is a powerful gun, and the last is an incredibly powerful 
 black-hole. While some of them take some time to master, others (like the Black Hole) are simply 
 just too easy to use, and can easily kill 5 enemies at a time. On top of using these powers in 
 combat, you will also need these to get through roadblocks and get to hard-to-reach places. These 
 powers also have a disadvantage to them, as they cannot be utilized in the light. You need to shoot 
 out the lights to use them, which brings an exciting element to the game. On top of combat, The 
 Darkness includes multiple side-quests, which are commonly found in RPGs, and certainly not first-person 
 shooters, or any shooters for that matter. The game is also filled with collectables, which are 
 used for getting concept art, level designs and more. They either come in the form of phone numbers 
 or letters. To unlock everything, you have to dial the numbers at a phone booth or mail the letters 
 in a mailbox, which is an innovative way at unlocking collectables.
  
  However, the gameplay has its problems. First and foremost, fighting enemies really isn't all that 
 fun if you aren't using your darkness powers. The arsenal of guns you have are few and just not 
 very exciting, as they're all basically the same thing. The darklings are also pretty useless. 
 Apart from the few times you have to use them for something specific, they really are insignificant. 
 The AI also has its problems. While it can be difficult to kill your enemies, they are almost never 
 in cover, and are just wide open for you to slaughter. However, you will probably end up dying 
 rather often, as the AI can be pretty tough. The AI ends up being a mixed bag of hard to kill and 
 very predictable.
  
  The graphics in The Darkness are solid, but they don't come without problems. The effects are beautiful, 
 all the heart devouring, impaling and blood have never looked better. The environments are very 
 realistic, and come across like very legitimate cities that you would see in real life. A major 
 issue with them is that theyre just too dark. The extremely dark levels and scenery can be rather 
 frustrating when you cant see where youre going. The weapons are absolutely stunning, and the 
 darkness powers are absolutely gorgeous. While the grittiness of The Darkness does give a refreshing 
 feel to the game, it gives it a kind of outdated feel, especially with the ugly character models. 
 Some of the people you go up to talk to look surprisingly real, but are not appealing to look at. 
 Overall, the graphical portion of The Darkness, while not the strongest, is certainly a high.
 
  
  The audio component of The Darkness is nothing short of superb. Every single character has a voice 
 in this game, which is something very few games can claim. While many characters that just walk 
 around the subway are voiced by the same person, its still a very impressive feat. Studio Starbreeze 
 truly went the extra mile in this aspect. The characters in the story are all voiced to a tee, 
 and sound excellent. Mike Patton steals the show voicing the darkness inside Jackie. The darkness 
 is an incredibly creepy and intriguing character; and I just wanted more and more of him. The gunshots 
 are crisp and clear and the impaling and slaughtering is simply blood-curdling. The sound design 
 and casting choices make The Darkness a winner.
  
  Expect the game to last you around 8-10 hours, basically the typical first-person shooter length. 
 The biggest downside to The Darkness is that the multiplayer mode is a failure of epic proportions. 
 Multiplayer is completely broken and is overflowing with slowdowns if there are more than 4 players 
 at once, rendering the multiplayer mode of The Darkness unplayable. In all honesty, the games focus 
 is completely on single-player, and if you live off of multiplayer games, than avoid the Darkness. 
 However, if you are looking for an innovative, well produced shooter thats story you will remember, 
 than by all means, buy The Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgbiker1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  While I waited for bioshock, gamefly mailed me this game. After playing two worlds and battlestations, 
 this game was a refreshing surprise. Not particularly hard once you get the dakness powers, you 
 do get the feeling that you're a pretty badass mofo. Very cool game, good graphics, and a good 
 story. This is one of the very few shooters where I paid some attention to the story. Generally, 
 I am very happy with this game. I definitely recommend this as a rental, but it seems maybe a bit 
 shallow as a purchase. While the gameplay is cool, it definitely lacks the depth of my favorites 
 like Ninja Gaiden. I also thought some of the purgatory levels dragged on quite a bit, and it felt 
 like a return through Oblivion's gates. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roboy_the_GG
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a game centered around demons and mobsters. A great combination for any action 
 game. The story of the game is absolutely brilliant, and is so compelling it becomes difficult 
 to take any breaks. The campaign feels like it is long enough to warrant the full retail price, 
 unlike many games released lately. Saying that, the replayability isn't spectacular. There are 
 plenty of achievements for Xbox 360 players, which require running through the different chapters 
 again, and without Xbox Live you are obviously devoid of the multiplayer aspect. The graphics in 
 The Darkness are nothing short of stunning for our current generation of games. The lighting effects 
 really give a solid feel for The Darkness, as do the physics. Few flaws show in The Darkness, but 
 a minor flaw that disappointed me a little bit was the size and power of weapons. The pistols look 
 quite like toys in the small hands of Jackie (the main character) , and are dwarfed by the spectacular 
 demon heads that flank the screen on both sides. The shotgun you use in The Darkness really doesn't 
 feel at all like a real shotgun - there is little to no recoil, it is very quiet, and quite useless 
 unless you are standing toe to toe with the enemy. The machine guns you acquire later on in the 
 game are powerful and deadly, but chew through ammo very quickly. The Darkness powers in the game 
 are very satisfying and deliver on all levels. The first power you acquire, Creeping Dark, detaches 
 one of the demon heads, giving you control over it as your body remains crouched where you activated 
 the power. This demon head can climb walls, and one hit from it will kill an enemy. It becomes 
 an essential tool to getting passed locked doors or relieving the pressure of multiple enemies 
 firing at you (silently approach them with the head as your character remains hidden, and take 
 a bite) . The other powers, which I'll leave the player to find, are increasingly powerful and stunning. 
 All powers use up your Darkness, which can be measured by the amount of light on your demon head 
 companions and can be recharged by staying in the dark. The amazing story, based of The Darkness 
 graphic novels, really makes the entire project shine. All in all, The Darkness is definitely worth 
 picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleSword1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Starbreeze, the masterminds behind Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay, have created 
 another great shooter. The Darkness is difficult to describe; you play a mafia hitman named Jackie 
 who is struggling to control his newly-gained Darkness powers on his 21st birthday. You can use 
 these powers to your advantage to summon demons, create black holes, impale enemies with your tentacles 
 and more. Deep within its gritty and dramatic shell, The Darkness' real genius lies within its 
 core mechanics. Intense gang shootouts are backed up with terrific graphics, realism, and great 
 sounds, not to mention scary effects (Snake-like heads emerging from shoulders, faceless zombie 
 soldiers, blood, guts, etc.,) but, shamefully, the game's multiplayer is a let-down. Graphics are 
 slightly downgraded, usually dramatic lagging, and pointless running-and-gunning through and through. 
 But overall, The Darkness is a great shooter and while it's not quite a bargain for $60, it holds 
 up very well and it's definitely worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauro_rubens
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game early this morning after reading various reviews and getting hooked, and I've 
 been playing it for couple hours. I have to tell you all that I am really loving it. The game acting 
 voice and ambient sounds is so evolving, I have a great 8.1 sound system, that I have to look around 
 to make sure I am actually alone, hehehe. The dark environment graphic just gives such creepiness 
 it is really great but the easy playing is what I like very much and I think that is very cool. 
 I am just loving this new game I got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  You will follow the main character of this story, Jackie Estacado, a 21 hitman who works for his 
 Uncle Paulie. Apparently, some money deal between Jackie and the other two mobsters driving the 
 car under the control of Paulie went wrong. Jackie wakes up in the back of a moving car, probably 
 having been knocked out. Soon after they start getting chased down the tunnel by crooked cops, 
 and they have to pick up even more speed to stay alive. You are given a shotgun to fend off the 
 cops and other enemies in the tunnel as the driver is trying to get to safety, though there aren't 
 many directions to go except straight when you're in a tunnel. One of the mobsters dies before 
 the car crashes near a construction zone in the far end of the tunnel road. This is when Jackie 
 receives a present for his birthday, two customized pistols. After you exit from the tunnel, Uncle 
 Paulie begins to suspect Jackie of foul-play and blames him for the deal going terribly wrong. 
 There is a hit put on Jackie by Paulie, before he has any time to explain what actually happened. 
 Jackie then decides to use the help of some old mobsters and other people to help him take down 
 Uncle Paulie and his various illegal operations, and this is the general premise throughout the 
 game. The game is called The Darkness because of the giant parasitic-like demon that uses its host 
 to survive. This time, the host is Jackie Estacado. While the true intentions of The Darkness are 
 to completely take control of its host's mind and use him to kill, it does have some very important 
 uses for the protagonist's situation. It allows you to see in otherwise picthblack areas. The first 
 Darkness ability you will get in the game is Creeping Dark, which can sneak up on your enemies 
 without being seen, climb walls and crawl through places that a human could never fit through. 
 The second ability is extremely satisfying to use, and its called The Demon Arm, which is essentially 
 a long tentacle with a sharp blade attached to its end. It is extremely fun to fire out the arm 
 to pierce an enemie's stomach, then lift him up and throw him as far as you can. You can also use 
 the arm to pick up and throw dumpsters and other items. You will find yourself using the third 
 Darkness ability the most often throughout the game as they have unlimited ammo as long as your 
 in the dark, they are called The Darkness Guns. They kind of serve as two suped-up pistols. The 
 fourth and final ability you will get is the Black Hole, which is exactly how it sounds. Using 
 this ability for the full length of time possible drains all your darkness energy, but that is 
 always easily recharged if you are in the dark. It picks up enemies within range, then sends them 
 flying out in all directions. Each enemy will also have a devourable heart, which recharge your 
 darkness energy and give you new darkness levels. Throughout the game The Darkness will also allow 
 you to control little creatures called Darklings, they have four types; Beserker, Lightkiller, 
 Gunner, and Kamikazee. There a few alternate outfits you can find for these little creatures. During 
 some occasions in the game, you may find yourself shooting out too many lights to ensure a dark 
 fighting area, just to die and do it again. It is also a very good thing that you have these awesome 
 abilities to fight with because for the most part, the regular gun combat is a little bland and 
 sometimes even too easy. There are a few characters who will assist Jackie in taking down the corrupt 
 NYPD and Uncle Paulie himself including Jenny, his girlfriend and possibly the only person he truly 
 loves and cares about, and Butcher, a big guy who doesn't take specific sides to stay alive. The 
 various interesting characters in the game really help to bring the storyline to life. Of course 
 the almost perfect voice acting from almost every character helps in this regard as well. Every 
 location of the game is somewhere in New York city, but they are certainly diverse when they need 
 to be. The amazing detail in the environment helps bring the city and the subway station to life. 
 There are two different subway stations you'll pass through numerous times, each leading to a different 
 set of locations. In these stations is where you will find the people in need or in other words 
 the side missions, which generally have you completing simple errands, but sometimes killing people 
 that just shouldn't be around anymore. Each one of the characters you help are well developped, 
 both visually and I guess you could say emotionally. Highlighted pieces of paper and in the alternate 
 world ; ) , letters serve as collectibles. Each one you collect unlocks some concept art, some pages 
 from the comic and so on. The pieces of paper are always phone numbers that you will dial on any 
 one of the subway's phones, and mail the letters in mailboxes found on the streets. The conversations 
 you hear after dialing the number can be pretty amusing. There is a multiplayer mode, but most 
 players will try it once or twice and to never return to it. It feels bland because you have no 
 darkness powers which limits the combat to only shooting, which isn't necessarily the highpoint 
 of this game. It probably would have been better off not to put in multiplayer at all since so 
 few people actually use it. All in all, The Darkness is an awesome game with many things that set 
 it apart from other first-person shooters, the actual shooting not being one of them. The characters 
 will help drive the story along, and keep you entertained the whole way through. While this game 
 isn't for everyone out there, it is certainly a very worthy title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: All_3st
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Well to be totally honest I was, at first a bit disappointed in the game, the face animations were 
 quite doll, and the environment didn't seemed too interactive, if you for example shot a vase it 
 wouldn't break. I also thought the game would be a bit more evil, I mean I would appreciate it 
 if you could use your weapons and darkness powers in the subway stations and be really nasty, but 
 that wasn't the case. But fortunately... When the story slowly evolved, my interest in the game 
 did as well.
  The story is without doubt the greatest thing about the game. It is so well written and got me 
 hooked all the way through, and that doesn't happen very often.
  
  The Graphic is at most times gorgeous, the weapons are okay, nothing we haven't seen before, and 
 some of the civilians are picture perfect while others are almost like last gen graphics. The blood 
 splatters are nicely done, just too bad they haven't taking their time to do bullet holes in the 
 bodies, that would really have given the killing a more realistic feel. The environments are dark, 
 sometimes a bit doll, but if you know the comic then you know that that's how they should be. The 
 face animations are indeed the weakest link in the game, thank God they got great voice actors 
 to cover it up a bit.
  
  The sound is top notch, the music really helps to give the game a movie-like feel and the voice-actors 
 are absolutely stunning, best I've heard in a long time, probably the best I've heard since Grim 
 Fandango, it's not as good as Grim Fandango, but still brilliant.
  
  The Swedish company that made The Darkness really dared to do something different, the open environment 
 is a new thing in FPS, but it works very well, I'm sure that this game will inspire other game 
 companies, I at least hope so. This game is not one I'll soon forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I was hoping for another super sleeper from Starbreeze after Riddick. But, my impressions 
 of The Darkness are both how fun the game is and also how much more it could have been.
  
  The visual design of The Darkness gives you the feel of being in a run down urban environment. 
 This was actually done really well and the opening sequence does a lot to pull you into the story, 
 sort of like the beginning of Riddick, which gave you a hint of what to expect ahead. Of course 
 you gain these powers called The Darkness and eventually go around and kill everyone in your way.
 
  
  The game rewards you for performing tasks for people you run into. Most of them are in the subway 
 and most of the tasks end with a reward being a scrap of paper with a phone number you can call 
 to unlock a collectible. So while its a nice distraction from the main story, you don't really 
 gain anything from performing these side missions and in some cases you gain nothing at all that 
 is usable.
  
  The Darkness powers are actually quite powerful to use, but I also used my guns a lot too. So for 
 me, I was able to keep a balance with the powers and weapons I had. But, it is possible to get 
 through the game with most of your powers and very little gun play.
  
  The story was actually told very well I thought, but it seemed kind of a stretch at times how everything 
 went together. I'm not referring to the Darkness, but more the relationships with other characters.
 
  
  The achievements in the game were nicely spread out too, with most being pretty well attainable 
 with some thrown in just for frustrations sake I think (killing the tunnel workers? I will probably 
 never get that one.)
  
  By the time I finished the game I was pretty well satisfied, but all the back tracking I did for 
 the submissions to areas you had already cleared kind of put a drag on things. If I had played 
 the story straight through to keep the excitement level going, and had they incorporated the submissions 
 into line with that, it probably would have felt more active and not like I was wasting my time 
 running everywhere. Still a good game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitesoxdude
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a great looking game but a few people i knew said The Darkness was going to be 
 another dumb little game. So i went and bought it. The game was fun but a little bit confusing 
 in the beginning but as i got farther and farther in the game it began to get alot more fun. I 
 like the demon arm darkness power. the darkness guns werent any use for me though. the black hole 
 was very use full. the story is pretty cool. but i like the huge areas you get walk around in. 
 I recommend this game to every one who likes first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness takes you into another world that takes you into the dark side. The main character 
 of this story has the deepest secret and finally it came out. So you deal with the Darkness that 
 was inside you and trying to escape from it as well. So everything he loves, care about is lost 
 because of the betrayel that lead his girlfriend (Jenny) Died. It's up too you too able to control 
 the darkness. The controls are good, the graphics it okay, music is good. So Pretty much the game 
 is good. It takes time to get use to the controls of the game but you will get use to it. Sometimes 
 getting the achievements can be glitchy as well and if you mess one part of the game you have to 
 do everything again, The voice acting is good too, and unique as well. Most people will like it 
 and most people won't. The story line is okay for this game and it doesn't take that long too finished. 
 It has five chapters and you can go back whenever you like. For now this game is a rent but if 
 you like FPS games this is the one for you too get. I still like this game very much and still 
 keeping this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  The Darkness tells the story of a possessed Mafia hitman - Jackie Estacato. From the night of his 
 21st birthday, Jackie becomes possessed by The Darkness. The Darkness is a curse which was brought 
 upon the Estacato family by Jackie's great grandfather, Anthony. I won't go into too much detail 
 about the plot, but the storyline sees you playing in environments from NY back alleys, to a World 
 War One trench/battlefield/underworld type affair. Once in total control of The Darkness you can 
 summon four different types of darklings, ranging from Gunner's to Kamikaze demos which will happily 
 destroy any of your foes.
  
  The other story line in the game is about Jackie's Uncle Paulie. Paulie and the rest of the gang 
 have turned on Jackie, and now dozens of Mafia men armed with Desert Eagle's to AK-47's are after 
 him. Hours of gameplay later, Jackie has sort of earnt revenge on Paulie, but only through losing 
 someone close to him on the way. (I won't reveal who) .
  
  The gameplay, graphics, and sound are all very good. It is always night time (except for ONE occasion) , 
 which is kind of crazy, but doesn't ruin the game in any shape or form.
  
  There is an online section to the game, which is very difficult to play because of the stupid amount 
 of lag which hinders the experience.
  
  Overall, worth buying just for the singleplayer, and the game is sure to keep you sucked in right 
 until the end credits roll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmoney5646
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a very good game. Although not great variety of game play. You will love tearing 
 people apart and eating their hearts and you will detest subway side missions. They could have 
 done a better job with this one and made it special. Could have used some larger enviroments and 
 where are the people? Ya there in the subway but no one walks the street? Anyway it is an innovative 
 game and there are many, many new game play ideas that work really well. The story line is very 
 addicting. Graphically, they could have smoothed out the edges but overall it is still a wonderfull 
 experience but it has no holding power, at least to me. Despite its great features I never finished 
 this one but it is still a game that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AffeTron
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a superb game with superb game-play and control...
  The story is about Jack, he is some sort of mafia. He just want too protect his girlfriend... To 
 find out more, rent or buy the game...
  
  It`s cool to control the darkness, the demons and powers rocks hard...
  So, if you like horror... 
 Or just simply action. Try this game :)
  
  He just want revenge at his uncle... wont leak any names here &gt;_&gt;
  You get weapons too, 
 like dual pistols, machine gun and shotgun... With the weapons you can do execution moves.... TAKE 
 THAT YOU PIECE OF ****
  
  But for now.... have to sell my soul for this power.. .. so bye :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This review of an Xbox 360 game ain't what you were expectin'. However no one was expecting a good 
 shooter based on New York gang tensions from the same studio in Sweden that brought us that one 
 Xbox game that was better than the actual movie. Anyone remember The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape 
 from Butcher Bay? This time, instead of being based on a movie, The Darkness is based on an old 
 comic book, published by Marvel, of the same name.
  
  Set in a fictional section of New York, the story takes place following the events surrounding 
 a young contract killer named Tony Estacado. On his 21st birthday Tony is fulfilling a contract 
 for the Frachetti crime family when something goes sour on the deal. Driving back home, Tony and 
 company are trapped inside the downtown tunnel going 90 mph in the wrong direction. Needless to 
 say they crash and Mikey, the driver, dies at the wreck site. Surviving unharmed, Tony proceeds 
 with his contract to whack a construction site foreman when things go even worse. The mob boss, 
 Uncle Paulie has already had someone kill the foreman, and when you get to the top well.... there's 
 a bit of a surprise waiting for you.
  The entire game that follows is a whirlwind adventure following Jackie Estacado and The Darkness, 
 which is a demonic possession that takes a hold of the first-born male member on his 21st birthday. 
 Jackie, whose birthday could not have gone any worse, gets caught up in not only his family's cave-in 
 but his own Darkness as well.
  
  Perhaps a first in any first-person shooter is the notion of an open-world environment where, as 
 the character, you can visit any available location in the game. Only if areas are blocked off 
 or restricted for mission-specific purposes are you unable to go anywhere in the game. The fictional 
 New York the game is set in feels very limited given the potential scope of that city and having 
 only a couple blocks per street available seems very restrictive. However, due to cutting in and 
 out to large-scale war scenes (won't go into too much detail for spoilers) and back again several 
 times throughout the game gives it a larger sense of scale than it would if it did not.
  
  The ability to travel between these areas in the game lends to scale, but more importantly, allows 
 for more sensible back-tracking that's needed for the story to be told properly. Needless to say 
 there is a bit of motivation as you attempt to take your former employer for setting you up on 
 the construction site hit and as such you'll be running back and forth through these locations 
 quite often. Luckily they are set up identically to real-life city streets so navigating them is 
 a breeze if you remember which intersection goes where. Getting easily sidetracked by your own 
 Darkness, the game is half gun-play and half learning how to use these darkness powers properly. 
 It's hard to describe a game that really doesn't fit into any category established before. Sure 
 it's a first-person shooter like anything else, but The Darkness powers allow for some interesting 
 puzzle solving and there are also platform elements in the game.
  
  As you progress with your plans to take down Uncle Paulie and the corrupt cop Eddie Shrote, you'll 
 be cutting in and out of World War One, which is a narrow (almost corridor) sequence that takes 
 place inside Jackie's mind or The Darkness, it's not clear, however these sequences bridge portions 
 of the game and allow for some intricate story telling. Allowing Jackie to wake up places that 
 he wasn't before, etc.
  
  One thing that The Darkness really has going for it is the interesting use of The Darkness itself. 
 The first power you acquire immediately after your 21st birthday occurs at the same time The Darkness 
 manifests itself. This power, called crawling dark is a vine-like tentacle-with-a-head that Jackie 
 can use for stealth killing or to (more commonly) crawling through air ducts or under gates to 
 unlock a door on the other side or pick up a key. The power is also good for taking ammo out of 
 dangerous locations that are still under fire. The crawling dark is Jackie's most stealth weapon 
 and most useful more times than not.
  
  The demon arm is the second power Jakie acquires shortly after visiting WWI for the first time. 
 The demon arm is extremely helpful for putting out those pesky lights that you'd otherwise be shooting 
 at without expending any ammo. But perhaps the most obvious use of the power is to move large obstacles 
 out of the way or to fling them at enemies. Alternatively, simply tapping RB will impale the 
 nearest enemy on the demon arm instantly killing them, but the range is very limited.
  
  The Darkness guns are perhaps the most lack lust Darkness power to speak of, simply a pistol and 
 what appears to be a handheld gauss rifle that simply use the Darkness energy as ammo. The black 
 hole power is simply the most powerful (and some would call it cheap) power in the game. It consumes 
 the entire supply of Darkness energy (which protects you from bullets so watch out when you use 
 this power) and generates a black hole, pulling everything and anyone into it besides yourself 
 killing them instantly upon touching the center of the black hole. Like I said, cheap but lethally 
 effective.
  
  These powers combined create a new challenge in a strategic sense, but then again add a depth to 
 an otherwise average shooter. Throw in some amazing mafia-esque voice talent and that creates the 
 perfect recipe for success. The Darkness powers combined with tense gun play and a great sound 
 cast make The Darkness one of the best Xbox 360 games out this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallschirm1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  I love this game, or loved this game. This is a game that is just pure, violent, dark and bloody 
 fun! It's fun throwing your demon power at the enemy and just kill them on a truly new way. The 
 graphic is outstanding, some of the best i have seen on this type of game ever. And the voice acting 
 is supreme. The weaponry and controls are just great, so much fun!!!
  
  After many hours the game coming to a stop... but i want more!!!
  please!!! it was so fun but 
 i don't want to play it again...
  
  well the money i spent was worth it no doubt but... i would like to have some more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsK-Enigma
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  While it shares a amazing story it just isnt a gret shooter. The game seems way to easy once you 
 get the darkness powers it just seems like you only use the powers it is just a lot of gore sprayed 
 on a story that does immerse you but the levels are too small and there are too many load times 
 although the loading screens are kinda cool. If you gotta eat a heart just rent it. You might just 
 find a decent game underneath a mob story. So yeah if you have to get a single player only game 
 GET BIOSHOCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek-God
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  The voice-acting in this game is truly remarkable. The only way they could of made the voicing 
 better s if they has resurected the godfather and made him as someone. The graphics are fantasic 
 and the frame rate is smooth. Obviously it has flaws, a large problem is when you have to go to 
 a certain place, and you consult the map, its virtually no help. I like to have 2 of the same type 
 of pistols out and sadly you cannot do this. The special guns you get at the startm were barely 
 used when i was playing it because i never got round to using them, I just used every other pistol, 
 another very annoying thing is how you cannot hit with your guns unless they're out of ammo, this 
 is especcialy annoying since to get one of the achievements you need to use all your ammo just 
 to be able to get it. -In conclusion this game has great graphics, the best voice acting ever and 
 a good storyine, it has some interface issues that could easily be corrected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxPayneJr
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is just amazing and really a taste of the future of gaming. This game has the most spectacular 
 voice acting i have ever seen though the lips don't move. The gameplay especially with conventional 
 weapons is fairly realistic but i almost felt like that the weapons in the game were just a necessity 
 just bring the player though the story. While i would image most people played most if not all 
 the game with their darkness powers. This game does a great job keeping you feeling like your getting 
 better but never making you feel like an old power is useless. This really moved me and made just 
 become entranced by the story. I really felt like i was Jackie Estacado 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enginwolf04
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a well-crafted, straightforward tale about Jackie Estacado, an orphan-turned-Mafia 
 hitman that is double-crossed by his treacherous Uncle Paulie, a true tale of revenge, based on 
 the graphic novels from Top Cow Comics, based in parts of New York City. Although revenge as the 
 motivation for the characters development throughout a game (and a novel to match) has been used 
 and beaten worse than a stepchild, this game does it to great effect while also exploring other 
 internal moral and mental issues. The gameplay in Darkness is mostly standard FPS fare, with subpar 
 weapons, a little NPC interaction, stellar special powers of the darkness, idiotic AI, and mostly 
 linear pacing. The graphics are absolutely spectacular. With memorable characters, vibrant sound, 
 and a decent amount of fun overall, itd be a shame for anyone to miss out on this game despite 
 its few shortcomings.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay in Darkness is mostly standard FPS fare with slightly less-than-average shooting mechanics. 
 The introduction of hellholes where you can summon Darkling minions is a nice added element to 
 the game, though its not as useful as it could have been. The star of the game is the power of 
 the Darkness. Once you acquire the darkness and dispatch foes, you are allowed to devour the hearts 
 of evil humans. From the first time to the last time you rip out the tainted heart of those who 
 dare cross Jackie, you will be begging to see it over and over again. Devouring hearts feeds an 
 RPG-like Darkness experience meter that allows you to level up after each milestone and provides 
 you with a longer Darkness energy meter and making your powers more effective in general. The way 
 that the darkness tentacles interact during this is a great touch that Starbreeze Studios added, 
 with a quick bickering of who gets to eat the juicy heart or a big gulping heap of heart.. The 
 interesting spin to the game is that you want to constantly stay in the darkness because light 
 is your enemy and drains your Dark powers. This involves constantly destroying all light sources. 
 This remains an interesting mechanic throughout the game. The different locales that Jackie Estacado 
 visits are small yet they get the job done in conveying the gritty feel. The streets are way too 
 quiet, though, with no moving traffic on the streets, and very few NPCs walking around. The truly 
 tense cutscenes that move the story along are just stellar to see the first time around, as well 
 as a second time. The guns are way too weak to enjoy, though, with a shotgun seemingly less powerful 
 than the standard dual pistols you start off with. The assault rifles fare better and pack an adequate 
 punch. The WWII rifle and Luger pistol are truly anachronistic, so itll feel weird to go from 
 an assault rifle to those weapons all in a matter of moments. All in all, there arent many weapons 
 in the game to begin with, but thats no problem here as the powers you acquire are great to use 
 often. The most underwhelming part of this game is the side quests available. The rewards are not 
 as grand as youd hope, as they unlock concept art, comic book issues, and some other neat art 
 objects, but nothing that will make it truly replayable. There are unlockable secrets that require 
 some awareness of billboards and flyers and a telephone mechanism thats innovative on the first 
 try only, but even these rewards are not worth a second run-through of NYC.
  
  Oh did I mention multiplayer? Well, it's too laggy to recommend and the aiming mechanic is tough 
 for people who are used to Halo, Call of Duty, Doom, or several other FPS that do aiming much better. 
 The options are actually fairly decent, allowing customizing such as one hit kills, level, fairly 
 distributed teams, and shapshifting between human form and darkling form. The Darklings are limited 
 to just melee attacks, but they are powerful one-hit killers and they can jump far and attack at 
 the same time. But, this is passable and it just feels contrived.
  
  Weapons/Abilities
  
  The pistols you begin with are tried and true, provided you can aim well. As stated before, 
 the aiming mechanic in this game isnt very good, but the hit detection (headshots, body specific 
 damage, etc.) is very good, so it does take some adjusting. The shotgun appears to be a downgrade, 
 with less ammo available and a lack of punch to the bucks. The assault rifles hold their own, mowing 
 down swaths of enemies with no problem, especially at close range. A little bit of recoil reduces 
 your accuracy, but this can be solved with short bursts of fire instead of a repeating rate of 
 fire. The WWI weapons are a downgrade, but youll enjoy using your Dark powers at this time anyhow.
 
  
  The first Dark power that you acquire fairly early on in the game is the ability to activate the 
 Darkness, which acts as a damage reducer and it also provides Darkness vision akin to a bats vision. 
 This is useful, as the games color and tone are quite dark and bright in contrast and youll need 
 the dark vision to see where youre going sometimes. At the same time, you also acquire a tentacle 
 which acts as an extension of you and can travel to areas that are otherwise inaccessible, including 
 moving up walls, up to roofs, through windows, through vents and shafts, and the like. This tentacle 
 can also attack enemies in a one hit killing maneuver, usually chewing out a substantial portion 
 of their lovely faces. Very useful for avoiding all out confrontation. Speaking of confrontation, 
 it seems that there arent enough moments in the course of the game where you take on several enemies 
 at a time, so your powers, as strong as they are, make the game quite easy, even on the hardest 
 difficulty. The next power you acquire is the demon arm, which is arguably one of the most useful 
 powers in the game. This acts as a third arm and will smash light sources, impale enemies, and 
 lift vehicles and other objects as well to provide useful cover to advance on enemies as well as 
 uncover secrets and items. The next power up is the Darkness Guns. Archaic looking, yet cool, one 
 of these guns shoots sparks of darkness while the other gun seems to project a bullet of a sonic 
 force of sorts that stuns enemies and can kill them as well. These two guns drain you of Dark power, 
 which makes them useful for when you run out of ammo, which seemed to only happen at the very beginning 
 of the game when careful aiming is a must until you receive your Dark power, rendering this power 
 too little, too late. At the top of the list next to Demon Arm is the Black Hole power, which looks 
 even cooler than it sounds. You create a large rift in space that sucks in everything from crates 
 to weapons to whole bodies. You can let it continue until it dissipates or press special power 
 button again to detonate the black hole as it expels everything in a blind flashing white (or grayish-bluish) 
 light. This results in the full use of all your darkness powers, leaving you quite vulnerable after 
 using it, so caution must be used.
  
  Summoning little Darkling minions is a nice touch, with a Berserker that is a brute warrior and 
 will move heavy objects out of the way and melee your enemies, a Kamikaze minion that blows up 
 when it reaches enemies or is shot down, as well as reveal weak spots in walls, a Lightkiller minion 
 that will, well destroy light sources and enemies alike with a punishing zap of electricity, and 
 the all-too-useful Gunner minion that will make liberal use of its Gatling Gun to mow down enemies, 
 both close and afar. The Gunner is the most useful of them all, with the Kamikaze being tough to 
 recommend since the enemies aim is relatively good, even on the medium difficulty, and theyll 
 detonate and harm no one but Jackie. The minions AI doesnt usually behave the way that it should. 
 You can redirect the minions with the X button, but this isnt very effective. Characters &amp; 
 Plot
  
  Jackie is a suave, believable Mafia hitman and exudes the kind of personality you would expect 
 him to. His development throughout the game is great, with memorable moments like his battle with 
 the Darkness, his interactions with crooked Police Chief Eddie Shrote, and, of course, his interaction 
 with Uncle Paulie. Even Butcher Joyce, his go-to-man, is believable, with heavy dialogue that fuels 
 Jackies quest for payback. Jackies soft spot, girlfriend Jenny Romano, also factors into the 
 story very well, provided one can suffer the events of the game. All of the enemies do seem quite 
 generic, but if you can get up close, they look great. Aunt Sarah plays her grandmotherly role 
 to perfection with a deadly twist of being decent with a gun. Other minor characters effectively 
 convey their role in the game, no matter how trivial. Overall, the game ends in a satisfying way, 
 although not necessarily setting up for any sequel of sorts. Graphics
  
  Small touches like the darkness that the tentacles inhale when standing in the darkness or the 
 mists of darkness they exhale in puffs is just wonderful artistic, and just plain cool. How can 
 you not feel like youre a tough NYC Hitman when you have a power like this? The images that Jackie 
 has in his thoughts when he dies and as the story moves along are just creative, with some foreshadowing 
 and some gruesome, nausea-inducing moments. Dont do drugs! The look of the Underworld, or Hell, 
 is great and is very reminiscent of WW II going to hell in a handbasket. The constant redness of 
 the sky torn asunder, as well as the creepy Nazi uniforms of the undead is amazing. The world just 
 looks alive in the game, drawing you in closer and closer. The texture mapping is so good that 
 you can view secret numbers around the world and dial them through a phone to try and obtain a 
 secret. Amazing graphics for the Xbox 360.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound of your enemies hearts being ripped from their bodies is gratifying time and time again. 
 The voice acting and dialogue in this game is top-notch and is pleasant to hear with surround sound. 
 From Jackies inner monologues during loading screens to Uncle Paulies raving and ranting about 
 his SOB nephew, the game is a real audio treat. The sounds that play during the aforementioned 
 images are so creepy youll wish all games could be this good at making you wonder how insane the 
 main character is.
  
  VERDICT
  
  Overall, play this game. The gameplay is short (only 5-6 hours) , but the ride is certainly fun 
 while it lasts. Enjoy the powers of darkness and forget the guns as soon as you can. One of the 
 best gems of the summer of 2007! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewmodulecod
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:56 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness, is undoubtedly the most twisted game I have ever played, with heart-eating and one 
 of the most tragic game scenes in gaming history, the Darkness is a roller coaster ride of death, 
 revenge, and tragedy from start to finish. To start sound is groundbreaking, nothing so satisfying 
 as the sound of a heart being ripped from a chest (Didn't think I'd ever say that) screaming voices 
 pierce your ears and has acting to rival the Godfather, Mike Patton's voice couldn't be more perfect 
 and is astoundingly not modified in the least. The story is good but could be juxst a little better, 
 plot twists please. The greatest con of the game is it's length, though, I am afraid more length 
 would hurt the game's amazing storytelling. The other final con is the multiplayer, I couldn't 
 play for a second without a lag, this is unacceptable for an 8 player max game, the game is great 
 without multiplayer don't add it please.
  In conclusion, the game's few flaws are easily overshadowed by the benefits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanie69
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  the gameplay might not have seemed too good, and the multiplayer was certainly a mistake, but what 
 kept me interested throughout the game was the story. and of course the darkness powers. the voice 
 acting was perfect, and the violence and gore were just so satisfying. the graphics were formidable 
 in spite of a few glitches. sometimes the gameplay would be quite tedious though, the gun fights 
 seemed a bit repetitive and some of the weapons could've been improved like the shotgun. also you 
 would expect the enemies reactions to your darkness to be a bit more believable, because they usually 
 take no notice.
  
  overall a stunning achievement from startbreeze. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  This game is set in New York City, Jackie Estacado is a young Mafia hitman just turning 21, and 
 finds himself the victim of an assassination attempt orchestrated by the don, his Uncle Paulie. 
 Surviving the explosion meant to kill him as he crashes through a window, Jackie begins planning 
 his revenge. A voice in his head manifests, calling itself The Darkness , and demonstrates the 
 power it has over Jackie by controlling his body and enabling him to use supernatural appendages 
 and powers to violently eliminate all of the hitmen sent to make sure that he was dead. Still unsure 
 of what is happening to him, he visits his girlfriend, Jenny, as he had promised to before. They 
 celebrate a muted birthday together before Jackie leaves to meet a contact.
  
  Jackie discovers a lead on Paulie's location, but before Jackie can arrive, the news reports the 
 sudden destruction of St. Mary's Orphanage which he sees as a message from Paulie. Paulie escapes 
 while Jackie explores what is left of the orphanage, finding Jenny who tries to see if she can 
 help in any way. Jackie then attempts to learn more information from Paulie's underlings. He returns 
 to the Orphanage to find that Paulie, along with the corrupt Chief of Police, Eddie Shrote, have 
 taken Jenny. Before he can go in to free her, the Darkness takes control of Jackie's body, and 
 forces him to watch as Paulie murders Jenny. As Paulie and Shrote flee, the Darkness lets Jackie 
 go, telling him that Jenny was holding him back from his true powers. However, in emotional distress, 
 Jackie commits suicide by shooting a gun into his mouth. As the screen fades to black, Jackie can 
 be heard saying That... well, that was the first time I died. 
  
  Jackie wakes up in a bizarre landscape based on World War I, though the people he meets have patchwork 
 faces and he sees the physical manifestations of the Four Horsemen (Pestilence, Famine, Death and 
 War) . As he wanders the landscape, he eventually meets Anthony Estacado, his great-great-grandfather. 
 He admits that it was he that brought the Darkness into the family and that this place is its realm, 
 the Otherworld. Anthony tells Jackie that the only way to get control of the Darkness is to destroy 
 it at its castle. Throughout this period, the Darkness lies to Jackie in an attempt to stop his 
 progress. Ignoring this, Jackie seeks out and locates an enormous cannon and begins to drive it 
 towards the castle but blacks out as the Darkness manages to bring Jackie back to life on earth 
 after repairing his head ball .
  
  Waking up, he finds himself back in New York some time after Jenny's death. Seeking out old acquaintances, 
 he learns that the only way to get to Paulie is to take out Eddie Shrote. After several missions 
 in which Jackie undermines both Paulie and Shrote, he manages to chase Shrote to his apartment 
 only to witness his escape on a helicopter. Butcher Joyce, Head of Cleanup after mob hits, helps 
 Jackie locate and retrieve a briefcase of illicit goods that Shrote would want back, and then rigs 
 the case with an explosive. Jackie goes to return the case at Trinity Church, but it turns out 
 to be a trap; Shrote's forces are able to subdue Jackie and keep him in the light to prevent the 
 use of his powers. As Jackie is tortured by Shrote, one of Shrote's underlings talks about the 
 Mother of God coming in, immediately causing Shrote to tell him to shut up. Eventually, the underlings 
 block enough light for Jackie to use the Darkness' powers to cause the rigged briefcase to explode, 
 killing everyone. When it fades to black, Jackie can be heard saying, that was the second time 
 I died. 
  
  Jackie arrives back in the Otherworld which is revealed to be the mind of the Darkness itself. 
 He is in the cannon's control room, arriving at the castle, but lacking ammo. He meets up again 
 with Anthony who assists him into getting where the ammunition for the cannon is stored, but a 
 large monster mortally wounds Anthony. Anthony then realizes that mankind was the big mistake, 
 through all our chaos and endless time the Darkness went insane. Anthony tells Jackie what he believes 
 is the only way to take control of the Darkness, but before he can fully reveal it, the Darkness 
 opens a hole in the ground beneath Anthony who falls in. Jackie manages to move the ammunition 
 to the cannon and load it, breaching the doors to the castle. Inside, he finds various extraction 
 machines, which help him to remove the Darkness. The Darkness reforms itself into a dark version 
 of Jackie that challenges him to accept his fate. Behind him is a bright light (the light in the 
 darkness) where Jenny can be seen and communicates with Jackie. Jackie willingly gives himself 
 to the Darkness, the only way a host can control it. Having control of the Darkness and stronger 
 than ever, Jackie blacks out and wakes up in the orphanage, some days after the church explosion.
 
  
  Jackie seeks out information on the Mother of God and discovers that it is a ship used to secretly 
 carry drugs in from Chicago. Jackie manages to lure the ship in by tricking it on a radio he seizes 
 control of in a front owned by Paulie, killing the crew and ruining the deal to further ruin Paulie's 
 standing with the Chicago mob. Paulie, realizing that Jackie's back and that he no longer has the 
 support of Chicago, flees to his lighthouse mansion. Jackie gets a ride to the mansion, but arrives 
 in the middle of the day preventing the use of his Darkness powers. However, as he infiltrates 
 the island, an eclipse begins, and the Darkness manifests itself within Jackie as he slaughters 
 all of Paulie's men in his search. The Darkness taunts Jackie, telling him that with every death, 
 it grows even stronger. Jackie chases Paulie up to the lighthouse top and wounds the Don. Paulie 
 attempts to reason with Jackie as the Darkness urges Jackie to finish his work. After Paulie attempts 
 to retrieve a hidden gun, Jackie is forced to kill him. The snake-like appendages start to cover 
 Jackie, the Darkness gloating over its victory. Now you are mine!! 
  
  In the epilogue, Jackie finds himself in a dream on a bench in Jenny's arms; Jenny explains that 
 they are only allowed a few minutes of time to be together one last time. Jackie tries to ask how, 
 but Jenny just quiets him, allowing them to enjoy the last moments together before Jackie wakes 
 back up with the screen fading to black.
  
  Characters
  
  Jackie Estacado The protagonist of the game and the character controlled by the player. He is a 
 hitman who has found himself under the control of an entity known only as the Darkness . Voiced 
 by Kirk Acevedo.
  
  Jenny Romano Jackie's girlfriend. The two were both orphans at St. Mary's Orphanage and became 
 close friends there. Jenny has just moved into her own apartment in New York City at the start 
 of the game. Voiced by Lauren Ambrose.
  
  Uncle Paulie Franchetti Don of a New York Mafia gang who deals in drugs and pacts made with the 
 police. Serves as the primary antagonist of the game. Voiced by Dwight Schultz
  
  Anthony Estacado Jackies's great-great-grandfather, trapped in the Otherworld. He claims to have 
 brought the Darkness into the Estacado family. He did this by accepting the Darkness so that he 
 could avoid certain death in the hands of the Germans.
  
  Police Capt. Edward Eddie Shrote Corrupt Police Captain who is on Paulie's payroll. One of the 
 main antagonists in the game. Voiced by James Mathers.
  
  The Darkness A mysterious force that feeds off the dark and must possess a live human body to exist. 
 The Darkness was introduced to the Estacado family by Jackie's great-grandfather Anthony (with 
 details in the game hinting that this occurred at some time during World War I) , and manifests 
 itself in its host when they turn 21. During the game, it sometimes speaks to the player, with 
 its comments earlier in the game being angry and commanding, while its later quips are submissive. 
 Voiced by Mike Patton.
  
  Butcher Joyce Go-to guy for information, friend of Jackie, and never chooses a side, which explains 
 how he survived so long in the Mafia underground of New York. Helps Jackie with finding Paulie's 
 safe house. Voiced by Mike Starr.
  
  Aunt Sarah She is revealed approximately halfway through the game. Aunt Sarah was one of the only 
 people that cared for Jackie. She has an apartment next to the Green Olive Grove Restaurant, in 
 the Lower East side, which is reached from the Canal St. Station.
  
  Gameplay
  
  At its core, The Darkness is a first-person shooter, with Estacado's skills as a hitman allowing 
 him to make use of a wide variety of guns, from basic 9 mm handguns and submachine guns to high-powered 
 assault rifles and automatic shotguns. While Estacado primarily uses these guns in well-lit environments, 
 where he cannot use his Darkness Powers to summon creatures and artifacts from The Otherworld and 
 Hell, the hitman can also use his arsenal in the dark supplementing his Darkness powers to maximize 
 damage. The Darkness feeds off the dark to recharge its power and to influence the strength of 
 the attacks; by shooting out nearby lights, Estacado can increase the strength and rates of his 
 attack.
  
  The powers that Estacado gains from The Darkness include:
  
  Darklings Estacado's main Darkness ability is the summoning of Darklings, hellspawn imp-like creatures 
 that do the bidding of the current recipient of the Darkness, in this case Estacado. Darklings 
 can only be summoned from specific spots visible only while The Darkness powers are active. If 
 left alone, the Darklings will follow Estacado and seek out nearby foes or insult and urinate on 
 corpses, but the player can direct Darklings to any point within his vision. This can allow the 
 Darklings to draw enemy fire away from Estacado, allowing him to progress more easily through well-defended 
 areas. Darklings do not have a large amount of stamina and will disappear into blackness after 
 taking a few damaging hits. There are four types of Darklings that can be summoned, some which 
 are not available until later in the game. Berserkers will generally attack anything close, Gunners 
 carry a mini chaingun to take out enemies from a distance, Kamikaze Darklings will throws themselves 
 into the middle of battle and ignite the explosives they wear, taking out all those nearby, and 
 Lightkillers will also attack any light sources, creating more darkness for Estacado's powers to 
 work in. An optional mission in the game is to collect outfits that the Berserker Darklings will 
 randomly wear when they appear, including two that are unlocked using special telephone numbers.
 
  
  Dark Tentacles Dark Tentacles are huge, incredibly strong appendages which grow from Estacado's 
 back when summoned. They can lift and throw heavy objects with ease, allowing them to smash through 
 barricades and tear down walls to allow Estacado access to difficult-to-reach areas, and they have 
 no difficulty in crushing enemy characters to a pulp. Their tough, resilient surfaces mean they 
 can also form an effective bullet shield in front of Estacado, protecting him from harm.
  
  Creeping Dark Estacado can extend these tendrils and direct it across the ground, up walls, and 
 through narrow spaces to take out distance enemies close up. While the Creeper Dark power is active, 
 the player views the level as from the Creeping Dark, leaving Estacado vulnerable to attack; should 
 Estacado take damage, the tendril is immediately retracted.
  
  Demon Arm Impales the target on a dark tentacle, allowing you to move or throw it.
  
  Black 
 Hole One of the more devastating Darkness abilities, this allows Estacado to summon a small piece 
 of the darkness and force it to collapse on itself. A single Black Hole opened in a room full of 
 enemies can clear the area in moments, making it an excellent weapon when assaulting defended buildings. 
 The Black hole has a limited range, it will open in mid-air if you target a far object. You can 
 also cause the hole to explode, dealing less damage, but in a larger area.
  
  Darkness Guns The Darkness Guns are acquired within The Otherworld. The gun that Jackie wields 
 on his right harnesses the element of lightning, sending small projectile bursts, similar to a 
 gatling gun. The gun in his left hand harnesses thunder into a concussive shockwave, similar to 
 a shotgun. Instead of depleting ammo, each gunshot consumes Darkness energy. In the storyline, 
 the Darkness Guns are the only thing capable of controlling The Darkness; due to the ammo being 
 of light. The guns can also be used in Hell (other world) to permanently kill the zombies.
  
  The game has several levels based on New York City locales that the player will visit multiple 
 times. A significantly-reduced subway system allows the player to move between levels. While the 
 main plot is primarily linear, requiring the player to visit each level in a certain order, the 
 player can gain side missions from talking with non-player characters that wander the subway stations. 
 For example, one such mission is to win a rigged shell game being run in the subway after getting 
 a tip from another character. Completing submissions earns the player a Collectible phone number 
 which can then be used at any phone to unlock additional game media; Collectibles can also be found 
 scattered throughout the level. The Otherworld levels feature Collectibles in the form of unposted 
 postal mail that the player can deliver when back in New York City to unlock the content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoAFie
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:28 am PT
Review:  Story/Plot: You are Jackie Estacado and you play the role of a mafia hitman. It is your 21st birthday 
 and apparently something went wrong on a money collection and now the Don of the mafia wants to 
 **** put a cap up Jackies erm... behind. But before this a mysterious force known as the Darkness 
 saves Jackie from certain death and Jackie must learn how to control this Darkness before the Darkness 
 consumes him.
  
  Campaign: The story mode is the highlight of the game. You play as Jackie and you get to control 
 the Darkness which makes the game awesome. To use the Darkness you have to be in Darkness meaning 
 usually you either have to find a dark corner or you take out the lights via switch or shooting 
 out the lights. You start the game with no Darkness powers but you eventually learn 4 main powers. 
 The first power you start with is Creeping Dark which is a scouting like power where you control 
 a snake like thing to go around and kill things. This is cool at first but in the beginning of 
 the game this power is extremely weak since the Darkness can't stand to long in the light and most 
 bad guys tend to be around light. The second power you get is Demon Arms which you impale enemies. 
 I won't spoil the others but they are pretty cool. The other highlight of the game is it's touching 
 story. It's very deep and the game feels like a movie (some people might consider this a bad thing 
 but it's not in this game) . It has very good story telling and you might even want to cry at some 
 parts. That and the campaign will last you a while probably around 10-15 hours on a guess. Now 
 to talk about the weapons. The weapons are fairly generic but there a decent amount of them. You 
 have your shotguns, submachine guns, pistols, and assault rifles. The cool thing about this game 
 though is if you get close to an enemy with a smg, a pistol, or a shotty you will preform a finishing 
 move and these are for the most part **** awesome. Now to get to some bad points of the game. The 
 game can be confusing if you take a break and forget what you were supposed to do. There is an 
 objective menu that helps out if you forgot what to but still it gets fairly confusing. Also the 
 fact you get to play in New York is cool but in the beginning of the game if you don't pay attention 
 to the cutscenes and don't pay attention to the people you talk to you will get lost and the auto 
 save feature often fucks you over so that you can't go back. That being said for the most part 
 the campaign is awesome.
  
  Multiplayer: This is the thing that screws the Darkness over. The multiplayer is horrible. If you 
 buy this game don't buy it for the multiplayer you will be extremely disappointed. The main issue 
 with the mulitplayer is that it's laggy as hell. If you played Tenchu Z online and saw its lag 
 imagine that times 3. Another issue with the MP even without the lag is it's very meh. You can't 
 use your Darkness powers and it seems very basic. There are some cool things about the multiplayer 
 though. If you played Halo 2 or Perfect Dark Zero for a bit you might be aware of a gametype called 
 Zombie/Infection. This game comes with a similar thing except for with darklings and it's really 
 cool if you can get into a not laggy game (good luck with that) . If you want to play a not laggy 
 match though I've found that Human matches are not laggy but again that ruins all the fun of being 
 a Darkling and it's very generic FPS multiplayer. So in a nutshell mulitplayer sux hard unless 
 if they get a patch to fix it and even then it's very basic.
  
  Graphics/Sound: Graphics wise the game looks pretty good but I have never been one to judge a game 
 based off this. The darkness looks awesome/spooky and the environments can creep you out and it 
 looks like a city. The darklings look sort of odd though if I had to say something bad about them 
 and Jackie talks funny when not in loading screens. Sound wise the game sounds spooky as hell and 
 the dialog is pretty good, especially the darkness. Plus the random enemy dialog can be pretty 
 funny if you stick around. To hear it. That being said I wasn't to thrilled by graphics but they 
 weren't horrible. And the sound was great.
  
  Achievements: You can unlock achievements by beating story mode and playing the craptacular multiplayer 
 enough to obtains wins and killing sprees. There are also little achievements in the story that 
 are cool to find like seeking peaceful solutions are sticking around with your girlfriend long 
 enough Wink. There's also objects that you find and you unlock achievements like in condemned. 
 Plus leveling up your darkness powers and using your darkness powers enough also unlocks achievements.
 
  
  Score: 8
  
  Pros: Awesome story that hits you down deep inside with good use of creepy as hell yet effective 
 darkness powers that make the game **** awesome.
  
  Cons: Confusing parts and HORRIBLE multiplayer.
  
  Comments: Definitely worth a rental/buy 
 if you love single player games and don't let my score discourage you. I'm sure with a game that's 
 a sweet as this there will be a patch to fix some of the major problems with the lag and if they 
 do that I'll give this game a 8.5. But for the moment there's just no excuse for the MP for being 
 that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: White_Spartan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness has alot going for it, it has a good storyline, very nice graphics, good sounds and 
 voices, unique gameplay, and a fairly large single player environment. The game does lack in a 
 few areas however, most noticably the multiplayer element and story length. The game has no loading 
 screens but instead a short clip of Jackie (the antagonist) either saying something about the current 
 environment (or story events if you have just started or completed a mission) , or doing something 
 strange with his guns. These are nice at first but eventually get annoying, for example the game 
 once played the same clip of Jackie saying something three times in a row for the three times in 
 a row I entered that area.
  
  The graphics are nice and suitably dark, and New York has a grimy urban feel with tons of graffiti 
 which always seems to be original, and most pieces of graffiti are used only once. The Otherworld 
 sections ahve a suitably hellish look to them and the Otherworld soldiers all look twisted and 
 demonic. All the characters look nice, and the npcs seem to almost always be different character 
 models.
  
  The storyline is very straightforward but can be confusing at times but is usually just a story 
 of revenge, of Jackie getting back at the people who tried to kill him. During the story the entity 
 known as The Darkness acts in a suitably creepy and morbid way through its dialogue. In fact the 
 voice work of The Darkness is some of the best in any game, all the charcaters and npcs have scripts 
 and respond when the player attempts to talk to them. The voice of The Darkness itself is excellent 
 and really fits the role, with the tone changing from sympathetic or gleeful to angry or mocking.
 
  
  The gameplay itself is very unique mostly because of the powers you will aquire. These powers are 
 usually very useful and more than able to destroy your enemies easily. My favorite power is Demon 
 Arm which bacically shoots out a spiked tentacle to impale anything infront of you. The gameplay 
 also centers around the destruction of light sources with either guns or the Demon Arm, however 
 about 2/5 of the way into the storyline you will be able to summon a darkling who is invulnerable 
 to light and destroys light sources, making the task almost negligible. However he sometimes doesn't 
 get rid of the lights you need him to or gets distracted by far off lights, he isn't much good 
 in combat, and he dies fairly quickly if exposed to gunfire. Using darkness powers uses up your 
 darkness energy, the meter of which is cleverly positioned on the side of both of the heads of 
 the manifestation of the darkness, which allows for a more realistic hud (or lack of) and, well, 
 just plain looks cool. You recharge your darkness energy simply by either standing in a dark area, 
 or EATING HUMAN HEARTS! But not only does eating the hearts of your foes recharge your darkness 
 energy and look cool, it also serves to increase your darkness level, which in turn increases the 
 amount of darkness energy you have.
  
  Both the environments of New York and the Otherworld are fairly big and open ended, however there 
 seems very little to do in an area unless you are supposed to be there on a mission. Unfortunatly 
 once you finish the main storyline you can't go back and finish your sidequests. However one neat 
 aspect of The Darkness is that unlike other games it saves what you have already done or collected 
 for your next playthrough (which mean that for some achievments like One With the Darkness, which 
 requires you to use your powers a ridiculous amount of times, you can get achievments or unlock 
 content over several playthroughs instead of trying to do everything in one) .
  
  The weapons in this game are very powerful and the auto aim is very generous, not to mention that 
 the gunplay of The Darkness is some of the most satisying of any first-person shooter. The handguns 
 have a bit of variety to them but the other weapons are all the same and while the handguns come 
 in multiple flavors, the smgs only come in two. The dual handguns are by far the most effective 
 weapons simply for their accuracy, power, and the fact that if you run out of ammo in one you simply 
 drop it.
  
  The main storyline is fairly short but the sidequests will give you at least another few hours 
 of playtime. The multiplayer is weak and laggy and feels like it had good potential but was never 
 finished. One of the most frustrating aspects of the game is the fact that sometimes it can be 
 confusing as to where you need to go or how to get there. For example, there was an area I had 
 only been to once and only because the storyline took me there through a route which was sealed 
 the moment I left it. The next time I had to go there it took me a long time before I realised 
 there was another entrance into that region, d'oh!
  
  Overall The Darkness is a very fun game with a good storyline and great voice work and visuals 
 thats just plain fun to play. Any console shooter fan should get this superb and fun game, spearing 
 opponents on my tendrils and then eating their hearts never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spawn6937
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  This game is ridiculous! I mean beyond belief! Why is this game not on the top of any gaming chart 
 anywhere?
  
  From the breathtaking graphics, characters and voice acting to the incredible powers that manifest 
 as you continue playing through the game. I would recommend this game to anyone, regardless of 
 their personal preferences. The storyline is compelling and makes you strive to get to the end 
 to see the conclusion, only to want to start the game again just because of it's sheer brilliance.
 
  
  I tried to create an equation to describe this game to a friend and this is what I came up with: 
 GTA + Vampire The Masquerade: Bloodlines + The Sopranos + Goodfellas + Spawn + The Crow + Max Payne 
 = The Darkness
  
  Let's all just pray Starbreeze helms the sequel... if there is one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobain112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  The Darkness follows the life and loves of Jackie Estacado who, on the advent of his 21st birthday, 
 finds himself with the dubious honour of possessing the Darkness, a sinister supernatural entity 
 that pre-dates human history. Yeah, that's right. On your 21st, you were/will be drinking bizarre 
 cocktails invented by your mates involving vodka, beer and mud, and this guy's dealing with evil 
 from the dawn of time. Since he just happens to be a hitman for the Mafia, much bloodshed ensues. 
 For the game, much of the fantasy that decorates the comics has been ditched in favour of a gritty, 
 more horror-like feel. Jackie's not the pretty-boy he was in the comics: he hangs about in seedy 
 back alleys and subways rather than glamorous night clubs, and he looks a bit Goth instead of a 
 bit Gucci. You won't see fancy armour or drop-dead-gorgeous angels in the game outing. Instead, 
 expect a long leather coat and ugly mobsters. From seemingly simple beginnings as a noir-ish crime 
 exploit, things quickly get nasty. The power of the Darkness imbues Jackie with a number of unpleasant 
 attributes that are gained as you progress through the game. These often (but not always) take 
 the form of be-tentacled creatures. They're capable of numerous ghastly feats aimed at solving 
 puzzles and eviscerating your enemies. This isn't bad or good but i have to say his hand gestures 
 at the beginning are funny xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NonyoBizness
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  If anyone remembers Hell, from Take 2 Interactive for the Panasonic 3DO.... this is similar in 
 that do all, dark , EXTREMELY mature, fashion..... that has you taking out the bad guys as a badass 
 yourself with a good heart.
  
  I had a feeling 2k Games and Take 2 Interactive were related, and yep they are! This game is unbelievable. 
 The gameplay is awesome, the storyline is awesome, the perspective is a lot of fun... being able 
 to harness dark power but only using it against the bad, not the good (well, that's what you're 
 supposed to do, but have a lot of freedom in this game) .
  
  I think the voice-acting is superb and overall, it's a big change from the typical FPS, which is 
 why I rated it a 10. Yes there is room for improvement, I can knit-pick at this game of course 
 just like any other, but it's innovation is what makes it deserve a top notch rating and it will 
 take a real gamer to appreciate this game being you need to follow it through and complete it, 
 or else what's the point? It's not one of those that are better for multiplayer, it's single player 
 is amazing and it's a must have for any action &amp; fps fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to New York City, where the grisly, darkened streets will allow the perfect shelter and 
 protection from the crime and corruption. The shadows are your perfect disguise and using them 
 to your advantage is the difference between life and death. The Darkness is all about staying in 
 the dark and getting revenge, and it plays out in a gripping, solid story about betrayal and murder. 
 The whole of the game is well put together, but some minor nuisances and a half-assed multiplayer 
 could have made it much more.
  
  The Darkness starts off with a bang as you speed in a New York tunnel escaping from both mobsters 
 and police officers. This moment is probably one of the best opening sequences in any game. You 
 control Jackie Estacado, a young mobster-in-the-making who has just been on the wrong side of a 
 bad drug deal. Your uncle, who runs the family business, blames you for the mishap and things start 
 going downhill from there. While running from your uncles goons, you soon realize a power that 
 has been inside of you has been unleashed, allowing you to impale, decapitate, and swallow your 
 enemies to death. Truly a unique power anyone would surely enjoy.
  
  After finding out the truth behind what the Darkness is and why it has taken control of Jackie, 
 you soon start on a quest to find Jackies Uncle and get even. Surely enough things arent ever 
 that easy since Jackies uncle has control over the police department and hundreds of goons. The 
 story is the best aspect of The Darkness, and being modeled after a graphic novel is a well-influenced 
 tact. Throughout the story Jackie will learn as to why he has this special but unusual power as 
 well as why his uncle is acting like a jackass. There are even moments when Jackie traverses to 
 a mutated apocalyptic -WW1 purgatory world in which Jackie musty fully understand the power of 
 the Darkness before he can leave. These types of incidents will keep you gripped until the ending, 
 which is a shame, but still worth holding out to see.
  
  Since your Darkness powers are ever-evolving you will need to feed upon darkened souls (people 
 who have blackened hearts) in order to get stronger. Any enemy you kill can than have its heart 
 devoured by the tentacle things sticking out of your shoulders. The more hearts you devour the 
 stronger you will ultimately get and the more skills and powers you will obtain. It is often encouraging 
 to hear the Darkness smack their lips after devouring a heart and even encouraging you to kill 
 tons more people to satisfy their hunger. Its unwavering, but its also very enjoyable.
  
  Your Darkness powers are accessed throughout the story and are learned after completing various 
 levels. Your first skill allows you to detach your darkened tentacles and crawl through vents and 
 perform stealth kills. While this will no doubt be the least-used power in the game, the rest get 
 exponentially better as time goes on. Near the end of the game you will have the power to impale 
 people, summon darklings to fight for you, and even create black holes. The diverse set of skills 
 at your disposal allows for numerous ways of killing the enemies, all of which offer a great and 
 enjoyable experience.
  
  But besides your Darkness powers you will also be able to use an assortment of weapons as well. 
 Although there are plenty of unique and diverse weapons in the game, the first guns you receive 
 (the dual handguns) will be good enough throughout the entire game. Many of the weapons feel broken 
 and very weak compared to the dual handguns, and the handguns are exceptionally better at both 
 aiming and firing. You can even mix and match the guns with Darkness powers, sometimes impaling 
 one enemy and shooting another at the same time. The intense combat situations are always highly 
 enjoyable to partake in and never get repetitive due to the wide assortment of weapons and powers 
 to combine with.
  
  Part of the reason why the Darkness is such an impressive experience is due in part to its visuals 
 and how chillingly accurate and realistic everything looks. This both make it a highly entertaining 
 and frustrating factor. For the most part everything looks spectacular, the buildings looks decayed 
 and broken, street lamps glisten on the roads, and even facial expressions change depending on 
 the moment. Interior locations as well as remarkable to look at, with such incredible detail put 
 into every nook and cranny. However, the realism can only go so far. The developers tried to duplicate 
 the exact look of New York, and while they succeeded, it is often very hard to find your way around, 
 mostly due in part to the lack of a mini map. The game does have a map in the options menu, but 
 it is merely an indicator to show you which district you are currently in. There will be plenty 
 times when characters tell you to go to a certain place, and you literally have to find it yourself, 
 with only the street signs and directories to help you. With most of the game being set in the 
 dark, you can see how irritating this could become.
  
  But even with that minor nuisance the game continues to shine. The sound is top notch, with some 
 of the best voice acting in any game today. Every character sounds different and no two enemies 
 ever repeat the same lines. It is often amusing as well to listen to the Darkness talk, as their 
 voice is both creepy and somewhat funny. The Darklings also add a bit of flair as they rejoice 
 at the fact of ripping limbs apart and slicing things up.
  
  The multiplayer however is a total letdown. The modes are nothing but generic formations of boring 
 features, and even with no one ever online it is impossible to ever find a full game. There are 
 some unique twists such as the ability to climb on walls as darklings and shoot in darkness form, 
 but you never fully feel in control. As a Darkling you can only attack while on the ground so climbing 
 on walls is completely useless and darklings have terrible defense, so they amount to nothing more 
 than suicide bombers. The multiplayer seems like something that was tacked on to increase the longevity 
 of an otherwise solid title.
  
  With so many sequels and repeats in shooters today, it is rewarding to see the Darkness shine above 
 most. It is a perfect example of how well games could be if they offer a gripping storyline with 
 outstanding combat. Sure the realism was too strong at times and the multiplayer was a complete 
 letdown, but it was a highly enjoyable experience all around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ALCHEMIST510
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  WELL WHEN I FIRST SAW THIS GAME I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO THINK OF IT .BUT WHEN I GOT I WAS VERY IMPRESSED. 
 GRAPHIC WERE GOOD IT HELD ITS END UP. STORY WAS GOOD I LOVE THE FACT THAT THE DARKNESS IS HELPING 
 TAKING YOUR REVENGE ON YOUR UN LOYAL UNCLE PAULIE. I LIKE THE FACT FOR THIS GAME YOU CAN INTERACT 
 WITH EVERYONE IT LEAVE YOU WITH THE BIG QUESTION WHAT TO DO NEXT IF ITS YOUR FIRST TIME PLAYING 
 AND YOU DON'T WANNA MISS ANYTHING. THE WEAPONS ARE NICE SHOTGUN ASSAULT RIFLE PISTOL ETC THE BIGGEST 
 WEAPON IS THE DARKNESS WHICH IS VERY LOVELY THING AND VERY CREATIVE. WHY WELL BECAUSE THE DARKNESS 
 CAN BE USE AS WEAPON AND DEFENCE THE WEAPON OF DARKNESS ARE A DEMON ARE OR A LIKE SNAKE LIKE THING 
 TO SNEAK UP AND BITE THERE NECK AND WHAT COOL YOU GET MORE DARKNESS WEAPONS AT YOUR WILL IT. STILL 
 FEEL THIS GAME MISSING SOMETHING THAT WHY I GAVE IT A 9.0 BUT IN A ITS A GOOD GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megjur
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a very good and somewhat innovative shooter. First of all, it looks alot like Chronicles 
 of Riddick, and thats a good thing. Graphics are excellent overall. Sound is very good, voice acting 
 excellent and the story is very good too. The darkness powers are fun to use and the weaponry available 
 is good too. Sound and music are both excellent. There is one particulary graphic and disturbing 
 cut scene which was pretty suprising, but integral to the game. Now.. to the problems. Gameplay 
 is lacking because the game suffers from some very very annoying glitches that detract greatly 
 from the overall experience. If you take on certain side quests the game will freeze up on you 
 in a critical moment. There is no getting past this freeze up except for going back several chapters 
 and replaying the game with no side quests. I got that info directly from 2K games customer service. 
 Its a shame such a fine game was released with such an annoying glitch. So, I'd sy get the game, 
 but avoid the side missions, go back after finishing the game and do them though, cause the side 
 missions are pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_rip
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is one of those games that feels more like a good movie. It pulls you in until the 
 final moment and then once it's over and the credits are rolling, you'll be wondering why you paid 
 full price. Luckily, the story and gameplay is just good enough while it lasts to warrant the purchase
 
  The Darkness is based on the comic book series of the same name. In short, you are Jackie Estacado, 
 a mafia hitman who on his 21st birthday is endowed with a sort of family hand-me-down demonic power.
 
  Now consumed by the power of the darkness, Jackie can use more than just bullets to dispatch his 
 rivals. And that's a good thing considering most of the weapons in the game feel somewhat underpowered 
 or in some cases, just difficult to use in the heat of battle. However, this is not much of a problem 
 as these weapons are complimented by a set of darkness powers such as a long, tentacle-like arm 
 that can impale your enemies or a black hole that obliterates anything is it's vicinity, just to 
 name a couple. These abilities, of course, can be leveled up. Not really by killing enemies, but 
 by eating their hearts. Stand over a corpse, press the button, and you're treated to the best heart 
 eating animation seen in a game.
  The controls could be a bit smoother, but that's just me. Most players wont have any problem at 
 all, though. I'm just picky The aiming and movement just don't really feel one-to-one with the 
 analog sticks. I thought the aiming was a bit jittery at times, but the analog sticks can be tweaked 
 to your heart's desire. Everything from auto aim to acceleration can be adjusted to your liking.
 
  The graphics, except for a few glitches, are stellar. The textures are sharp and the character 
 models look and move very realistically. However, some close-ups can reveal some pretty muddy looking 
 textures. The game involves a small amount of exploration in the streets of New York. Unfortunately, 
 the city is nearly empty. The only people you'll ever really encounter in the streets are the ones 
 shooting at you, and they wont be around for long anyway.
  Built in along with the 8-10 hour single player mode is a fairly lackluster multiplayer game. Some 
 of the modes can be fun, but oppressive lag is a problem in almost every match. The only real way 
 to bypass this is to be the one hosting the match. Even then, at some point the connection will 
 begin the break down. You shouldn't feel like you're missing much if you don't play online. When 
 it's all said and done, The Darkness is the kind of game that you play once or twice at the most 
 and then display it proudly on your shelf. The game is awesome while it lasts, but when it's over, 
 there's not much to keep you coming back for more. That being said, The Darkness manages to provide 
 a more fun experience in less time than games twice the length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the8thavatar
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  I found this largely unsatisfying. Poor story:
  The storyline without The Darkness elements would work reasonably well, it's just old black and 
 white gang war type stuff and it didn't really interest me.
  The Darkness storyline doesn't make you want to play it, despite using The Darkness in fights being 
 somewhat satisfying - it's because it's an evil entity and it has prevented your character from 
 saving his girlfriend from his enemies. There is a part towards the end where the character rebels 
 and refuses The Darkness, but it isn't made full use of in my opinion. The player could have been 
 left without the ability to call upon The Darkness for a while to see if he could put up with it. 
 Although the player gets weapons that are supposed to give control over The Darkness, the player 
 still has to submit to The Darkness in the end, so it means nothing. There's no real victory there. 
 It's nice that there are side-stories you can investigate but there's no driving factor. It's not 
 as if you're trying to impress people by helping them out so that they would support you instead 
 of your enemies, for instance.
  
  Poor combat:
  For the times when you cannot call upon The Darkness, the combat is frustrating as you can get 
 killed all too easily and sent back to the last checkpoint. There was one annoying point where 
 there were two battles between checkpoints and it took me quite a while to beat.
  For the times when you can call upon The Darkness, you can't see all that well in the dark so knocking 
 out lights can leave you turning up the brightness on your TV to see where you should go. You can't 
 send the demons you summon very far ahead of you.
  
  I wasn't particularly driven to see what the online gameplay was like, since I hadn't appreciated 
 the fight scenes that much.
  
  Poor direction:
  It can sometimes be hard to know what you should do next.
  There was a time when the player was 
 directed to a place and I didn't know where to go until I saw it on one of the streetmaps that 
 are on signboards in the street. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petri87
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  At first glance its a classic mob story. Your family turns on you and your out for revenge. But 
 thats just the beginning, as the game progresses there is a dark and compelling story about Jackie, 
 a man who lost everything and got some extra touble to boot in the form of the darkness.
  Now i dont want to give too much away since the story will keep you at the edge of your seat the 
 whole way trough.
  
  Gameplay:
  The controles are good for the most part but i had some trouble controling the creaping dark at 
 first when climbing walls and and stairs but after a while i got the hang of it.
  The wapons in the game are good for the most part but the auto-lock system sometimes make it far 
 to easy. But since yould be using your darkness powers of the most of the game, simply because 
 they are way cooler, it doent have such an affect on the game as it would if you didn't have the 
 powers.
  You upgrade your darkness powers and your darkness meter by eating hearts.... awesome! But you 
 can only eat the enemys hearts so there in no point in starting to kill of inocent ppl exept for 
 the fun of just tosing them in the air and seeing some great ragdoll action. You can regenerate 
 your darkness powers by staying in the shadows so you should shoot out some lights when entering 
 a battle whit alot of enemys since that darkness acts as a shield and if your darkness meter runs 
 out the two heads wont come out and that leaves you very wonerable to the enemys attacks.
  
  Graphics:
  The game runs really smooth and they look just amazing. The shadows are well done 
 and since the dark is a big part of the game its an important factor in the game. And when your 
 darkness is out you see this amazing effect thats like a glow on the buildings that let you see 
 alot better in the dark.
  The characters look great to and when they speak the nove their hands in a way that makes it look 
 incredably realistic.
  This may not be the best looking game but it has some small effects that make it stand out and 
 looke really good.
  
  Sound:
  The voice actors in this game are one of the best ive ever heard. And the darkness has this deep 
 and creapy voice that has a huge effect if you have a suround set up.
  The gun sounds get the job done but the darkness sound are really great. When you kill an enemy 
 whit the darkness there is this squishy sound that is actually really discusting but since the 
 darkness is an evil being it fits it really well.
  
  Overall:
  This is a really great game whit a dark and compelling story that will stick whit you for a long 
 time even after your done.
  And if you liked Riddick or a FPS fan in general then you will absolutly love this game. Its a 
 must buy for 360 owners and maby even a console seller.
  In short this is a title that no one should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Yeah yeah yeah. I rented this game because I wasnt to sure about it.. The graphics looks very 
 good and I also like how you can interact with the environment. The story line was okay. didnt 
 really understand him going to hell in all, but was okay. The little creatures that you can summon 
 didnt really help me much. well there has been a few times where they helped me out once or twice. 
 I love using the main characters dark powers. and I also like that fact there was no meter or gauge 
 to limit your powers. As long as you stay in the dark youll be just fine. Weapons were okay good 
 of been better, AI was also okay. I just like how the whole game seemed like a cut scene. The way 
 they swapped out the loading screen with cut scenes are great. other games need to start doing 
 thatI rather seen that then some damn loading bar Im really feeling the new health system some 
 games are using. no health bars and no health packs. I believe Call of Duty started the no health 
 bar thing.. anyway the game is good in all, I had tons of fun playing. I must say it is a must 
 buy.. Basically anything over a 8 point rating is safe to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbisco25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  ok let me get one thing clear the darkness dosent do any thing your normal fps shooter dosent do, 
 but that not the point. the point is that it fun to play, and you whant to play it. the way the 
 story is play out is the good, the acting and the interaction of the world is all so top draw. 
 what i like about it doh is the cool powers you can get and the way your power are draw form the 
 darkness the game is about 8 to 10 hours long which are whant most fps shooter are these days all 
 in all a good solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomjay31
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a first-person shooter/action. Youre a member of your uncles mafia, ironically 
 the same uncle tries to kill you. Upon your should-be-death, you inherit darkness powers. With 
 your new powers, you go a personal journey of revenge. Not wanting to give too much away, I think 
 the single player storyline is great. It flows evenly through the whole game. The graphics are 
 pretty good but I think the best aspect of the game is the different powers and darklings you gained 
 throughout the game. Each power and darkling has its place to be used and advantages in certain 
 situations. There are a few drawbacks to game: (1) Aiming is done with a little red dot that can 
 make shooting a little difficult (2) Online is there but overall bad due to severe lag. Includes 
 youre basic ctf, team/single death match and survival. Being able to play as a darkling or shape 
 shifter (human &amp; darkling) does provide some fun but everything suffers due to lag issue. (3) 
 While good, the overall story is somewhat on the short side. There side missions you can choose 
 to do that will prolong things a little and net you a couple of achievements. Overall, I enjoyed 
 it and think its at least rental worthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the sick and twisted world of The Darkness. A thrilling Comic Book ride by Top Cow comic 
 book productions. The Darkness touches on a dark tale of Jackie Estacado a Mafia Hitman for the 
 Don, his uncle Paulie. Jackie is a ruthless hitman and an excellent hit, but that doesn't stop 
 him from being a piece of a puzzle to his Uncles major plan. Paulie has a plan to have Jackie taken 
 out in a trick Hit, but when Jackie survives the near death experience he is on a rage streak stalking 
 down his uncle killing any cop or hitman in his way. However being that it is Jackie's 21st birthday 
 he is cursed with The Darkness, a unholy power that makes him possessed with powers of hell. He 
 has minions help do his dirty work as well as Darklings which look like snake like things that 
 protect you as shields. As the story unfolds you figure out that The Darkness has been part of 
 your family since the great days of you Uncle Tony Estacado inwhich he gained The Darkness powers 
 in World War I, with his help you figure out that The Darkness is not a power its a curse with 
 its own ego different than Jackies. Fighting the monster that gave him powers and the one who brought 
 him up since he was a child, Jackie will face all odds to bring back the happiness he once had.
 
  
  The graphics for The Darkness is very well done, they could be better but they most defffinenlty 
 show off the power of Next Gen quality. The Character models and Darklings are very well done and 
 look very crisp. The Maps and sky details are very well done as well, however the Levels are very 
 one demensional and could use some more details but they still look great. The weapon models are 
 very basic but look nice and smooth.
  
  The gameplay for The Darkness is your typical FPS with reload and cover tactics. However the story 
 majorly makes this game a hit to anyone who enjoys a story however for it being a great story it 
 is about a 5 hour story line gamewise. The missions are very well done and you will have some room 
 to do some Side Missions for other people around you in New York or you can just do the main plot 
 to get done with the game. A good thing about this game is it includes Xbox Live, wait did i say 
 this was a good thing, no i'm sorry this is a horrible thing and in my opinion it drops this game 
 by easily half a point. The Online quality is piss poor with non stop lags and glitches even the 
 greatest server money could buy, you will still lag so much you will seriously turn off the game. 
 Glitching is horrible and makes a Beta look like a masterpiece to this online play. A great thing 
 about this game is getting unlockables, such as new darklings, new costumes and awesome Concept 
 art that will have you sitting at the edge of your seat.
  
  The Sound quality in this game is outstanding, the voice talent is very very well done by Jackie 
 Estacado and Jenny, this seems almost like a real live movie it is done so well. The script couldn't 
 be any better for them. Hell even the extras parts are just as well and you can really feel the 
 sense of stress and fear in most of the characters tones. The Darkling noises and Gun noises are 
 some what bland but get the job done to the point you could really really care less.
  
  Overall this game is a hit to anyone who likes great FPS with good story line and a very bad quality 
 online makes this game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MF5K
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game, the unique use of the darkness powers was better then i thought it would 
 be. The ending was kinda lame in my opinion, but I like games for the whole not just parts. The 
 way the story starts really puts you in the character. I thought the side missions were more gap 
 fillers then anything, no real purpose to them. The game could have been a little harder but the 
 pace was nice. I've seen reviews that the darkness powers are useless, but I figure if they are 
 there people will use them. One of the best parts of the game is when the darkness just takes over 
 and starts going around killing anyone you see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great voice acting, story, ripping out hearts and wreaking bloody havoc is fun, good 
 selection of weapons, duel wielding, Darklings are funny and neat, unlockable content is interesting
 
  
  The Bad: Story is too short, not enough Darkness powers or Darklings, Even though Darklings are 
 neat they seem kind of useless
  
  First things first... the graphics in this game are just absolutely amazing and out of this world. 
 THIS is a next-gen game. What's so awesome about this game, besides the eye candy, is your Darkness 
 powers. You get four powers that you can unlock throughout the story and you can use them to kill 
 and wreak havoc and even solve simple puzzles. The other great things are the Darklings which you 
 can command to kill your enemies. The story is wonderful and keep you sucked in throughout. One 
 thing that I really loved was the voice acting... it's top notch stuff. The best voice is the Darkness 
 he has this insane sinister voice that constantly changes pitch and it's really awesome. I also 
 love when you can eat everyone's hearts after you kill them and you can watch the demon heads pull 
 it apart and munch on it... it sounds nasty but looks awesome. I love the way the story flips between 
 two different worlds: 1940 New York and The Darkness world during WWII. Now there are bad things 
 here. Even though everything is top notch and spiffy there just isn't enough of it. Four Darkness 
 powers and Darklings just aren't enough in this type of game. There are enough weapons (DUAL WIELDING!!) 
 however, but everything is just too short. Also, the story just doesn't seem quite enough either 
 and it's not a terribly satisfying ending. The campaign is also short... you can beat it in between 
 10-15 hours even if you do the side missions. I also found the Darklings to be almost useless since 
 they die in the light and they take too long to run after enemies. The unlockable content is neat 
 but not enough to boost replay value. The only reason why you'd play this again is to get the alternate 
 ending. If you want a true next-gen experience pick up The Darkness... you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dancingdave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Sometimes I rue and lament being a geek, its a curse. You dont enjoy movie adaptations of comic 
 books (and often feel the need to storm out in as dramatic a fashion as you can) take for example 
 the recent Spiderman film or Catwoman. You cant go into your local town without checking to see 
 if the latest GURPS pen N paper RPG BIOTECH or Cyber Punk edition has been released and you 
 are constantly skint because you own too many Mr Potato Head cash ins Its a hard knock life
 
  
  So perhaps Im not the person to submit a review for The Darkness. I am fortunate to have read 
 and enjoyed a few of the graphic novels in my time and, to be honest, after sipping the drip feed 
 of information that came out of Starbreeze studios I was made to think it was likely to be incredibly 
 generic. But geekdom (that is a real word Microsoft Word) would not permit me to leave it upon 
 the shelf at my local Game and I purchased it along with a Darth Tater so that I can have one 
 in original packaging -groan-
  
  But the game is, happily, an unparalleled delight!
  
  Graphically it cant really be faulted, its no GEARS and it probably wont win awards but the 
 lighting, scenery and character modeling (especially in later levels) is truly impeccable when 
 you get to the otherworld you cant help but jump out of your skin on occasion. This isnt Condemned, 
 you dont get cheap scares from flashing images coming out of nowhere all the time, if they use 
 it it is used sparingly and to brilliant effect. Plus not many games have poems by Rupert Brooke 
 spoken by otherworldy, tortured and deformed NPCs but to say anymore would be too much of a spoiler
 
  
  After a jumpy start (where it takes our protagonist Jackie what seems like an eternity to load 
 a bloomin shottie) you are catapulted into a world where you are free to make little decisions 
 that, for a change, dont label you as a goodie or baddie; into a world that is more than a 
 little dark. But that is, after all, the entire angle of the game. It is dark from the dimly lit 
 and meticulously detailed alleys all the way to the sadistic humour that makes you want to die 
 laughing. The storyline is compelling, the characters are believable and little details like the 
 break dancers in the subway really show off the depth of thought that went into this game. But 
 you expect nothing less of the studio that made The Chronicle of Riddick for Xbox. You might draw 
 a few comparisons between the games in fact; when you get up close and personal with an enemy 
 you take them down with a quick animation that really reminds you of some of the gutsier moments 
 in Riddick and when you climb ladders you might be forgiven for believing that the camera angles, 
 lighting and animation are ripped straight from that game. Not that that is a bad thing, its as 
 brilliant in The Darkness as it was then.
  
  Finally I get to the cool stuff, the darkness itself, the festering possessive evil that inhabits 
 our poor Jackie. It is, in a word, COOL! Tossing cars, ripping out the hearts of your enemies, 
 hissing with pain when light hits its black, reptilian scales this is what this game is ALL about. 
 From the summonable darklings and their sadistic laughing and witty one-liners to the tentacles 
 you use to toss, impale and otherwise rip apart your enemies you get a genuine feeling of being 
 an unstoppable, malevolent killing machine. Lets be honest, what could possibly be better than 
 that?
  
  Its not all blood and roses though: when in complete darkness the world take on an ethereal glow 
 that can be quite off putting and obviously if you are in the dark constantly much of the brilliant 
 environment is invisible to you. The controls system can be a bit jarring when controlling your 
 creeping dark power, a little more control over darklings would be INCREDIBLY useful and shooting 
 out lights can be a bit tedious until you get some darkling assistance. Plus everyone you meet 
 and converse with appears to talk like they came straight out of the Godfather and their lips dont 
 seem to move when they talk perhaps that just some unintentional xenophobia on my part. But all 
 in all not much bad for me to say about this game, but here is where I come back to the geeky speech 
 I gave at the beginning
   it actually manages to embody something of the comic books that most games and movies fail to 
 do, this is to game/graphic novel adaptations what Sin City is to movie/graphic novel adaptations 
 -a fantastic attempt made by someone who really appreciates the medium that they are emulating 
 and did everything they could to capture the true feeling of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korn_rox_2004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  Hello everyone.
  The Darkness is a FPS that puts you in the eyes of Jackie Estacado, you are a contract killer for 
 a Major Crime family, without giving away to much, basically, Jackie has a very.... interesting 
 21st birthday, certainly not the average, heyyy happy birthday, you legal, you know, go to bar 
 get drunk blaw blaw, no, his uncle leaves him a very ... nice gift. Anyways, the story is very 
 good, it stands tall throughout the whole game and it can get you pumped to kill these guys, which 
 is nice, there is motive to his killing. The story is cleverly told through some scripted in game 
 cinematics (by in-game i mean your watching from first person view) as well the story is told through 
 cinematics played during load times. Anyways i'm typing to long of a review, to sum it up, the 
 game is a must play, but due to the weak, and laggy (almost broken) multiplayer, and the short 
 length of the story, and the lack of real replay value, i suggest renting it, however you get to 
 playing it, PLAY it. It is well worth your time. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilootin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  this game doesn't deserve an 8.5 nor does it deserve a 8.0, i'm saying this game is bad but.... 
 i'll explain.
  
  one of the major problems with this game is that it can be extremely tedious and mundane. the environments 
 are quite bland and just depressing (not in a good way) to look at, everything feels the same. 
 One huge problem i had was, it is very difficult to figure out where you're supposed to go, i'm 
 serious i had lotz of trouble finding where gun hill or where city hall is. The darkness powers 
 are quite neat, but it can get very very tedious to always shoot out every light. This game at 
 times is quite frustraiting and i don't reccomend you buy it becuz the single player is short and 
 the multiplayer is garbage. The graphics are decent but they definatley arent technically proficient 
 . Lighting isnt very good, everything is gray and mundane. Another emblem it doesn't deserve is 
 great story becuz this games story is far from gr8, i dont understand how anyone can find it interesting. MEGAAA 
 SPOILLEEERRSS!!!! The ending wuz just terrible!, you berely get to play all it is is the darkness 
 killing and u watching and paulie was a joke, shoot him, then shoot him again and ur done, then 
 the cutscene after that wuz terrible. END OF MEGA SPOILERRZ!
  I do agree with the great voice acting emblem, this game has some awesome voice acting some of 
 the best i've ever heard. I need to wrap it up, rent this game but dont buy it unless u rily want 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  The game is gorgeous, with amazing cut scenes, amazing voice acting, and smooth game play.
  
  Let's get on with the faults, shall we?:
  
  Missions are linear, although, it is easy to 
 get lost trying to find objectives. This calm, passive player , wanted to throw my controller at 
 the plasma a couple of times after realizing I had a walked in a circle a third time, several times!
 
  
  Enemies are dumb.
  
  Missions do get a little repetitive.
  
  Controls feel a little clunky sometimes.
  
  Yes, the cut scenes are amazing, but you get a 
 little sick of waiting for each section of the city to load. Can't I just take my subway car non-stop 
 without seeing Jackie twirl his guns?
  
  Now the good:
  
  Music is amazing.
  
  Graphics will blow your mind.
  
  Eating hearts is SO awesome.
  
  Great idea, and shows 
 great promise for future games.
  
  All in all very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOODYtariq
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x good
  
  graphics
  engaging gameplay
  
  bad
  
  weapons
  weapon aim system
  demon being sensitive 
 to light
  
  Gd game. over-rated by game-spot.
  
  play the demo... then decide whether its worth getting or not.
  x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axis_di
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  when i first saw the ad for the darkness in gi i thouhgt it looked stupid
  but i played it at a friend's house and it was a really good game
  it is also very original the 
 darkness powers were all good accept the black hole power, it was like the black hole that took 
 your enemies no where
  something they could of done a lot better on was the darklings
  the only darkling that actually helped you is the bazerker
  so while the gunner was shooting 
 at the wall and the light killer put out one to two lights and the kamikazi
  just exploded on impact, the bazerker was the only one worh summoning
  now i beat this game in 
 two daysof hard playing so it is a definite rental but you could just take your time.
  i would have to say that the darkness is on of the better games that have came out this year so 
 far 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solarnox
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I rented the Darkness simply because I wanted to play something new. I quickly learned that this 
 game was not just something I was going to pick up and put back down. Instead, I found myself sucked 
 into the single most emotionally charged story I have ever experienced in a video game.
  
  Let me set one thing straight. I don't cry at video games. Nor do I ever feel particularly attached 
 the the characters. I have never swelled with pride when the main character beat a boss, nor have 
 I clenched my hands in fists of rage during a villain's dastardly deeds.
  
  I did in the Darkness.
  
  The characters are so human, so believable, that I desperately wanted 
 revenge for the people who had wronged Jackie. I noted with grim satisfaction every kill he made, 
 knowing that he was coming closer to his ultimate vengeance. While the story is the main draw, 
 there were some issues I had, mainly with Jackie's powers. I accepted and acknowledged that he 
 had them easily enough, and I loved the character of the demon and all the little Darklings. I 
 do have an issue with his getting the powers. It is explained 'how' he gets them, but I was in 
 the dark as to whether or not Jackie had always had his powers, or if it was a new development. 
 If it was new, the game did a very poor job of having Jackie question any of it. I'm sorry, but 
 if I get possessed, I want to know why.
  
  The gameplay is fun, the powers are great, the Darklings are amusing, the world is engrossing, 
 and the achievements are worth it. Play it, get it into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is in the list of Xbox360's best games, up there with Gears of War, Prey and Call 
 of Duty 3. You play as a character named Jackie and on his 21st birthday he gained a power that 
 lived for centuries known as the Darkness. As a carrier of the Darkness you have supporters known 
 as Darklings, you got the Berserkers, Light Killers, Kamikazes and Gunners. The Darkness is a brutal 
 but very sweet game! It's also a touching tale about Jackie and his girlfriend Jenny. Jenny might 
 sound familiar for the name Jen in Prey. Prey and The Darkness are pretty close to being the same 
 game on just had aliens and the other a power known as the Darkness. Well your Uncle Pualie wants 
 you dead and to get to you he killed your Jenny. Then you want revenge and there you go.
  
  GRAPHICS ~ Holly crap the graphics are so good. Its a 10/10, it looks so realistic it's confusing 
 if it is a real person or pixelated characters at some parts in the game.
  
  SOUND ~ The sound was great too! Pretty much everything about this game is good. 10/10 for sound!
 
  
  ENTERTAINMENT ~ Addicting, you will be on the edge of your seat with excitment! Fun, fun and fun.
 
  
  REPLAY VALUE ~ Extremely High and possibly Higher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larsvedoy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a fps with a edge. A game for adults by adults. Both in
  themes and execution it seem like Starbreeze wanted to make a game
  that makes people think. 
 And to give the player an experience a bit different
  than your average shooter. This is a good thing that more developers should try to do. The Darkness 
 strongest points in my opinion is, a great
  story, High production values in both sound and graphics. and top notch
  performances from all 
 the voice actors. The games weaker points include&gt;
  struggling and uneven AI, Lag infested and uninspired multiplayer, and some minor irritants in the 
 gameplay, like hard to control creeping dark
  abbillity .So to sum up a bit. To me the good points by far outweighs
  the bad points ,but with 
 more polish this could be atruly classic
  game instead of just a very good one. But games that dont treat theyr
  audience as complete idiots 
 are hard to come by so why not embrace
  the Darkness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 16, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  The explosive beginning to The Darkness pretty much gives you an idea as to what to expect with 
 the rest of the game. You and 2 mob pals are driving down a tunnel with police in tow and guns 
 blazing. The driver is reckless, smashing other vehicles out of the way as you try and take aim 
 at the many officers trying to shoot you in the passenger seat. An inevitable crash at the end 
 of the tunnel starts you on your journey through The Darkness's world. For most of the game, you 
 are wondering through the dark streets and subways of New York, carrying out subquests or plowing 
 through the exciting main story. Most missions consist of kill these goons here, then return. This 
 may sound basic, but the gunplay is satisfying and stylish and you wont get bored of it easily. 
 As you progress, you recieve darkness powers, which includes the Demon Arm, a giant tentacle type 
 thing that smashes things in your wake and sends mob goons flying. You also get a little mini darkness 
 head to send into small gaps and vents to stealthily take down enemies from behind. When you get 
 really far into the game, you get darkness guns, and the darkness black hole which when unleashed 
 in a room of bad guys will leave you very satisfied. I wont ruin any of the story for you, but 
 I will say that New York is not the only place you visit... The Darkness is fun for the most part, 
 but it lacks replayability and depth. You do get to level up your darkness power as you progress, 
 but any powers gained are usually due to scripted moments within the game. The game may have many 
 sidequests, but most of these can be completed in a matter of minutes and none of them are particularly 
 interesting. The game is short, in other words. You'll get it, play it for a couple days and then 
 youre done. You may have loved those two days, as the game is really good fun while it lasts, but 
 you wont come back. The multiplayer is also quite sucky compared to the heavyweights out there 
 and the achievements range from stupidly easy to boring. Still, I did very much enjoy this game, 
 and although I kind of wish i had rented instead of bought, The Darkness still has to be experienced.
 
  
  The Good -- Very nice graphics - Very violent and adult storyline and tone - A few surprises - 
 Pretty good voice acting
  
  The Bad -- Pretty damn short - Bad multiplayer - Side quests could have been more fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobcat1303
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 15, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Go here, kill this person. Go there, kill that person. Aside from gaining a few new powers, the 
 game becomes extremely repetitive quickly. After the novelty of being such a dark character who 
 is capable of killing his victims in, admittedly, very fun ways wears off, all you're left with 
 is a uninspiring first-person shooter with bad AI. I would think that the site of a black eel with 
 glowing red eyes devouring ones associates would be enough to make anyone run, but apparently not 
 these bad guys, who diligently wait for their turn to be eaten one by one. It's not all bad, however, 
 as the graphics and sound are impressive, but it is certainly not worth $60. It wouldn't be a bad 
 rental however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  In todays age of gaming it would seem a new first person shooter comes out everyday. With hundreds 
 of games flooding the market, gamers with guns are continually looking for a refreshing unique 
 experience. It is without a doubt that anyone who plays through The Darkness will be rewarded with 
 a great story, interesting characters and some fond memories. That said, this 10-or-so hour experience 
 isnt without some gripes to deal with.
  
  The Darkness follows a mafia hitman known as Jackie Estacado, a serious lover with flowing locks 
 of hair that rival any Maybelline model. Set in a gritty modern New York City, the game opens with 
 an action sequence similar to that of any other game that involves both guns and cars. Whilst a 
 riding shotgun in an on-rails vehicle scene may not be a significant opening, it does give the 
 player a good chance to appreciate the beautiful details in the environment and the fluidity of 
 movement.
  
  Throughout the first half hour of gangster shooting, you could be easily convinced that theres 
 nothing special in store for this game, but youd most likely find yourself appreciating some of 
 the numerous and finer details of the game engine. Smoke trails from every gun shot. The incredibly 
 realistic laser sight that collides with the skinniest poles. The quality and abundance of tubs 
 of blood - shedding onto walls, floors, and every object around. Even the fluidity, as Jackie moves 
 swift and smoothly around his environment you realise The Darkness is a very pretty game indeed. 
 As a mature outlet for the power of this engine, The Darkness is also one of the most violent and 
 intense games to surface this year.
  
  Then it happens - The Darkness itself. Its a tad disappointing how Jackie receives this entity 
 known as The Darkness. It is very quick, and one brief explanation on this happening is somewhat 
 hidden in the game, potentially leaving out some serious plot points on the hatred between Jackie 
 and his uncle Paulie. Explanation or not, our anti-hero is soon seemingly possessed and altered 
 into a carrier for what pronounces to be the doom of all mankind. Personally I would have imagined 
 most people that are suddenly possessed with an entity bent on creating a world of darkness would 
 be a tad more surprised. For Jackie, it seems that this is routine schedule as no real emphasis 
 is based on the moment of receiving The Darkness. Apart from an odd slip-up, the excellent story 
 narration also comes into play with some great quotes. You are nothing but my puppet is scorched 
 into Jackies ears as The Darkness first takes control of the player as a point of proving the 
 power of The Darkness. Theres a lot of great quotes from the brilliantly voice-acted Darkness, 
 creating a true immersion experience.
  
  It also doesnt take too long to get to know our dark beast friend, who is one of the strongest 
 supports for this title. What is The Darkness? Theres no real explanation behind it. The storyline 
 of the game is based upon the original comic book of the same name, and Id assume it has a bit 
 more in it than the game. Even though we arent really told what/who/why or how The Darkness came 
 to be, we can be most certain that its intentions are evil. The Darkness is bent on devouring 
 Earth in darkness, creating a world in which it can dominate. To do this, it needs Jackie. It seems 
 The Darkness requires a human host to survive which in turn plays out to be one of the key plot 
 points throughout the game. This allows a lot of great story driven events, twists, and epic scenes 
 with developed characters that follow the path to both Jackie getting revenge on his uncle Paulie 
 and attempting to free himself from The Darkness.
  
  This is where the game gets really unique and interesting. Now Jackie finds himself with more tentacles 
 than a hentai archive which he can generally control to both thwart enemies and escape situations. 
 Theres a selection of powers The Darkness provides, and while theyre all nice and pretty, unfortunately 
 a few of them are just plain useless. Summoning plays a key part in solving some puzzles, as Jackie 
 boy finds portals to conjure small beasts known as Darklings. Throughout the game you learn to 
 control four different types of Darkling - Berzerker, Gunner, Kamikaze and Light Killer. As a specific 
 example for the let down of some abilities, the Light Killer is a Darkling who can eradicate light 
 sources (such as street lamps) with a quick zap of electricity. This should be a useful ability, 
 but the darkling is generally so slow and stupid at doing his job, that it is much quicker to just 
 take care of light yourself, which is an important task. One of the most tedious points of The 
 Darkness is eradicating light. It makes sense that Jackie is stronger in the dark, but spending 
 an entire game having to hit or shoot out lights can be very, very tedious. Fortunately the Demon 
 Arm power can save you ammo and make it quicker, yet having to constantly cycle abilities to eradicate 
 something that is present throughout the entire game really isnt fun.
  
  There are a few nagging points in The Darkness that can make the time spent between cut scenes 
 frustrating. A lot of conventional FPS rules are played with, rules that exist within the genre 
 for a reason. The severe lack of HUD information (such as health, ammo and darkness power) can 
 make life difficult, as well as navigation both of the in-game world and outside it. The menu is 
 confusing to use, especially the ambiguous goal descriptions which are listed under Inventory 
 for some reason. Theres a section in the menu for The Darkness abilities, which does nothing other 
 than give a brief description of each ability. This is good to have, but when youre told that 
 youve gained a Darkness level any information other than that is near impossible to find. Naturally 
 upon being told youve just leveled up in some way youd expect to maybe spend some experience 
 points, gain some abilities - but no, unless you want to go into the menu and siphon out which 
 ability could possibly be new, absolutely nothing seems to change.
  
  There are a bunch of side missions to do on top of your main objective, that would be a lot more 
 tempting if you had a clearer grasp on what youre actually supposed to be doing and more importantly 
 WHERE exactly you should be doing it. If The Darkness wasnt already short enough, the amount of 
 time spent walking around with no specific details on where to go can be very infuriating. One 
 side mission even involves taking a message to a man who always wears a red hat, and to look out 
 for the red hat. When you eventually locate this man, and find him to be wearing a black hat, you 
 feel a little ripped off. Perhaps the developer thought the pointless side mission of getting on 
 one train could be made more difficult by just making up **** so the player can figure everything 
 out them self.
  
  Most of the pointless wandering around content of The Darkness really should just be avoided. Its 
 very fortunate that the core of this game is so well developed that it hooks the player in enough 
 to deal with some frustrating moments, and there is still a very rewarding experience to be had. 
 If only there was anything else to do after the single player story. Multiplayer is a very tacked-on 
 experience, if you can even manage to get in a game you wont want to stay for long. There are 
 a few interesting modes and maps, but the core engine really doesnt support the attempt at a faster 
 paced multiplayer environment. Its obvious little time was put into developing multiplayer, and 
 The Darkness would be just as good if it werent there at all.
  
  Recommended purchase? Well its an excellent game, but once the short story mode is complete, theres 
 not much else to do. If youre willing to pay for a short excellent experience pulled down by some 
 bugs and segments of poor design, then there is still a lot to gain from playing through The Darkness 
 - and an experience you wont forget.
  
  The Darkness
  
  82%
  
  The Good -
  
  * Excellent story and characters.
  * Lavish engine.
  * Nazi zombies!
  
  The Bad -
  
 
  * Some poor navigation of both in-game world, and the menu system.
  * Some useless abilities and weapons.
  * Reasonably short.
  
  Fun Fact: The Darkness has 
 a kick-ass metal soundtrack. Look out for the TVs playing full movies and some music videos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbladechuckxx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 14, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. It has a great story which a lot of games lack now days. The graphics 
 are truely next gen and if no games to date made you say wow, this will. Overall, if you liked 
 and are a fan of oblivion you will love this game as it is a modern day oblivion with less land 
 to explore but you get guns =) The music is also very similar to oblivion in some parts. The demon 
 powers you poses take some practice getting used to as far as using them on the fly and making 
 the most of them but they are awesome as well. If you like achievements this game has plenty of 
 those too. Save yourself a couple of bucks and buy it at your local game store used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  In this game, you play as Jackie Estacado - an Italian hitman for the NY based Franchetti crime 
 family. When a job goes wrong involving money, Paulie Franchetti puts a hit out on you. Somewhere 
 down the line you unleash this beast within you called The Darkness that will help, but also betray 
 you. Its your job to destroy Paulie and gain control over The Darkness.
  
  Basically you run around with a variety of guns including pistols, shotguns, assault rifles and 
 more, blowing Franchetti's boys away. Or you can use The Darkness to impale people, suck them into 
 a black hole, or rip their throats out. Additionally you can always devour their hearts... thats 
 right, you eat the hearts of your enemies. Oh, and you can also call 4 Darklings to help you out 
 in your fight - a Berserker, Light Killer , Kamikaze, and a Gunner. Pretty fun to call upon, but 
 ultimatley useless.
  
  If you walk up to an enemy and press right or left trigger, depending on what weapon you have equipped 
 and which one you press, you can do finishing moves. These are pretty brutal, I mean you can punch 
 a guy in his face and as he spins around you blow his brains out. Or you can shove a pistol in 
 his mouth and blow his brains out... or use a shotgun, push the guys head back and blow his brains 
 out.. hm, there seems to be a pattern here. Anyway, they are fun to pull off.
  
  The multiplayer... sucks a lot of the time. Just like Prey, 2K Games decided to cut back on the 
 budget for the servers on this game so it will lag INCREDIBLY bad. So bad that sometimes you'll 
 just simply leave the game because you can't even move. Its sad really because once you do find 
 a game that doesn't lag too much, the multiplayer is pretty fun. You run around shooting either 
 everyone or the opposing team, you can turn into a darkling and attack that way... its entertaining, 
 but most of the games lag like hell.
  
  The graphics are pretty damned good. The environments, though dark and almost empty, are really 
 well crafted and look lifelike. The blood effects, flash of the guns, and everything else looks 
 pretty awesome as well. The only thing that annoyed me really was that the character, when he moved, 
 seemed to be as stiff as cardboard. That, and the fact that your crosshair was a TINY red dot.
 
  
  The music was.... so-so. I mean the rock music during a lot of battles was pretty cool, but the 
 ambient music was - for the most part - kind of out of place. The voice acting was amazing though. 
 It really felt like I was watching a pretty decent movie. I also loved how they got former singer 
 Mike Patton (Faith No More, Mr. Bungle, Fantomas, Peeping Tom, Tomahawk) to do the voice of The 
 Darkness.. he did a great job.
  
  The ending, as well as the last fight with Paulie, was garbage. All you do is storm this lighthouse 
 (which was fun) , shoot Paulie twice and he dies. From there, The Darkness consumes you and you 
 wake up laying in your girlfriend's lap and you two talk about what happened. But shes dead?? Im 
 lost already. Oh well.
  
  The achievements are pretty easy to get, and if you don't get a lot of them once around then the 
 game is fun enough for a second time. Overall, I give The Darkness an 8.5 with a buy this game 
 statement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jphx9000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 13, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  The game is a great game the best graphics I seen in years and better than most first person shooters 
 now these days decent story to how ever the is very easy once you get use to the controls the fight 
 are rarely intense unless you are fighting in the light all the time the most powerful weapon you 
 have is the Darkness it shelf and if you know how to stay in the dark all the time you will rarely 
 die. No music at all or very little to begin with so you might want to turn on some of your on music 
 for the game. Oh yeah the games ending sucks which makes me think there is gonna be anouther game 
 out sooner or later. But any way the game is worth playing you should buy it. Oh yeah don't buy this 
 game if you get sick easily since you will be ripping a alot of hearts out especially in the underworld 
 with all the zombies if you don't have the Darkness Guns yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Going into The Darkness I wasn't much of an FPS fan, but coming out I've seen a different side 
 of FPS games. Most are in a room, kill enemies, repeat and not much more, but The Darkness brings 
 about some creative gameplay with The Darkness powers and a solid storyline.
  
  The Darkness takes place in New York City featuring Jackie, the hitman of a family mob. But on 
 his 21st birthday a few things start to go wrong for him, number one being The Darkness taking 
 over his body. From there the story takes you through quite the adventure around New York and through 
 some crazy flashbacks. It was definitely enough to change my opinion on FPS's being able to have 
 engrossing stories.
  
  The controls feel pretty standard for an FPS game. Standard movement, aiming, shooting and then 
 the D-Pad controls switching weapons and switching darkness powers. There are 4 different darkness 
 powers to acquire throughout the game which range from eating peoples faces off to creating a black 
 hole to suck the enemies in.
  
  The Darkness powers add a nice twist to the FPS formula because it gives an extra 4 ways to take 
 care of any situation. You no longer need to just run in a situation and start gunning down baddies, 
 you can now think about how you go in before entering and strategically go about a situation with 
 the use of The Darkness.
  
  However, this leaves something else you have to think about while killing dudes... taking out the 
 lights. When The Darkness gets in the light it's power weakens and it eventually becomes temporarily 
 unusable, so you need to be careful of getting in the light and shoot out as many as you can. This 
 is a great feature because it makes you put yourself in the situation most games make you fear. 
 You have to literally put yourself into the dark instead of just walking into a dark area. Graphically 
 the game is gorgeous, every character, every environment, just everything is great. It truly looks 
 next gen. The subway is probably the best example because there are people all over it that appear 
 to have their own agendas. They walk around, converse with each other, use the phones and even 
 get on and off the trains which run on a real schedule.
  
  Sound is top notch as well. One of my favorite things about this next gen stuff is the fact that 
 the sound is truly stereo based on your point of view. The voice acting is actually really good 
 as well, of course it helps that the dialog is written well (probably due to the characters and 
 everything being based on a comic, which are usually written well) . On top of all this the game 
 is also super brutal, blood everywhere and lots of special brutal kills when you get close to enemies. 
 Not to mention after killing enemies you get to eat their hearts out to level up your Darkness 
 powers. Oh how satisfying it is to rip the hearts out of hundreds of enemies, very satisfying indeed.
 
  
  Of course one of the best things about the 360 is the achievements and The Darkness brings some 
 good ones to get you to have some extra fun with the game and your Darkness powers. I think that 
 should about sum up the point that The Darkness is a quality game and worth any 360 owners time. 
 Sorry to all those elite FPS players for maybe having a mish-mashes review, I'm working on gaining 
 FPS experience. Don't miss it while your waiting for this falls gaming flood (Bioshock! \../) ! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  Ok well Ill make this snappy, I enjoyed this game very much. The story was brilliant and when 
 you start the game you want to finish it. The graphics are very good, model characters are life 
 like, looking much the same as Half-life2. The scene areas are very well done, loads to see. The 
 dialogue with the voices are amazing in this game. In game action is great fun, you can never be 
 board of using your darkness powers to eat you enemys heart, eating the face off, cutting them 
 with your long wimp thing or sending them into a black hole. The darkness powers are great to use. 
 You can summon darklings to help you on your way in the missions.
  The use of hand weapons arent always effective. You do repeatly have to be in the dark so lights 
 need to be smash all the time which get a little competitive. The campaign story is excellent I 
 really enjoyed the mood it lead you with some passion, emotion runs in your veins to kill as many 
 enemys as you can.
  
  Multi-player; well lets say it isnt your Rainbow6 or Gears of Wars. It is very poor coming to 
 online, yes theres your death match, team death match, capture the flag but really theres no 
 point in it unless you really want those achievement points! It always lags for me and Ive got 
 8mb broadband. The game is better playing the campaign mode. I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  the darkness is one hell of a game with nonstop action and a really good story line. you are Jackie 
 estacado hired as a hitman by Pauly Frenchettie who adopted you out of an orphanage. the game begins 
 with in the bacxk seat of a car and you and your mafia friends are driving and you come back from 
 a hit. then it begins you are on the run because you were not able to get pauly's money so he thinks 
 you betrayed him. he does everything in his power to make your life a living hell which is already 
 happening because of the darkness which is a curse that happens to the estacado family on every 
 21st b-day. well your main goal is to kill Pauly because of what he did to you. the online mode 
 is horrible you will expierence all sorts oflag online and there is barely anyone playing. the 
 online mode is what holds it back from getting a 10 on my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captroy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  I won't spend time discussing game mechanics - rather, I'll just discuss some of the positive and 
 negative aspects of the experience.
  
  *** If you don't want any spoilers, stop reading now ***
  
  Positives:
  
  - Graphically, 
 it's quite nice, although we're starting to approach the uncanny valley level of character animation.
 
  
  - The story's engaging. The voice acting's quite competent. Most of the criticism seems to be directed 
 at the voice actor for Jackie, which I didn't mind. I wish the WWI sequences were a bit longer, 
 because they're the most interesting parts of the game.
  
  - It's a brief game, which may not be a positive for many, but is for me. I don't want, or need, 
 every game I purchase to be a 20-30 hour experience. If you blaze through it and ignore all of 
 the little side missions, it's going to feel short, but there's plenty of content there is you're 
 willing to explore everything the game has to offer.
  
  Negatives:
  
  - Weapon play. Granted, the game is more about using your Darkness powers more than anything, but 
 this makes most of the guns in the game utterly uninteresting. This may be a personal preference, 
 but for a shooter, gunplay seems a little less than smooth. It's hard to define, but it just seems 
 awkward at times.
  
  - Lack of immersion. Is New York always so empty? I didn't expect the New York City settings to 
 look like rush hour on a Friday afternoon, but it ruins any sense of being there when there's hardly 
 anyone around while you're walking the streets.
  
  - The lack of a truly compelling end boss. After the time spent in the Otherworld , it seems anticlimactic 
 to just stick a bullet in Jackie's uncle. Additionally, sequences near the end when the Darkness 
 takes over your actions tend pull you out of the moment and make you a spectator - that's something 
 best left for movies, not video games.
  
  - On a game mechanics note, how about an automap or some kind of quest log that shows you where 
 the NPC's are located? It wasn't until the end of the game where I finally got a good feel for 
 the game territory's layout. Jackie's supposed to be a New York native, but I kept feeling like 
 a tourist because I never felt like I knew where I was.
  
  In sum, I enjoyed the game - it's well crafted, and allows you to play it a few different ways. 
 I tend to use stealth quite a bit in story-driven shooters, so it was nice to be able to Creeping 
 Dark quite a bit to avoid having to run in, gun's-a-blazin' in every enemy encounter. Adding comic 
 books via unlockables in the game was a nice touch, although I wish there were more of them. All 
 in all, it's a good example of where the game development industry is today on the console side 
 of gaming. There seem to be more competent, generally well-designed games coming out for the consoles 
 these days, showing that the industry doesn't need to be divided between AAA titles and utter crap. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nekimoto
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  This game was something new to me and I enjoyed that experience. The bad thing about this game 
 though is, it doesn't have a depthy multiplayer, but I did find it interesting to say the least. 
 The single player wars pretty long for a game like this, which I was pleased with. The way you 
 controlled The Darkness was really up to you. Using the Darkness Arm was probably my favorite thing 
 in this game. This game has quite a few side quests and I liked that they offered that. The game 
 kind of seemed like Half-Life 2 in a sense that you could move a lot of the items in the game with 
 your Darkness arm. I am pleased with this game and I would definitely recommend this to anyone 
 who wants something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Prey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 11, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness was a long waited title being announced for the 360 after a couple of months after 
 the 360's release. Now it's here and it's just amazing!!
  
  Story: On Jackie Estacado's 21st Birthday was suppose to be a simple mission for him to do until 
 his uncle Paulie wants to kill him, but fails. Jackie then receives his darkness powers afterwards 
 and so Jackie is on a rampage to kill is uncle Paulie.
  
  Gameplay: The Controls are smooth and well configured. Just the brutally executions are just plain 
 fun and the demon powers are awesome.
  
  Graphics: Just one thing to say Wow 
  
  Sound: The voiceover work is just well done
  
  Multiplayer: Well lets just say that the mulitplayer 
 was not worked on very well as the singleplayer just too much lag.
  
  The Good: Awesome singleplayer campaign, DEMON Powers, Great Voice acting, Great Graphics
  
 
  The Bad: A. l is somewhat dumb, Mulitplayer just not worth playing
  
  Verdict: The Darkness is a great game to own and the singleplayer mode is just amazing!! A definite 
 Buy for those who want to play the singleplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mosquite
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  There is one thing I was very impressed in this game and that is the way how they included so amazing 
 story in this massacre. First you laugh like crazy (No I did not...) squashing, bashing, stabbing 
 and shooting your enemies with your darkness powers and then you notice yourself allmost crying 
 when you see your girlfriend getting killed in front of your eyes... Okey there may come What the 
 **** just happened feeling but it really does not matter because what ever it was it was cool. 
 And it looked cool too because graphics is the second best thing after story, gameplay, voice acting 
 and all those depressive emotions this game causes in you. But there is not such thing like perfect 
 game. And the only thing that made this game imperfect is multiplayer. They just forget everything 
 that made this game amazing (gameplay, darkness powers, creepy motion...) and replace that with 
 ability to play as darkling... And that is not even cool. The idea of playing as darkling and jumping 
 between bullets or just rushing in with minigun as gunner or shutting of all lights and and spreading 
 death with electicity in darkness but all they give is this laggin crap with bad controls. But 
 if we forget multiplayer then The Darkness earn place next to this year big releases. This year 
 really is a year of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is made by Starbreeze studios , the same guys who made highly successful Chronicles 
 of Riddick . In the game you play as Jackie Estacado a hitman in Franchetti mob family .But on 
 your 21st birthday u discover a timeless brutal force known as The Darkness awakens within you 
 . It has got so much power that you can unleash swift death to your opponents . It has variety 
 of powers to use , even to summon dark minions (sadistic demons called darklings) to do your work 
 . But everything dosen't go fine as it seems . A tragedy befalls you and you swore vengenance till 
 end .You also have to unearth the mystery and history of your new dark powers. The darkness power 
 teleports you from present to past and vice versa to set things right for your ultimate destiny 
 . The sets and settings of the game looks graphically stunning . The character models are well 
 created .You get to see many full programmes on a T. V in a room too. NPCs and thier activities 
 are shown very realistically .Subway stations are shown most realistically . The game has got cool 
 cutscenes , voiceactings . You get variety of weapons in the game , but your darkness powers are 
 more cool than mere weapons . You have to use your darkness powers more than your weapons to survive 
 .Tremendous hi - voltage action is in the game .
  
  The games got superb graphics / visuals . AI is okay . Soundquality is average . Storyline is amazing 
 and very intruiging . It has got multiplayer feature too . You can shape - shift from a darkling 
 to a human for insane multiplayer action .But its multiplayer is not much noteworthy .The games 
 single player campaign story is very short . It 'll end too quickly . So i recommend The Darkness 
 for a few hours only extreme timepass . Its a highly enjoyable game , but very short .keep it in 
 mind . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wvsillyjen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  cool game if you like this type of games which i do. But if you aren't into this type of game I 
 would recomend renting to try it. you may like it enough to buy it. I think its worth buying- most 
 games don't stay true to the story but this one does through to the end, and the graphics and efffects 
 are great. the controls take a little getting use to but once you get the hang of it it comes pretty 
 smoothly to you. I highly reccomend this game. It does have a few parts that take a little bit 
 to figure out what you need to do. After you figure it out you realize how obvious it was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about a game called the Darkness that was coming out I thought is going to be a boring 
 mafia game that was going to have bad gameplay nd a boring story but I was wrong, way wrong.
  
  This game is great and I loved it a lot. It is very cool, actiony and very awesome. I mean 
 what game lets you have demon arms do cool demonous moves and and have a good time at the same 
 time. It is great and I highly reccomend it to people who love blood, gore, and eating peoples 
 hearts out. Yes you can eat their hearts out! PWNAGE!!
  
  Well the graphics are great the game is not to easy not to hard but enough to keep your small atttention 
 span not helping you play this game all night. And the online play is just a bit..... well anyways 
 I like the fact the you can play as the little darklings.
  
  This game is great and i love it because the side missions are cool to if you want to get acheivements 
 easily, or hard. Plus this game has great diolouge. Buy it unless your a noob. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: customgtp
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I put this game in and wow... looked real nice. Ran real well. The physics were smooth and seemed 
 to have added some nice arm movement features to it when you are holding dual guns. real nice. 
 Then these things pop out of my back. Changed everything. It seems to get great reviews. Guess 
 I need to go back and try, try again. I am not a just plain shooter freak either. I like games 
 like Condemned, Half Life 2, Prey, Fear, Saints Row, Rainbow Six Vegas, GRAW, even Resident evil 
 4. Quality games. I played the game once until it happened. I turned it off at the cemitary when 
 all of this started. Then I played it again. From the beginning again. I played it much farther. 
 I was running around the steets shooting out likes and the sluggish guys trying to kill me just 
 kinda stand there and shoot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobo290
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  FREAKIN AWESOME STORYLINE
  
  Powers are amazing ok graphics..... i've seen better
  
  Sound Best thing in game.
  Online is cool and all but each time i get into a game it just lags 
 too much!
  
  .adsf shduhas huhdf uhuahs cuhuashc huhsuch ausch auchau chauhcau chaushcu ashcua scuahcushcu schuahcua 
 chau chauc hauschauc asuchasu cahsu casuchchc ch cchhc ch c c c c c cuchduch duchdu asoehuc weuifh 
 euhfafhuhuc u u hcauhuu eche uche ucehu ehce uc hnfhv h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h h h h j kj ij ii ji j ij ij ij ij ij i jij i jj i ko ko ko k lp lp lp l pl p k ok ok ji j ij 
 ij ij ij ij j i ji ji ji ji ji ji ji ji jij ij ij ij ij ij ij ij 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judas-savior
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  When I purchased The Darkness I was expecting some corridor FPS with unoriginal level designs but 
 with some cool powers, perhaps something to keep me going until Fall 2007 .
  
  Boy was I wrong, The Darkness turned out to be a free-roam masterpiece with a really innovative 
 story, awesome characters, great settings, cool adult themes and the best voice acting in a game 
 that I have seen in along time!.
  
  Gameplay:
  - O. k so the gameplay at first didn't seem to original and for the most part the weaponry and shooting 
 was unoriginal and not that revolutionary but when it comes to combining the powers you slowly 
 gain with the standard FPS that's where the fun begins and truly brings out the best of the gameplay 
 and what sort of effort should be put into all FPS.
  
  Graphics:
  - The graphics were quite nice, there were some minor frame rate issues I did notice but for the 
 most part the graphics were very nice and some of the best seen on the 360 to date.
  
  Sound:
  - This game has the best voice acting and soundtrack I have heard in a very long time. 
 Mike Patton as The Darkness was just the most perfect choice and I could not imagine anyone else 
 doing a more superb and perfect job. Concerning the music in general it was very cool and well 
 suited, at times it almost made me feel I was in a dark modern day version of Oblivion which was 
 really nice.
  
  Value/Tilt:
  - The game is a must buy for 360/PS3 owners and the best horror genre game to come out for the 
 360 since Condemned so stop reading my review if you don't have it already and go grab yourself 
 a copy and get ready for a truly decent Current-Gen game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam-o-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 8, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  When the darkness was released i wasn't that interested after playing the demo, however when my 
 dad came home one day with it so i thought why not. Not to spoil the story i will just say, the 
 game starts of relativley slow (for a shooter) but soon the game develops into something wonderful 
 with a great story and exciting unrepetitive gameplay. The game mainly revolves around 2 subway 
 stations in which you leave to acess different parts of new york, the game gives kind of a free 
 roam feel as you don't have to do the main missions straight away, you can search for collectables (which 
 come in forms of telephone numbers or letters) which unlock concept drawings and so on, or there 
 are some interesting side quests which can involve anything from performing hits for the mafia 
 to finding a bracelet a woman has lost, each has the same reward, a collectable.
  
  As the game develops you unlock new and sadistic ways to obliterate your enemies ranging from suicide 
 boming minions to the power to open up a black hole, each is very entertaining to watch, these 
 powers are unlocked by eating the hearts of you enemies once you have killed them, also sadistic 
 yet fun. The gameplay is smooth and unbuggy throughout, and in my case i found it not too easy 
 to find a glitch. The soundtrack to the game is commendable, it goes from orchastrated pieces to 
 rock music during the intense fight scenes it really aids to create the atmosphere that the game 
 is trying to simulate. The same thing can be said about the voice acting, it is some of the best 
 i have heard, with one or two corny lines or just overall dogy voice acting but mostly the voice 
 acting is fantastic and really makes you feel like these are real people, talking to you. As i 
 said before the darkness brings in new abilities such as darklings and the black hole but the conventional 
 weapons are in my opinion pretty good ranging from 9mm handguns to automatic shotguns and tactical 
 rifles each is satisfying in its own right, especially when it comes to the close up execution 
 moves you get to do.
  
  Aswell as standard weapons there is nothing special about the controls but there isn't really anthing 
 wrong with them either just pretty standard FPS controls, just though i'd let you know.
  
  Right then down to the multiplayer, there are a variety of modes to chose from such as capture 
 the flag and deathmatch but 2K have introduced the shape shift idea which allows players to shpeshift 
 from a human to a darkling (an evil demented creature) each form has it's pros and cons and gives 
 an interesting twist on the action. Now to the problem. Lag. there it is. Most online games of 
 the darkness have extreme lag which makes it almost impossible to play, im not talking about the 
 occaisional lag, im talking aboout the game completely freezing for seconds then either you end 
 some where you have no idea where you are or the game tells you you're dead, very frustrating. 
 Also the small maps don't help either. so the multiplayer was a brilliant idea yet it was very 
 poorly executed.
  
  So in conclusion another fantastic yet quite short game only lasting around 8 hours on sigle player 
 from 2K. The campaign mode will be thoroughly enjoyed by fans of shooter, adventure and/or horror 
 gamers as a gripping game but once finished the multiplayer really lets this game down because 
 once you have finished the campaign you probably won't play through it again.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  Sam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackinkMG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  My Tilt~ Not sure, I love first person shooters, i could see how that would be a tilt, Game just 
 seemed to hit me in the right spot i guess.
  
  The gameplay is very unique. It has the normal first person shooter quality, but then with the 
 addition of "the darkness" you really always carry at least 2 weapons, On top of being able to 
 summon help from portals. There are alot of unique options to kill people in this. Along with the 
 good old simple style of some steel in the head.
  
  The Graphics were very good, maybe a few things along the way i could have **** about if i was 
 desperate for a reason to bitch but im not, so nothing stands out. The sound is good, But i wouldn't 
 really call it amazing or anything, Just fitting for the game, They could have done some work on 
 it though.
  
  I would say that the value on this is fairly high. The Single player is very fun, enough to play 
 over again id even say. But the online aspect i definatly feel needs some improvment, its rare 
 to find a game thats not Very laggy~
  
  Overal, this game is definatly enjoyable and worth the time to play.
  
  INK Black~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that i was a little sceptical when i went out to buy the game. I have been a huge 
 fan of the Darkness and Witchblade, so the chance of disappoinment was realistic.
  
  Becuse i avoided the hype, loads of what i saw was new when i started to play, and the beginning 
 is quite the starter. Add to this the overall story and you have the makings of something quite 
 unique. It seems fair to compare this partially to Timesplitters 3, for the simple reason that 
 both these games focus on the joy of gaming. The Darkness is no exception. the feel, movement and 
 atmosphere is quite intoxicating, and that is before sound and graphics hit you. The graphics are 
 the most wild you will see. At times when you walk through places, it is like walking into a McFarlaine 
 location. the colors, lights and people are all well done. The eerie sounds that are part of this 
 all are more then just a bonus, they do a major job in setting the stage.
  
  The levels from easy to hard are also a ride of your life. It is all just too intense. This does 
 have the effect that the game seems too small, but make no mistake, getting through the game and 
 surviving to the end is achievable, but not for the fain of heart. I reckon that the size is the 
 only negative side. I wanted more (we all always do) , but that was more profound here. the levels 
 could have been bigger, yet what you get is very exceptional, so do not think you are getting a 
 cheap ride. This game is excellent all over the board. Even a few achievements are 'rad' to say 
 the least. I do not want to spoil anything, but this game offers more then you reckon you'll be 
 getting. 2K really came though with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmiity
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a very interesting game, and it has great appeal. It is a first person shooter/sandbox 
 game. Your sand box is New York City, and you can travel to different parts of it via subway.
 
  
  You play as Jackie Estacado, a 21 year old mobster, contract killer.
  
  On your 21 birthday, you become possessed by The Darkness, a demon voice, that appears as two snakes 
 on your shoulders.
  
  You gain new powers, and new abilities by way of The Darkness, and they really make the game a 
 lot easier.
  
  The odd thing about the action in The Darkness, is that you can't reload.
  
  If your guns run out, you merely throw it away and get new ones out of your jacket.
  
  
 Besides that, the shooting is loose, and you never feel like you really are aiming precisely, even 
 though there is a great deal of auto-aim, which helps.
  
  Its also a pain, because you have to be right up close to stuff, and looking right at a said object, 
 to interact with it.
  
  (For example, to ring a doorbell, you have to be looking right at the little button, and if you 
 stare at the door, you can't press it.)
  
  The graphics in the game are great, so is the sound.
  
  The voice acting is incredible, everyone 
 sounds like a mobster from the 20's.
  
  The city itself looks great, and so do the people. The story is also excellent, and I won't blow 
 it for you here.
  
  There is multiplayer, but the lag is terrible, everyone needs crystal clear connection, or its 
 terrible, and the formula for the single player just doesn't work in multiplayer. Thank god there 
 are only a few multiplayer achievements.
  
  The Darkness, in all, is an interesting shooter, with great production values, that suffers from 
 odd/unwieldly controls.
  
  Note:
  Campaign will take 8 hours or so to complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  The Darkness- What is it 
  This is one of the first games that truely had me gripped on the 360. You play as Jackie Estacado 
 who works for the Franchetti crime family. Your boss and your uncle Paulie betrays you and calls 
 you a traitor... he wants you dead. In the midst of all this Paulie kills your girlfriend... and 
 all hell breaks lose. The game has a truely cinematic feel, it is almost like being in a movie. 
 The voice acting of the characters is phenominal which helps add to the realism. The games graphics 
 are simply amazing.
  It is a truely rather violent game. Lots of blood, bullet wounds even eating peoples hearts. The 
 point of the game is basically... kill paulie. You search all over New York, doing jobs for people 
 to help find out how to get to him. The weapons in the game are very unique, from pistols to shotguns, 
 from shotguns to AK47's. Theres not a huge amount of types of weapons in the game but theres just 
 enough to help you decide which is best for your mission. Your pistols are always on dual wield 
 and change depending on what you pick up throughout the game. There are pretty sweet execution 
 moves too which add to the coolness!
  The Darkness- The actual darkness power itself is outstanding. Plenty of powers which you can use 
 over and over to kill enemies. The black hole is my personal favourite, sucking every life form 
 into this black hole and spitting them out again all over the place, its immense it clears entire 
 rooms! Another little gem that made the game real was the marvellous TV!
  The televisions had a range of channels from music to cartoons airing such shows as Popeye and 
 Flash Gordon. Near the start of the game in an apartment building you can watch a full feature 
 film which is the classic How to kill a mocking bird . The game can get rather repetitive though, 
 but it is just long enough really before it begins getting to samey.
  
  Overall- Stunning game its awesome, great graphics, amazing sound, an amazing hit for the 360.
 
  if you enjoyed the max payne titles then you will enjoy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lopper657
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  From one in the afternoon to one in the morning I played The Darkness. When I first put in the 
 disk I did not have the attention to grind through the game, and when I starting playing I did 
 not either. The Darkness is a dark sadomasochistic love story gone as wrong as the word itself 
 can be; but I mean that in the best way possible. The story-line was gripping, the atmosphere was 
 compelling, the in-depth gameplay was truly gripping. To be dead honest, I completely forgot I 
 was holding a controller -- I felt as if I was in Jackie's shoes. All of the elements of the hit 
 series comic book were well placed/used in this game. The Darkness is a must buy for everyone who 
 owns a Xbox 360. But be ready because even though you ARE the scariest thing in the game, the scenes 
 you will witness as you progress will be burned into your mind for a long time along with the blood 
 and gore accompined as you take care of the enemies that stand in your way.
  
  [My Opinion: this game can only be FULLY enjoyed by people who play a game for a single player 
 campain, not for multiplayer AND if you've felt the emotions of love. Again, just my opinion] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popsadent
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  In the darkness you play as a Jackie, a mafia hitman for your dirty uncle paulie. But on your 21st 
 birthday you are betrayed by Paulie and sent to you death, but instead of dying you return with 
 the darkness and begin your bloody revenge.
  
  The gameplay is mainly your standard FPS but with a twist. The lighting in the game means the difference 
 between life and death. Your guns can only get you so far, so you must use the darkness gift you 
 have acquired to make it all the way to the end. The light is your enemy, becasue your darkness 
 powers are drained by the light and they can only regain their energy by eating the darkness around 
 them. So shoot the lights whenever you get a chance. Also, your darkness powers also bring with 
 them a few abilities like sneaking around and opening worm-holes that can make quick work of your 
 troubles. But beyond these few tweaks the gameplay is very familiar. If you've played any FPS in 
 the last five years your good. The gameplay is very familiar, but very solid.
  
  The graphics really stand out as one the best parts of the game. But this isnt just a pretty game 
 with crappy gameplay as ive gone into depth with above. The lighting effects are very top notch 
 with a very creative art style. The WWI hell world world was very creative. The great art and graphics 
 come together to make one great visual experiance. The Sound is probably the best thing about the 
 game. The entire game is pretty much voice acted which gets mega points for the sound area. Its 
 all done very well too and the voice of the darkness is very imaginative and fits the part very 
 well. The guns two feel very loud and powerful as they should and your powers and summoned creatures 
 sound very detailed and creative. The loading times are all cutscene-esque with Jackie narrating 
 great story and giving believable rants and feelings about points in the game. The SOUND IS AWESOME!
 
  
  The multiplayer is probably the worst thing about the game because it feels very tacked on and 
 unpolished. you play as a person that can turn into a minion at any time and slap fools. All the 
 games i participated in were very lagy or crashed. The gameplay in them was also fairly shallow 
 and uncompeliing but will give you something to do for an hour or so. I was really dissapointed 
 in this area.
  
  The value is kinda iffy on a game like this. The game is mainly a single player experiance and 
 its a great one at that but if after you play it thru once its pretty much over. And with bad multiplayer 
 its hard to keep putting this game back in the disk drive. Its great rental or a buy and sell quickly 
 game, though it pains me to say that. Maybe if they patch it they could fix the multi-player and 
 help out this area a little but as it stands thats what i recommend. The single player is also 
 about 10 hours so yea, pretty short.
  
  Overall this is a great game all you 17+ 'ers should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shexcel
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 5, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is, in my opinion, a slightly-above mediocre attempt at integrating a FPS with demonic 
 superpowers. The concept the game is based on is intriguing, but the execution is only average. 
 The game's engine is outdated and looks old compared with more modern engines. In an effort to 
 cover this up, the devs 'tacked on' superpowers which feel just that -- tacked on. The story is the 
 most lauded portion of the game, but in my opinon is not really all that interesting. It is written 
 like a very standard mob tale, without the lofty reaches of games such Half Life and Resident Evil 
 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_Warrior
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is the latest game from Starbreeze, the maker of the hit game Chronicles of Riddick: 
 Escape From Butcher's Bay. After making a game as good as Butcher's Bay, many wondered what Starbreeze 
 would do next. That game was The Darkness. Now that the game has come out, its safe to say that 
 Starbreeze knows how to make video games.
  
  Lets start with the story. The Darkness is based off a comic of the same name. The main character 
 is named Jackie Estacado and hes a hitman that works for his Uncle Paulie's mafia ring. Everything 
 is good with the two until Jackie's 21st birthday when Paulie decides to betray Jackie and attempts 
 to get him killed. This obviously fails and this pisses off Jackie. He decides to go after his 
 Uncle Paulie not only because he tried to kill him but also because Uncle Paulie is a complete 
 a**hole who is turning on everybody and not following the old ways of the mafia family. To make 
 things easier for Jackie the Darkness shows up, which is a demon that has been inside Jackie for 
 his life and comes out on his 21st birthday. The darkness basically allows Jackie to kill people 
 a lot faster and the more he kills, the stronger the darkness becomes. So its sort of a good thing, 
 but really its not and you'll find out why when you play it. Overall, the story is very good though 
 I wish it could have been longer.
  
  Those who have played the Chronicles or Riddick will find The Darkness to be slightly similar in 
 terms of how it plays. Though the gameplay isn't highly innovative it does have one thing that 
 seperates it from other shooters. That obviously, is the Darkness itself. The Darkness has two 
 long heads that come out of your back and sit out in front of you on either side. When you use 
 the Darkness you are much stronger and can take more hits. When you kill an enemy you can eat their 
 heart and this gives you darkness power. As your darkness power grows, you get new abilities. Their 
 are 4 main abilities and they are the Creeping Dark, Demon Arm, Darkness Guns, and Black Hole. 
 You can also summon darklings which will fight for you. Although you will also fight with guns, 
 once you have all four darkness powers you will rarely use them as its much easier to kill a group 
 of people with a black hole or with darkness guns. Of course, your darkness power will run out 
 the more you use it so you must stay in the shadows to regain darkness power. Because of this, 
 you will find yourself shooting out lights everywhere you go. Overall, the gameplay is solid.
 
  
  The graphics in The Darkness look great. From the environments to character models everything about 
 the game is done very well. The Darkness powers all look really good when you use them and the 
 effects that they have on your enemies are exactly how they should be. From top to bottom, The 
 Darkness looks amazing visually.
  
  There is nothing like good voice acting and The Darkness has plenty of it. Every character you 
 meet has a distinct personality to them and it makes you feel like you're really talking to a real 
 person. The Darkness sounds very creepy and evil which it obviously should sound like. The sound 
 effects are also superb and this really adds to the game. Overall, the sound really makes the game 
 shine.
  
  My only beef with this game is the multiplayer. It just isn't that fun. Like Gamespot said in its 
 review, it feels tacked on. Its like Starbreeze just threw it in there so more people would buy 
 it. If a sequel is ever made for this game, Starbreeze should either spend more time on the multiplayer 
 or just throw it out completely and work soley on the single player.
  
  In the end, The Darkness is a great game. The single player is the main reason for that. Anyone 
 who is looking for a fun and intense first person shooter should check out The Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelord20000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:39 am PT
Review:  In The Darkness you play as a gangster who's been suspected of foul play form his uncle (the boss) . 
 So he sends hordes of mobsters after you. You use you new found powers to fight through anybody 
 who satnds in the way between you and him. The single player is a lot more open ended then you 
 would think. It's not just average run of the mill FPS (I underestamated it at first) . The most 
 intesting thing is your darkness powers. That a a great deal of originality and varriety to the 
 game. They are overall a lot of fun to use (demon arm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  The Darkness was a highly anticipated game for Xbox 360 owners. Starting off summer nicely (though 
 now it has dropped) . The Darkness tells the story of Jackie, a Mafia hitman blesses or cursed with 
 the power of the Darkness. What the Darkness is? Hell if I know, all I know is you can kick some 
 serious ass with it.
  
  The game starts off fast, in every sense of the word, as your cruising in a car while the cops 
 pursuit you. Not long after the chase and the death of your two other comrades, you soon find out 
 that your boss wants you dead.
  Also you are soon after possessed with demon powers. Two snakes that stay by your side for the 
 rest of the game that our cabable of devouring human hearts for power. In the Darkness you visit 
 two settings, one is Newyork. The other is inside the mind of the darkness, A hellish world where 
 soldiers constantly are fighting WWI over and over again. So without spoiling anymore of the Story 
 i'll move on.
  
  Gameplay: Shooting is intense, the powers of the darkness constantly keep the game feel fresh and 
 there are nice breaks inbetween the action.
  
  Graphics: The game looks superb. Good framerate, enviroments and textures look amazing.
  
  
 Sound: Voice Acting is very good. Guns sound nice.
  
  Value: This is where the game falls short (literally) . After you beat the single player theres 
 little else to do. There is a multiplayer there but it feels tacked on. Its laggy and the maps 
 are not interesting. Even when they fix the lag in a patch i can't imagine the mp being much fun.
 
  
  Overall: All in all The Darkness is a great action game, however i'm compelled to tell you just 
 to rent it because of the terrible value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushycookie800
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is defiantly one of the best fps of the year. Although the campaign mode is fairly 
 short (anywhere between 7 - 10 hours) it has a very good storyline and a fairly enjoyable online 
 multi player that wont leave you disappointed.
  
  You play a man named Jackie Estacado (who's name you will recognize if you are a fan of the comic 
 book the darkness that this game is based off of) who gets infected on his 21 birthday by these 
 snake looking demons that feed of the hearts of there adversaries.
  
  The Darkness is created by the same people that made the game Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from 
 Butcher Bay. If you are a fan of Riddick or played it then you will be able to notice the similarities 
 between the two games because they both have the same kind of feel to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LowlyKnight
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  If you like long games without much substance or quality, play a game like Bullet Witch. But if 
 you want a game filled with cool and you're all about quality, then you need to buy this game. 
 Multiplayer sucks, so if that is you're only motivation in buying a game, the Darkness is not for 
 you. I love amazing single player story lines and this has a great single player run through. Definately 
 worth purchasing!
  
  The developer's of The Darkness are great at capitalizing on atmosphere. While some game magazines 
 knocked the fact that you had to walk around reading street signs, I thought it was a great idea. 
 The world is not so large that you need an in game map. I loved the fact that I felt just as lost 
 as I would in real life until I started reading the maps at each bus stop area. Little ideas and 
 risks like that help take steps towards more authentic gaming experiances. I don't like playing 
 games to be baby fed, I like looking, searching, and experiancing the virtual world around me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BadSushi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a comic book series that has been around for years, but in this comic book series 
 the hero is what you would call, traditional . In this game, and in the comics, you follow the 
 footsteps of Jackie Estacado, a hitman for the mob. In the game it opens up with you in the backset 
 of a speeding car being driven throughout the tunnels of New York City. Soon the police spot you 
 and your mobster friends and a high speed pursuit begins. You find out while reloading your gun 
 slowly that a money drop off went wrong and that your Uncle Paulie might be a little angry, so 
 to make it all better you think it might be fine to still and go after the hit. After a string 
 of events both of your friend somehow die and you get the best weapon in the game right away, the 
 dual pistols. As you continue throughout this first part of the game you learn how to use executions 
 as well, an easy way to kill someone and make it look gruesomely awesome. They can be killed depending 
 on the angle you shoot at them and which way they are facing and it could involve shooting them 
 in the foot, head, or even about seven times in the chest leaving a corpse. Soon after you begin 
 the screen gets dark a a voice is heard. You seem to ignore it and go back into the game. This 
 continues until you meet the mark... but wait what's this? ****SPOILER****
  
  Your Uncle Paulie has somehow gotten to the mark and left you a present as you go to the closet 
 and open it there lies the mark, with a bomb and a message, Happy Birthday Jackie . As you get 
 blown out of the window you realize that you have been betrayed by your own Uncle so now comes 
 the fight for your life. Soon after this you meet the main baddie of the game something that is 
 apart of you while it isn't apart of you, if that makes any sense. The Darkness. All at once you 
 watch the Darkness use all the abilities that you eventually recieve in the game. From impaleing 
 enemies with tentacles, creating blackholes that suck almost anything in, and the ability to devour 
 hearts, yummy.
  
  Slowly the game develops and it has some parts where you need to do some puzzle solving, usually 
 involving your Darkness powers. The game has plenty of mini-side quest usually just by doing a 
 short two minute thing and the reward is a collectible which in turn unlocks, only when you use 
 a phone, a funny conversation on the phone with concept art or even episodes of the comic book 
 for you too look back upon.
  
  The story is great with many twists, I'm not entirely sure if the comics are similar to the game, 
 but even if they aren't that shouldn't be a problem as the game was a nice change of pace from 
 things like the Halo 3 beta and Gears of War. And speaking of mulitplayer games this has a multiplayer 
 element to it. It isn't great, but should only really be played only if you want/need the acheivements. 
 The graphics in this game in my opinon are greater looking than Gears graphics and show a dark 
 side to almost everyone in the game. The gunfights in the game are both amazing looking or hard 
 leaving them great to watch as you come close to dying many times. And with the multiple times 
 you die in the games storyline and go to hell, which in the game in a World War II battlefield 
 with Bible qualities and zombie Nazi and Allies. The way it looks while dead with it's constant 
 lightning and red hues it can sometimes send a shiver down your spine.
  
  Overall if you are looking for a game with a good and strange story or just something to waste 
 your time for all the November release this game is something to look at for either buying or renting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizzuk
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:05 am PT
Review:  OK, dont get me wrong this is a good game, but after all the amazing reviews i saw this get i felt 
 a little dissapointed, thought the story was ok, but hated the stupid WW1 bits. Great graphics 
 tho and deffo fun. but got a little tired of sending out my creeping dark and wiping out the bad 
 guys and eating their hearts. Also it was over very quickly. The voice acting was top notch though, 
 dont have xbox live so couldnt say about the multiplayer. also, some of the side missions were 
 a bit dissapointing in the reward stakes, with a few phone numbers unlocking some naff comic picture. 
 Good game but definatley over hyped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicbill
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2007 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game has to be on my top 10 games of all time. Everything is fantastic in this game. 
 Only problem, its a maze sometimes. Gameplay:
  Wow, the gameplay is awesome, it really makes you feel like your are Tony. All the interactive 
 people in the game really give the feeling of being open, not just a straight track. Some parts, 
 I needed a guide, it can get frustrating what to do and were to go sometimes.
  
  Graphics:
  There are also awesome. I see a steady frame rate, with excellent graphics. Everything 
 is in great detail. Sound:
  Excellent sounds, i cant say anything bad about the sound. Everything sounds great, i can almost 
 say real. Value:
  This game has great value, this game kept me playing for days, I could not stop playing it. I still 
 play it alot, even when i beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewiegriffin20
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Picking up this game i though would be a shoot-em-up game, with mundain shooting and a mundain 
 story, but i was absolutly wrong and absolutly astonished.
  
  First off, the game is about a Mobster named Jackie, that is already interesting, but it gets better, 
 hes possesed by a monster named the Darkness, which has been passed down Jakies family for generations, 
 that transformed that game from awesome to absolutly badass!
  
  Not only does this game take place in an amazingly great looking recreation of New York, but you 
 also battle in a WW1 like hell which you later find out is..... well i dont want to give away the 
 great story, which is really why this game deserves to be played by everyone owning a PS3 and a 
 Xbox 360.
  
  There are a couple of annoyances in the game, which include, the not so great shooting system, 
 reminds me a little bit of the shooting system used in Grand Theft Auto 3, another annoyance is 
 the fact that you have to constantly take a subway to either Canal Street, or Fulton, which later 
 in the story gets kind of annoying, the online play is meh, having to constanty move back and forth, 
 sooner or later it gets annoying to have to eat peoples hearts, to get the Xbox 360s achievement, 
 but really, how old can eating peoples hearts get?
  
  That said everything else in the game is spot on, the voice acting and the character animation 
 is incredible, the story as I said is AMAZING, this game is an underratted gem, defenetly worth 
 your time to play, maybe not buy, but by all means, AT LEAST RENT THIS GAME, GIVE IT SOME JUSTICE!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarky
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game, the developers did a great job on the xbox title Chronicles of 
 Riddick so even though I buy few games brand new ($60 is just too much these days fro most titles) 
 I bit the bullet and shelled out the cash. The games starts with a bang, the opening cinematic 
 puts you in a car chase through some tunnels that reminds me of Half-Life's beginning except you 
 are more than just an observer. High marks for pulling you in the game from the start.
  
  This game had been in development for a LONG time, it was originally slated to be a xbox title 
 but got changed to a 360 game part way through developement. That being said I was impressed with 
 the graphics, usually games that began life on another gen-console don't look this good (see STALKER) . 
 There are some control issues especially when controlling the Darkness powers but none that are 
 game-crippling.
  
  My biggest complaint is the save system. I find it inexcusable today for games to use checkpoint 
 systems. The 360 has a hard drive so why can't we save anywhere? Now days EVERY game should allow 
 you to save your progress at anytime. The checkpoint system here isn't as bad as the save system 
 in Dead Rising (one of my favorite games but that save system sucks) but it can still be annoying 
 to have to re-play segments every time you die. If you are a FPS fan looking for something with 
 a bit of a twist then the Darkness powers should fit the bill. They could have been made a bit 
 more useful, sometimes it is harder to use the powers than to just shoot everything but it is more 
 satisfying when you use your demon powers to slay a foe.
  
  The game does a great job of immersing you in the storyline though the side trips to the otherworld 
 (a hellish WW I) seem kind of out of place as if they came from a different game.
  
  Its not as good as Chronicles of Riddick but not too many games are, I recommend this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin? The darkness is inovative at times and boringly like all other FPS's too. The graphics 
 are great, not 5 star quality but many things will catch your eye, the NYC subway in the game greatly 
 resembles the real thing. The sound is great (mike patton voices the beast inside of you) , all 
 the voice actors are good and the effects are creepy. It is pretty much 3 genres in one game, Mob, 
 Sci Fi, and Action. It will remind you of condemmed and fear alot if your familiar with them. But 
 its not without faults, the campaign mode is short, disapointily short, if your a good player you 
 can breeze by it in 7-10 hours. Shooting combat isnt hard but sometimes your forced to backtrack 
 and situations are hard to deal with. In the end The Darkness is a very solid game, probably the 
 best so far in 07. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  the darkness is a different type of game. sometimes its awesome and sometimes it sucks. heres the 
 breakdown
  
  gameplay
  the gameplay of the darkness has its up and downs. the darkness powers u get to use are awesome 
 and are very well intergrated with the enviorment and puzzles u power up the darkness by devouring 
 the hearts of ur opponents thier are 5 lvls each with new powers at each lv. the guns are cool 
 and u can summon servants to help u in battle called darklings ( thier pretty much retarded so 
 its best to do it alone) the games controls can be frustrating b/c of the lack of targeting and 
 sometimes the constant WERE THE F*** DO I GO NOW! makes the game hard but u eventually get used 
 to it. the camera is good though. overall the gameplay is quite satisfying ^ ^
  8/10
  
  graphics
  utterly beautiful and realistic the city even looks like new york city. everything 
 is detailed to perfection. best looking game ive ever seen
  10/10
  
  music
  the heavy soundtrack and eiree and creepy music is a nice touch and really gets u into it. the 
 vo's and the authentic new york accent is perfect (trust me b/c i live in new york ^ ^)
  9/10
  
  value
  its fun while it lasts but the campaign is very short (8-10 hours) and the 
  sucks so its best suited as a rental
  8/10
  
  tilt
  anyone looking for a great new summer title should come check this out
  9/10
  
  overall the 
 darkness is a great comic book shooter that i could recommend to anyone who can look past the frustating 
 controls and want to pick up a great summer title with a compelling story and almost lifelike and 
 beautiful graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00697man
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I just want to say that this is my first review since Half-Life 2. I haven't had much practice 
 writing about games since then but I have played a lot more games and gained more insight on them 
 to allow me to review them better than I used to. I guess I'll approach this from a pro/con direction.
 
  
  Pros: 1) very fun single player game. From the opening sequence to the final moments in the game 
 you will have pretty much one of the best times in your gaming life. 2) great graphics. Even on 
 my crappy 10 year old tv the graphics looked really good.
  
  3) the story and voice acting that ties it all together was very enjoyable.
  
  4) darkness 
 powers. Controlling a snake like appendage that goes and eats peoples hearts is VERY fun. Stabbing 
 someone through the heart and flinging them a dozen feet or so is VERY FUN. Opening a black hole 
 that insta kills everything in site is fun too!
  
  CONS
  
  1) the game is too easy. Once you get the black hole power you might as well be playing on easy 
 mode with a god mode cheat active as well. 2) it's SHORT. You can beat the game on the hardest 
 difficulty, collect everything there is to collect in the game and do all the side quests in about 
 12 hours or less. Don't do the bonus missions and you're looking at maybe a 10 hour game. 3) the 
 story is the usual mob revenge plot with a certain twist that i won't mention in this review. not 
 very original.
  
  
  Ok now that that's out of the way I should say that the pros far outweigh the cons and this game 
 is one of the most fun ones i've played in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHeroOfCanton
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  First off, the graphics are some of the best to date. One of the most beautiful games on any system. 
 And the gameplay is fantastic. Even though the battles are rarely intense, they are fun. The action 
 is unique and a new experience. The voice acting makes the characters come to life. Its simply 
 stunning. The only problem with this game is the length. ITS TO DAMN SHORT! But completing some 
 side missions will take more time. Overall, you can play it once or twice and never be bored. You 
 should as least rent it once or twice. You won't be disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanos3600
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  since the time the trailer appeard i knew this was going to be one of the coolest games of the 
 year. i started playing imediately after buing it and i have been stuck at the sofa since then. this 
 game realy rocks!! the start of the game is great thow it could have some more gunshoot in it. the 
 animations are great especialy the darkness and the nazi soldiers. the darkness powers are awsome. my 
 favourite is the demon arm. the graphics could have been better . the sound is realy neat especialy 
 when you are in a battle. i recomend that everyone must buy this game because it is an experiance 
 no one should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptJoey
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  This is one of the games that actually makes it to my personal "Top 5 FPS Games" list. It is just 
 a great game. No wait, it is better than great! It is fantastic.
  
  Graphic: The graphics are awesome. Some people say that Gears of War is the best looking game on 
 Xbox 360 but I think The Darkness looks just a tiny bit better but that is just my taste. The shadows 
 are really dark and when you turn of lamps or destroy them whole rooms and streets just become 
 infested with darkness. This is a really nice feature.
  
  Sound: Couldnt be better. The voice-acting is phenomenal. The great thing about it is that you 
 really feel the anger from the main character Jackie. I think this is what makes this game so addicting. 
 That you can see how the characters move their arms and hands so that they match the voice-acting 
 so that you really understand and believe the story. I dont know how to describe it anymore than 
 this so you will just have to see and hear it your self.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is just awesome. You are running around in this dark New York City as a 
 hitman infested with The Darkness. This may sound weird but ones you play it you will love it. 
 The game isnt that long but there is a lot to do like looking for extra content, listening to 
 funny phone calls and of course doing hits. So you are never really restless. At the end of the 
 game it really does feel like seen and done a lot. The game is really sad from the beginning to 
 the end and you are really at the point to cry at several points of the game.
  
  Multiplayer: What can I say? Hm... How about laaaaagggggyyyyyy. Not worth spending time on.
  
 
  The Darkness is a sad story about a hitman named Jackie with loads of action and killing. This 
 game is very bloody and at some points I felt a bit sorry for the people I just killed. But that 
 is just a part of the game.
  
  If you want a great FPS that can fight for the "Throne of FPS" with such games as Half-Life and 
 Halo then The Darkness is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  In The Darkness, players control Jackie Estacado, a hitman turned demonic murderer. It might sound 
 a little strange, but the premise works a lot better than it seems like it should. The game's plot 
 is one of its strong points, but some areas of the story are oddly not fleshed out at all. The 
 characters are all either endearing, funny, or wicked, and they are all voiced quite well. Some 
 of the bad guys are real scumbags, and it really feels good to shoot them and rip out their heart. 
 I've honestly never seen a video game with cutscenes as intense as this one. It's crazy how the 
 developers managed to make the game feel like a movie when you're just watching it.
  Aside from the awesome story sequences, the only thing that really differentiates this game from 
 other shooters is the Darkness powers. You unlock the powers at certain key points in the game, 
 which is good in that it allows you to become comfortable with the way that each power handles, 
 but it seems odd that you can't use all of the powers as soon as you transform into the Darkness. 
 In the cutscene in which you transform into the Darkness, Jackie uses every single darkness power, 
 but after watching him do all of that cool stuff the game limits you to summoning darklings and 
 using the creeping dark power until you unlock the rest. The Darkness powers add some much-needed 
 variety to this otherwise by the books shooter. The guns in the game don't pack the punch that 
 they should. The dual pistols that Jackie weilds from the first level onwards are more powerful 
 than any other weapon i've encountered so far, possible with the exception of the dual SMGs. This 
 is also one of the only games in which the auto aim is really noticable to me. It seems to gravitate 
 towards all light sources and the heads of enemies. Other than the shooting aspect, the game is 
 really good. The graphics are excellent. This is a level of detail rarely seen in games, even on 
 the next gen systems. The music and voiceovers are equally good. The darkling minions are hilarious. 
 They are a stream of one-liners, saying things like Rest in peace as they urinate on your deceased 
 enemies. The outfits for the darklings are also fun. Replay value is added by collectibles, which 
 let you hear some pretty funny telephone messages and letters by using phones and mailboxes. In 
 conclusion, the Darkness occasionally falters in gameplay and variety, but it always succeeds in 
 story and atmosphere. (And trust me, the game lives up to its name. It's dark.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Well Darkness is a pretty cool game. It is not something to go crazy over though. I thought the 
 game looked pretty cool but also thought it would conrtol kinda goofy. I was pretty much right. 
 The aiming set up is lame. You can end up getting used to it but for the most part you will be 
 using your darkness powers. The Grafix are out of control and so is the voice and characters. All 
 of that is top notch. The gameplay is good also except for the funky controls. They just feel a 
 little off. The game is real easy even on the hard level. The hardest part is getting to the first 
 darkness power. The story is sweet and the side stuff is great. The achievements are easy for the 
 most part it is just playing the game that gets them for you. No real challenge on that note. So 
 over all it is worth a play, the replay value is ok if you go back to get some of the achievements. 
 I tried the online and was not impressed at all. so I hope this helps you make a good decision. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOADToTheMax
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness can't honestly be summoned up in one word, Maybe not even in a few. That's why I'm 
 gonna write a review for it. This game when I first heard about via Game Informer Photophile segment 
 way back when and saw the pictures of demonic arms impaling gangsters, I had a good feeling it 
 would totally pack a punch in my lust for video game violence, and it truly exceeded it on that 
 part. But something in this game just kinda sucked abit of the experience away from me. Leaving 
 still a great game, but the ability of making it a perfect 10 in my eyes was swept away by some 
 minor dissapointments.
  
  Story: Jackie Estacado, A hit man for his Uncle's gang. A regular pro at what he does, But in the 
 beginning of this game you awake as Jackie, Dazed and confused in the back of your fellow lackies 
 car, Speeding down into a tunnel through an open city highways to make it back home. You find out 
 that you were supposed to be picking up a package for your Uncle Paulie, and due to some error 
 in the mission it wasn't there and you got into a fight and knocked out, only to be rescued by 
 those two lackies. Uncle Paulie has paranoia creep over him and he starts to think Jackie took 
 it and kept it for himself, or screwed up on purpose to spite his not so Uncle Uncle. And Paulie 
 calls out a hit for Jackie, Hiding a bomb in his apartment, Surrounding him when he's at a church... But 
 That day Jackie started to hear voices. Demented, twisted, Evil voices saying some rather dark 
 things to him. And ironically it's Jackies 21st b-day and the day the darkness awakens. This beast 
 emerges and Jackie fights back, the story rages to a point where he goes to hell twice and learns 
 about his powers and in the end it's all about revenge.
  All-in-all: The story was a major arse piece of this game. I loved it.
  
  Graphics: Woo-hoo, 
 Beautiful. Top-notch and down right slick, Curved and detailed to a point of grisly city life to 
 horrible unthinkable darkness of hell.
  God this game satisfies my eyes and makes it so easy to watch and just get that killing feel. Not 
 to mention darklings are wicked looking too. Npc's weren't recycled, Enemy wise; yes. But regular 
 city goers, No. Good variety.
  All-in-all: Some of the best visuals for quite awhile.
  
  Sound: Guns, Screams, and music worked hand in demon hand. Not to mention voice acting that was 
 down right amazing and believable to realistic extent. Violence wise, The squish of impaling demon 
 arms or a rattah tat! Of guns going off blended right with the visuals. Darklings are hilarious 
 and The darkness voicing was done without any tinkering to it. Just friggn' brilliant. All-in-all: 
 No complaints sound wise.
  
  
  Violence: This game proved to be brutal with its impaling, ravage attacks of darklings and guns 
 shoved in your mouth and set off. Yet you couldn't really rip limb from limb with the demon arm, 
 Only impale. Darklings didn't eat dead bodies or rip off arms the just hit the enemy with basic 
 clawing and swiping, I mean a drill in the chest definetly made me happy and a saw to the neck 
 was funny, But not real limb ripping gore. That's just a teeny complaint from what this game really 
 focuses on, Blood and story.
  All-in-all: Gruesome to a non-ripping-off extent. Pleasing but not enough for my sadistic needs.
 
  
  My problem with this game? Despite wonderful plot and graphics. The story was way too short and 
 multiplayer was sloppily thrown in for those complaining little hos who think a game needs to rely 
 on multiplayer alone.
  The gore didn't really appeal to me as I thought it would and the blood looks so real though. Darklings 
 on another note: Were alittle hard to use, Always running into the light, Think they be smart enough 
 to wait while I shoot it out, Like making a mini-game out if it. I had to waste so much time to 
 take out all the lights just so a darkling could kill maybe two guys before dying. Too much tedious 
 work for me. And the gun-play didn't believable unless I was executing an enemy, And that's life 
 draining to do that nonstop when you are out of darkness power.
  
  
  ALL-IN-ALL: Potential fufilled in this game but it left me wanting so much more that they could 
 have easily fixed seeing as how this game is awesome enough as it is anyway. Great game, Easyily 
 a good pick for renting. Do that or wait for price drops to justify this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jumpybunny4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Yes to everyone that thought this game would be great because it was made by the company that made 
 the riddick game, you are very mistaken or atleast I am. As one of the few people who read the 
 comics, i bought the game in hope of an awsome game, boy was i mistaken. yes the game does take 
 the comic and make it into a game, but it does it poorly. the game is way to easy to follow, it 
 has you fighting mobs and demonns but the fights are hardly intense, the amount of darklings you 
 sommon in the game to the amount he can conjure up in the comic is just plain and sad, and the 
 worst of it all is that they put street signs in that you would have to read ten times or more 
 just to get to where you need to go which basicly just says that they had a six hour game on their 
 hands and said lets make an city where everything is in one big circle and you end up getting lost 
 several times just to get to one place . the game is to easy even on hard, the learning curve can 
 take to the end of the game because keep getting darkness powers, the voice acting is amazing, 
 and the game that could look the closest to this right now is condemend. over all its a game i 
 dont thing anyone that is a comic fan should play because it will only dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  Looking for something new in your life? Bored of the same old shoot the guy in the head games? 
 Why not try growing black parasitic demon heads on your back and do horrid unspeakable things to 
 your enemies instead? Well, this may be the game for you. The darkness stars Jackie Estacado, hitman, 
 lover, and future consumer of mafia men/corrupt cops. The game will take you through new york streets, 
 otherworld , and other places I'll leave to the reader.
  
  The gameplay takes a different approach to the usual  style, and 
 adds the darkness, which has several different abilities: Creeping dark (good for when you need 
 cover) , Demon Arm (Good for medium range killing) , ancient weapons (Good for when you're out of ammo) , 
 and finally Black hole, which is sort of like a Big ass bomb-vortex.
  
  The graphics are absolutely Xbox 360 Next-gen, as opposed to the 85% of the games in the market 
 atm for the console. The guys at riddick have succeeded yet again in making a very unique feel 
 to the game, without the darkness looking like a cheap HUD added instead.
  
  The audio is also top-notch, the voice acting is perfect, and who doesn't enjoy hearing strange 
 creepy voices in your head anyways? The game main quest will take somewhere between 8-12 hours, 
 maybe more. The shooter also has some side quests in the subway and other locations, outfits for 
 the darklings, 100 notes scattered in the game to explore for and get extra content.
  
  So, why didn't this game hit 9.0 and above? Well, it isn't quite a perfect game: A few minor glitches 
 with creeping dark, the AI during CD seems to dissipate every once in a while. Although the 100 
 collection notes is nice for explore whores, about 90% of it it concept art that wouldn't be worth 
 the wait. Though to give it a little credit, the comic book screens and 2 movies weren't too bad. 
 The ending was a little... different, but people said the same about HL/HL2. Nonetheless, if you 
 have a taste for eating hearts out of your enemies with a dark creeping thing on your back, this 
 is an absolute must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chakkerz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:52 am PT
Review:  the Darkness is based on one of the many comics i am not familiar with. Never the less this does 
 not say anything about this game or its basis: You are Jackie, you are a hit man, you turn 21 today 
 and you are possessed by a demon or the like. Also, as a small side issue, your employer and adoptive 
 father (one and the same) have decided you should be dead.
  
  The game starts of with a tutorial, which eases you into the action, duck, jump, kill etc, the 
 culmination of which teaches you about solving puzzles in the game world, after killing a stack 
 of goons. This is the first ever first person shooter i've played on a console (ignoring Aliens 
 Resurrection which was terrible controls wise) , and i figured the shortcomings it is showing is 
 what i was expecting. the control pad is just not terribly suited for this kind of game, but thankfully 
 you do get used to it, and the game helps by aiming for you ... a little bit (any more and it would 
 probably be too easy) . Something that must be stated is that this game oozes atmosphere, you are 
 Jackie, you are one with the Darkness, and you are kicking some serious butt. A strong element 
 of this is the voices. Jackie and the Darkness are both voiced fantastic, with the Darkness being 
 voiced by Mike Patton, former lead of Mr Bungle and Faith No More, and involved in some other bands. 
 What this man achieves with just his voice is incredible. That together with all the other cast 
 members makes a very thematic experience. The graphics are great, though the inventory / journal 
 font is very small, making it hard to read on pre HD era television sets. And the other negative 
 point would be the control of some of the powers, in particular the creeping something or other, 
 where you control one of your demonic heads to get into tight corners. Sadly this is rather hard 
 to control and can get frustrating, thankfully this is not required too often. Something else that 
 is frustrating is the puzzles which in part are just completely non-obvious, and occasionally you 
 will die a few times before you realise that the obvious thing might not be the right thing to 
 do at all. Overall though there are guides online (such as on Gamespot) which help you out in those 
 tight spots. Alternatively, maybe i'm getting old and just don't think like game designers anymore.
 
  
  The overall experience is very satisfying as you wield two guns and lay down your special justice. 
 That all said it is very gruesome and bloody and violent, so not suitable for children but more 
 mature individuals (15 or 16 plus) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insaineklown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  I definitely enjoyed this game the story line was interesting, Jackie was likable, the game play 
 was pretty smooth, the voice acting very good, the graphics were beautiful, and the sound track 
 was very fitting. The lighting in the game was especially good but I geuss it had to be since the 
 game mostly took place in the shadows. the only thing that i didnt like was Jackies hair fortunately 
 the in the first person view I didnt have to look at it too much and when the darkness was out 
 it made up for it. I also kind of wish that Jackie had his demon armor like he had in the comic, 
 but I guess that wouldnt fit the feel of the game. They stuck to the dark mob feel throughout the 
 game very well. Overall it was a very well made game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This is actually a really good game. I love the storyline and the game play is pretty friggin' 
 solid. The only part I didn't like is after you beat the first part of the game and you go to some 
 hell-like place fighting faceless Nazis in about the worst atmosphere imaginable...
  
  While the part of the game is creative, it is just too much for me. That part of the game is ubercreepy 
 to me, and usually I don't mind stuff like that, because I like games like F. E. A. R, the Resident 
 Evils, and Condemned. But there was just something about this part of the game that is overdone. 
 I didn't play it much after that, and ended up just getting rid of it. If you can stand getting 
 past the weirdness of this part of the game, pick this game up, because it is oh so much fun to 
 kill people not only with guns, but with the Darkness skills you pick up throughout the game. Also, 
 as I mentioned earlier, the storyline is absolutely phenomenal and will continue to make the game 
 feel smooth. Just don't die cause then creepyness sets in again at the loading screen... go ahead 
 and bite it and see what I mean, then you'll know exactly what I'm talkin about... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfaxx
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  I had high expectations for The Darkness like alot of people. I finished it the other day and I 
 can't really say that the ending was shocking but still good. The gameplay is so fresh and new, 
 clearly the best FPS that has come out in a long time (GoW) aside. The gore, the powers, the possibilities!!
 
  Jackie Estacado.. Jackie Estacado sticks in your head doesnt it? Long dark hair in a long leather 
 jacket. The mobster feeling you get in the game doesn't last long, didn't for me at least. You 
 get it in the beginning but then it disappears without you noticing becuase your to busy ripping 
 hearts out of people.
  
  All in all it's a great game. I hope for a sequel but what would it be about? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent! I love the way they make you feel part of it by not just throwing you directly 
 in to the action, but letting you explore and interact (at least a little) with the world and the 
 people in it... they make you feel about those who are involved in the whirlpool of hell that you 
 are in... you like some of them and you totally hate others so that you don&acute; t go like why 
 sholud I kill this guy but you go like You bastard I'm gonna bite your face out and eat your heart 
 WAHAHAHAHAAA .
  
  The only reason I don't give a perfect score to the game is that you have no choice but to follow 
 a straight forward history with some side missions that are not that interesting. (anyways the 
 history is very intresting)
  
  Mainly, the weapons in the game are pretty standard (dual pistols and sub machine-guns are lots 
 of fun because you have to use both triggers) but you don't really care about the lack of superweapons 
 because you can always count on you DARK POWERS which are absolutely fun to use if you are creative... 
 JEJEJEEE. The voice acting is awesome!! but above all else... THE VOICE OF THE DARKNESS is amazingly 
 creeeeeepy. This game rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortonkid06
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  The Darkness has great graphics as you really feel that you are New York at night, and the faces 
 of the characters makes you feel as if you can almost touch them. The gameplay is immersive and 
 addictive you actually care for Jenny and you want to further the story. The sound is brilliant 
 the games score is very in tune with the areas in the game. The Darkness powers as aforementioned 
 are not a gimmick but an integral part of the game and you'll have fun using them. The Creeping 
 Dark is a very useful stealth power that you will really use when in cover and you need to thin 
 the line of enemies. The Demon Arm (my personal fave) can be used to whip enemies that can stun 
 them so you can then shot them or you can stab enemies or objects and then throw them. The Darkness 
 Guns only really useful in the Otherworld were they permanently keep the undead down. In the real 
 world however they are just like ordinary guns. The Black Hole is also very fun to use as it pulls 
 enemies into it and kills them then throws them away when it collapses . The other part of the 
 game that means you can increase your Darkness Level is the devouring of hearts ,yes you read that 
 right devouring of hearts, that means you can access different Darklings and if you devour certain 
 peoples hearts to gain Darkness powers. The shooting is competent and not really repetitive as 
 enemies react differently each battle and the red dot provides good aiming. The executions are 
 different depending on position, gun and the trigger pushes. The Darklings are not a huge part 
 of the game and sometimes infuriating to control but when they are controlled properly they are 
 useful in battles for killing enemies and getting rid of light while in the heat of battle. Throughout 
 the game you will realise that the darkness is your friend and the light is the enemy unlike previous 
 games were it was the other way round and you will find yourself shooting any light source in the 
 area and before proceeding into another. So, The Darkness is a great experience and should definitely 
 be bought if the chance arises. What prevents a perfect ten is laggy multiplayer and the sometimes 
 annoying Darklings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Very odd experience for me. In general, I feel this game is over-rated. I'm a huge fan of FPS, 
 so just know that my comments come from a fan of the genre.
  
  Here's a breakdown of some thoughts I have with the game.
  
  Graphics: pretty good, but overall, 
 way too dark for my tastes. Sure it fits the theme, but my goodness, it's hardly original to have 
 a fps play mostly in the dark. How about some colors, please? There were times I didn't know whether 
 i was in a loading screen, or in a room. I'm sort of tired of games thtat are mostly different 
 shades of black. But overall, I did think the graphics were good.
  
  Story: Ummm... awful. Really. I just don't understand how anyone could like this story. The PREMISE 
 is great: mofia and demonic stuff mixed in. that's fine, but wow, did they ever not know what the 
 piss they were doing with this story. And it just seems to get worse and worse as it goes on and 
 ends with, well, nothing special.
  
  Gameplay: mostly solid. Controls could be tighter. Weapons are alright, but could be better. AI 
 is pretty decent. But the big problem I have with this game is that the game is sooooo derivative. 
 There's not much here in the way of new or next gen. I feel like I've played this game already 
 over and over again.
  
  I will make special mention of the opening scene. Best opening scene of a game, maybe ever. It's 
 sweet.
  
  Sound: pretty good voice acting and sounds. But the demon's voice is SO contrived and loud, it's 
 honestly too annoying. But that's probably a taste thing.
  
  Value: the game isn't long. Sure there are side missions and things to collect in the world, and 
 multiplayer, but I don't see those as extending the life of the game too much. In general, I can't 
 see why some people love this game all that much. Sure, it is fun. But it's also got some really 
 annoying levels, which can be confusing at times, and a story that in my opinion, really sucks. 
 The demon powers are cool and fun, but doesn't really make up for just how derivative the rest 
 of the game is.
  
  Most reviews you'll get are positive. If you want a more critical look at the game, look at the 
 latest issue of EGM, read Michael Donahue's (spelling?) comments. I'd say I agree with him most. 
 Also, 1up. com has a podcast in which Garnett Lee (1up Yours) talks about the problems with this 
 game. He suggests that for those painfully going through the game not to bother finishing it since 
 it's such a disaster by the end of the game. I don't quite agree with him. I actually think the 
 last chapter of the game is the funnest as far as gameplay is concerned. But ya, the story does 
 fall apart. This big mystery really turns out to be not so spectacular.
  
  I do sound very critical of the game. But I want to say that there were times I had lots of fun. 
 There are 5 chapters in the game. Chapters 3 and 5 are the funnest I'd say. Chapter 2 is almost 
 where I stopped to just cry at how bad the level design was and lame the weapons were for that 
 level. And chapters 4 and 1 were only OK. But I did have lots of fun playing the game. I'd say 
 that if the game had come out 2 years ago, it may have made quite an impact. But I don't see why 
 this is a next gen game, or how it's anything but derivative.
  
  Worth Buying? I don't think so. I'd say it's certainly worth renting. And I'd give the same advice 
 as Garnett. If you're renting this game and in the middle get the urge to just give up. I'd say 
 give up. The story isn't worth it, and the gameplay doesn't really get much better. There are some 
 solid things in the game, but flaws that I can't get past as a lover of FPS.
  
  ON a side note, if this game had been made for the Wii, I could see it being awesome if demon powers 
 were controlled by different movements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unlucky57
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:56 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a great game in most aspects for example, the shooting is excellent, the story 
 is good, the controls are fairly simple, the physics engine is fantastic, and last but not least 
 the graphics are very good. One thing that did grind my gears was the fact that the pistols and 
 smg's were just use and drop which is actually kind of disappointing to me, but either way the 
 game was great and i would not mind spending a couple of more days playing it because after a while 
 trying to find all the hidden collectibles in the game is kind of a challenge, and if you are like 
 me just finding and killing things is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rexdeaz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is an action based a comic book of the same name. having never read the books i don't 
 really understand the demonic aspects of this title. for as great as the game's story is to watch 
 unfold, it still feels incomplete in it's explanation of how Jackie acquires his powers and why 
 this even matters. it seems to serve as more of a backdrop to explain cool looking, gratuitous 
 violence, and for what this game is that works out just fine. but it's the connection to the powers, 
 or lack thereof, that keep this game from attaining the status of the chronicles of riddick, the 
 game it was so blatantly modeled after. for those of you giving heavenly sword crap for being a 
 god of war knock off, start deriding the darkness for this feat of wholesale piracy as well. but 
 the game's flaws aside it's fun to play, controls pretty good and has some amazing graphics and 
 voice acting. I'd like to see starbreeze continue to make licensed games, they've done well enough 
 so far that may feel like it's time for an original IP, but when you're this good you should roll 
 with what you got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talthorn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is an awesome game, although short, awesome. The Darkness is based on a character 
 named Jackie Estacado, a once orphan adopted by Paulie Franchetti, boss of the Franchetti Crime 
 Family. Only taken in to become another hit-man, Jackie lives a life in the mob, doing Paulie's 
 dirty work. But he got too good.
  
  The Darkness adds a new element to any other first-person shooter game you've probably played, 
 added to the wide array of weapons you get, you also inhabit super-natural powers. These powers 
 range from being able to summon Darklings (Imp-like creatures) to black-holes and skewering people 
 with a demon arm. With the ability to perform nasty fatality moves with your guns up close, the 
 killing part of the game makes for something very fun and gruesome. Being able to find little collectibles 
 that unlock extra content also encourages you to search and experience the full environment around 
 you.
  
  Graphic-wise this game is up to par with any other 360 game you will play. With some very nice 
 audio to go along, the environments are rich and immersive. Plus with the very enticing story-line 
 to go along with it, the game makes for a great adventure. But for every good there's a bad. Just 
 like any other 360 game, it's a bit pricey. If you're like me, you want a long lasting quality 
 game if you're going to fork out the cash. I can safely recommend you rent it first, because I 
 can almost gaurantee that you'll beat it within a 6-8 hour range. Even if you take your time, doing 
 the nice side-quests that are included, you should beat it fairly fast, and you'll be left wanting 
 more... you're money included if you bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkemory
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  First of all, I love this game. Its very different from any FPS I can remember ever playing. When 
 I first saw the ads for this game I kept thinking how lame looking. However after noticing it in 
 the marketplace I downloaded the game demo and was intrigued enough to rent it.
  
  The gameplay is interesting, you basically start off in an interactive cinematic experience that 
 leads into the story. Weapon wise you can dual wield pistol that you pick up. You pick up other 
 weapons as you progress through the game like dual submachine guns, and a shotgun. The twist is 
 very early in the game you are posessed by a dark being.
  
  This has a very anime feel to it, because when you are using your darkness powers you have two 
 large snake like apendages coming from your shoulders, that you have some control over. You start 
 out with very basic powers (shield, see in the dark, roaming tenacle) and add more as you go along.
 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, my only complaints:
  1. Hair, looks hard, doesn't flow
  2. Odd glitches where textures that shouldnt flash at the front of the screen
  3. Faces don't 
 have any expression, seem robotic.
  
  But overall I like the look of the game, I can live with the problems that are there.
  
  Sound 
 is good, the voice acting is top notch.
  
  Biggest problems with this game, its very short without a ton of replay value, and the multi-player 
 is not very good, very laggy and glitchy.
  
  I highly reccommend this game, as a rental! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamegod
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  I was sooo looking forward to this game, so much so, i broke my internet rule of ordering off the 
 game website (i shouldnt have cos' it turned up two days late anyway, curse you royal mail) but 
 in hindsight, i should have ordered another game, cos' in my opinion, this game was way WAY over rated.
 
  
  Graphics - They were fine, as you'd expect with a semi high profile game such as this, but other 
 than be asthetically pleasing, thats about where it stopped...
  
  Gameplay - Was terrible, so much auto-aim, i found myself aiming for a leg, and shooting a head... it 
 takes no skill at all and that did my head in. As for walking the main character around the numerous 
 levels, i swear, for such a young guy, he ambled around like an old timer, this game just has no pace...
 
  
  Sound - bang bang bang? yay... it wasnt anything special, but what i did occassionaly enjoy was the 
 random muttering of the little darklings, sometimes coming out with rather funny one liners...
 
  
  Story - it was ok... and that was it, for me, the story and gameplay felt to disjointed and loose, having 
 to go from point a to point b using the subway system felt terrible, because 9 outta 10 times, i'd 
 end up lost...
  
  All in all, to anyone who wanted this game, id strongly advise you not to, but different people enjoy 
 different things, so its down to the individual... one more thing i had against this game, was the 
 diabolical excuse for online play, LAG FEST even with a good internet connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danbouk
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  Quick review here, I'm afraid. The Darkness is a FPS with a comic book horror theme.
  
  The Story is quite good, but I wish you could cut some scene, especially if you had already seen 
 them, they do get boring and very annoying.
  
  The A. I in the game is a joke, as is the shooting, also I found button response times, could sometimes 
 be a bit lame, which again becomes annoying.
  
  The main game isn't that bad and the special powers you have are quite cool, but can get old quick, 
 it can be a bit boring backtracking through the game, especially as your character moves really 
 slow to start with.
  
  the Graphics look ok, good but nothing special, though the WW I levels look a bit dated, but there 
 is no slowdown in the visual department.
  
  The special powers you have are quite good, but as soon as you begin to enjoy them the game ends.
 
  
  On-line, the lag in the game is a joke, which is ok, because as a shooter the game pretty much 
 sucks and wouldn't be that good as an on-line shooter, so I feel they should have left that part 
 out and made the single player better or longer.
  
  Overall, its hard to recommend The Darkness or even dismiss someone getting The Darkness, as the 
 game is both Good in some parts and terrible in others, I'd recommend you try before you buy, but 
 I just found the game annoying and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spencdiamonds
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  K firstly this games graphics and gameplay where way up there since I wanted to have a good game 
 to play for the 360 this was good. it based on a comic so the storyline is oviously good and u 
 should not read my review because of spoilers. The powers that Jackie gets are awsome such as the 
 demon arm or blackhole which either stabs them and you can throw them around or the black hole 
 which is what all you need. This game was so good its very imersive but when your Girlfreind Jenny 
 died I was angered. After your uncle polly killed her you shot yourself I belived that was the end 
 of the game which I would have been happy with but no you go to somekind of hell called no-mans 
 land which is in the past and its WW1 where you meet your great grandfather who tries to help you 
 rid yourself of the darkness. I also liked the options that were in this game and future games 
 now the option to choose what to do you could either kill someone and take somthing by force or 
 you could ask nicly and get it without killing someone inncocent and making the darkness happy. 
 This game truly sucks you in after playing this game I felt like shoting out lights in all my other 
 games lol since lights give you weaknesses while darkness gives you power. Final words though would 
 be Good game till the end where the darkness takes control after you rid it and it kills innocent 
 people and how Jenny is in heaven and you are immortal evil and you will never see her again since 
 the darkness wont let you die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GearsOfWar2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece. You play as Jackie Esticado and you are just like any old mobster until 
 your 21st birthday. You gain a power called the Darkness and from there on it gets crazy. The graphics 
 are incredible and the voice acting is great, though at some time the lips dont move at times. 
 The loading screens are totally diffrent from what you would normally expect, the old, is a screen 
 that says loading, the one in the game is Jackie talking about random things.
  
  Even though the story takes a weird turn in the middle of the game it's still really good. The 
 real bad thing though is online. Its dosent fell like they put the time and effort into it instead 
 it felt like it was rushed in. Anyone looking for a great FPS with a power to devour hearts should 
 pick this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Motara
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness came out, fortunately for the developers, in a lull in the Xbox 360 game timeline. 
 It is a storyline heavy first person shooter with a great single player campaign. It will be dwarfed 
 by other innovative first person shooters, but it is a good game to add to your collection. Graphically 
 the Darkness is clean and slick. There are no problems with textures or glitches, or slowdown. 
 The character models are a little sub par when the action gets heavy. They are on the same level 
 of lets say ---Hitman 2 on the Playstation 2. Same rag doll effects and character models of enemies 
 are not very varied. There are some really detailed levels that aspire to creepiness -- the Train 
 Carried Artillery piece in The Darkness's hell is awe inspiring As far as first person shooters 
 go -- this game is not remarkable. It has a collection of generic guns that do what you expect them 
 to do. The developers have definitely downplayed the gun action over the powers of darkness that 
 you possess. With just your speed and a machinegun -- it is just not enough to survive most enemy 
 encounters. You have to rely on your powers of darkness. They are powerful enough for you to bask 
 in the might of your demon possession. The demon powers, if anything, will make you love this game. 
 You can flip men or monster, even cars, hundreds of feet into the air. Stealth kill with a face 
 scraping demon snake that extends from your body. You can evil harness the power of the ultimate 
 void-the black whole. It is with these powers that you will enjoy this game. Knowing how to use 
 them will make the game rather easy if you can master the powers, or devilishly hard if you don't 
 use them correctly. The story line is done quite well. The universe of the game has great detail. 
 You can sit with your girlfriend and watch To Kill a Mockingbird -- the real film. Radio stations 
 and Televisions work, lights switch on and off, phones can be used, people will have conversations 
 with you -- I was impressed by this aspect of the game. The missions are varied enough to entertain -- the 
 levels different enough to keep the creeping boredom that some First Person Shooters inspire without 
 detailed levels. A game well worth the play. The downside is the length of the game, short 20 or 
 so hours of game play. Yet playing it again was just as fun -- due to the various uses of powers 
 or weapons. Multiplayer is broken. In my play experience I could not even get through a door or 
 up the stairs, teleportation to other places in the map occur, and people speed around you blasting 
 away while you are stuck in clip limbo. I heard that playing as the host calms things a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisWar
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  I thought that it was a good game overall but not great. The game was over rated by the so called 
 experts. The action in the game I thought toward the end of the game was repeative. I also thought 
 the ending was stupid. On the brighter side, the graphics were good and I liked the story line 
 in the game. The voices were o. k. but not great. Like I stated earlier, I liked the game it just 
 was't great, I expected a lot more out of it. I also don't think the game has much replay value 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howard666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  my first thought when i saw the trailer was this game will be immense then i saw that it was a 
 first person shooter and was sorely dissapointed i was so hoping it was goin to be in the style 
 of Devil may cry with a scary evil mob gang twist. I was so dissapointed that i boy coted the game 
 and didn't want to go near it, until i finally thought what the hell why not just try it. Right 
 from the off the game sucked me in with its powerful graphics and awesome gameplay. Not only does 
 the story keep you on the edge right up until the end but also the fact that your a super evil 
 super hard badd ass gangster freak. my favourite move which has never gotten old was walking right 
 up to the **** and stabbing them with your arm then throwing them away like a wet tissue, classic. 
 Even the dialogue in between level changed was a brilliant and original, it kept you looking at 
 the screen never giving you a moments bordem or peace. I will admit it has flaws but you can't 
 deny its not a classic and excting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warden72
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Good: Darkness powers are sadistically fun to use; great cinematic aspects and dialogue; painstakingly 
 detailed textures; multiplayer can be cool when working properly.
  
  Bad: Powers can render standard weapons obsolete; real world needs more people, other world desperately 
 needs more purpose; multiplayer is also a lagfest.
  
  The Darkness was developed by Starbreeze, the brilliant minds behind the outstanding Chronicles 
 of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay. Based on the graphic novel series by Top Cow, the game wastes 
 no time throwing you into the bloody shoes of anti-hero Jackie Estacado, a young, charismatic mafia 
 hit man stuck in a terribly unfortunate situation from the initial fade-in. In a first-person, 
 bang-up intro similar to (and likely inspired by) the original Half-Life, Jackie wakes up in the 
 back of a convertible with a couple of his buddies racing for their lives through a crowded tunnel. 
 Turns out you're being hunted down by the man who raised you, and you must do what is necessary 
 to survive.
  
  The story plays an enormous role in the The Darkness' visceral experience. Although the plot itself 
 isn't exactly brimming with creativity, the manner of storytelling is especially engaging and Jackie 
 himself is brought to life with considerable flair and sensitivity. He's a brutal yet modest and 
 respectful young man when not performing hits, evidenced by insightful -- though often repetitive -- monologues 
 that double as loading screens, and by the touching relationship with his childhood sweetheart. 
 The story can make one feel included in something both dire and special, particularly when it strikes 
 the player with an unforgettable plot twist. However, there are no deep explanations for the true 
 origins and motives of the Darkness itself, although this may remain deliberately obscure for the 
 sake of a possible sequel.
  
  In terms of gameplay, what sets The Darkness apart from other shooters is the Darkness itself, 
 a sinister and physically manipulative being that manifests inside Jackie on his 21st birthday. 
 In addition to letting you sprout heart-devouring tentacles like some satanic version of Doctor 
 Octopus, it will bestow overwhelming powers that let you steamroll over nearly every enemy you 
 encounter. Expectedly, the Darkness will grant new powers as you progress, and most are amazing 
 fun to use. However, even in spite of the fact that light sources weaken you, these abilities can 
 negate the need for regular weapons, thereby erasing much of the challenge -- even on the hardest 
 difficulty.
  
  The first power you're given is Creeping Dark, an independent tentacle capable of distant item 
 collection, heart consumption, and stealth kills that often remove enemies' faces. Creeping Dark 
 is cool and sneaky but can be relied upon almost entirely and has trouble circumventing obstacles. 
 Next is the Demon Arm, a ridiculously strong appendage that can impale and toss any enemy or movable 
 object -- even a car. It can kill every enemy with one hit, and is also very handy at knocking out 
 lights but has trouble auto-targeting those occasionally. Later come the puzzlingly misguided Darkness 
 Guns. These just get in the way when cycling through powers and pale in comparison to regular guns 
 that downed enemies constantly drop anyway. Lastly is the Black Hole, which is exactly that, sucking 
 all nearby objects and enemies into a void before dropping everything to the ground lifelessly. 
 You might as well put away your guns once you get this one. These unholy abilities may make the 
 game easy, but it's hard to deny the feeling of awesome power by wielding them.
  
  To make matter easier still, the Darkness also allows you to spawn little helping gremlins called 
 Darklings. These guys pop out of the ground to assist you in your homicidal efforts, and are by 
 far the most entertaining characters in the game. Four types will become available progressively: 
 the Berserker, which has only a melee attack based on whatever unlocked outfit it's wearing. This 
 one kills pretty effectively but must do so at point-blank range. Then you receive the Gunner, 
 which mows down everything with a minigun fairly efficiently, though it occasionally detects unseen 
 enemies and tries to shoot them through walls. The third Darkling is a Kamikaze which simply explodes 
 in order to kill enemies or clear obstacles. Lastly is the Lightkiller, which conveniently zaps 
 lights and enemies alike though often fails to attack. Despite their sporadic inefficiency, the 
 Darklings do help matters more often than not and there's no denying their entertainment value. 
 For example, a Darkling killed a SWAT cop with a jackhammer, said, Regards to your family, then 
 promptly urinated on his corpse. After laughing hysterically, I actually texted a friend to tell 
 him about it.
  
  Despite linear campaign progression The Darkness does have a slightly open-world structure that 
 allows travel between different districts as you see fit. Side missions will have you hopping all 
 over town via subway to basically kill this person or fetch that item. Most of these objectives 
 entertain plus double as opportunities to unlock achievements and concept art, and to take in more 
 of the rich dialogue, spot-on voice acting and detailed environmental artwork (the graffiti was 
 even designed by known taggers) . Some aspects that may annoy include a deliberately plodding movement 
 speed and utterly vacant streets, as if a quarantine were in effect just to make room for a few 
 nameless NPCs and all the thugs and crooked cops bent on your death.
  
  Eventually you end up in an alternate dimension of sorts that represents the Darkness' independent 
 hell for consumed souls. Here you battle zombie-like soldiers doomed to a perpetual World War 
 I. It feels hopeless and bleak but offers no wartime assault on the senses. The novelty of being 
 dropped into this ominous realm wears off quickly once you realize that it all seems more like 
 an effort to break monotony than an attempt to flesh out the story. Rail-shooting, a simplistic 
 boss battle, and a drawn-out quest for a cannon shell are the main elements that make these levels 
 feel more like a pointless endurance test, and that's when you aren't on the verge of getting lost. 
 As a matter of fact, the whole purpose for one of these levels is to find the futile Darkness Guns. 
 This purgatory isn't terrible by design (maybe it's a deliberate metaphor for hell after all) , 
 but it doesn't offer anything new and may have been better off as a series of backstory cutscenes.
 
  
  Since many consider an FPS lacking multiplayer as unfortunately deficient, Starbreeze saw fit to 
 whip together their own brew of online fun. Although this mode features ordinary deathmatch and 
 capture the flag (and the levels are very small) , it does offer a pretty fun mode called Survivor 
 where one person plays as a Darkling while everyone else is human. It feels like a goofy version 
 of Alien. Humans that die then become Darklings themselves, and the last human standing wins. This 
 mode is definitely the most fun, but the widespread lag to be found in most matches can and does 
 ruin it all.
  
  The Darkness is a worthy title simply for its creative contributions to the FPS genre but is a 
 bit too reliant on unholy powers, and should have either remained more firmly rooted in the mortal 
 world or been more creative with its displacement from reality. Ultimately, if you can accept demonic 
 powers taking the shooter out of first-person shooter, then you'll find The Darkness a rich 
 and satisfying experience that lets you be a near-unstoppable killing machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derugs
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  bought it (which sukked) played it (which i still can't understand why) and took it back (which 
 felt real good except for the fact that i BOUGHT IT) YEP, this game made me reminisce on what i 
 shouldn't have done which was buy this game. the idea of eating hearts and 2 arm like creatures 
 that seem to have a mind of their own is kinda cool but not for long. the controll here lacks precision... 
 the graphics arent all that considering its the ps3. and the story has soo many twists and turns 
 in it its hard to follow and enjoy. at first you feel jackie's pain up until his girl gets killed, 
 then later on the story gets meaningless and thers no need to care anymore. totally boring. the 
 game itself is just wacky and crazy. too many lame moments walking meaninglessly in the subway 
 station. folks there are better 1st person shooters out there stay away from this one. but if your 
 interested rent or borrow from some other idiot that purchased this game. B EZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadrisingguy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  The Review Deck says everything about this game. The most emotionly stirring story i have ever 
 played. The voises in the game is like Good Fellas. Gameplay is different but it takes time to 
 get used to! The Graphics is GOOOOOOOOD!! Ther Darkness is easily the best looking game to date. 
 The game is partliy based on the comic books. The story is great. You kinda fell bad for Jackie 
 as he moves along the story. The main story is linear but you can pick up side-missions in the 
 subway. Its a great game but if u ask me its not worth $60 bucks. I rented it and beat it within 
 2 days. The main story is 8 to 10 hours. So go rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  Over the years, numerous games have dealt with the subject of organized crime. And, of course, 
 dozens have dealt with hellspawned demons and other similar forces of evil. The new first-person 
 shooter from Starbreeze, though, may be the first game that tosses these two disparate elements 
 into a single game, and, at least in the case of The Darkness, these are two great tastes that 
 taste great together.
  
  The Darkness is a story-driven game that casts you as Jackie Estacado, a mafia hitman whose 21st 
 birthday is full of surprises, to put it mildly. The game begins with a knock-your-socks-off opening 
 sequence in which Jackie wakes up in the back seat of a car to learn that things have just gone 
 sour on an errand he and a few other guys were supposed to be running for Jackie's uncle Paulie, 
 the local mob boss. A bit later that night, Jackie's trying to do what he can to make things right 
 when he suddenly finds himself manifesting the powers of the Darkness, a mysterious and clearly 
 evil force that takes shape in the form of two demon heads that sprout out of Jackie's shoulders. 
 As the game progresses, things for Jackie will go from bad to worse, and as he's put through hell, 
 he'll find that the Darkness is both friend and foe, and he will have to go to great lengths to 
 control it while also harnessing its power to take revenge on some very bad cops and criminals. 
 The game's first act is extremely compelling and powerful, and although the game's later stages 
 never recapture that same level of intensity, the story is nonetheless unusual and interesting 
 throughout.
  
  The Darkness plays like your standard first-person shooter, with the powers that you acquire from 
 the Darkness functioning as unusual and very enjoyable weapons. (It's worth noting that on the 
 game's default difficulty setting, the aiming assistance is extremely helpful and the game is rather 
 easy, but there are a nice range of customizability options to make things tougher for those who 
 prefer a challenge.) Early on, you acquire the creeping dark, which lets you take control of this 
 slithery thing to sneak through small areas, scout out areas ahead, and kill unsuspecting foes. 
 You'll also get the demon arm, a large appendage you can use to impale bad guys (Satisfying!) and 
 to throw objects around; the darkness guns, two powerful guns tbat fire dark energy; and the black 
 hole, which sucks in and kills nearby enemies. You'll also be able to summon a few different types 
 of demon helpers, called darklings, which you'll need to do to solve the occasional puzzle and 
 who will also help you fight, but don't really have a huge effect on the game. All of these powers 
 are in addition to the usual assortment of pistols, shotguns, assault rifles and the like which 
 you'll pick up off of your fallen enemies. If you use one of these guns on an enemy up-close, Jackie, 
 killing machine that he is, will perform an extremely brutal execution move on him. All in all, 
 the game's action is visceral and thrilling.
  
  The Darkness also functions as a protective shield, so you'll want to keep it happy, and in order 
 to do that you'll need to stay in the shadows, so you'll spend a fair amount of time destroying 
 light sources. You'll also want to make the Darkness stronger, which you'll do by consuming the 
 hearts of evildoers. Yep, that head on your right shoulder will tear right into your enemies' bodies 
 time and time again to rip out and feast on their hearts. If you think this sounds needlessly gruesome, 
 you should probably avoid The Darkness. If you think that sounds pretty cool, then there's a good 
 chance this game is for you.
  
  Most of The Darkness takes place in a pertetually nocturnal New York. When the game first begins 
 and you're just starting to get your bearings, the city can seem quite large, but eventually you'll 
 realize that there are only two subway stations and a handful of areas off of each one that you'll 
 visit numerous times throughout the game. The backtracking in the game can get a bit tedious at 
 times, especially since you'll sometimes find yourself just slowly walking through mostly empty 
 environments trying to get from point A to point B. The city may not be massive, but the environments 
 are richly detailed, and things like the moody lighting and the very authentic graffiti you see 
 all over the place go a long way towards bringing the world to life. Perhaps nothing does this 
 more, though, than the game's exceptionally lifelike characters. The people you meet don't just 
 sound terrific. Every nuance of their facial expression, every gesture they make as they're speaking 
 to you seems natural and fits perfectly with what they're saying. And although you're looking through 
 Jackie's eyes throughout most of the game, the frequent loading times are masked by shots of Jackie, 
 alone in a dark room, narrating his own story. This is a clever touch, and getting to know Jackie 
 better as the game progresses helps pull you deeper into the story as you play. The game's sound 
 is pretty great overall, too, with the voice acting being the highlight, although the mournful 
 music and sound effects are definitely up to par, as well.
  
  The Darkness offers online modes, but in contrast to the single-player experience they all seem 
 downright ordinary and probably won't hold your attention for long. The single-player game will 
 probably take most players about 12-15 hours to complete, and it packs more memorable moments than 
 some games that are twice as long. If you're a fan of intense, visceral
  shooters, you should definitely give The Darkness a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G4mbl3
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Shooters come and go. You rent one, beat it in about a 2-5 day rental and move on. This is one 
 of those shooters. But, sometimes, once you beat a game, you will tell your friends about the awsomeness 
 that this game exhibits. You might even play it again. But you probably won't buy it. The Darkness 
 is just the type of shooter. It's fun, it's smart but it just doesn't have that same pull other 
 games like Halo and Half Life have where you want to buy it and keep it, to beat more and more 
 times. This is how I felt. The graphics were stunning. They were, to me at least, as good as Gears 
 of War. Not surprising considering this is the same studio that made Riddick, a game so very far 
 ahead of its time graphically. You will marvel at it. The only problem with it is that the animations 
 could have been much cleaner. The sound is nothing mind blowing, but we got Mike Patton as the 
 voice of the Darkness and that alone bumps it up such points. The voice acting is also superb, 
 on levels similar to Metal Gear Solid. The gameplay is where things look up. You probably already 
 know the backstory, how you control the Darkness, etc. but the actual gun combat could have been 
 so much more intuitive. It feels clunky to aim the thing and when you do, all guns feel and sound 
 as if you're shooting a high powered BB gun. The movement of the main character leaves something 
 to be desired as well, especially in moments where jumping puzzles arise. I didn't have time to 
 play the multiplayer but I did beat the game on a 1 night rental on normal, if that gives you any 
 indication how short it is. I didn't play obsessively either, playing more than 1 hour makes my 
 head hurt so I had to play in intervals. I never really felt like beating it again either, to be 
 honest. There are some side missions somewhere in the half point of the game which I passed to 
 beat the game as quickly as possible so I guess if you really want to you could go back to that. 
 Bottom line, fun game, not $60 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dchayes79
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Really reminded me of Max Payne... in style and gameplay many times. Not really difficult once you 
 understand the mechanics, about as difficult as a rail shooter, but there is something to be said 
 about the journey of that rail. Never while are you actually playing it are you thinking, man.... this 
 is too easy. Game plays surprisingly long... it is a really good value. Would like to see a sequel, 
 and have that pump up the gameplay a bit, without sacrificing the twisting, well laid out game 
 structure. The sound editing of this game amazing, and when I heard that the guy who does the voice 
 of the Darkness was not computer enchanced... it game me the willies, lol. Pro's: Amazing graphics, 
 very gritty (ala Max Payne) , really good sound, well layed out story and pretty good length. Cons: 
 Nothing new here, not a whole lot of innovation. Difficulty wise, plays like a rail shooter, very 
 scripted. Only sound complaint is that while the voice acting is great, and so are the graphics.... they 
 do not sync the voice to the lips!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is a demonic first person shooter by the people who made Chronicles of Riddick escape 
 from Butcher Bay.
  
  The story is very impressive, you are a Mafia Hitman who on his 21st Birthday is taken over by 
 the darkness and he uses this power to take down his old foster father, the head of the mafia family 
 who is out get him as he messed up on a job he was set.
  
  This game is pretty good, I love the darkness powers. You have 5 in all which you unlock throughout 
 the game. These abilities only work in the darkness so you will have to shoot out all the lights 
 if you wish to use them. The guns are pretty standard fps, the only difference is the darkness 
 gun which honestly is very useful. The loading times are pretty bad in this game, every time you 
 move from an area you get a little in game video of you character in a dark room talking to himself. 
 These loading screens seem to be very frequent and seem to get the same few over and over so gets 
 very tiresome. The multiplayer is ok but and I like how you can transform into a darkling, a little 
 minion which you can control in the single player game. This is ok for a few games but will not 
 hold your attention for a long time. The controls are standard First Person shooter, the primary 
 and secondary fire is on the triggers, the darkness powers are on the bumpers and the rest is very 
 standard.
  
  The game looks good but it is nothing fantastic. The visuals are smooth and look very realistic 
 but still doesnt hold up to gears of war.
  
  Overall this game is a good game but is no Riddick, The positives of the game is great story and 
 amazingly useful powers. The minus points for this game would be excruciatingly frequent and long 
 loading times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kubiak
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Using the darkness powers is pretty fun but this game is too short and too easy. The game could 
 be stretch out longer if you try to finish all the extra missions but I found myself not really 
 caring too much about them. They are too easy as well and there is not enough incentive to finish 
 them all. They needed to have better rewards for completing them. I simply stopped caring about 
 them after the first 5-6 or so. The phone number thing ended up being kinda lame as well. They 
 were funny in the beginning but got lame and repetitive after a while. And why does his hair always 
 move when someone answers the phone on the other end all the time?!?! Shooting all the lights by 
 the end becomes tiresome as well. Graphics are awesome, just like in Riddick so Starbreeze has 
 really got that part figured out but again, just like Riddick, too short. Can't comment on multiplayer 
 cause I traded it in as soon as I finished the game. In the end, pretty fun, very short, shallow 
 game with good ideas and not enough content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lasseee
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is an exiting story from start to end, fro mthe truly amazing graphics to the sad 
 story of jackie estacado, this game is as close to perfect as you get, bugged only at minor incidents.. 
 the darkling system can get a bit confusing at times, especially when under fire, also, you feel 
 like you're missing some darkness powers. There's no HUD on screen, which makes the game feel more 
 real. Multiplayer is alot of fun, but suffers from lag. in short this game is definately worth 
 your money and it def. takes a run for best game of the year... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  I was there when Darkness #1 issued. I remember his first crossover with the Witchblade. I remember 
 when we knew Turner wouldn't be inking anymore. And i remember the day I gave up on Jackie Estacado. 
 I thought my relationship with the darkness would then reside only in my past.
  
  Not so.
  
  Darkness is a triumph. Anyone familiar with Butcher Bay shouldn't be surprised. 
 The development team here is exceptional and they really imbued the game with the flavor of the 
 original comic in all it's ethically ambiguous desires.
  
  Ok praise aside. What's in the meat huh? Darkness is a a competant standard fps at best. Variable 
 speed settings could have been more accomodating. The magnetic lock on feel annoys me. If i wanted 
 the game shooting for me I'd have put in a movie. I want a head shot off my own skill. Fortunately 
 this is rarely an issue once you get your darklings and skills.
  
  The cinematic presentation is gravy on an already impressive graphics package. The mechanics and 
 physics engine can be glitchy on rare occasion, but with as much going on here, can u really be 
 surprised. Speaking of graphic... the violence is -very- graphic. If u don't really want to see 
 the insides of a mobsters face, then this game is not for you. It is awfully bloody but so very 
 beautiful. otay, everyone has heard about the darkness skills. yeah they're pretty, yeah they're 
 cool looking, but most importantly; they are not only practical to game progression but integral.
 
  
  If you have to choose between this and Halo3 in a few months try not to be an idiot... but if you've 
 got it to drop on a good game, 60$ is well spent on darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tainar2001
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  So, when you first put the game in your greeted with a the first ooo ahh moment, and thats just 
 from the menu. I just thought I'd get this part out of the way, the graphics are very, very, nice. 
 Even the parts that don't seem to look as pretty are always incredibly detailed. And it has the 
 sound to match. Few games make me actually want to read the graffiti on the walls, but good lord 
 theres just so much detail it may leave you with a sense of wtf was I doing? syndrome.
  
  From the graphics to the game play is another story. The action is fast and brutal, which is awesome. 
 There are few things that can match stabbing a thug in the chest and capping his buddy in a dark 
 damp sewer. But thats where the game begins to turn to the dark side (hehe get it?... ok no more 
 puns) . I'm not saying the action isn't great, I'm saying that actually GETTING to the damn action 
 sometimes got frustrating. For instance, there were points where you had no idea what to do. Here's 
 an example.
  
  Well I'm back to life (yay) well.... lemme just check my objectives and well be back to ass kicking. 
 Hmm... that's funny... no objectives... well I'll just go... um... f***..... 
  
  I know I can't be the only one that took at least half an hour looking for the main quest after 
 that. Or better yet, lets get the radio. Well to get to the damn thing you have to take the subway 
 back to where you just where, kill like what, 7 dimwits, talk to the radio, go back to the subway, 
 talk to whats-his-face (again) , then go to the docks and begin the cool part of the game again. 
 I know what your thinking, I'm not saying the story is bad, in fact it really got me in the mood 
 for revenge. I'm just saying that the action would GRIND to a complete halt, and then expect to 
 pick up the slack doing nothing. So all in all, The Darkness is a pretty epic tale, filled with 
 heart eating (much like GoW had a chainsaw) , fun action sequences, and amazing presentation. But 
 then again, this isn't really reinventing the genre (it didn't need to but we've done most of this 
 before) , and it did have it's INCREDIBLY slow moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knit_girl1974
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  I loved this game from start to finish. I am relatively new to the FPS genre, and this is the first 
 FPS that I have played from start to finish. From the initial heart-pounding scene, I was immediately 
 drawn into the story line, which flows beautifully throughout the game. The only complaint I have 
 about the story line is I was genuinely sad when the game ended. I wish it had been longer, as 
 I really enjoyed the world of Jackie Estacado.
  
  There are a lot of FPS games out there, and I've dabbled in a few of them, like Halo and Call of 
 Duty 3. I have never played through such an interesting and emotionally gripping story as the one 
 presented here. The game mechanics work wonderfully to help tell the story, as well as adding some 
 interest above and beyond the gun 'em all down before they nail you aspect. Being able to control 
 the two demon heads in my peripheral vision was, for lack of a better word, cool as hell. The Darkness 
 powers available are all very different from one another, and all four of them have their use.
 
  
  The weapons in the game are pretty typical, and sound alright. I preferred to use my powers to 
 defeat my foes instead of using guns though. I enjoyed being able to summon Darklings as well, 
 as they became more and more useful as the story progressed. I'd rather my enemies shoot at them 
 while I got into just the right position to take them out.
  
  The in-game music was appropriately scored to the action on screen. Tender moments were scored 
 with a bit of a melancholy tone, while truly horrifying moments had me on the edge of my seat as 
 the music pounded. The action is well paced throughout, although the AI could use a bit of a swift 
 kick, as there were quite a few times that I felt killing the enemy was a little too much like 
 shooting fish in a barrel. I'm a collectible nut, and I really enjoyed peering in every nook and 
 cranny for the next phone number or letter I needed to pick up. Most of the phone numbers were 
 quite funny to call, providing a much needed breath of levity in the game. In summary, if you like 
 a FPS that will engage you emotionally as well as give you some unique game-play experience, then 
 I urge you to give The Darkness a go. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capitancahonas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is one of those games that makes you want to find out more about the games origins 
 and further/previous adventures of.. - the main players. To this end i am awaiting delivery of 
 vol 05 of the darkness, and not being much of a comic fan these days I simply bought it on the 
 strength of the cover art.. anyway, I digress. The game based on this long running series (saw a 
 10th anniversary edition!) will please all fps fans, and aside from the main (anti) hero's dodgy 
 hairstyle -think goth meets 70's cher- most other aspects of the games characterizations and plotlines 
 are entirely plausible and engrossing. There is plenty of sharp dialogue too, from snappy (badda-bing!) oneliners, 
 to humorous observations by your everpresent chum, the darkness of the title. There are lots of 
 things to see and do in the gameworld , and with most of them slaughter related, you will be surprised 
 at the variety of ways you will be able to despatch your foes. The traditional firearms throughout 
 the game are a liitle underpowered to start with, but a well aimed headshot from even a measly 
 pistol, will still take 'em down in one. The real power of the weapon system lies in the darkness 
 abilities you can acquire, and you will become fairly reliant on them in combat. The real nice 
 thing here though is that for the most part you can mix and match your traditional arsenal with 
 the dark weapons to turn you into a seriously lethal, death dealing behemoth!
  
  The graphics are very atmospheric, and everything seems to chug along at a fairly consistent framerate. 
 Some things could have been polished a touch more perhaps, and a few of the character models suffer 
 a little from shiny plastic syndrome, but it generally all holds together well.
  As has been noted, the voice acting is of a high quality (if a little tongue in cheeek at times) , 
 and you get the sense that the folks providing the voices had a lot of fun in the process.
  
  Games of this type are usually a little short, with the main benefit being (if good enough) 
 to leave the player wanting more I guess (Sequel anyone?) .
  
  In short, a very well thought out and executed game. Top notch fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Tyrant
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a game made by Starbreeze Studios, the same developer behind the good Chronicles 
 of Riddick. And, like that one, The Darkness also delives a fun, frenetic and original experience.
 
  
  Graphics: 9.0/10
  The graphics are really good, only marred by loads of graphical bugs. Even though, the game is 
 so pretty and solid that it should be left aside.
  
  Sound: 9.2/10
  Almost perfect. moody music when it must have one, silence with chillinh whisper, and great voice 
 acting.
  
  Story: 9.0/10
  Jackie Estacado, a mafia hitman, is betrayed on the day of his birthday of 21 years. He also acquires 
 some sort of strange power: The Darkness. A very interesting story unfolds, making the game very 
 worth to play.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0/10
  The Darkness is a great addition to this otherwise stamdard FPS, making the game much more interesting. 
 Overall:8.0/10
  Yes, only 8.0, because of the loads of bugs. Some times you attack the eneymy, and he just doesn't 
 die, and other bugs, especially with the graphics; otherwise, a good FPS with a very interesting 
 story worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Jackie Estacado isn't exactly someone you'd want to be, especially for the first twenty-one years 
 of his life. First off, the man's a contract killer, and I don't think we need imagination to predict 
 what that has to be like. Second, he works with some of the nastiest goons and thugs, the last 
 people you'd put as your top friend on MySpace. Not only that, but he has to deal with a sinister 
 force growing inside him that makes him no less than the devil's advocate. Welcome to The Darkness.
 
  
  Starbreeze, the creative minds who brought us The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay, 
 are back with their adaptation of the famous comic book The Darkness. In it, you take on the role 
 of Jackie Estacado, who's lowly life isn't too far off from the above description. Unfortunately 
 for our pale Jackie, his Uncle Paulie is now out to get him for being unconscious during a vital 
 business operation. So it's up to you to mess up Paulie's business for trying to kill you and put 
 a bullet conveniently in his head.
  
  But don't worry, you don't have to take Paulie on with yourself and a few guns, you've got a bit 
 of people and, well, creatures behind you. Since Jackie happens to know a few good people, they're 
 willing to help you out of this sticky situation. But for when the encounters get nasty, you can 
 rely on the entity that is the Darkness to lend you an extra hand, or should I say tentacle or 
 two. But what is the Darkness? Why has it chosen you and how? All this and the business between 
 you and Paulie becomes the backbone of the game's story. Progressing through the game, you'll find 
 out that there's a lot more to it than just trying to kill as many thugs as possible.
  
  The game goes for a more interactive approach than most shooters by allowing you to take part in 
 several conversations. While this may not sound like a move that would make the game necessarily 
 better, it's not like these conversations are just with random people. In fact, most of the conversations 
 in the game contribute to the story by having you talk with the other main characters. You're also 
 given multiple response choices so how long or short a conversation lasts or even the topic can 
 change depending on your answers. This idea is handled very well for the most part in the game 
 and helps to make it more engaging than your typical first-person shooter.
  
  The game also gives you a lot of down-time within the subway and streets of New York City. While 
 the open-ended nature of the game during these parts may entice one to go exploring there really 
 isn't much to uncover rather than a few side missions. Also, very little activity occurs in the 
 city streets other than conversations and shootouts so it almost contradicts the given nickname 
 for the city that never sleeps . Neverless, the game does well at creating a good amount of atmosphere 
 between its open-ended moments and surprisingly engaging conversations.
  
  While the idea of finding out the roots of the Darkness might sound interesting, the game is still 
 quite vague in exactly how and why you came into contact with it. And since this becomes the main 
 point of interest in the game, about the only story left to look after is how you plan to get back 
 at Paulie. And this, as you could probably tell, mostly involves you doing a lot of walking and 
 killing. So while the game is more engaging than the conventional FPS, it doesn't exactly represent 
 this with its' story.
  
  So, you might be wondering what crazy stuff you get to do with your given Darkness powers. Well, 
 initially you're given the Creeping Dark power, which lets you take a serpent-like arm (growing 
 out of your back) and sneak up on unsuspecting foes. You're also able to summon small, Smeagol-like 
 creatures called Darklings to teach your enemies a lesson in pain and death. Eventually as you 
 progress through the game you'll gain new powers and be able to use different Darklings. Your Darklings 
 include Beserkers, Gunners, Kamikaze's and Light Killers. As for your serpents, you'll gain the 
 Darkness Arm (allowing you to whiplash enemies) , Darkness guns (one shoots electric shocks, the 
 other shockwaves) and eventually the ability to produce black holes.
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned, The Darkness handles pretty well, using a fairly conventional 
 control scheme. Using your Darkness powers is relatively easy, althought you'll likely encounter 
 a few inconveniences with the Darklings and Creeping Dark targeting. With shooting enemies it isn't 
 too difficult, although the game likes to auto-aim a lot and actually makes aiming a bit more difficult 
 than necessary. Also, moving around does feel a bit sluggish, which may take a bit of time to get 
 used to. Other than these issues The Darkness handles pretty well, just not very smoothly like 
 Halo or Call of Duty.
  
  One of The Darkness' strong points is its visuals, which are some of the best around technically. 
 Both New York City and the people who live there (who seem to have a thing for the subways) are 
 rendered with rich detail, although some look more plastic-like than others. The animations in 
 the game tend to be pretty good and the game runs at a steady framerate from start to finish, even 
 during the bigger firefights. Probably the biggest issue with the visuals in The Darkness is the 
 lip-syncing, which is either really good or just barely even exaggerated. You'll mostly notice 
 this during the load times when Jackie's narrating, half the time it looks like he's mumbling even 
 though he's speaking clearly.
  
  Another area in which The Darkness shines in is the sound department. The sound effects, whether 
 they be from the guns or sound of glass breaking, sounds as you'd expect it to. As I stated before, 
 the game has an immersive feel to it and is surprisingly engaging, which is part thanks to the 
 excellent voiceovers. True, the lip-syncing isn't always spot-on, but the respective voice actors 
 do well to bring their characters to life. Jackie has some great one-liners and does well to bring 
 out this anti-hero character who can't seem to get a break. There's also Mike Patton (lead singer 
 of the band Faith No More) who voices the Darkness and he brings a creepy, sometimes Gollum/Smeagol-like 
 personality to his character.
  
  As far as the music and score goes the game tends to get the music and moments in which it picks 
 up right. Whenever you get into a gunfight the music will pick up and once you've disposed of all 
 your enemies it'll slow down acoordingly. Unfortunately the game doesn't have many music samples 
 so it's possible that you'll grow weary of the game's few tunes.
  
  You don't really need to worry about rushing to purchase a copy of The Darkness since it isn't 
 a particularly lengthy game. Most people will be able to finish it within twelve hours for their 
 first tun through the game. There aren't too many reasons to really go back and play the game a 
 second time unless you want to ramp up the difficulty or get all of the collectables for Achievements. 
 While the game does offer an online multiplayer portion it isn't exactly a very good one. Online 
 you're stripped of your Darkness powers and instead, are given the ability to transform into a 
 Darkling to travers the map quicker. But the online portion has horrible connection issues and 
 the targeting is way off, so the multiplayer feels broken and incomplete to say the least.
  
  The Darkness, like just about every other shooter released in the past few years, is a game 
 that's worth checking out, but only as a rental. There's plenty of thrills, chills and great action, 
 but alas, it only holds out for a few hours of gaming. There's a great single-player experience 
 in store for those who are curious, but beyond that, it's not worth much attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowenergycycle
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Starbreeze deserve a big, fat, stinking reward. Its that simple, really. Yet again theyve carved 
 their name (probably with some kind of crude office stationary) on the wall in the Great Hall of 
 Gaming Achievements - in plain sight so that everybody can see, right next to the picture of Gordon 
 Freeman (upon which theyve also squiggled a pair of devil horns and a rudimentary fart gag) .
 
  
  See, while all those celebrity luminaries of Game Development have been jabbering on about creating 
 immersive worlds, believable characters and movie-like productions, Starbreeze just went ahead 
 and did it. Leave Warren Specter and Peter Molyneux to waffle on while they eat free cake  the 
 guys at Starbreeze actually went ahead and did something rather than waste time chatting up the 
 press.
  
  So The Darkness then - its a bit good. You can read all about the mechanics of the game elsewhere. 
 The Darkness powers etc. are well documented on this website alone. Im here to talk about the 
 experience as a whole.
  
  First of all, Id never even heard of The Darkness until fairly recently. As far as I was concerned, 
 they were a disastrous parody-rock band who tried (and thankfully failed) to reawaken the era of 
 80s Hair Metal. My attention was piqued when I heard mention of legendary vocal-smith Mike Pattons 
 involvement. And frankly, nothing prepared me for simply how great a decision that was.
  
  For those who dont know, there is very little that Mike Patton (formerly of Faith No More, now 
 of Tomahawk, Fantomas, Mr. Bungle, Peeping Tom, Lovage and around a thousand more side projects 
 to boot) can not do with his voice. From a crooning Sinatra to incomprehensible rabid screeches 
 via eerie monkish chanting, the mans voice was perfect for the roll of The Darkness. He brings 
 the demonic hell-spawn to life like nobody else ever could, and its a testament to Starbreeze 
 (whose fingers must have been welded to whatever the relevant pulse) that they even thought to 
 include him.
  
  Patton really does flesh out the creature into the rasping, disgusting, vile and wretched parasite 
 that it is. If I was in Starbreezes shoes, I seriously wouldnt have even considered anybody else. 
 Utter genius.
  
  With that fan-service over with, lets move on to the characters. Without spoiling The Big Twist 
 (which you can see coming from a mile away anyhow) , there are some deeply moving sequences in The 
 Darkness that only really work through the exemplary characterisation. You feel massively angry 
 about the protagonist  Jackie Estacados  predicament. You furiously want to unleash all of Hell 
 on his foes for what they are doing.
  
  The beauty, of course, is that you can, but the characters help spur on the motivation ten-fold. 
 Shooting bad-guys has been a staple part of the Gaming Diet for years, but never has it felt so 
 invigorating. Carrying on to rip out the hearts of these treacherous foes to feed your ever-hungry 
 resident parasite (and thus empowering yourself further) is a deeply satisfying action that still 
 doesn't tire 300 meals down the line.
  
  *** MINOR SPOILER WARNING ***
  There's a certain moment towards the later end of the game in Lower East Side that will have you 
 literally sprinting as fast as you can in red-faced anger, goon blood on your mind, especially 
 following the scenes in previous sections of the game. How many times have you ever felt that way 
 in your Gaming Career? You know, protective?
  *** MINOR SPOILER WARNING ***
  
  Most gaming characters these days come across as one-dimensional stereotypes with completely bland 
 and predictable lines delivered by Z-grade voice actors. But Starbreeze have once again excelled; 
 theres not a single awkward line of dialogue in the entire game. The lines are delivered with 
 the exactly correct amount of enthusiasm and feeling. And there are stacks of them too  I simply 
 do not remember hearing a repeated line of conversation. Initiating a talk sequence itself is also 
 completely intuitive. You just walk up to whoever is calling your name  no button pressing or 
 bumbling around making sure youre standing in the exact right spot. You know  just as in real 
 life.
  
  Speaking of the vast amounts of material, finding any of the various TV sets in the game (theres 
 one in your Aunts living room if youre struggling) will allow you to view entire episodes of 
 Popeye and Flash Gordon, not to mention entire music videos from a small selection of bands. In 
 the game!
  
  *** MINOR SPOILER WARNING ***
  Imagine the scene  Ive got a mission to lay waste to one of Uncle Paulies goons whos been reported 
 spying on Jackies Aunt. Not to mention the main story arc which requires me to hunt down a Very 
 Special Briefcase so it can be rigged with a bomb. Im fairly sure Ill be acquiring another Darkness 
 Power some time soon for extra jollies, so what the hell am I doing watching a 1930s original version 
 of Flash Gordon with a hobo in the subway?
  *** MINOR SPOILER WARNING ***
  
  Sure, these extras are purely ancillary to the main game, but they flesh out the world even more. 
 Similarly, go look at a flaming barrel  there are (refreshingly) not that many, but the flames 
 that lick the air above their steel nests are some of the most realistic Ive ever seen rendered. 
 Again they are ancillary, but somebody at Starbreeze must have spent hours and hours perfecting 
 those flames.
  
  And thats the big difference between this and many other FPSs. Starbreeze have poured their heart 
 and soul into The Darkness and it shows in every corner of the game. That they enlisted professional 
 graffiti artists to draw the abundance of wall paintings is another fine example.
  
  Its also a great show-piece for how video-games can happily emulate great movies. The interaction 
 between characters is brilliantly natural. The scripted scenes are superbly directed and genuinely 
 keep your attention without feeling at all intrusive. Jackie feels perfectly grounded in his world 
 rather than just being a floating gun. Again without wanting to spoil anything, the last mission 
 is fantastically movie-like in quality, right from the way lights shatter under your icy glare, 
 to the scripted sequences where The Darkness takes control. The general mood of the game whereby 
 graphics, audio and code are somehow combined to create an intangible atmosphere that just isnt 
 present in many other titles boasting the cinematic bullet-point on the back of their boxes. 
 The abolishment of loading screens in favour of Jackies inter-mission soliloquies is a total stroke 
 of genius (watch out for his brilliant remembering of his first kiss in the subway) . The use of 
 Capt. Midnight (arguably Tomahawks finest 3 minutes) at the start of the ending credits is exactly 
 the right song. The credits themselves are exactly like any movies. I could go on and on
  
  *** MAJOR SPOILER WARNING ***
  The most involving and cinematic moment in the whole game 
 for me, though, was right at the very end - the last time you have control of the game before the 
 ending movie - the inevitable execution of Uncle Paulie. Your first shot simply disables him, puts 
 him on the ground and makes him start the begging process. From here it's entirely up to you how 
 you end this snivelling piece of dogs**t's worthless life. You can take as much time as you like, 
 looming over him, your shadow cast large, listening to him beg and squirm, until you find the perfect 
 weapon. It's by far the most satisfying death in the whole game, and it's dished out to you perfectly 
 by those nice young chaps at Starbreeze.
  *** MAJOR SPOILER WARNING ***
  
  To wrap this up, if you are a fan of video-games, The Darkness is essential to your well-being. 
 If you can honestly say that you played it indifferently and were unimpressed by any aspect, you 
 are frankly dead inside. Dont be put off by the long history of the intellectual property  no 
 previous knowledge of the comics is necessary. Just pop it into whatever disc drive you kids are 
 using these days and sit back, savour the next 15 hours of truly unique gameplay, because youll 
 be very sad when its over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  This is a dark gritty game that you'll just love the storyline is awesome its about you Jackie 
 Estacado your a contract killer for the Franchetti gang family and your uncle paulie backstabs 
 you on your b-day so you try to get him back and then all hell breaks loose and you unlock the 
 darkness power which are awesome one of them is a arm that u can use to stab your enemys or just 
 pick crap up and throw it at them this is one of those game that i cant stop playing its a great 
 game and the multiplayer is good to you can be a mafia guy or a darkling. darklings are fast but 
 can die quick and cant pick up weapons but the mafia guys are just like any standard fps this game 
 is one of the best xbox 360 games ive ever played so if u got a xbox i recommend this unless you 
 dont like fps games but all of this saying is just my opinon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Gooseberry
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  It felt like I was playing this on a old PC with a bad graphics card, the frame rate is so slow 
 and every step you take stutters the video putting a painful amount of stress on your eyes. You 
 want bright graphics? nope not here, just dark impossible to see, jerky framerate and bad gunplay 
 in this game.
  
  Powers are interesting for a while in the start to screw around with, the blade thing you can use 
 can pick up stuff, why can't you lift people up and throw them into stuff though? I'm tired of 
 games that choose to make a game dark just to hide the fact the graphics aren't that good and to 
 cut down on detail that would be needed in a full light game. This games worth a rent if you are 
 into FPS, paying for it would be a complete waste of coin. I'm not seeing what other people are 
 in this game, maybe they are just in denial over the 70 dollars they just wasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hannibal54
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  When i first heard of this game, my friend was dsicussing it on the phone with someone. When he 
 showed me the previews it looked amazing, and I wasn't disappointed when it did come out.
  
  First of all, the graphics are amazing even on a regular tv. From the solar eclipse to the 
 character's faces, you can see every little detail. The voice acting is also a plus. Very well done.
 
  
  The storyline is a big thumbs up. Jackie Estacado is a Mafia Hitman who got screwed over by his 
 uncle and has to get revenge, meanwhile being posessed by an evil curse known as The Darkness. 
 It gives Jackie powers, such as black hole summoning and a demon arm that impales and grabs heavy 
 things.
  
  There are a few levels which you get sent to Hell, but they were my least favorite. Being shot 
 at by an endless army of German zombies gets repetitive. It gives the game a more evil, dark side 
 to things however. In a World War 1 setting, you find yourself in this land after comitting suicide 
 on holy ground. You come there twice, and both are pretty difficult but very interesting. You meet 
 with your great great grandfather who is also trying to figure out the secret to The Darkness.
 
  
  The Darkness is a confusing mystery so I'll let you figure it out. Bravo to the creators, its now 
 a favorite of mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manslayer2006
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Why I give it a 6.1 is very simple, finished it way to fast. I bought this game yesterday and finished 
 it yesterday. I was hoping for a game that I could enjoy instead I got a game where I can stay 
 behind a wall and kill everyone with the Creeping thing, (your first power) . Story line was alright, 
 ending was a disappointing when I couldn't control the action when there was so much there and 
 not to say that you find The Darkness doing all the cool insane stuff and you sitting back saying, 
 Okay can I play, no you want to finish it for me, alright! plane disappointing. Also the multiplayer 
 seems broken! I go to play online and find my self jumping around the screen saying Wtf is going 
 on! then saying I am going to go player RS6: Vegas or C&amp; C 3. Anyways all and all it is a fun 
 game in the beginning and the spike thing you get is to me the coolest power, but you should of 
 been able to use that as a grapple hook or something. This game is not worth the broken multiplayer 
 so I suggest you rent and beat single player and get as many as the achievements as possible then 
 say audios. That is my review of The Darkness for the X-box 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pr0SacK
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness tells a great story, and you won't want to quit playing until you complete it. The 
 graphics are very aesthetically pleasing, and the dialouge is very well though through. None of 
 the dialogue seems forced, and graphical quirks are few and far between. As you play and witness 
 the events that unfold, you almost feel as though you are the main character. You begin to wish 
 for retribution as though someone had wronged yourself. A quick rundown of the story is you play 
 as Jackie Estacado, a mob bosses' nephew. You wake up in the back of a car, apparently after a 
 botched attempt to collect money from a business. After playing the game for just a short while, 
 you realize that your uncle wants you dead. In essence, without giving away the whole story, you 
 intend on taking care of your uncle before he takes care of you. Overall this is an amazing game 
 that I had a lot of fun with. The achievements are not impossible, but not NCAA Football easy. 
 Plus how could you get sick of eating peoples' hearts? :) I would definitely recommend renting 
 this game at the very least. I was able to beat this game on normal over the course of 5 nights, 
 so keep that in mind before you rush to spend $59.99 on it today. Just one more note about the 
 multiplayer: if you are expecting a great experience there a la Gears of War, keep looking. The 
 multiplayer seems tacked on, it is laggy, and generally not much fun at all. DO NOT BUY THIS GAME 
 FOR THE MULTIPLAYER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great graphics and effects, Great voice overs, Darkness powers are cool to use, Eating 
 hearts never gets old, Missions are fun to play, Decent amount of weapons, Acheivments are well 
 layed out, Good replay value, great storyline
  
  The Bad: Online play isnt the best, The game is over pretty quickly
  
  From the go this game 
 is highly enjoyable, you are plunged into big gun fights and using powers of darkness soon in the 
 game. Basically in this game you are trying to find your uncle paulie who has but a bounty on your 
 head, but after you die (the first time) you are granted the powers of darkness and you begin to 
 fight that too. The Graphics look great, from the guns to the demons coming out of you, it all 
 looks very impressive.
  
  The voice acting is great and well pulled off, the voices really suit the character and give the 
 game a more realistic feel.
  
  There are 4 darkness powers in total; Creeping Dark, Demon Arm, Darkness Guns and Black hole. Creeping 
 dark is very cool, you control a worm like creature and can sneak up on enemies and bite their 
 faces off and eat their hearts (which never gets old) . Demon Arm is basically a spike that comes 
 out of you and can move cars and spear people, this is great fun when you are one on one with an 
 enemy. The darkness guns arent that great, their not that strong and dont feel that special, theres 
 one thats a pistol and another that shoots a shockwave, at close ranger this is powerful but if 
 the enemy is far away the pistol is kinda lame. Finally the black hole is a hole you summon that 
 sucks everything around into it, this is pretty cool and can get rid of clusters of enemies quickly.
 
  
  There is a great variety of missions in the game and a few side missions that are fun to carry 
 out, the levels are alot of fun to play and theres never a shortage of enemies to slaughter
  
  There is a good amount of weapons in the game, from the basic 9mm to the combat shotgun, great 
 fun to use and evem more fun to use execution moves.
  
  The game is great fun to play and when youve finished it you are left wanting more and feel the 
 need to play through it again. The storyline is great and you can get really into it, it makes 
 killing the bad guys all that more fun.
  
  Sadly there is 2 flaws to this game, the first is the online play, this kinda feels like its just 
 thrown in for the sake of having online multiplayer, the pick ups look cool and the guns remain 
 fun to use but sadly there is great host advantage which can spoil the game.
  
  The game also only has 4 parts, and in these 4 parts your just bouncing back between New York and 
 World War After life kind of place with zombie natzis, personally i didnt ind the war parts that 
 great and i thought they kinda spoilt the game, and its a shame there wasnt more missions in the 
 game, but as i said, there is replay value.
  
  In conclusion this is a great game and a must have for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vincent9mm
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Most people stepping into Jackie Estacado's world will be new to The Darkness. A comic book series 
 that is dark, modern, and wicked. This game however doesn't play like your average comic book game, 
 its world actually looks real and characters aren't cheaply voice overed versions of their former 
 selves.
  
  The first thing to note about The Darkness is its amazing ability to tell a story with its opening 
 scene taking place in a violent car chase with the cops. It doesn't need a ton of backstory or 
 lack a ton to start this journey, so you have nothing to worry about walking in with no former 
 knoweledge of the series. Voice acting and character models polished and top notch we take a deeper 
 dive into the dark with its gameplay.
  
  The Darkness is a first person shooter and plays like a decent First Person Shooter. At first you 
 won't understand the game because your powers are very limited. It almost even gets boring busting 
 lightbulbs just so you can stealth kill and devour hearts. Soon enough though after munching on 
 a few baddies you gain new abilities and can summon new creatures to do your bidding. Your powers 
 are based on how dark it is so with gigantic florescent lights Jackie and his Darklings go down 
 pretty fast against the flurry of mobsters. With a bit of concentrated bullets to the lights however 
 soon Jackhammers will crush skulls and your tentacles will drag the Franchetti Crime Family into 
 a new era of pain and torture. Sometimes switching inbetween abilities and different guns it is 
 easy to make a mistake and end up mincemeat, and the Darklings are more automatic then they are 
 manual. Control on these darling little demons is near impossible unless very vital from getting 
 from point A to B. Enimies will die fast and often so difficult battles are rare mainly only being 
 lost due to the lightbulb you forgot about or a mis pressing of the wrong button. Your guns do 
 mild damage and lack variety though really if I was able to summon black holes i'd prolly wouldnt 
 worry about having stylish guns.
  
  Now travel within New York can get confusing at first, the world of this game is rather open. Though 
 simply looking at street maps and realizing there are really only two areas of the game (Canal 
 Street and Fulton Street subways) which act as hubs providing sidemission through interaction with 
 NPCs. If your looking for a linear game that tells you to go every step of the way this can get 
 frustrating but if you are looking for a linear game that you can travel around a bit in, this 
 wont be a problem. The 3rd area of The Darkness is hell, which gets a bit interesting and is designed 
 so well it makes you sad there isn't more too it. The sight of "Famine" and "Pestilence" are truly 
 impressive feats and display truly the feelings that you would expect in hell. This land of hell 
 just happens to be during WWI and plays a vital line in the story which while beautifully told 
 is lived shortly and could honestly deal with a bit of fleshing out. As could the rest of the game, 
 a lack of real boss battles and multiple events make you wonder if the comic book really isnt just 
 a single graphic novel.
  
  Overall The Darkness is pretty straight forward for its 6 hours of gameplay that is quite the joyride 
 if you enjoy ripping hearts out of mobsters and watching two hydra heads in front of you argue 
 about who gets to eat the tainted meat. Humor is easily found within The Darklings and NPCs and 
 the story though not overly detailed like you would expect from a Comic Book based game is perfect 
 and fits the game well. Some controls will annoy and same goes for organization of the game but 
 with a few flaws The Darkness is definately a summer hit, just for 60 bucks is a bit much to pay 
 for when you feel like its more of a movie ticket kinda game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heisman67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very dark dark game and I don't mean the night time that this takes place. It has 
 the feel of silent hill with the demonic undertones and the gritty shading that is well loved. 
 The story has and interesting twisted with you being a mob hitman that on his 21st birthday wakens 
 The Darkness inside of him that you later on find out about how you get it. Its a descent FPS, 
 but with the demonic arm, darklings that say things that have a funny comical to them crapping 
 and peeing on your recent victims. Not to mention you tear hearts out of people and rip off faces 
 suck them into black holes, then you have the executions that you can do with your worldly weapons 
 like put your gun under their chin or in their mouth and pull the trigger. Graphics are really 
 good. Other then that game worth the rent and as for the online dont play it unless you are a achievement 
 whore like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyromaster14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 21, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  It's been a while scince I last reviewed a game, so bear with me. Let me just say that when I first 
 saw the darkness, I was skeptical about it, but when I saw it in play, it blew me away. When I 
 finally got my hands on it, it did not dissapoint. Based on the late 80's comic book, you play 
 the role of Jackie Estacado, a young mafia hitman whose having a bit of trouble with his Uncle 
 Paulie. On the night of his 21st birthday, Jackie is possessed by a semi-satanic force called The 
 Darkness - hence the title of the game. with this power/curse at hand, Jackie must fight his way 
 past the New York underworld and a hellish version of WWI germany to take control of the darkness, 
 and take care of uncle paulie once and for all
  
  The gameplay is top-knotch, but uncommon to say, you start out with dual pistols, and work your 
 way up to better weapons, personally, the dual pistols are my weapons of choice, but your HUD only 
 shows up when you're either reloading a weapon, loading a game, or reloading. but it adds to the 
 exitement. The Darkness' powers are really fun to use in this game, from summoning little darklings 
 to ripping black holes, the simple use of the Right bumper can result in a bloodbath. The graphics 
 are amazing, the character models to the landscape, though they're not perfect, it is still pretty 
 impressive, especially in HD. The sound is great too, from the superb voice acting, to the gritty 
 feeling of the subway, it sounds like you're really in the gritty underbelly of NYC.
  
  The game does have its flaws though, I didn't find the Multiplayer part all that interesting, It 
 was sort of a port of doom, but with the ability to play as a darkling, I couldn't enjoy this part, 
 because I kept lagging, and my internet connnecton is bad.
  
  Other than that, The Darkness is an excellent FPS, and a great graphical showcase. This is a great 
 game to pick up, play, and have a bloody good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IGDetail
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  If you cant make a game good, then make it loud and obnoxious. At least, thats what the makers 
 of The Darkness believe. Now, these qualities dont necessarily make a game bad, but after being 
 dragged through this awful experience literally screaming at the screen, I can honestly say it 
 doesnt work for The Darkness one bit. Through the first hour I must admit that I was amazed by 
 the story quality and character relationships, some of which exuded real feeling. These were adapted 
 from what I understand was a quality comic so I cant fully award the developers. In fact, having 
 the hard part done, you would think a game would be halfway home. Somehow 2K and Starbreeze screw 
 it all up with this inept action shooter.
  
  The Darkness gives the player shooting weapons, specialized underlings called Darklings, and two 
 very blood-hungry arm extensions with their own set of unique abilities. These abilities may sound 
 cool but after achieving your second or third power, you start realizing how useless most of them 
 are. In fact, Im betting you could choose a single ability and make it through the entire game 
 intact. You could, but The Darkness forces you remember some inane quality of one these abilities 
 even after several levels of not using it. The in-game tutorials also forget to fully explain the 
 extent of each power, only adding to the confusion. Im sure those players willing to open the 
 manual or whove read the comic didnt have these same problems, but I cant remember the last 
 time I had to read a game manual to know how to play. Most games makers know to keep the player 
 in the moment.
  
  Having all these abilities would be fine if given the opportunity to use them, but every single 
 street in The Darkness is virtually empty. The only time I actually realized this was an action 
 title was in the death levels. If I wanted to play a war game though, Id play one thats strictly 
 FPS. These other-world levels were aggravating for many reasons. The darkness limbs were either 
 in the way of a clear shot or unreliable in combat and targeted wildly. Enemies also had the unnatural 
 ability to shoot from a distance out of player sight range. At this point in the game I had grown 
 very volatile towards the voice of the Darkness that was constantly nagging at my brain.
  
  Sound quality is decent, but the lead characters dialogue is terribly cheesy. Load screens get 
 over repetitive and, after the first round, I deeply wished for the option to see a silent, friendly 
 load bar. Sadly, most levels are also very small, so players get to see these loads often. The 
 Darkness is rather buggy in areas and some missions even got stuck on me. It wasnt necessarily 
 the longest game either, taking me only about six to eight hours to beat, so theres no excuse 
 for them not to have thoroughly game tested. The testers probably got as angry as I did when playing 
 this clumsy game and decided to ship as-is.
  
  The major problem is that The Darkness doesnt know what kind of game it is and doesnt do any 
 one thing spectacularly well. Instead, the 2K and Starbreeze have crammed as much abilities into 
 one package without giving the player enough room to use them. When the game finally does decide 
 to ramp up to full, the experience is either cut short or totally taken out of the players hands. 
 After each resolution, I was left feeling very ungratified. In fact, a good majority of the final 
 showdown is actually just viewed by the player while the very annoying Darkness has his own fun. 
 The few minutes of amazement that The Darkness offers does not make up for the lack of quality 
 game experience present. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZachBdude
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  SINGLE PLAYER
  I love how i have to get through parts of the campaign to get more powers and better guns. so far 
 i have the creeping dark and demon arm. The powers are original aswell. No other game that i have 
 played has snake-like arms and SPOILER WARNING! the black hole. UNSPOILER! I enjoy stabbing things 
 and throwing them, it sounds not too fun but the rag doll phisics are really good. Its especially 
 fun throwing people. The only thing that frustrates me is that sometimes people fall down and appear 
 to have died but then get up and shoot me, sometimes even kill me. The health system is bassically 
 the same as most of this generations games. It has a twist though, you must stop moving for you 
 health to regenerate quick enough to come back in the fight before another enemy runs at you and 
 will shoot you. the ammount of different weapons is pretty good, ANOTHER SPOILER! many pistols, 
 shotgun, two automatics, riot shotgun and the miniguns, this does not include the historical weapons 
 that you get when you go back in time to WWII, and there are weapons that were made directly by 
 the darkness, these weapons do much damage. UNSPOILER! Very few FPS games alow you to fight cops 
 and mob guys as part of the campaign. You can die fairly easily, shoot out lights, it doesnt have 
 to be too dark for the enemies not to see you. Not being able to put your darkness powers in the 
 light makes it more of a fun challenge. There is a little bit of auto aim unless you zoom in. it 
 really helps because sometimes a light is so bright you cant actually see the light to shoot. I 
 absolutly think one of the coolest parts is the assaination. Getting up close and personal and 
 pressing right and left trigger will go into a small cut scene (kindof) and jackie will do something 
 like shoot him in the stomache then in the head to finish him off. I believe this can be done to 
 any enemies you encounter. The idea of the melee is cool, left trigger for two handed weapons and 
 pistols and SMGs can only use melee if they run out of ammo, jackie then flips the gun upside down 
 and will smack the enemy when you press right trigger or left depending on which gun is empty. 
 MULTI PLAYER
  Laggy for now, but that will change when there is a patch. levels are cool from what i saw, it 
 was kind of hard because the lag and the jidder... TERRIBLE! Depending on the hosts options, you 
 could be a human, darkling (small demons that come from the darkness holes) or switching between 
 them with left bumper. It also has just about all of the the guns in the campaign, or atleast most 
 of them. The game modes are basically the same as every other game exept for the last darkling 
 and last human which if you have played games like call of duty and rainbow six might know of the 
 unofficial game mode zombies , they're the same thing. EXTRAS (SINGLE PLAYER)
  The extras are different. if you find the extra, you must dial the phone number on the piece of 
 paper (extras are phone numbers) that you find, they unlock things like, actually, you can play 
 the game to find out what they are. im not sure how many extras there are, but im thinking somewhere 
 around 100. ACHIEVEMENTS
  I dont have too much info on the achievements, but there are secret achievements, multi player 
 and single player. Lots of achievements, so each achievement isnt worth too much gamer points. 
 Other than what i have said, there isnt anything to say. DIFFICULTY
  the difficulty is just right because sometimes you die fast and you can get a little lost, but 
 i personally find that fun.
  
  TIME SPENT PLAYING
  i havent played too much yet, but i will play more than 100 hours.
  
  LEARNING CURVE
  30 
 to 60 minutes because it takes about 60 minutes before you are told all the controls (using the 
 darkness) .
  
  CLASSIFICATION
  I knew it would be good, but it was better than good.
  
  Over all if you have the money buy it, if not, BORROW MONEY! it isnt the traditional shooter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dodgerdawg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Does anybody ever actually read the reviews? yes? no?
  
  I dont think anybody does so im banking on the fact that everyone reads the simple sentence next 
 their score, and not the actual review.
  
  Hopefully nobody reads this :D
  
  Ive got about 60 more words to use up here... hmm... its a good game. played... its good... overall, 
 its a good game. 8.8 is the score i gave it.
  
  And uhhh, its pretty creepy, the voice of the darkness is still creepin me out... and ummm... if 
 you buy it you prolly wont regret it... unless ur a game addict and manage to beat it in one sitting... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobstos
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  The Darkness, based on a fairly underground graphic novel, is the story of a Mafia hitman (Jackie 
 Estacado) who involuntarily gets imbued with special powers, called The Darkness .
  
  Gameplay: From a technical standpoint, The Darkness is fairly consistent with it's attributes as 
 a first person shooter. The triggers on your controllers control the gun in theie respective places, 
 while the shoulder buttons control your powers. The game consists mostly of shooting and ducking, 
 and it does a good job of not feeling too over-the-top, without sacrificing fun factor. Your enemies 
 consist of Mafia henchmen and Zombie Nazy Soldiers. While the lack of variety can sometimes become 
 mundane, the numerous methods of dispatching said foes are satisying. The difficulty meter seemed 
 to bounce up and down at times, it felt necessary. The story is really one of the highlights of 
 the game, being very compelling and making you want to play the game just to see what happen's 
 next. Something that really bothered me though, was the lack of any kind of a system that allows 
 you to take cover behind object, as seen in most recent First and Third person shooters. While 
 this usually wouldn't be a complaint worth mentioning, there were more than a few times where simply 
 crouching behind something would not suffice, leading to my ultimate demise.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics were... decent. A lot of players and fanboys alike are always trying 
 to tell you about the graphics and how realistic all the enviroments and characters were. While 
 the textures used in the enviroment were suprisingly exceptional, the static and clay-looking models 
 used for the NPC's were more often than not ugly. The gun models are nice, and the game uses good 
 advantage of soft-particle effects to really enhance the atmosphere of the big city.
  
  Sound:
  Nothing special about the sound here... guns sound like they should I guess, and the 
 voice acting is done very well.
  
  Value:
  at $60 dollars, the game really should have lasted longer, or at least come with a competant multi-player. 
 both aspects were missing in this case.
  
  Conclusion: All in all, it's the story that really drives you to play this game from start to finish, 
 and while the gunplay is unoriginal, it is decent at getting the job done. The voice acting hits 
 the nail on the head, but the models speaking said dialogue leaves something to be desired. There 
 isn't a whole lot that hasn't been done before, but that doesn't mean it's not worth renting and 
 getting a satisfying weekend out of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Docto878
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I love FPS games and I love games with atmosphere. As a pure FPS this game does not measure up 
 to COD or Fear but if you combine it with atmosphere it becomes a very good game. Good games make 
 you want to keep coming back for more. The story is good and the graphics are very good. The voice 
 acting is great. What makes this game fun is the variety of ways that you can take people out. 
 You get these cool darkness powers which are fun to use once you get used to them. I agree with 
 the reviews that the AI is pretty lame but it is still fun to play. If you like the type of atmosphere 
 that survival horror games give with some decent FPS action then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miningguy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  If you have switched to Vista like me you thought it would be much more revolutionary, right? But 
 im sure like me you found out its a polished Windows XP Media Center, same thing here. When i first 
 saw this game i think about two years ago (when it was announced) I just said to myself I must 
 get this game! but now im glad i just rented it. The story begins with you and your peeps in a 
 car chase. You play as Jackie Estacado, one of the mob's finest members (also the birthday boy) . 
 While in this chase you'll hear some great voice acting plus some nice graphics. About halfway 
 throught the chase one of your allies hands you an assult-rifle so you get into the game pretty 
 quickly. After the chase is done (about 5mins) youll now get yourself a pistol and unofficially 
 start the game. About halfway throught the first level (if you call them levels) you receive the 
 Darkness, though you cant do much you can still devour hearts. If you devour enough harts the Darkness 
 will gain a level, bad thing is you dont how much more it needs till a level. The first chapter 
 is pretty boing at first but the next chapter you go to hell (I wont tell you why though) .
  
  The multiplayer of this game... its not worth it. If you played Prey online this game is the 
 same way TOO MUCH LAG. So overall this game is good but nothing new from your old shooter besides 
 devouring hearts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skullcraft
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  You're shown the game's main protagonist and host of The Darkness, Jackie Escatado, through an 
 introductory sequence that is completely interactive. You can almost feel the tension as a gunfight 
 with Eddie Shrote's police force ensues, ending in a mortiferous crash that should have killed 
 the trio of men. With Jackie the single survivor of the ordeal, he must fulfill his contract and 
 perform his first task: locate and kill one of the head construction men in the zone. As an appropriate 
 mafia birthday gift (you're now at the legal drinking age) , your injured companion provides you 
 with dual guns.
  
  This is where The Darkness first shines: the responsive, fluid gunplay. While weapons become nearly 
 useless when you inherit more of the Darkness's menacing arsenal of powers, they are essential 
 for your survival until you reach the bathroom where you finally receive an unexpected present 
 from a timeless, sinister force brought to your family by a deceased relative. However, I'll cover 
 more of what those abilities are and elaborate on how they all work soon.
  
  The game is split into five chapters: New York, World War One, New York 2, World War One 2, and 
 the Endgame. Each chapter has more meat to it than an ordinary level you'd find in a game, decorated 
 with plenty of conversation and, as you'd expect from such a violent game, an extreme amount of 
 gore, language, and absolute destruction. To forewarn concerned parents: this is no game for children 
 under fourteen (there's even a mechanic where you can choose to dig into a fallen opponent's corpse 
 and extract their hearts. Collecting these empowers you, can provide you with an achievement after 
 obtaining five-hundred, and can unlock more darkness levels) .
  
  After you're lured into the path of a bomb by your plotting uncle Paulie, the don of the reputable 
 (with other organizations of crime, mind) Franchetti crime family, it becomes Jackie's ambition 
 to track him down and seek vengeance for your girlfriend's eventual demise at his hands. With the 
 aid of more supportive family members and friends, Jackie will embark on a haunting journey that 
 will test his patience, control, and sanity.
  
  With The Darkness and his underlings prepared to respond to your command, hacking through mobsters 
 seems to become a simple process. As you advance through your journey, you will obtain more subordinates 
 that you can shape out of the shadow: berserkers, kamikazes, gunmen, and lightkillers. They each 
 have certain uses and can provide invaluable assistance in some situations, such as when you need 
 a creature to extinguish surrounding sources of light as you concentrate on opponents shooting 
 at you. That is what you must do in order to replenish your line of powers: destroy the light, 
 which will devitalize Jackie if he remains near the brightness for too long a time. If you are 
 not able to eliminate these lights, he will be forced to exit his Darkness mode and temporarily 
 lose dominance over the shadow.
  
  Speaking of Jackie's potent Darkness powers, here's how they work: press up on the controller to 
 cycle through your list of abilities (which will expand as you grow in strength) , and then proceed 
 normally when you locate the ability you want. RB will then activate the selected ability, and 
 enable you to use that creeper to enter the vent system and open the reinforced door. As you progress 
 further through the game, you even acquire an arm that will launch forward, break through objects, 
 and grasp enemies, as well as a black hole that will kill a large number of enemies in a single 
 room.
  
  Graphically, The Darkness is a treat to behold. The cinematics tend to repeat themselves occasionally, 
 but Jackie's tone, accented with the roughness and passion you'd expect from an average hitman, 
 makes you never tire of him explaining what he intends to do to Paulie/how he wants to avenge the 
 death of his girlfriend. When you're in the actual game, the character models are gorgeous. Environments 
 on the 360 version are particularly sharp, ambient, and full of multiple colors and shades, and 
 the shadows are, unsurprisingly, absolutely fantastic.
  
  Sometimes, however, a game with brilliant graphics fails to provide its audience with sound that 
 is equally satisfactory. Allow these words to precede my praise: I applaud the team for creating 
 such beautiful music and voice acting. Each character is brought to life by their human counterpart, 
 especially The Darkness (although his tone is modified to fit the needs of the producers) . The 
 music captures the tension, anger, and sadness of each moment; it is beautiful on all sides.
  
  To conclude the review, I will say this: since the game shouldn't exceed more than ten hours, 
 and the multiplayer is barely worth more than one play (which is one of the game's flaws: the multiplayer 
 option, while allowing you to control Darklings and humans with buddies, feels more tacked-on than 
 it should) , The Darkness would be an excellent rental. Personally, I purchased the game, and am 
 still pleased to include it in my home library. However, some people may not think the game is 
 suited for them, and want to test it before they decide to buy it; go ahead. I recommend either, 
 since there are plenty of difficulty levels and a satisfactory number of achievements.
  
  Am I a happy customer? Yes, I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  this game is so awesome i bought it on sunday and started playing it today . well i cant beleive 
 how brutal it is . but its also fake like when u shoot them like 20 times in the body they dont 
 die . i have very good aim when it comes to games ive a lot of head and neck shots well when u 
 shoot them in the neck they just get wounded , but ive played soldier of fortune and if u shoot 
 them in the neck blood squirts from the neck and her if u shoot them in the leg here they fall 
 down and get back up but in soldier of fortune they stay down . so overall this game is so awesome 
 i love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jainist
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Read all the hype so settled down to something that i thought would be in the genre of Metal Gear 
 Solid (Movie/game) . Sorry but the story is weak. This makes you scream at the screen to get on 
 with it. However you soon realise there is not much to the game either. Although it does feel like 
 you are following a storyline i have no idea what that was and thehgame then felt rigid. There 
 is no real skill required. I can see this appealing to goths - just because of it's gimmic factor. 
 I got to the guns bit and then started running round looking for what i was required to do next 
 to trigger the next bit fo cg storyline but lost interest trying to tget back to the village. All 
 i can say is try before you buy - or be very dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Everybody has a dark side to their personality. Some of them let it show more than others but, 
 at one time or another, it's sure to surface. For Jackie Estecado, his Darkness will be his greatest 
 power as well as his worst enemy.
  
  Starbreeze, the wonderful people who brought you The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher 
 Bay now give you The Darkness, a modern-day first person shooter with a very delightful twist. 
 You play as Jackie Estecado, a lackey for the New York Mafia ran by his uncle Paulie. After botching 
 a job, Paulie decides to waste Jackie on the day of his 21st birthday. The attempt on Jackie's 
 life will fail, which sends him on a path of revenge. But little does he know what is brewing inside 
 him. The Darkness is lurking and his life is about to change forever.
  
  As soon as you start up The Darkness, you realize you're in for one hell of a ride. You're immediately 
 dropped smack dab in the middle of the action. The story evolves at a brisk and steady pace and 
 you're always in control of your character, as the cut-scenes are few and far between and when 
 there is one, it's usually to set up the next mission you need to undertake. This makes the game 
 a very immersive experience, as you're never out of the action for too long.
  
  Jackie's alter-ego, The Darkness, is represented by 2 snake-like heads on each side of his body 
 and tentacles on his back. These will be used as shields to protect you from the swarm of bullet 
 fire coming your way Speaking of these powers, you'll earn 4 of them as you progress through the 
 game. Each one is unique and will require you to be surrounded by darkness when you decide to use 
 them, as the light is your worse enemy. Each time you use your Darkness Powers, you'll need to 
 find the dark to recharge them or you will need to execute the best and most gruesome move in the 
 game, which is to devour your dead enemies' hearts. How amazingly awesome is that? The right Darkness 
 head will dive into the body, will rip the heart out and chew on it satisfyingly. Sometimes, both 
 heads will fight over it, tugging on it in front of your face. Strangely, the right one always 
 wins.
  
  The controls work exactly the way you'd expect from a FPS. You'll be able to master them in no 
 time, although the Darkness powers do take a little getting used to. Jackie's arsenal in the game 
 is quite varied. Apart from his Darkness Powers, you'll get to use a wide assortment of guns, ranging 
 from old World War One weaponry to modern day firearms. Aiming isn't quite obvious from the start, 
 as you only have a red dot to guide you, but if you generally aim for the upper body, you'll often 
 get a headshot, as the reticle aligns itself directly there. Ammo will be relatively easy to find, 
 as fallen enemies will drop some all the time. So, your best bet is to aim for the head, as shooting 
 them elsewhere on the body will take more ammo.
  
  It's very rare these days to come across a shooter that has a good story, but The Darkness is the 
 exception to this rule. It evolves at such a fluid and brilliant pace that you never feel like 
 you've missed something. The characters that make up this gritty story come alive are all brilliant, 
 especially Jackie, from whom you can actually feel the inner struggle as he tries to deal with 
 everything that's happening to him. Mike Patton, former lead singer for Faith No More, does a stellar 
 job at voicing The Darkness, as he plays off of Jackie's dirty conscience, telling him that he 
 has his soul and laughing at his weaknesses. It's often said that the characters make the story, 
 well it's definitely the case here.
  
  The Darkness isn't the most visually stunning game out there, but it's not the worse one either. 
 There are a couple of glitches here and there, especially with collision detection, but all in 
 all, the game looks pretty damn good. The sound, on the other hand, stands out. Aside from the 
 stellar voice acting, the sound that comes from The Darkness while it chomps down on a heart is 
 enough to make the strongest of stomachs a bit queasy.
  
  With a game like this one, which has a pretty short single player campaign (around 8-10 hours) , 
 you would hope that the multi player is strong enough to fall back on. Think again. It does contain 
 all of the well-known mods like Deathmatch &amp; Capture the Flag, and you can play as either a 
 human or a shapeshifter, which is a human than can shapeshift into a Darkling, but it's not enough 
 to make it worth playing. It's major setbacks are the lack of good weapons and the very, very annoying 
 lag, which is almost constantly present during a match. It's sad really, because this multi player 
 could've been very fun.
  
  Despite it's minor visual glitches, short length and lack of a good multi player, The Darkness 
 is still a magnificent accomplishment. The story and voice acting, combined with solid action and 
 visceral visuals make this shooter a must buy for any fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_rage864
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  The darkness is about a person called Jackie which is the main character you be and he turns into 
 a monster with black tentacles. You can use your dark powers to kill enemies in your way however 
 it sometimes doesn't make a difference at all. Good Points:
  - Graphics is amazing
  - Gameplay is fun
  - Loading screens are now fun to watch
  - Very interactive
  - Freedom 
 to do things or go anywhere
  - Nice to see a combination of gun and monster weapons Bad Points:
  - Sometimes the game can 
 get a bit tedious and dull - Can turn out to get a bit boring if you level to the top fast
  - Some of the missions you to are meant to replay again - Can get very annoying when you are not 
 in action
  - The story mode is the only interesting aspect in the game
  - The multiplayer can easily make you put the controller down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banana_Kid
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness, first and foremost, is a game about thrills. The thrill of the first time you manifest 
 your Darkness powers and see the demons wreak havoc, the thrill of the first time you impale an 
 enemy on a tentacle, the thrill of eating a human heart. But beyond that there's also what winds 
 up being a pair of great stories, and by the end of the whole thing you'll just wish there was 
 more.
  
  The Darkness has a great story that is, perhaps unintentionally, separated into two halves: a mafia 
 tale of revenge, and a more mystical tale involving the titular Darkness, and your quest to gain 
 control over it. The reason they're so separated is that the two halves rarely affect each other. 
 You would expect people to run in terror when they see black tentacles and demon heads sprouting 
 from your back, but they rarely acknowledge them. There are maybe one or two situations where people 
 will mention that trick with the dark that you have, but even then they barely sound like they're 
 taking it seriously. Still, despite the odd separation, both sides of the story are well done and 
 very entertaining.
  
  The gameplay of The Darkness is solid, but is really elevated by the thrills your Darkness powers 
 give you. You can shoot people fairly easily -- but when you can sneak up on them and devour them 
 with an extending demon head, drive a tentacle through their gut, or suck them into a black hole, 
 do you really want to? The Darkness powers are so much fun you'll skip perfectly good opportunities 
 to get a headshot in order to get a less efficient, but oh-so-satisfying kill. You can also summon 
 Darklings out of certain points in the map, but they're nearly useless in the hallways you'll spend 
 much of your time in, since they always stay a few feet behind you and are difficult to direct 
 manually. In the rare open spaces, they'll be much more useful, hunting down enemies you might 
 not have noticed. Still, their inane chatter and habit of urinating on enemies' corpses will make 
 you want to bring them along anyway.
  
  The Darkness is a fairly linear game, but has elements of an open world to it. It has a few environments 
 linked together by a subway system, which also serves as a bit of a hub, where you'll find most 
 story advancing characters, as well as plenty of side quests. The side quests will send you off 
 to a certain location that occasionally just results in talking to someone, but usually you get 
 some people to kill. Upon completing them, you get a phone number you can call from a pay phone 
 to hear some answering machine messages that range from funny to flat, and unlock a bit of bonus 
 material. The bonuses are largely concept art, but also feature something great you'll actually 
 want to find -- select issues of the Darkness comic.
  
  The Darkness also has a multiplayer component, but it really feels tacked on and not too interesting. 
 The core gimmick to the multiplayer is that you can transform from a standard, shooting human to 
 a quick, fragile Darkling at will. Neither side is as interesting as in the single-player when 
 you have all your Darkness powers at your disposal, and it feels like a missed opportunity. Plus, 
 it has some serious lag issues.
  
  The Darkness is a really enjoyable game. It's got some great stories with solid voice acting, powers 
 that are a blast to use, and some actually compelling bonuses to unlock over the course of the 
 game. The biggest problem, in the end, is that it's so short. It's not hard at all to finish the 
 game in 6-8 hours if you don't do too many side quests. Plus, the great story does feature an obnoxious 
 cliffhanger ending. When all is said and done, you'll have had a great time with The Darkness -- but 
 more than anything you'll be waiting for The Darkness 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  In The Darkness, you play as Jackie Estacado, an ex-orphan who was taken in by mob-boss Paulie 
 Franchetti. As Jackie describes it, being adopted by Paulie was like being saved from a shark attack 
 by a grizzly bear . In the excellent loading screens, Jackie explains that Paulie and him never 
 really saw eye-to-eye, and that he was only adopted to become a ruthless hitman. The struggles 
 within their relationship leads to the events in the game: Paulie wants Jackie dead, or worse.
 
  
  The one thing that is awesome about the Darkness is that it's, well, dark! The story is cold, morbid, 
 and cool. You walk around in the streets of New York and you can feel how deceptive the times are 
 for Jackie.
  
  Back to the storyline: Jackie learns that Paulie wants him dead, so Jackie must get to the bottom 
 of this. By the way, the darkness isn't only about how dark the storyline is or how black Jackie's 
 long hair is: on the day of his twenty-first birthday, Jackie becomes possessed with demons called 
 The Darkness . The Darkness helps Jackie live a little longer in shoot-outs, and he can summon 
 creatures, black holes, little demons call 'Darklings' to kill his enemies or use a powerful demon 
 arm to impale them.
  
  The game plays like a first-person shooter mixed with horror movie elements in short. You eat the 
 hearts of your enemies to become stronger and you can use the Darkness or guns to kill your enemies.
 
  
  As far as graphics go, the game looks absolutely beautiful. It builds a dark environment around 
 you but is still fun to play in. Their is a good amount of bloodshed when shooting your enemies 
 before and AFTER you kill them. The voice-acting and music are excellent, and the side quests are 
 perhaps the funnest parts of the game. And in all the games I've played, The Darkness has by far 
 the best loading screens. When you make the jump from subway station to New York neighoorhood, 
 the loading screens are cinematics of Jackie standing in a dark room, as he tells you stories from 
 his past: Some funny, some very funny, and some sad. Some ,of course, have to do with the story.
 
  
  My only complaints about the game are that it's way too short, I wanted MORE of it, and the online 
 gaming is very glitchy.
  
  Other than that, The Darkness is an excellent game, worthy of a rental by every 360 and PS3 owner 
 out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness, without a doubt, is the best comic book based game ever created. When playing through 
 this game it feels as if you are playing a movie, because that is where the game truly shines; 
 the story. During the course of the game you become extremely involved in the story as if it were 
 a book, and you tend to start to attach to the characters in it (Jenny for example) . For the story 
 alone, this game is already worth a purchase, and on top of it, it also features some of the best 
 voice acting to ever be implemented into a game. Now, comes the gameplay which is magnificent. 
 A great blend of FPS and an RPG. You will ask questions, and take action. Your true power as you 
 may already know is with the Darkness. The Darkness will aid you throughout the entire game with 
 unlimited powers, so long as you remain in the shadows, which means shoot out the lights. The graphics 
 are beautifully detailed. The faces on every character looks authentic along with beautiful lighting 
 and rendering, something you would expect from the same people who made Riddick. The only true 
 flaw with the game is the length of it. Its one hell of a game but you can complete it relatively 
 quick. Even so, you feel the urge to return to it once you've completed it. And the multiplayer 
 feels tacked on, which means its very mediocre. However, that is not what the game was created 
 for, and what it was made for was a story driven single player game, which it succeeded in so many 
 levels. The Darkness is one helluva game, even if it is a short one. But with a storyline and gameplay 
 like this, it more than warrants a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: del_rogeo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  The various previews and news reports I have read over the past year suggested that The Darkness 
 would be a gruesome and violent FPS that showed some promise, but overall looked somewhat underwhelming 
 (at least in this reviewers opinion) . However, as 2007 creeped ever closer to the games release 
 I became increasingly interested in Jackie Estadado's vendetta against mobster Uncle Paulie, not 
 least because of the lack of playable FPS's over the past few months (Hour Of Victory, anyone?) . 
 As it turns out, The Darkness is the most enjoyable Xbox 360 game since Oblivion.
  
  The player takes on the role of mafia hitman Jackie Estacado, who ironically becomes the target 
 of his employer and family member Uncle Paulie. The game begins as a generic gangster-themed shoot-em-up 
 (although the opening car-chase is quite impressive) . However, soon Jackie is possessed by a terrifying 
 force known as The Darkness (although he still has limited control over his own actions, assuming 
 they do not conflict with the intentions of the Darkness) . Two creatures grow out of his shoulders 
 and he is given gruesome new abilities, such as devouring the hearts of enemies or skewering mobsters 
 on a sharp tentacle. It is these abilities that make The Darkness stand out from similar shooting 
 games.
  
  The reason The Darkness is such a great game is that the Darkness-powers are genuinely fun to use, 
 and they never get old (you'll still be using the first power, 'creeping dark' in the final few 
 stages of the game) . In fact, if you don't take full advantage of the gifts the Darkness has to 
 offer, you're not only going to find completing the game insanely difficult, but you'll also be 
 missing the best part. It would have been so easy (not to mention disappointing) for the Darkness 
 powers to end up as a mildly interesting, yet useless gimmick.
  
  The graphics are generally very good, with some impressive detail in the subway sections. In addition 
 to high quality visuals there are some brilliant little additions that serve to further suspend 
 the player's disbelief (such as the ability to change channels on TV sets and watch actual TV programmes, 
 or the fact that you can dial any number into a telephone in the hope of reaching someone interesting) . 
 While these aren't exactly essential to the gameplay, they are an undeniably nice touch.
  
  Sound is possibly one of the best parts of the game. The music is haunting and atmospheric during 
 exploration, whereas angry heavy-metal accompanies shoot-outs (which I can only assume Mike Patton 
 had something to do with) . Speaking of which, Mike Patton's performance as the voice of The Darkness 
 is terrifyingly brilliant. The voice-acting of other characters is straight out of Goodfellas, 
 and therfore superb.
  
  If I have any complaints about the game, they are minor. Unfortunately it isn't especially long 
 (I completed it an about a week of casual playing) , although achievements and unlockable content 
 provide extra replay-value. Also, the controls when using the Darkness powers can occasionally 
 be frustrating. The creeping dark frequently becomes stuck on dead bodies or steps and the Darkness' 
 arm sometimes ends up impaling the wrong target (impailing a cardboard box in the middle of a shootout 
 is mildly irritating) . Nevertheless, these are minor complaints that are barely noticeable when 
 the rest of the game is so enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarksjeiK
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  I'm writing this after finishing the story mode for the second time... The good news is that this 
 game's story mode is actually a story mode.. The breakdown:
  
  Story 9 out of 10:
  
  Most games these days have stories as an excuse to validate random killing. Although there's plenty 
 of killing in Darkness, the story is holding it's own VERY well... in fact it grabs you by the throat 
 and doesn't let go till you see the credits rolling.
  
  There's 2 storylines in the game, one involves you going after your mafia uncle Paulie in a classic 
 revenge romp.
  The other is not only a standalone story it actually takes place outside the main storyline setting. 
 I won't explain it further because I don't want to spoil it for you guys.. just believe when I 
 say it's unlike anything you've played this year... and it's good
  
  Graphics 9.2 out of 10:
  
  Breathtaking at times, the game was developed for next gen consoles 
 and it shows.. Amazing lighting, razorsharp textures and a through the roof polycount mean this 
 game looks the **** It's not really possible to compare this to gears because the artstyle is so 
 different but this holds it's own as a top tier graphics extravaganza on the 360. The framerate 
 also never drops single frame and the game also supports full 1080p if you are the lucky owner 
 of a full HD tv set. Sound 9 out of 10:
  
  Voiceacting is topnotch with Dwight Murdock Schultz handling uncle Paulie and clearly enjoying 
 himself. He does a great job cursing you throughout the game! Guns pack a punch and the sound of 
 the darkness' voice will haunt you long after you turn of your 360.. great stuff ! Gameplay 7 out 
 of 10:
  
  Ouch, ok here we go.... first off, don't worry... the core mechanics of the game are all in place. 
 The aiming / shooting feels smooth and refined.. the button layout is your standard shooter stuff 
 with the added bumpers handling your Darkness powers... it all feels and plays smooth as silk.. 
 no problem there..... but..... (you knew there was a but in there :) )
  
  The gameplay drags on... and drags on and drags on... Let me explain:
  
  Picture this: you 
 just finished an awesome firefight with some badguys in Lower East Side New York and the game now 
 tells you to go to your aunt in another part of town. instead of showing a cutscene and placing 
 you at your aunts frontdoor you :
  
  -walk/run to the subway entrance
  
  -watch a loadingscreen with Jacky Estacado spitting some random uninteresting lines.
  
  -after 
 the cutscene in the subway station you run through hallways to the nearest train.
  
  -you watch a loading screen again with good old J. E. spitting out those lines again..
  
  - 
 you exit the train and run to the station exit
  
  - you watch that loading/cutscene AGAIN..
  
  -you walk to your aunts house only to have her 
 tell you to go to yet another part of town to handle some busines.. that means going through the 
 whole subway routine + 3 cutscenes AGAIN..
  
  The thing is, there's only a handfull of different loading / cutscene's in the game so expect to 
 know them all by heart by the time you finish the game
  
  This travel / cutscene business becomes so tedious after a while that it actually drags the gameplay 
 score down for me... Seriously if this whole travelling thing had been cut from the game than this 
 would easily be in the 360's top 3 shooters right after Gears and RB6..
  It's very clear that the devs wanted to give the player some form of freedom and a feeling that 
 you can go everywhere and do anything but the feel is not there, the area's you travel to are relatively 
 small and feel somewhat claustrofobic so the whole free roaming thing feels just out of place..
 
  
  Overall:
  
  I once heard some reviewer say that almost every game has at least 30 seconds of gaming goodness, 
 and that Halo CE was so special because most of the time spent in Halo CE is an almost constant 
 stream of those 30 sec moments...
  
  Darkness has a great many of those 30 second moments, both story wise and gameplay wise... it's 
 just too bad they are 10 minutes of needless and annoying travel apart every single time.
  
  Overall I highly recomend the game because it's story and those shootouts combined with your 
 darkness powers are a real treat, just be prepared to sit through a lot of tedious travel in the 
 proces...
  
  My final score is a rocksolid 8.1. A good score held back from 9+ greatness for the above mentioned 
 reasons..
  
  Hope this was of any help to you guys.. peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunCrusher303
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I feel that this game was slightly under rated. It's two thumbs up, It's prey plus Chronicles of 
 Riddic minus aliens plus a big mob family and a whole lot of Darkness. Really the only big complaint 
 is they put so much into the realisim of the game yet you take out a city block of lights, leave 
 go to another part of town then come back and the lights are on, the city dident bother to clean 
 the graffiti off the wall but within a few moments or hours a whole block got the bulbs replaced?? 
 Whatever. Great Game, Go Play FunCrusher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rikjuh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  The darkness is one of those games that you really don't know what to think about.
  on one hand the game offers intense shootouts, great sounds and graphics, and on the other hand 
 you keep on having that been there, done that feeling. one of the best things about the darkness 
 is perhaps the atmosphere. where most shooters focus mainly on the shootouts and guns, you can 
 see that atmosphere was top priority in this game. you really have the idea that your walking around 
 in a gangster ruled New York, with mobster look a like's on every corner, lots of graffiti tags 
 and of course the fantastic voice acting by all characters.
  talking about voice acting, its perhaps the best ever in a game. it really gives this movie like 
 game a fantastisc boost. the characters sound exactly like you want them to sound. only bad thing 
 about the conversations is that the characters mouths hardly move. its nothing to be bothered about, 
 but it just looks a bit off.
  
  now there is no need to worry that this game focusses more on the story then it does on the action, 
 cause you will get plenty of that. to bad that the action is pretty standard. if it wasn't for 
 the darkness the shootouts would in fact be quite borring. The AI is pretty bad. characters might 
 look for cover, but thats just about it. they don't work together, and most of the time they just 
 stand on the middle of the path shooting their clip empty at you. also, most enemies most have 
 some hearing problems because when you run up from behind on them, they don't react at all.
  but. BUT! there is this wonderfull pest inside you called the darkness to save the day. where without 
 your powers the shootouts are pretty standard, with the darkness powers they become a whole lot 
 of fun.
  it just feels really good to create a black hole right behind enemy lines and watch them all being 
 sucked inside.
  a nice little extra is that you can eat the hearts of your enemies to increase your darkness power, 
 and even though it doesn't do annything special, it just looks cool to watch one of your snakes (just 
 the right one actually) swallow a whole heart down.
  
  All in All the darkness is a pretty standard game, that has great graphics and voice acting, and 
 thanks to the darkness the shootouts are just that bit more fun then they are in your average shooter.
 
  to bad that you'll be able to finish the game in under 8 hours, and online isn't that much fun 
 either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azhar85
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  For the fisrst time i'll played this game, i'll see the graphic was awesome and the gameplay feel 
 not bad. Even i'll not a fan of the First Person Shooter games, but when i'll play this game, it 
 looks different from many first person shooter games because it mix with Role Playing games style 
 which you can talk to other NPC character while you not on the mission and can do submission too 
 if you prefer to help them. Maybe It is the 2K developer stlye programming made it this way because 
 as much as we know that 2k also had involvement in developing The elder scrool iv : oblivion games 
 title. In Conclusion my rate for this game is 9.0 because
  of the detailed graphic, great gameplay and storyline and what important is it's worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:59 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is truly a great game, great story line, nice fps aspects and using darkness powers 
 to help you along the way is a nice touch. Single player: The games story is simple your a member 
 of the Mofia and you just turned 21 ( might be wrong) and you uncle who is the leader of the mofia 
 gets tired of you and sends his guys after you to kill you. You gain these special powers from 
 the darkness that allow you to do some pretty amazin things wether it would be sending your tenticle 
 eel shoulder thing to strike enemies around a corner or summoning a ginat black hole to kill your 
 enemies its rather fun. The story is pretty nice as well which makes the game even better and the 
 graphics are pretty sweet as well. Game is kind of short but I might be willing to play again. 
 Multiplayer: Played it a few times really isnt all that which bring the game down a bit but you 
 really done need the online game with such an impressive single player game.
  
  Buy it: Ya its worth buying and if you dont believe me then rent it first but I would go ahead 
 and buy it. Any FPS fans would like the game and any1 who likes a good story line would like this 
 game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vongrasamy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Alrighty then!
  
  Game play:
  I say that my favorite part when playing this game would be the Darkness because if this game didn't 
 have the darkness, this game would be a normal FPS game that you can encounter everyday. And is 
 cool if you look at yourself in front of a mirror when you have the Darkness out...
  
  Multi-player:
  Play it once, didn't catch my attention at the time but the shape shifting was 
 quite fun if you really want to see how it's like to be a darklin...
  
  Story-line:
  The story-line was impressive in my point of view... Be better if it was a bit longer though... 
 *mumble* should have listen to me GM... *mumble*
  
  I want to play it again but, I won't expect anything new though... Meh... I play it anyways... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaizerChief
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This is The Darkness, a FPS brought to you by Starbreeze, creators of the COR: EFB. Lets begin the 
 disection...
  
  Gameplay [:8:]
  The game plays like every other FPS aim pull RT and bam you got a dead guy. The gameplay is right 
 for the style they were going for, guns, demons, period. Mainly you just blast the crap out of things 
 but every chapter has side missions which vary from hits to collect.
  
  Graphics [:10:]
  I crapped my pants when I the NY subway. The models look great but every now and then I can't tell 
 if their lips are moving. Also they have refrences to TOOL yeah TOOL enjoy it.
  
  Sound [:9:]
  The sound is solid everything is right where it belongs. But they don't have Cruci-Fiction 
 in Space by Marilyn Manson which is in the US commercial
  
  Value [:8:]
  For the most it has a lot in it side missions, a good storyline, etc. but the multiplayer is alright 
 just a little tacked on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I haven't read much of Marc Sylvestri's The Darkness but what I have I thought was pretty cool. 
 The game doesn't slack in the goth department of the anti-hero story line. You play as a mob hitman 
 (Tony) who feels that the current head of his family (Pauly) has a lack of respect for the business 
 that his father the left to him. Pauly puts a hit out on you (Tony) and you have to take down his 
 empire and eventually Pauly. Along the way you become possessed by The Darkness, a demon that has 
 been possessing your family for generations. Once a child is conceived that family member that 
 is currently possessed dies and the demon moves onto that child. Once that child turns 21 the demon's 
 powers come out. By the second level of the game you have the Darkness at you disposal. With the 
 Darkness you can sneak up on people and slaughter them. You can eat hearts, use a void to suck 
 them in, you can stab them, you can even become invisible. Along with that you have a entire arsenal 
 of fire arms in your inventory. Basically the bad guys have little chance to take you down. While 
 the difficulty is eay, the game is worth several play throughs because the story is done well and 
 it's just fun. The graphics are top notch. 2k spared no expense and they rival even the best on 
 the 360 right now. The animations are smooth and the lighting and shadowing are top notch. The 
 detail is great, you can even see the pours on Tony's nose. The voice acting is also excellent 
 and the music is wonderful. The heavy metal kicks up as you enter combat. It would be worth purchasing 
 a CD if possbile. The controls can be confusing at times. There is a lot of stuff you can use and 
 there are limited amounts of buttons to do the different funtions with. Be sure you are familar 
 with the button lay out. The reaction time can be a bit delayed and along with the joy stick, but 
 all that can be changed at anytime through out the game. The Darkness is a worthy pick up. You 
 can play through it several times and then come back to it again and again. It has good characters, 
 strong stories, and well written and acted dialog. It's action is also very intense and you feel 
 like a super being as you progress through it and learn more about your Darkness powers. It a game 
 that you can play more then once through, but only the die hards will really want to. Still it's 
 a great pick up. Some of the side plots and the subway sequences can be boring. You won't be disapointed. 
 Enjoy and rip a heart or two out for me. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  If your a fan of the graphic novels, then you will love the presentation of the story and art. 
 The graphics are smooth and amazing. The gameplay is fast paced, and requires a little thinking. 
 Again on this point of interest, there is a lot of walking around and ACTUALLY looking at signs. 
 The achivements are stright forward. The sound is majestic, and again the presentation is brilliant. 
 My only complaints are standbyers, there appears to be a lot of them. But otherwise everything 
 is worth the money. A local multip [layer would have been nice, and a mode where one person is Jacky 
 while everybody else are hitmen and have to kill jacky, so on and so forth (Juggernaut?) . A must 
 buy for comic fans, star breeze studios fans, and just about every other hardcore gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CansOfPLEASURE
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  My friend told me to check out The Darkness, he loved it. And my friend knows good games when he 
 sees them, so I decided to check it out. And boy, was he right.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is very fun. Although the majority of weapons is low, they're still fun 
 to use and are very effective. But the best part of the gameplay, The Darkness controls. There 
 are 5 Darkness levels, each time you increase a level you learn a new Darkness technique and learn 
 to summon a new Darkling. Darklings are evil, little creatures that help you eliminate any enemies 
 harming you or an threats towards you. The techniques are very fun to use, and can be very helpful 
 throughout the campaign. I don't want to ruin the campaign for you, so I won't tell you what the 
 techniques do, or what the different types of Darklings do. The campaign is divided into 5 chapters, 
 each chapter has about 5 or 6 parts to the story. There are 3 campaign difficulties: Easy, Medium, 
 and Hard. Although the campaign may be short, the story is immersive, and one of the most movie-like 
 games I've played in a while.
  
  Graphics- The graphics look great. The character models look very life-like, and the enviorment 
 graphics look nice as well. Although the graphics could be better.
  
  Sound- The sound is quite possibly the best aspect of the game. The voice acting is incredible, 
 the only flaw in the voice acting is Jackie Estacado's (The main character you play as) voice is 
 quite low throughout the game. The sound of the weapons sound great as well.
  
  Value- The value is good. There are plenty of achievements in the game (50) that will make you 
 want to go back and play the campaign again to unlock them. I personally haven't played the Multiplayer 
 portion of the game, but I've heard from my friend and other players of the game, that is a great 
 and fun portion of the game.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- My tilt for the game is about medium. I enjoyed the game's campaign mode, I got 
 very immersed into it, and was fascinated by the story, it kept me playing the game until I reached 
 the end. But the game didn't fascinate me enough to want to try out the Multiplayer portion, although 
 I'm sure it's really fun.
  
  Overall, The Darkness has a very fun, immersive, but short campaign. And the multiplayer seems 
 to be a great portion of the game as well. The Darkness is a sick and twisted game.. In fun ways 
 that you'll love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PluG-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  First of all, the multiplayer in this game is horrible. There is terrible lag if you are not the 
 host. On the other hand, the singleplayer campaign is amazing. It is the most fun I've had playing 
 singleplayer since F. E. A. R.. The voice acting is done very well. The graphics are spectacular, 
 and gory. I love how the darkness talks to you, and its voice is perfect. There are several events 
 that made my jaw drop. Its so much fun that I am playing it for the third time! If you do not have 
 this game, go get it now! You won't be disappointed. There is a lot of blood and cussing, so might 
 not want to play it in front of little kids or the wife. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoRiNi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  WOW ... WOW .. and WOW. This game has one of the best story lines you'll ever see in a first person 
 shooter game. This is what they call a masterpiece. The graphics is amazing . at the beginning you 
 may find it boring, but later in the game you'll discover that you were Hallucinating. I liked most 
 the way Jakie Estacado talks, it just reminds me of Robert De Nero lol, I think they did a great 
 job making his way of talking looks like the real mobsters. now what am saying is, if you don't 
 have The Darkness , just go and buy it NOW !!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badazzr6
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  for some reason evertime i play this game i get dizzy, and then i get a huge headache. ive gotten 
 as far as maybe three levels and im done with it. maybe its because im playing on a 90 projector, 
 but everytime im turning, or spinning around to shoot i get the same dizziness and headache. using 
 the darkness isnt all that much fun, and the ai isnt very smart, shooting guys isnt that much fun 
 either because jackie moves like a robot side to side, front to back, up and down. this game might 
 have been better in my opinion if they made it into a third person shooter, instead of first person. 
 you could do something like grand theft auto and mixed it with a venom style character from the 
 spiderman game, that can consume people and spit them out, or eat there heart out and still have 
 the ability to shoot or use the darkness at any point same as in the game but third person. in 
 my opinion that would have been alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  oh yeh after killing lots of punk and eating their heart and suck their blood I feel really good 
 now. it is a fantastic first person game both in gameplay and graphic just like riddick thanks 
 to developers. the online playing is reasonable. i really needed something like manhunt and I found 
 a very better game in all aspect call (the darkness) . You really need it. this is not a game for 
 Bab's . you must be cruel in this game from start to end. if you don, t like games like manhunt 
 the darkness is not a very good choice for you. but if you are blood thirsty and need to kick some 
 ass and be a powerful hero that is more impressive than other heroes like spider man or batman 
 . this is a dark hero who want to revenge. you know revenge is sweet. and you taste this feeling 
 in the game. the E3 finished and lots of top game are coming in 2 month or 3 so you have a free 
 time now if you already finishes GEARS OF WAR or RAINBOW SIX VEGAS or DEAD RISING there is no better 
 option than (THE DARKNESS) . I play this game on XBOX 360 and I really enjoy it cause the game 
 controlling is realy fit with xbox 360 controller.
  the game is a Little short and somehow easy if you just want to play main mission , but if you 
 play the game 100% you feel you really ( rock the world ) . this is a good game and I just say 
 : go and play it . after E3 the time is running out so go and play (2nd time) . but do not forget 
 save money . lot, s of top game are coming. but for now go and play (3rd time) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spawn_of_Fear
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I love the darkness powers &amp; the graphics &amp; gore... but MEDIUM difficulty is too easy.. 
 and HARD is actually kinda hard lol. I loved it while it lasted but after i beat it i kinda wished 
 that there was another 10 hours of game play that i could have explored, once u beat it and kill 
 dear old uncle Paulie... the game feels old and u just wanna return it. I havent had a chance to 
 play much of the online multiplayer, but from what i did experience and from what i heard, its 
 not worth buying. I only buy games that will last, mainly thanks to multiplayer or fun co-op (halo1&amp;2) 
 This game was cool, and it was pretty interesting listening to this freaky creature talk to you 
 all the time.
  
  JB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flappyjackjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  There is no game ever made that even comes close to being as awesome as this game. Except for the 
 multiplayer......
  
  I knew about this game a while before it came out, and when I read about I thought that it looked 
 like a pretty good game and when it came out my friend bought it and when I went to his house I 
 was amazed and bought the game the next day. Not only does it have amazing bloody gameplay but 
 a compelling storyline and gets you attached to the characters which is very rare in todays games. 
 The thing that I always wondered about the game though is that not many enemies in the game really 
 care that Jackie has **** demon arms crawling out his back. The multiplayer is on the other hand 
 is very laggy but I still rate this game a 10 because if you don't like the multiplayer, its a 
 game that you can still just play single player over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezikiel2517
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  The darkness is definetly an original game, I know that I have never played anything else quite 
 like it. The darkness powers you acquire throughout the game are definetly original weapons and 
 give you a new and unique way to dispose of your enemies. However, I did find alot of the powers 
 and darklings to be quite useless. You could just as easily go through the entire game with just 
 your pistols, the only time I used anything other than my pistols was to get the achievements.
 
  
  Also one thing that bothered me was every time you hopped aboard a subway or went from one area 
 to another, which you will do alot because there is alot of backtracking (and they're not big areas 
 to begin with) you were presented with a cut scene. These cutscenes served as loading screens but 
 quickly become tiresome and repetive. I'm surprised I haven't read any reviews stating how short 
 the game is, as with only five shorts levels and some side quests to do the game can easily be 
 completed in 6-7 hrs.
  
  However, it is a great game based upon the action when your actually fighting and not walking from 
 area to area. I love switcing TV stations and listening to the metal stations and of course eating 
 hearts is a blast. Good graphics and effects, great sound, but a short campaign all add up to a 
 good first effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iboo01
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game is seriously one of the best games I have ever played. It tells the story of a guy named 
 Jackie and his struggles with The Darkness within him. It is a great storyline from start to finish. 
 This game has amazing graphics, the controls aren't difficult to get used to, and just has a very 
 creepy atmosphere which can really get you pumped. Shooting down mob gangs and devouring hearts 
 never gets old. You get many guns throughout the game and quiet a bit of darkness powers such as 
 the power to create a black hole or use the demon hand. The power to summon minion's is also very 
 cool. I really recommend this game, worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devil_1994
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  you are jackie estacado and orphan boy who was in an orphanage so when he was small in the orphanage 
 he loved a girl called jennie but then his uncle came to take him from the orphanage and you know 
 he didnt want to go he wanted to stay with jenny but he gotta go so when jackie grew up by the 
 hands of pualie he became on of the hitmans of pualie on his 21 birthday the darkness came into 
 jackies body and controlled him then you know you go and all i cant say more about this game really 
 but i will say the weapons:
  m61
  ak
  pistols
  shotguns etc
  the darkness powers :
  1. the power to put your mind into one of the monsters you have
  2. demon arm
  3. the darkness 
 guns
  4. black hole
  the darklings
  1. when you make x you summon a berseker well he has many outfits he kills
  2. when you tap b you 
 summon a kamsike he geos into a croud and bome himself
  3. when you tap a you summon a gunner she shoots a big gun
  4. when you tap y you summon a light 
 killer which destroys all lights
  
  it has a nice story so really give this game a try but the ending is not that bad but i didnt like 
 it much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheFrow
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  The last thing you could say about The Darkness is that its like every other First Person Shooter 
 out there. Based on the comic book series, The Darkness is a breath of fresh air, straying away 
 from the basic Sci-Fi FPS. The Darkness deserves some high-fives just for the fact that its not 
 a WWII game. Alright, enough with the bantering and onto reviewing the game. Like always, I will 
 be basing the review on three critiques; graphics, gameplay, audio and value.
  
  First off, when you see The Darkness, you think of a pretty shoot-em-up. Well, you got the pretty 
 part nailed, but from what Ive experienced this thing is far from a shoot-em-up. The Darkness 
 gets everything right, graphically. From voice-sync to the Darklings shining and sizzling in the 
 light, you name it The Darkness has it.
  
  Now for gameplay. This is a simple shooter, but what is really unique are the effects The Darkness 
 has on you. Throughout the game you will discover four different Dark attacks: Creeping Dark, which 
 is basically a huge tentacle that roams around, fitting into tight spots and snaking around killing 
 guards and\or targets. Second is Demon Arm, which is a huge arm (or tentacle?) that reaches out 
 and whips objects and enemies. It can also pick up objects\enemies and launch them into the air. 
 I probably fooled around with some cars and some mobsters for about an hour until realizing I was 
 doing a mission. The third power is the Darkness Guns. These are two incredibly powerful guns. 
 The one to the right fires quickly, while the other one acts like an ultra-powerful pistol. Just 
 stay out of the light and youll have infinite ammo. The fourth power is Black Hole. This one is 
 pretty self-explanatory.
  
  The audio in this game is just amazing. The real-life city sounds and voice acting is amazing and 
 spot-on. So now, youd think The Darkness is THE Sci-Fi shooter to own, right? Well, perhaps so, 
 if it werent for the dull value of the game. The game is INCREDIBLY short, which is too bad since 
 the story is truly amazing. The multiplayer also feels a tad bit tacked on.
  
  However, as strangely uneven, poorly paced, and unsatisfying as The Darkness is, its worth checking 
 out just for its unusual ideas, twisted gameplay elements, and uniquely heavy dark atmosphere. 
 It wont be the best FPS game youve played, but itll surely be one of the more memorable ones.
 
  
  - TheFrow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanwich
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  No one can say that they didnt expect a lot from The Darkness. At least thats what i think, the 
 game looked great and with the idea of a mafia hitman obtaining demon powers, whats not to like? 
 The sad truth is that the game isnt what it should have been. Is it because it was to over hyped? 
 No, the developers just missed the ideas that could have made this game great. The game has you 
 playing as Jackie, a mafia hitman who is part of... you guessed it... a mafia family of some sort. 
 Im not the type of reviewer who goes into the plot as much, but what i can and want to tell you 
 is that the plot is a very important part of the game and is pulled off relatively well. Not because 
 its new or original, but because it takes the old things and puts some spices on them. Key aspects 
 of the game are made better by the plot, like the story behind The Darkness, the demon creature 
 that posseses you early in the game. Now while it doesnt go into as much detail as i think it should 
 have about The Darkness, it still gives you enough so your not left thinking what is that demon 
 doing on my back? . It basicly gives you the nessesary dossage of story behind it to keep the player 
 from getting to distracted from your main objective. Which is your mafia family. The main plot 
 is your uncle Paulie put a hit on you and now your trying to get Paulie before he gets you. That 
 is the simple break down of a simple plot, its what the game creators do with this plot that makes 
 it so different from other games. The Charcters feel alive with a some pretty good voice acting 
 and decent facial expressions, the game cant stand up to the character animations in Half Life 
 2 if you need a better comparison. So the story is an old concept, brought to life by unique twists 
 ( The Darkness) , some great voice overs, good character animation, and some good execution. Now 
 gameplay is another story, this aspect of the game is where your going to find the most enjoyment. 
 It gives the classic shooter a lemon twist that suits the game perfectly. The Darkness allows you 
 to use 4 different powers, A rogue killing snake head, a Tenticle claw that pierces enemies and 
 breaks lights, Darkness guns that kill zombies, and a black hole that sucks everything in its path 
 up. Now there are also Darklings, little creatures that follow you around and perform tasks they 
 are named after, like Beserker, **** Kamakaziie, and a Light killer darklings. Now dont get to 
 excited just yet, while all these ideas sound great, pulling them off is a little bit more complex. 
 Like some games, some moves are just better to use then most, this would be the black hole. Once 
 you get the blackhole power, its a cake walk. This attack is so powerful that if your in the darkness 
 your at a gureenteed win. Sure you are going to love experimenting with the other powers, but there 
 not going to be as effective as the Blackhole. Which is a shame because the other powers had a 
 lot of potential to be great, i think if you could upgrade your powers, it would have added alot 
 more depth to the game and made all powers balance out better. Now the darklings are funny, because 
 i am wondering who programmed them because they are an example of STUPID A. I. My gunslinger began 
 to shoot at a wall because there was an enemy on the other side, my light killer didnt kill the 
 lights he was supposed to, and the kamakazzie guy is useless. You only use these guys in one puzzle 
 increment throughout the course of the game, which is another sad thing because they are such a 
 classic idea with a fresh spin that they could have had some great puzzle design in there. I am 
 not whining because my darklings got me killed once, there just stupid. Overall the Darklings are 
 a example of stupid A. I. and could have been used in more puzzle elements of the game, the Darkness 
 powers were fun but not balenced enough and could have used an upgrade system. Now the game plays 
 just fine as a FPS, it has great action sequences with some cool fire fights. So that is a plus... 
 also i must add that the weapons array is something to be desired. I mean the standard pistols 
 are there and the machine guns, but no sniper rifle? no explosives? I think they focused to much 
 on the darkness powers and didnt think people would use the guns as much, but when the darkness 
 powers are only good to mess around, the guns need to come into play, and it fails to do that. 
 I found alot of cool moments wtih the darkness, just nothing that could have blown me away. Graphics 
 look great on the 360 so no complaints, sound is good and not annoying, dark tone of the game fits 
 it perfectly.
  
  My Annoyance::::: The game to me felt like a demo, a flashy good demo. But that doesnt cut it and 
 that is why this game failed to be great. It was as if the game developers missed out on the oppurtunites 
 to make an instant classic. Thats what annoyed me the most about this game, it could have been 
 so much more. Final Verdict:::: The Darkness has a proud spot in my library, not because it is 
 a short, fun experience, but because it tried things many game creators dont want to do. It took 
 classic concepts and morphed them into their own, and i must say that they were pretty successful. 
 But please for my sake just rent the game, because if you don't luck out like me and end up looking 
 past the flaws to find the great game within, your going to be stuck with it. Like i said before, 
 its a demo to me, that had the potential to be so much more, even though it wowed me a couple times, 
 the developers missed their window to make a true gaming classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somestupidloser
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  There's nothing in this game that sets it apart from other shooters. Your darkness powers were 
 nice, but you could probably beat the game without even using them beyond when the game forces 
 you to use them. (easy-normal)
  
  AI in this game was absolutely horrible, it almost feels like you are just shooting moving targets, 
 the only times you'll die is when you are too close to your enemy and they're equipped with a shotgun 
 or automatic weapon. (Hard) If you up the difficulty, the only thing that changes is their aim, 
 and no matter what, you'll lose a direct firefight with or without your shield if it is higher 
 than easy. Another AI quirk is that they have a very hard time hitting your creeping dark, so you 
 could probably breeze through the entire game on that skill alone. You're darklings aren't very 
 useful and have the same AI problems as your enemies Controls on this game are kind of basic, only 
 slightly different when the darkness powers are added to it. Aiming can prove difficult with the 
 analog sticks and contribute to the reason that you'll probably lose a direct fire fight to anyone 
 with something bigger than a pistol.
  
  Wile you could beat the entire game on the easier difficulties without your darkness powers, it 
 is absolutely necessary when playing the harder difficulties. On Hard, your guns will be particularly 
 useless compared to your powers, and you'll probably take advantage of the dumb AI using creeping 
 dark for most of the game.
  
  This game is very open ended compared to most shooters you can go to most of the areas you'll have 
 missions in before you have to go to them. The entire level layout was also very interesting and 
 I find myself liking it a lot, almost every part of the game is adjacent to the subway system which 
 made putting in a mini map and mission markers not necessary (not that they put one in) , if there 
 was a game mechanic that I would like to see in more games, it would be this one.
  
  The story isn't all too good and cut scenes are particularly bad. For some reason, your character 
 and some others have difficulty moving their mouths making it kind of distracting and forcing you 
 to wonder how they're talking in the first place.
  
  This game is relatively short and doesn't have a lot of replay value and isn't good overall. This 
 game was good enough that I don't feel like a complete fool for buying it but it really is something 
 that you should probably rent instead of buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzynecro
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 1:49 am PT
Review:  This game is really great. The graphics are really good, and the enviroments of the game give it 
 a great fell. The aiming is a little hard so turning up auto aim is a good idea, but the gameplay 
 is exelent. you get a bunch of awsome darkness powers which are all fun and usefull, and you refill 
 these powers by absorbing darness (shooting out lights, and hiding in shadows excetera) The story 
 is pretty interesting and keeps you playing. The biggest flaw with the game is the really awfull 
 multiplayer but if you justignore it and play through the single player a couple times you will 
 get your moneys worth out of this great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty_sen
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  the darkness is one of those games that you never want to end
  
  the darkness isnt a long single player game about and 16-hours long on normal mode and has a bad 
 mult-player aside from that is a mint game
  so far my best game of the year 2007
  
  it has the best graphics ive ever seen in a game just the textures of a plain wall is so good is 
 almost like real life
  
  it has a lot of short side quest too and interactive converstions like in oblivon but dosnt seam 
 too change the main story at all
  
  those technicals at the back of you arnt just there too look scary they give you powers and make 
 you less damaged to gun shots but to keep it out you need to shot out the lights or go to a dark 
 place and eat hearts is cool!!! ok! which mix the gameplay up
  sounds are great when you eat hearts just the sounds of them cruching the heat makes you want to 
 throw up! isnt it just pritty!
  
  the story of darkness is the best part of it it keeps you addictid till you finish the game!
 
  
  there are 100 hidden packages that come with a number if you go to a phone and dial them up to 
 unlock extra content is better than just collecting them after you finish the game you cant just 
 roam round doing side quest because it wud not tie in with the story (no he dos not die at the end)
 
  
  all in all if you want a long game dont get darkness but if you want an epic tale get darkness
 
  
  
  ===========================================================
  base line
  
 
  
  good: mint graphics, story mode is an epic tale, interactive converstion, darkness powers mix gamplay 
 up, side quests, hidden packages to unlock extra content is better than just collecting them, severs 
 are quick
  
  bad: muti-player feels like extra content not a mojor part of the game, a lot of lag in online battles, story 
 mode is too short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 11, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Xbox 360 scores again with The Darkness, a mob-demon hybride tale based on the Top Cow comic of 
 the same name. The story follows Jackie Estacado, a Mafia hitman betrayed by his boss (and adoptive 
 uncle) Paulie Franchetti after a business deal gone sour on his 21st birthday. Jackie also just 
 so happens to be possessed by a demonic force known as The Darkness, which he ultimately uses to 
 fight the Mafia Don in league with the corrupt police department hellbent on destroying him.
  
  The Darkness is basically a first-person shooter action game, but with a neat supernatural 
 twist, as you can also become The Darkness, who shows himself as sort of an organic Doc Ock with 
 snake-like tentacles used for all kinds of neat tricks from impalement to devouring human hearts 
 for energy.
  
  Other Darkness powers include the Darkness gun, which is used to keep zombies dead, the ability 
 to use a snake-like tentacle to attack enemies from afar, and my favorite, a black hole, whereby 
 you can create a void of darkness to eliminate baddies. Oh yes, and The Darkness powers are at 
 their best when in shadow, where you see the two tentacles in the first-person view consuming the 
 darkness energy of shadow.
  
  With the Darkness powers, you can also summon Darklings, or minions from the Darkness regions (some 
 may call this Hell) used to aid you in gunfights. There are four Darklings, the first of which 
 is the Berserker, which can aid you by unlocking doors and moving objects obstructing your path. 
 The second is the Gunner, which aids you in gunfights using his own little chaingun. The third 
 is known as the Kamikaze, basically a suicide bomber which is very effective in destroying boulders 
 obstructing your path, but also a quick way to destroy a room full of enemies. The fourth, and 
 probably most useful, is the Light Destroyer, who destroys the lights that limit the Darkness's 
 powers from flourishing to their maximum potential.
  
  In addition, you have your mainstream, man-made weapons, from modern shotguns, uzis, and AK-47s 
 to your nostalgic Luger pistols and WWI rifles. (Yes, WWI -- though thankfully not WWII, for the 
 millionth time -- serves as a relatively major plot point.) These man-made weapons, however, pale 
 in terms of what The Darkness can do.
  
  The Darkness shines with terrific voice-acting (though Jackie both looks and sounds older than 
 21) and a wonderfully cinematic and epic musical score. The sound effects are a product of both 
 intensity and a sneaky and quirky sense of humor -- the Darklings, who have their own humorous 
 dialog, are a perfect example of this. And the graphics are a marvel to behold. While some of the 
 texture quality in some parts suffer when viewed up close, the lighting and shadows of these textures 
 are lush and mesmerizing.
  
  However, The Darkness suffers from a reasonably lackluster AI. Particularly frustrating is the 
 friendly AI, mainly consisting of summoning and directing Darklings. Sometimes, when a Darkling 
 is spawned, it just sits there. I was particularly annoyed with the Light Destroyer Darkling, which 
 often never destroys the lights in its path, leaving me to waste my ammo to blow out lightbulbs 
 myself.
  
  The game contains a few frame-rate drops in spots and the game has crashed more than once, but 
 luckily the checkpoint systems in the game are plentiful, limiting the frustration I would otherwise 
 have to go through of starting over on an entire level I'd worked so hard to get through.
  
  Other than that, though, The Darkness is a compelling cinematic-quality narrative with an abundance 
 of personality. The game also seems to leave an opening for a sequel, and based on my experience 
 of playing this game, a second part is more than welcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srrchode
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 11, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  When i took my first glimse of the darkness i knew it was going to be a game that i would remember. 
 I was right. The single player campaign is one of the best i have played. The characters are cool, 
 the dialogue is unique and the darkness itself... well, how many games do you know of that can devour 
 hearts at the push of a button. All that is dandy, but the campaign, all in all, was too short 
 and i felt the ending was a little lack-luster.
  
  **Spoiler**
  Don't get me wrong... im sure having your body and mind taken over by a demonic sentient life form 
 has its benefits but i felt there was something missing. I cant really think of a better ending 
 so i guess ill just live with it. The development of your darkness powers was indeed cool but i 
 felt like when you leveled up your powers through devouring hearts, there wasnt very much proof 
 that you leveled anything up at all. In other words, after you leveled up your darkness, there 
 wasnt any apparent difference between your new level and the old level. Each darkness power could 
 have had more abilities come with it so things dont get old. For example: at the end of the game 
 (**spoilers**) there was a part where the darkness takes over the game for a little while and all 
 you have to do is periodically move your character. During this cinematic type situation, the darkness 
 was doing all sorts of things to victims that you could never do yourself, like tripping a guy 
 and then eating him with creeping dark or impaling a guy up on a wall with the demon arm. When 
 watching this i could only wish i could have been able to do that. Still incredibly cool.
  
  I could go forever talking about the multiplayer but ill wrap it up in a nut shell... sucks! 
 The character models look like retards when they move, the darklings make a really annoying yell 
 EVERY time you lunge and it always seems rediculously impossible to kill people. I think its because 
 the targeting reticle is a tiny red dot that creates this illusion that the dot has to be on the 
 enemy in order to kill him. Im sure the multiplayer can be fun but im a halo person and its hard 
 to go from halo, to this.
  
  All in all, the darkness is a great game worthy of anybody's time who likes unique mob violence, 
 crazy cool demonic powers and the awesome ability to mutilate your enemies.
  
  -srrchode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a wonderfully gruesome adventure. There are some truly dark and even shocking moments 
 in the story. There's a twist at the end of the first chapter that shook me a bit. And though the 
 story does lose its way and makes little sense towards the end, it's still a fun ride. It's too 
 bad that the AI and gameplay mechanics couldn't be smoothed out a bit more to match the impressive 
 visual presentation. There's a lot to like about The Darkness, even if it doesn't fully come together 
 in the end. With so few gaming options in the summer, this is certainly a title worth buying. Just 
 don't expect a revolutionary experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmw892
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I've haven't really heard that much about this game until about about a month before it came out. 
 I saw some video of these snake things eating hearts out of dead guys and I was intrigued. Not 
 just because i've wanted to eat hearts all my life, but this looked completely different then the 
 games that have been coming out. I mean what other game is going to make you advance your skills 
 by eating hearts certainly not hour of victory. Heart eating aside once I started to play the game 
 realized that this game was pretty damn good. This game has pretty graphics and the story is very 
 interesting. Lets put it this way, the darkness is a hot chick that's actually smart (not saying 
 that all of them are dumb but you know the kind) , and Transformers (not the movie the game ( The 
 movie was hardcore!!) ) is a hot chick that has marshmallos for brains. So unlike Transformers (the 
 game) which is pretty but lacks substance the darkness is good to look at and has mucho content 
 to keep you coming back for more ( that was kind of confusing but if you think for a second you'll 
 get what i'm talking about) . well multiplayer is another story. when I played the multiplayer i 
 think it was my unlucky day. I kept warping all around and if I killed someone it was only by luck 
 and not by skill. It was pretty funny everyone was just complaining how bad it was and not actually 
 trying. If your looking for the next big multiplayer game wait 'til halo 3 comes out. Aside from 
 multiplayer, this is a pretty solid game even if many accuse this game of being short their are 
 plenty of things to keep you busy. The thing I like to do most is see how far I can chuck people 
 into the air with the tentacle (I got one on top of a building once!) . One more thing I would like 
 to commend is the blood. To me blood can make or break a game. For example, Red steel, not too 
 bad of game but blood would have made it ten times better. When I shoot somebody or stab somebody 
 I expect a liitle blood. The blood in the darkness is very real. Its pretty cool when blood hits 
 the wall then starts to run down it. It is also appropriately gooey (Wich is freaky but awsome) . 
 In conclusion The Darkness is freakin awesome, all of the darkness powers are equally cool and 
 the story just keeps you pluggin away. So if your looking for the game of the summer this is probably 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaymib
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 10, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Just a really easy game to finish. i did like the use of the Demon power, which does bring something 
 new to the first person shoot. after awhile you just stop using the guns and use the power of the 
 darkness, which are really cool. The black hole one is the best. The graphics and sound is great. 
 The thing bad about it is that it is too easy, You can get into it and then it the finish and it 
 leves you feeling like you didn't get your money worth. So i say just rent it out and if you don't 
 finish by the time you have to take it back, then just rent again, you will finish by that time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingShrimp
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Shorter than i expected and as stated in the gamespot review multiplayer is Tacked On decent side 
 missions a definite rent. story line was excellent yet confusing at times, personally had some 
 trouble remembering where i was going or where certain people lived and where the specific sections 
 of the city were that i had to go to BUT. The addition of the transit service which explained where 
 certain places were and where certain people lived was a perfect addition. A better map would have 
 been nice bout still overall a great game. I enjoyed playing this game and plan on going back and 
 doing all of the side missions which seem to look like more fun and hopefully will help in extending 
 the length of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is all about its story. Yes, there are absolutely some very stunning graphics - some 
 of the best on the 360 - yet this game clearly relies on its emotional and often disturbing story-line, 
 which has you literally going to hell and back . . . twice. And though the main objective is to 
 topple the mob relative who has put a hit out on your life, beneath all the gratuitous (though 
 especially satisfying) violence lies the core of the game: love. That may seem silly while you 
 read it, and perhaps a little awkward in a game where you are possessed by a demon with snake-like 
 appendages that eat human hearts and can summon gun-totting minions from the underworld, but throughout 
 this intensely written and moving story, it is Jackie's love for Jenny that ultimately drives him. 
 And when the final scene ever-so-sadly plays out, you realize how tragic the sacrifice Jackie has 
 made for one last chance to feel that love.
  So that's the sappy stuff - though anyone with any interest in games with a rich story won't walk 
 away from this without feeling somewhat affected. As Gamespot mentions in their review, there are 
 a few no-they-didn't-just-do-that moments, and despite some minor blemishes in the presentation 
 of those moments (yes, it is a bit odd that people don't seem to react as you'd expect when they 
 see a guy with giant demon tentacles protruding from his back) , the story arch makes it easy to 
 forgive those missteps. Other minor problems are hardly worth mentioning - some of the go-fetch 
 missions become stale quickly - because while you have control of The Darkness, you are playing 
 something absolutely new and completely balls-to-the-wall fun. The core of the fighting is so much 
 more than shredding bad guys with bullets, though you do a fair share of that throughout the many 
 locations in the game - its finding clever and powerful ways to eliminate the crooks with the Dark 
 powers. Will you crawl like a snake and sneak up on some unsuspecting criminal? Or maybe impale 
 him and throw him up in the air with a third tentacle that shoots out like a spear? Or send a helmet-wearing 
 machine gun-ready minion and a companion creep with razor-like claws to bring him down? Or, best 
 of all, open a black hole and have everything spin about in a jaw-dropping effect that makes you 
 say, Hell yes! whenever you do it? The rewards are plentiful, and it never gets boring. No, the 
 AI aren't exactly a bunch of rocket scientists - for the most part they line up pretty well for 
 the slaughter, but they still are deadly on the Hard difficulty setting, making each battle more 
 than just a one-sided fight.
  The quirks in the game are easily seen, but always forgivable as you sense that the people behind 
 this game truly worked hard to develop something unique. From the makers of Riddick: Escape from 
 Butcher Bay, this game will hopefully most likely be remembered as the next giant step gaming took 
 to blend highly polished visuals with action-oriented, truly absorbing story telling. Let The Darkness 
 consume you and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terror_rush
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 10, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is now one of my favorite games, I knew I would like it, but wow was this game intense! 
 I would stay up night after night just to play this game, its a very lengthy and challenging game, two 
 great qualities in a game. The game even features full length music videos on random televisions, that 
 is just pure excellence in my gaming world. The Darkness powers are just so fun, throwing the enemies 
 around with the darkness arm was just great, and the voice of The Darkness was something I thought 
 was done excellent. Seriously if you love FPS's then you must buy this game, the replay value of 
 this game is really high. They should make a movie of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberpwner93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  You Play As Jackie Estacado, A Mafia Hitman For The Franchetti Family! On His 21st Birthday His 
 Uncle Paulie, For Some Is Out For Revenge!! But At The Same Time, He Acquires A Unknown Power Called 
 The Darkness!! But As He Uses It More, It Gains Control Of Him! Can He Figure Out How To Get Rid 
 Of It! Or Will THE DARKNESS Gain Full Control?
  
  Gameplay: I Was Excited That Starbreeze ( The Creators Of Riddick ) Would Be Making This Game But 
 When I Got It, I Was Dissapointed! It Was A Good Game, And The Story Was Nice But It Just Did'nt 
 Live Up To Riddick Or The Hype.
  
  Multiplay: I Was Very Disappointed With The Multiplayer! Lack Of Play Modes and Horrible Lagging, 
 Makes For A Horrible Multiplayer!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katterfly
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness.. now this is one of those titles that when I saw it I knew it was going to be something 
 unique and incredible. Indeed it was. Its one of the best horror games I've ever played and certainly 
 the most unique shooter since Deus Ex. Starbreeze has cemented themselves as a wonderful game developer 
 in my mind.
  
  Never have I seen such a unique, dark, and twisted story in my entire life. I love this game, and 
 I also am a little scared by it at the same time. Its a twisted neo noir tale of Mobsters, Demons 
 and a bit of love thrown into the mix. When you first get the powers of the Darkness, it feels 
 good, hell it feels great. You feel bad ass and powerful... and then you see how easily it can 
 turn on you. That you are truly only its puppet in the end. It makes itself known as pure evil.
 
  
  The inclusion of Otherworld was also a very unique and wonderfully dark experiance in my opinion, 
 I loved and hated going there at the same time, I loved it because of the intense battlefield, 
 the zombies and the pure action, and hated it because of how dark it was and how evil it was. It 
 was like.. going to hell and loving the trip on the way down *Wink* In short The Darkness is an 
 amazing game, which I would reccomend to everyone, but I must warn you it is not for the faint 
 of heart. The only reason this game is not a pure 10 is because there were times I felt the Darkness 
 was invisible, and that more could have been done with the story. For example Jackie not questioning 
 what the hell just happened when he mangled people in the cemetary. Also Paulie and Shrotes calm 
 and cool reaction to the Darkness had me a little.. disappointed. I personally felt they should 
 have been scared out of their minds, but maybe thats just me.
  
  All and all an instant classic, if you love FPS and you love horror games, pick this game up for 
 your 360, its $60 well spent, trust me on that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kslay88
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 9, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  So yes, this game does seem very cool. From the videos you have probably seen that your darkness 
 creature eats the hearts of the enemies and you can summon little baddies to help you out. However 
 aside from the flashy subistence, the core action is very simplistic and boring. The enemies are 
 easy (beated on normal and hard) , they don't necessarily flank around you. Most of the guns are 
 useless except the pistols. The story is great in this game. The audio/sound really shows a gritty 
 tale of murder and deceit, this is really the only factor that pushes you to beat the game,
  
  Multiplayer is very tacky. You don't play as jackie, just the darkness and humans. It is very 
 laggy and since the main action in the single player wasn't that great, the mp is even worse. You 
 can not use darkness powers at all as a human player.
  
  Wrapping it up, make sure you rent this game, unless you are a hardcore addict to this game, you'll 
 probably beat it and then not play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darquewillow
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  There has always been a stigma in the video game industry that says if your game is an adaptation 
 of another medium such as film or television that it stands little chance of being anything of 
 worthwhile mention. Mix that in with the infamous dry summer release schedule, and youve got yourself 
 the ideal candidate for yet another monotonous gaming experience. But there is a lot to be said 
 about Starbreeze, the developer of this game, who brought to us the Chronicles of Riddick game 
 released in 2004 for the original Xbox. That game was faced with similar adversity, and was generally 
 acclaimed as one the best games of 2004. It is with these things in mind that I approached this 
 new title. In the Darkness, you play the role of Jackie Estacado, a young man who finds himself 
 deeply linked with the criminal underworld. After surviving an attempt on his life by none other 
 than his own uncle, Jackie awakens to find he has been made host to a mysterious creature only 
 known as The Darkness.
  
  At first, The Darkness plays out like most first-person shooters. You start out with a couple of 
 handguns and pick up other weapons such as a shotgun as you progress in early stages. Its only 
 later on that you begin to unlock the darknesss abilities, which range from summoning darklings 
 to manifesting weapons for Jackie to make use of. One of the most interesting powers thatll youll 
 uncover during game play is the Black Hole ability, which basically allows you to create a tear 
 in the fabric of space and have your enemies helplessly hurled towards it as though it was a giant 
 vacuum. You replenish these powers by simply standing in the darkness. Although this certainly 
 helps set the mood for the game, youll easily find yourself having to destroy every source of 
 light in any given stage, which can become very repetitive, very quickly.
  
  Graphically the game is very nice, but generally what youd expect from a next-generation shooter; 
 the lighting is especially well done. The voice acting is also of very high quality, which in addition 
 to the fluidity of the animation of the characters, makes for convincing and enrapturing storytelling. 
 The creators of the game are quite adept at capturing the seedy underground feel. The Darkness 
 if a great game with a deep enticing storyline that should please most fans of the FPS genre, and 
 is a most welcome arrival during a time where most new releases are of the summer blockbuster 
 variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynomitemasta
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  I'll tell ya right now, I didn't like this game when I first put it in my 360, but after putting 
 down for a week, and then picking it up, . . well,. . .I'm hooked. I'm not familiar with the comic, 
 so I have nothing to compare it to, except the game itself. The game looks good, NOT great, but 
 good. Backgrounds are detailed, but not overly busy, and nothing really jumps out at me , graphically 
 that makes me think or feel otherwise. I am a horror freak, in and out, so I tend to like a little 
 (a lot) more blood in my games. Not too much blood here, and there should be. If you ever have 
 gotten a bad cut on your finger, you know how much blood your body can throw out of a little hole, 
 let alone ripping someone's heart out, there should be GALLONS of blood! One thing I DID notice 
 right off the bat is that Jakie bares a striking resemblance to Kevin Spacey, which doesn't bother 
 me, but every time there is a cut scene, I'm thinking, uhh, Kevin Spacey.
  Better Mr Spacey than let's say Willie Aimes, or Jm J Bullock, that would be funny though. The 
 game is paced very well and the story comes together in a big way as you go through each chapter. 
 I am not gonna sit here and tell you the story line , cause that bothers me when people do that, 
 but let's just say it is a demonic driven NY/NJ mafia style backdrop with a main character that 
 rips the hearts out of each one of his victims. Lovely. Great game, but it needs more BLOOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair150
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. Playing in the immersive storyline gives you a reason to even more 
 of a reason to play it. To doesn't, (maybe 8 year olds) want to eat hearts?
  
  The Darkness takes place somewhere in New York City, you are Jackie Estacado, a top-notch contract 
 killer. At the start of the game you are going to complete a hit, when all of a sudden, in the 
 middle of a street tunnel, you get attacked by some fellow mobsters. That's when the game starts 
 to kick in. From beginning to end, this game makes you feel like it's just going to get better 
 and better. And oh, how it does. Very close to the beginning, you are possessed by the Darkness, 
 a violent and brutal parasite, bent on living off a human parasite. Tough luck Jackie. You get 
 to see it's brutality right after you get it, yes, a very bloody cutscene might I add. Thing is, 
 you don't get all of the powers towards the end of the game, play on! You have to navigate through 
 a variety of NYC streets. Also, I've heard that you can get lost. Thats bull! WARNING: Mentally 
 retarded people shouldn't pick up and play this game. They're are street maps on the streets! They're 
 very bright maps! Anyways, the two places you'll most likely be at in the game are certain areas 
 in the city and the subway. Did I mention you end up going to Hell. That was one of the worst, 
 and when i mean worst, I mean freaking eerry. Anyways this game is great! Gameplay: 10/10. Graphics: 
 they're not Gears of War, but they dont need to be. 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Game: BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkalla
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  My biggest complaint and the one that makes this game hard to suggest is that it's just too damn 
 short. If you bought this game new and sat down Saturday morning, you could have this game wrapped 
 up by Saturday afternoon or night... and that's it. Game over.
  
  I won't give more than a nod to Multiplayer as it's just a death-match laden gimmick that everyone 
 seems to add at the last minute in order to get that check mark at the back of the box: We have 
 multiplayer! 
  
  The quality of the game is excellent, the story is interesting and the world you exist in is awesome... 
 but the game boils down (within 3 hrs of starting) to a simple revenge story... kill everyone. 
 I wish it had done more and slowed down a bit after the pickup at the beginning, felt like running-and-gunning 
 Gears of War style, and that's not what I was looking for.
  
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlt0028
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  The game is okay, but after the Darkness is actually usable it almost seems useless. You can get 
 by most of the game with your trusty gun. The voice acting was very good, the graphics are outstanding, 
 but I just thought the game was missing something. However, this is something I would expect from 
 a next-generation video game. While some may like it, I prefer not having to deal with all the 
 different controls. The game could be a little darker as well. It doesnt have that spooky sense 
 that a game like FEAR has. I say you should rent it, before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut_au
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  The Darkness provides one of the most powerful experiences in a game in a long time. I was expecting 
 a fun FPS with a twist, but not the masterful production, immersive story and an ending that actually 
 made me feel something. Whilst it isn't as innovative as to revolutionalise the FPS genre, it certainly 
 stands out of the pack not only for its aesthetics, but for a great sense of black humour and the 
 powerful, dark and mature storyline that doesn't insult the player with cliches or predictabilities. 
 Every FPS fan would do well to at least check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurmman2003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Mmk, lemme point out here that this is my first review. Hopefully it's not my last. Anyway, on 
 to the review.
  
  I must say that Starbreeze has once again managed to come up with another winner. In this game 
 you are Jakie Estacado. A mafia hit man for your Uncle Paulie. The game starts off innocently enough, 
 you're being chased by the cops on your way to your next hit. After an accident you are thrust 
 into the game world and set on your way to kill the mark. After blowing through a few guys you 
 find that your Uncle Paulie has a special Birthday surprise for you. After avoiding an untimely 
 death you are endowed with The Darkness. An ancient being that is as old as time itself. It manifests 
 itself as two tentacle like heads that spout outta your back. With this new Friend you gain the 
 ability to destroy your Uncle, and his goons and bring back the old ways .
  
  The Pros: The game is good, the graphics are top notch, the Voice acting is..... awesome wouldn't 
 quite do it justice. The way the game is set up you play through Jakie's telling of events. Like 
 you're going through his memories of what happened to him. The way it's told will bring you into 
 this world of his, and keep you going till the end. Starbreeze doesn't disapoint. Just like with 
 The Chronicles of Riddick, they managed to come up with another great game that should be right 
 at home in your collection. The powers that are granted to you by The Darkness will keep you playing 
 for weeks to come. The Cons: The game is short.... like you'll beat it in a handful of hours... even 
 on medium. Some of the lip syncing isn't all that great either... there are times when you'll be 
 watching the lips and they don't look like they are moving.... specially on Jackie. Some of the 
 guns are basically useless, like The Darkness Guns, I won't tell you what those are... I'd rather 
 you play the game, and after you manage to get the last power for The Darkness, the game gets even 
 easier, as all you have to do is summon up the last power and wipe out a room.
  
  With all that's been said this game is very well done. Defiantly one game that should be in your 
 collection... but I will give one last warning.
  
  DON'T LET ANY KIDS YOUNGER THAN 17 PLAY THIS GAME!!!!!!!! There's alot and I mean alot of language, 
 I counted over 15 f-bombs in the first half of the game! The violence can get pretty intense in 
 places, their's scenes where you're eating hearts.... this can be pretty traumatic for younger audiences. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8summit
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is one of the more unique games to come out recently. I know of no other game where 
 eating hearts is part of the gameplay. It truly is a very satisfying experience in the end.
  
  I must say I was impressed with the sound effects. Maybe the game didn't have the best gun 
 effects, or the best environmental effects, but the sound of people killed, the blood splatter; 
 even the sound of the darkness eating peoples hearts was exemplary. You will never get annoyed 
 or bored with the sound of those hearts being eaten. I was also pleasantly surprised with the quality 
 of the voice acting. All the characters, especially Jimmy the Grape, Aunt Sarah, and Butcher had 
 good voice acting. The acting in the solo spots that you see during the loading times was also 
 rather good. The voice of the darkness was excellent; it really portrayed an evil character.
  
  The graphics are phenomenal. I have yet to see textures up to the quality of this game. You 
 can read every word of off posters. The faces are almost life like. On the other hand there were 
 a few graphical glitches, but these are few and far in between. The blood effect is very good if 
 not exagerrated, but in a game like this exagerrated is good. Even if youre a newcomer you will 
 find this game very fun. There isn't really much skill required to play, although by the end of 
 the game you will be wielding your tentacle with what seems like skill. The only complaint I have 
 is difficulty wise. The hard difficulty is extremely hard, while the medium feels to easy. Other 
 than that the gameplay is amazing. The darkness truly adds the fun. Once you have all your cool 
 darkness moves unlocked, you will feel compelled to use them for more satisfying kills instead 
 of using your guns. The tentacle is truly my favourite. Spiking people with it and then throwing 
 them against a wall never gets old. It's so fun hearing the people scream. One thing that annoyed 
 me was the fact that the supposedly better guns are really the opposite. The only thing that makes 
 the Uzis and pistols the best guns to use is the fact that instead of reloading them you drop them 
 and pick another one out of your jacket. This eliminates the need for using a different gun, and 
 means that you will end up using your pistol throughout the whole game. I found the story line 
 to be unique and exciting. Unlike other shooters, this game truly had a story that pulled you in. 
 The part of the game that truly made the story so interesting was the loading spotlights where 
 Jackie Estacado would talk about whatever was happening at the time. I'll never forget the quote 
 And that was the first time I died . Another neat little thing were the collectables. Other games 
 have something similar where you pick up all the collectables and get a reward. What made the collectables 
 in this game so much better was the fact that they were phone numbers. You take the notes you picked 
 up to a phone and you heard a neat little message. Every collectable also unlocks neat extra content 
 like the darkness comics, and concept art. The side missions were interesting although you don't 
 really need to complete them. One final and very small detail that I found interesting was the 
 fact that you could watch whole movies and cartoons on the TVs found throughout the game. If you 
 really wanted to spend the 2 hours watching the tiny TVs you could watch To Kill a Mockingbird 
 or old Sunday morning cartoons. The multiplayer modes are fun, but won't hold your interest for 
 too long. The only neat thing about them is that you can switch from a darkling into a human which 
 makes for some fun kills. Unfortunately the multiplayer is somewhat broken with lag found throughout 
 almost all the matches.
  
  Other than a broken multiplayer component, the darkness is a very satisfying experience. It's one 
 of those games that you might not play again after you beat, but you will remember the games story 
 for a long time. It's a rare and unique gem that actually has a story and stands out from the crown 
 of bland shooters. The darkness powers will always excite, the sound effects will always haunt, 
 and the graphics will amaze. Don't miss The Darkness for Xbox 360 or PS3.
  
  -G8summit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Name_Taken
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  wow this was a pretty good game i never really knew anything about the darkness and i always wanted 
 to but never had the time... but this really hit the spot for me haha... awesome game with nothing 
 much bad to say about it... the only thing is the ending could have been A LOT more better the 
 biggest battle in the game turned out to be a whole cinimatic first person movie as if you were 
 playing but you were just sitting there watching all this carnage that you wish you could of been 
 playing... and the ending just cuts off where you swear there was at least 1 more chapter haha... 
 but all in all great game just... wow... too short... so short it makes you say... wow... i only 
 had the game for 3 days and i could of sworn i only played an hour a day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknoteye6
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  I had no Idea what this game was about until I played it. Now it is one of my favorite games for 
 the X360. With some excellent graphics and hilarious ragdoll effects. I think this game is worth 
 at least trying. Multiplayer is also a good addiction. I had no idea that this game would go into 
 the mafia and even hells version of World War 2. The Darknesses powers are all very fun to use 
 in the game. The demon arm is one of my personnel favorites. The Weapons do not make much of a 
 big difference besides being a light killer. What Im saying is, BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost... I know nothing about the comic aside from some tidbits my friends have told 
 me. I knew Jackie was a hitman and he had some neat powers... now that the game is out... I am interested 
 in reading the comic and that says a lot for this games narrative pace and style. Lets tackle the 
 overview first... I am sure you all know it already. You play as a dark and moody mafia hitman named 
 Jackie Estacado, your 21'st birthday seems like another day in the office... but you get the best 
 gift ever this year, evil powers that feed on darkness... who does not want that? The game progresses 
 with the introduction of new powers and some interesting suprises in the story... some very moving. 
 The graphics... This is a hit and miss subject, I like the style of the art and such... but the 
 game looks like F. E. A. R. to me... it has fairly bland textures and lacks the solid lighting and 
 detail that we see in games that are older. I found that the models seemed to rigid and did not 
 move in a semi realistic fashion that we see in GRAW or Gears. don't get me wrong... I am not expecting 
 amazing mind blowing graphics... just graphics that keep up with other games on the system. The 
 sound... The voiceover work is amazing... from the tense whispers of jackie to the intense sounds 
 of the darkness speaking... it will give you chills. I did find that firearms sounded weak and the 
 background sounds for the city did not capture any real mood... the music is very bland also. The 
 story... I loved the pace... the characters are interesting and the levels are pretty good at reflecting 
 the inner city feel... aside from the fact that there are like 4 people living in this world... I 
 can walk the streets and see only one or two NPC's that don't shoot at you on sight... that shows 
 a lack of polish. The twists and turns will keep you playing... it is short and I bet one could 
 beat it in one day if they wanted. The gameplay... I found that this game shares the clunky movement 
 of F. E. A. R, I often got frustrated at the lack of precision that I wanted and one can find in games 
 like RS-Vegas and others. The gun fighting is pretty wierd... sometimes you have fun and sometimes 
 it seems as if the damage is inconsistent... I should not have to shoot a guy in normal clothes 
 more than twice to kill him. The powers are the meat and taters of the game... they feel akward 
 and sometimes you find that you use them because they are there and not because you want to... the 
 game does provide parts where the use of powers is the only way to progress... that is a blessing 
 and a curse when it does not tell you what you need to do... it will only drop subtle hints that 
 you learn to pick up on. Overall. I like this game... I won't play it on live... but I really think 
 it is a good one to own if you want a engaging single player game that will keep you occupied till 
 something better comes along in the summer gaming drought 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eimin
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 8, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so, I'm a comic fan. Love the Darkness, loved the fact that everyone was going all wohoo, 
 this game is good, what a surprise but its from the makers of riddick, yadda yadda .
  
  In the end, the game is decent but not as amazing as its hyped up to be. First off, if you've caught 
 the gamespot footage of the game you've pretty much seen everything, and yes it is kinda cool to 
 devour hearts but it won't carry a game by itself.
  
  If you've read the comic the you'll be dissapointed by the fact that the darkness is simplified 
 to two hentai looking tentacles that come out from behind you somewhere, let's not speclate further. 
 You can summon very very frail darklings from holes in the ground but they never come into much 
 use.
  
  Most darkness powers are a bit clunky to use and you never feel like you're really wielding awesome 
 awesomeness... The very last power you get is an exception but it drains all your energy and so 
 comes with a high price.
  
  The game is still decent though and it is definately immersive and full of nice story... The mob 
 plot though is cliche and bothersome. It's jackie's exploration of himself and the darkness that 
 is really interesting...
  
  Anyway, others have dissected this game way more than I care to. I only write this because I want 
 to make sure people's expectations aren't too high. It's an immersive game with near perfect presentation. 
 However, the powers are clunky, the plot dull at times, it's short. If you're into hentai then 
 add one point to the score and look forward to some tentacle action... If you're a fan of the comic 
 substract one from the score if you're looking for a direct port. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up due to nostalgia, I used to read The Darkness when I collected comic books 
 back in the day and hoped that the game would live up to what Top Cow had done with the comic. 
 I have to say this is one of the better shooters that I have seen lately and I enjoyed the story 
 and storytelling done by Jackie the main character. The game play was fun and the idea of having 
 to keep to the shadows to manifest your powers was a interesting twist. The only two things that 
 just got annoying was the cut scenes, they were nice but the recycled ones between areas got frustrating 
 cause there was no way to fast forward thru ones you already had seen. If I had to hear the taxi 
 cab crazy Abdul cut scene again I think I was going to go mental. Also having to destroy light 
 after light for the whole game got a bit repetitive, but that could just be how I felt. I don't 
 really think that the multiplayer will keep me around and give the game some legs but at the very 
 least give it a rent and turn off the lights and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samisonfire
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a very fun game, its got all the gore and blood shed you would ever want.
  
  The best aspects of the game are; the gore (of course) such as when you go close to an enemy 
 and press the shoot button you get a cool kill where you may shoot them in the crotch then in the 
 throat or get trigger happy and just pepper them from point blank range. The many darkness powers 
 you can unlock are cool aswell, they are; you being able to control one of the snake like creatures 
 and move it up walls, across ceilings etc. and bite peoples heads off, one of the creatures tails 
 is used as a whip type weapon which you can pick people and objects up with and throw them around, 
 guns that shoot electric bullet and shock waves, and the darkness heads creating black holes which 
 suck up people and swirl them round and round until they die. The fact that their isn't any long 
 range gun fights in the game, which is a good thing due to the fact that their is no point in the 
 game on or offline, when I shout with rage: where the f**k am i getting shot from, god, I hate 
 people that snipe, bloody marksmen . (I don't like people that snipe) .
  
  There is a couple of things that come to mind when thinking about the bad points of the game which 
 are; when you have to figure out where to go. There has been many a time on this game where i have 
 walked around in a room or place for, say, 10, 15 minutes looking where to go, (although this may 
 just be me being dense it is still none the less annoying) . Another is the way i am still confused 
 about where the darkness actually comes from, this is probably revealed later on in the game, but 
 i personally think it should be explained more thoroughly at the start of the game. All i can figure 
 out at the moment is that the darkness is inherited, it occurs when the inherent is 21, and that 
 you have to be in the time of Jackie (the guy you take the role of) s Grandfathers time, and to 
 get to his time you have to commit suicide on holy ground.
  
  To conclude, the darkness is a very decent game, and all the things that don't make sense and the 
 parts that take a long time to figure out, are forgotten when you blow somebodies face off and 
 blood splatters by their feet.
  
  An enjoyable game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ztoky
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Well as always my review will be snappy.
  I can just say that I love seeing new stuff, but new stuff can be bad as well but not in this game 
 absolutely not.. These new stuff that you see in this game that you've never before in a game is 
 just perfect and so much fun to do and see. Controlling demons that can devout hearts and pick 
 up enemies and throw them away is just so much fun.
  As gamespot said "Who could thought that Demons and Mobster would fit together" :P. A really great 
 thing about this game is that it feels very personal and free because you can run and do side quests 
 before goin' to the main quests if you want. But it's kinda weird 'cause it's a very linear game 
 but it really fit to this game! Cut-scenes are very superb in this game as well and could you believe 
 that a game were you are evil could make room for a lot of different emotions? The voice actors 
 is just so (y) (y) (y) (y) .
  
  Please check this awesome game out NOW!
  P. S Swedish game studios like DICE and Starbreeze Studios ROCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gambitarchangel
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  I was hoping The Darkness would be good, instead it was great! I just wish it could have lasted 
 longer. The Darkness deals with the New York mob and is a story of revenge and tragedy. It combines 
 realism with the supernatural. The game play is great, using the darkness powers are a lot of fun, 
 my personal favorite is the black hole. You gain powers has you progress through the game. You 
 can also call upon the darklings, these little demon guys who will kill for you, there are 4 different 
 types and they provide a lot of the twisted humor in the game. Like the Chronicles of Riddick game, 
 you can explore the enviornment between objectives and also do side quests if you like, whether 
 it helping someone or killing someone. The game is very immersive and not every thing you do is 
 just running around killing. There are other things to do as well. Hell, one objective was to go 
 to his girlfriends place a just hang out for bit. And if you want, you can even watch TV in the 
 game. Now the pros in the game. The graphics are stunning, some of the best I've seen, the voice 
 acting is great, the controls handle nicly and it has a great story that you want to follow.
  Now the cons in the game. It could have been longer, even though 9-10 hours is pretty typical, 
 the enemy A. I. could have been a little better. And for the side quests, after you complete them 
 the person will give you unlockable content like artwork and other useless stuff. It would have 
 been better if you got things that could actually help you instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spikrath
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  The Bad: Hmm... not really much that makes any real difference. The only complaints I had were 
 that the characters lips didn't move right when they talked, the environment isn't destructable 
 (except for the lights) , the last two darkness powers are a little impractical in harder difficulties, 
 it's too easy and short for being such a good game, and there's no split-screen multiplayer. None 
 of these had any real effect on the game, it is already beyond awesome, but such slight additions 
 such could have made it so much more enjoyable, however unimaginable that might be.
  
  The Good: Awesome story, cinematic presentation, great combat, awesomely dark (celebrate the anti-hero) , 
 keeps you on your toes, leaves you wanting more without ending in disappointment, and just plain 
 fun.
  The Darklings are always funny, pissing on dead enemies and screaming out I LIKE PENGUINS! randomly. 
 Some points require some intelligent usage of The Darkness, and strategy whe the Darkness is not 
 available for use. Enemies are a little dim on easy, but get very aggressive and lethal on Hard. 
 will tell you though, if you're having trouble at some points (specifically, first 'level' in Trinity 
 Graveyard) , and thinking Man, I hope it's not this hard throughout the rest of the game. Don't 
 worry, once you get the Darkness, things get a lot easier, but not in a bad way. The Darkness gives 
 you a shield that will protect you from attacks, so you won't die in three shots with the Darkness 
 manifest. Then, once you get the Demon Arm, things get even easier, and oh so much more fun. I 
 would spend hours on a single place, impaling people with the Arm and throwing them across the 
 map, into others, and off cliffs, and then devour their hearts when I'm done playing with them. 
 So, that said, the Darkness Shield (which is passive) , Demon Arm, Darklings, and the Creeping Dark 
 are the most practical of your abilities. Black Hole and the Darkness Guns are, believe it or not, 
 just not worth the risk simply because they use so much of your Darkness power, they leave you 
 too vulnerable.
  
  Gameplay: Oh, so fun. And replayable too. I'm sure after a few dozen times through, it gets old, 
 but it hasn't yet for me. Very immersive and cinematic, you'll find yourself absolutely consumed.
 
  
  Graphics: Definately Next-Gen worthy, yet thankfully, not so realistic that it's just plain creepy.
 
  
  Sound: Awesome voice acting, sound effects are great. Listening to your enemies cries of terror 
 when you manifest the Darkness and slaughter their comrades is an absolute pleasure. The voice 
 of the Darkness is so awesome too! Sounds like he could be in a Black Metal band or something.
 
  
  Alternatives: Really, this is one of the few games that has no real 'alternatives'. However, I 
 would reccomend the 360 game FEAR. It is just as dark, and will probably make you soil your pants. 
 It is also a lot harder that The Darkness if you're looking for more of a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: football_legend
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  The video gaming trend is that transition of games to movies, especially movies to games can all 
 consideredit sucks. Than few years back, Starbreeze (a Swedish based studio) released Chronicles 
 of Riddick: Escape from Butchers Bay, a FPS game that came and shot into fame in Xbox and later 
 PC. Its one of the few (or the) game which even though was made from a good movie, it is actually 
 makes the movie look bad. So in other words, movies to games are always a difficult transition, 
 but comic books to games are even more difficult. When you know that Starbreeze is handling this 
 kind of project, you can always relax and grab a beer. For its Tucows comic book transition is 
 nearly a smooth one.
  
  Story: - You play as your regular NYC mobster, Jackie. Who later finds that his clan has painted 
 a red bulls-eye on the back of his head, Jackie supposedly betrayed the mafia family at some point. 
 Later in the game you will possess (or be possessed) by someunique powers thats not in your 
 regular mobster inventory. With the Darkness engulfing every street of NYC, the mobsters on your 
 hot trail, its only you and your demon-inside.
  
  Game play: - The Darkness plays like your FPSwith addition of your demon arms. 2 Snake like 
 heads popping out of your shoulder blades. They are operated by your shoulder buttons, one of me 
 can bit the head off an enemy, and other can rip heart through the victims chest. You can also 
 move of the arms like a snake crawling through vents, walls like a snake and sneak upon enemies. 
 The arms are so strong that can you actually lift vehicles and throw them at bounch of poor souls 
 and watch them squashed. You can also form small army of devilish creatures called Darklings which 
 will your nasty work of killing your foes without moving a finger (or demon arms) . The demon arms 
 and Darkling powers only works when you are in the darkness and have a limited time for it, it 
 regenerates fairly quickly when you are in a dark room. The physics system is really good and sometimes 
 you might just end up roaming around and cause havoc with your arms. Yeah thats right, although 
 its not GTA IV by any margin; you can explore a good amount of NYC, which can be used to find 
 side-missions, etc. Although the cream of action lies in the games main content. The only thing 
 that seams weird to me is that, whenever you pull your demon armsthe common folk around the city 
 and your enemies only startle a bit. I mean COMON!! Its not everyday a guy pulls out 2 snake heads 
 from his shoulderor is it something I missed?
  
  Multiplayer is an afterthought and is just added for the sake of having a multiplayer game. The 
 developers themselves have said that the game is a single player focused game.
  
  Graphics: When Riddick came for Xbox, it easily raised the bar of graphical quality for the console 
 (and later PC) , both technically and artistically. The Darkness continuous that tradition as well. 
 The game is one of the few games that look really superb in this gen, without using the Unreal 
 Engine 3. So full marks for Starbreeze on that. The textures are sharp, and character models are 
 also really good, especially the main characters in the game, but overall all of them are good.
 
  Sound: The sound is good and is in line with the graphical quality. The voice acting in the game 
 is on the top. The sound of guns seams real and especially the queer voice of your inner-demon 
 is nerve cracking to say the least.
  
  Together with a great storyline, solid voice acting and lots of side-missions and fantastically 
 awesome demon arms, this game has a lot of value.
  Personally its a game for which I think my 60$ is well spent and is easily 360s AAA game of the 
 summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  When The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay was released back in 2004, gamers everywhere 
 were treated to a very immersive, and somehow different, first person shooter. So when word got 
 out that Starbreeze was cooking up another shooter, gamers rejoiced. That game became known as 
 The Darkness, a first person shooter based on a comic book by Top Cow. It has an amazing story 
 that weaves two seemingly incommensurable elements together in such a way that one would think 
 it to be impossible. It is a tale of corruption, greed, love, and of course, darkness. The game 
 starts off with a bang as you wake up in the body of Jackie Estacado, a New York style mob hit 
 man on his 21st birthday. You are in the back seat of a speeding cab when you awake, you must have 
 been passed out from a blow to the head earlier. Your eyes open to find two men in the front seat 
 screaming over the loud roar of the cars around you. You begin to realize what happened and why 
 you are here. You come to find out that a money-collection deal for your uncle Paulie has gone 
 wrong and he says you are to blame. He becomes enraged and puts a hit on you for your actions. 
 The high octane car chase ends in a crash and its up to you to survive and take down your corrupt 
 uncle before he gets you.
  
  Soon after the beginning of the game Jackie becomes possessed by The Darkness, some sort of demonic 
 creature that represents itself as two big snake like creatures that come out of your back. The 
 Darkness, voiced by Faith No Mores Mike Patton, also speaks to you in an attempt to persuade you 
 to do its bidding. After you are possessed you dont have to have The Darkness out at all times 
 however. With a push of a button the creatures will go back inside of you and wait for your next 
 call. It does grant you some excellent new powers and abilities that keep this from being another 
 one of those run-of-the-mill shooters however, so you will most likely have it out and ready for 
 battle. While The Darkness is manifested, the first thing you will notice is the heightened visibility 
 in the dark along with a less vulnerable body frame. It almost acts as a shield against enemy fire 
 and such. Along with that, your first Darkness ability is called creeping dark. This lets you drop 
 one of the demon arms to the ground and control it as you see fit. Throughout the game you unlock 
 more abilities that enhance your overall power towards enemies. Around the same time you will get 
 the ability to summon darklings out of these darkness gates in the ground. They are little creatures 
 that attack and destroy your foes. Throughout the game you will be able to summon different ones, 
 bringing the total to four different darkling classes. Next you will earn a demon arm attack, which 
 causes a big sharp appendage to jut out of you and stab guys or move objects. Eventually youll 
 unlock guns that use The Darkness energy as ammo, and a black hole attack that deploys a big black 
 hole used to suck guys into and pretty much kill them instantaneously. Switching through the certain 
 attacks is done with the D pad. Going up and down selects the darkness powers, while pressing right 
 and left select your weapons. All of these attacks use up The Darkness energy and one way to replenish 
 it is by standing in the shadows for a quick recharge. This makes shooting out lights an unpleasant 
 chore throughout the games entirety. The other option is a bit more entertaining however, and 
 its by eating human hearts. It really can be one of the more entertaining features in the game. 
 All you do is walk up to a dead enemy (it has to be an enemy, no good hearts allowed) and press 
 A. This allows one of the demon arms to reach down and rip the heart out of the dead enemy. Starbreeze 
 really did a good job with the animation here as sometimes they two arms will fight over the heart 
 before it is devoured. Oddly enough, the right one always wins. Take that as you will. Most of 
 the time however, the demon arm will just grab the heart and chew it down with some nice sound 
 effects. The weapons in the game, although big and loud, seem to come off as useless carry-ons. 
 With all the power you get from the darkness you dont even seem to need them. The dual pistols 
 you get at the beginning of the game seem to do the trick from start to finish. This may be due 
 to the games effortless gun play. At times you feel like your aiming reticule just takes itself 
 to the head of your enemies. Along with the games lackluster AI, it makes for some pretty dull 
 firefights. One cool feature in the game are the execution moves. If you get close enough to an 
 enemy and fire your gun, Jackie will do one of his various gruesome executions and destroy him 
 or her on the spot. The developers did a nice job with the overall look and feel to the game. Its 
 very dark and gritty, just like any M rated action game should be. They paid special attention 
 to detail as the games textures look phenomenal from top to bottom. The frame rate holds up nicely 
 and thats a real testament to what they did with the constant action and amazing physics. Using 
 the black hole attack gives you a perfect example of what the games physics engine can do. Although 
 the games enemy AI is less than impressive, the rest of the world is rich and believable as New 
 York city. During the games slow parts, you will find many characters to talk to, and often times 
 get some information on a side quest worth completing. These quests range from going to kill someone, 
 to jumping on some train tracks to try and pick up some coins before you get hit by the train. 
 All of these add some length to an already lengthy single player experience, as well as create 
 a more believable environment for the player. The story keeps things moving and once you get to 
 the end of the game you feel very accomplished as it seems like youve covered a lot of ground. 
 Due to the games natural length, along with a good amount of secrets and side quests, The Darkness 
 should keep you playing a pretty good amount longer than your average shooter. As for the multiplayer 
 portion of The Darkness, its pretty much bare bones. It is online only with your basic multiplayer 
 game types like deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. It does give the host some control 
 over the games settings, but for the most part its pretty average. You arent able to use the 
 darkness powers you get in single player, instead you play as a regular human with the ability 
 to morph into a darkling. Being a darkling removes all of your weapons, but it does grant you the 
 ability to climb on walls to surprise the other players. There is also huge lag problem with the 
 game as it is. A patch in the future may be able to remedy the situation, but as it stands its 
 nearly unplayable. When it works it can be a nice distraction from the games main focus, and that 
 is the single player.
  
  The Darkness is definitely in the top tier when it comes to voice acting. All of the characters 
 sound phenomenal and true to life. Jackie sounds like a true New-York style mobster, and it was 
 a tremendous job by everyone involved. Like I said, Faith No Mores Mike Patton does the voice 
 of the darkness, and in my opinion does a fantastic job. The only disappointment is the mismatch 
 of voice and lips. The characters seem to not move their mouth at all in some spots, and this leads 
 to a loss in realness in the characters. However the body language matches perfectly and brings 
 a true lifelike appearance to them. The Darkness is just one those games that needs to be played. 
 From the amazing story line with well written dialogue and plot twists, to the satisfaction of 
 eating some dirty mobsters heart, you really cant go wrong with this game. For anyone looking 
 for a fantastic, mature single player action game, with a little side of multiplayer, you can do 
 a whole lot worse than The Darkness. ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hallway_Giant
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  In a world that seems to mostly consist of first-person shooters focusing on the highly competitive 
 multiplayer experience, very rarely nowadays does one find games in the genre having words like 
 compelling and highly atmospheric describing them. The Darkness, created by indie, Sweden based 
 developer Starbreeze Studios and based on the Top Cow comic, brings a action adventure experience 
 that while not without its flaws is all of the aforementioned adjectives and more. Who would have 
 thought that a story about New York mobsters and Otherworld forces colliding in the mind of an 
 ageless evil could be made enjoyable and interesting? On paper it certainly sounds like an interesting 
 premise and for once a comic property translates well into playable form. The main character Jackie 
 Estacado, is your average mafia hitman (whatever that means) and due to no mistake of his own gets 
 raveled up in a tale of Otherworldly demons and the fate of his very existence. While seemingly 
 complicated a premise the story is well told and doesnt get too deep under the surface unlike 
 the comic its based, which is both good and bad. The part that makes the game worthwhile is not 
 so much the story but the story telling. Each character is full motion captured and well detailed 
 which adds to the aforementioned highly atmospheric feeling throughout. You really get the feeling 
 that these characters exist to some degree and bring a vocal/digital acting performance that just 
 isnt seen too much these days. Its not perfected of course due to so questionable lip-syncing 
 and such, but when thats the biggest problem its more nitpicking then anything.
  
  The second layer of this demonic cake comes from the games visuals, which hold up fairly consistently 
 throughout. The frame rate holds up much of the time and you can really see the amount of time 
 Starbreeze put in the levels in the fantastic texture work. Everything looks and behaves much like 
 you would think it would and while the levels that are present dont have the same level of interactivity 
 as other recent games in the genre its hard to fault when what is there looks so fantastic. The 
 same goes for the games music which while not totally memorable fits the tone and the vibe of the 
 game well combining hard rock tracks with audio loops and ambient noise to (again) create a fairly 
 believable dark, New York atmosphere. Of course atmosphere cannot a good name make.
  
  Through your journey Jackie develops different levels of powers dealing with the Darkness but for 
 the most part you rely on guns to do the job, this is where the game hits its faults. While initially 
 pretty satisfying the gunplay just does not hold up. The auto aim system implemented is useful 
 only to a point and for this reviewer made it more cumbersome then just giving full non-assisted 
 aiming to the player. Another issue deals with the games AI, which is just plain dull. They mostly 
 stick behind cover and take pot shots, rarely stepping from behind them to pursue you. Perhaps 
 more time tweaking the aiming/sensitivity settings would helped, but in its current form the gunplay 
 which is quite a large part of the game just doesnt hold up over the length of the campaign. Thankfully 
 the campaign strikes a nice balance of pacing and while not particularly long makes you feeling 
 like youve accomplished a lot in a relatively short amount of time. Some of this can be lengthened 
 by the dozen or so side quests, but the really meat of the game comes from the story missions.
 
  
  This is what makes the games multiplayer stand out the most, just not in a good way. The amount 
 of care that was obviously put into the single player experience did not seem translate into the 
 multiplayer. Not only is it somewhat unplayable in its current form, but also the aforementioned 
 gunplay just is not strong enough on its own to make multiplayer worth playing. To put it simply, 
 if you are going into the Darkness looking for a complete single/multiplayer experience you only 
 have half the equation.
  
  While certainly not their first venture in the console space The Darkness provides quite the entrance 
 for Starbreeze Studios into the next generation. While it doesn't capture quite the same level 
 of genius of their 2004 hit The Chronicles of Riddick, The Darkness, if nothing else, provides 
 a well-crafted and atmospheric single player narrative that sets quite the bar for this generation 
 and the next. While not necessarily all parts of the package feel fully fleshed out the game is 
 certainly worth your time if not your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Divination-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first began to look at the first previews of the Darkness, some year ago I was intrigued 
 by the concept, and mainly because I was a big fan of the comics. At first when the second teaser 
 trailer came out I was upset with the Hollywood-edited concept that Starbreeze had taken on with 
 the game, and I discarded it as being somewhat of a sell-out. As more media was released, however, 
 I was once again intrigued and it worked its way up to being in my more anticipated games of 2007. 
 A few days after launch date I picked the game up and was automatically pulled into the world of 
 Jackie Estacado, Mafia hitman and unwilling host of a symbiosis undertaken by the Darkness, a ancient 
 and powerful force. During the opening of the game in the construction site, I was fully submerged 
 in the action of the game - nicely detailed firearms, well-done muzzle flashes, and above all character 
 model sharpness. That was, of course, until my encounter with the Darkness.
  
  When I was first introduced to the Darkness, my first reaction was the incredibly well-done voice 
 acting by Mr. Bungle and Faith No More vocalist Mike Patton, who did a highly exceptional job of 
 portraying the creature. I was also pleased with the cut-scene performances and other voice actors, 
 who fit their roles perfectly and pulled their characters off very nicely. As the game progressed 
 and as the Darkness began to evolve, the new powers that I earned were not only awesome against 
 my AI foes but also awesome in a visual sense. The Black Hole and Demon Arm are killing machines 
 that not only work like a charm but look great.
  
  The weapon selection is not vast, but is not small either. There are a total of 6 different kinds 
 of pistol, three different rifles and two shotguns. These weapons all work magic in their right 
 situations, but they are also highly adaptable weapons that are not overpowered and make the art 
 of taking someones life in the game satisfying. The environment of New York is very nicely done, 
 displaying subway tunnels and apartment buildings at a high graphical potential. The Otherworld 
 is also done nicely as part of a never-ending war that, surprisingly enough, does look a never 
 ending war. The storyline is highly immersive and centers around the double-crossing of Jackie 
 Estacado by his wretched, overweight and highly disliked Uncle Paulie who makes matters personal 
 when he executes Estacado's life-long friend and soulmate Jenny Romano in front of him as he is 
 helpless to watch. The storyline fuses with the gameplay to make the gameplay more interesting 
 and personal, making the player want to continue on to discover the secrets of the storyline.
 
  
  The Darkness is a highly exceptional action game that deserves high acclaim and recommended to 
 fans of drama, action and horror video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmonee
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this game is one of a few games out there now tjhat are slowly 
 redefining the FPS drama. By that I mean, the story here while on par with a comic book, is also 
 very deep. I could care less about it, but it's deep and it's what drives this game. It makes me 
 even hungrier for a game like Bioshock and Fallout 3 to come out. The game plays pretty good, the 
 tentacles are a nice gimmick as are the darklings you can summon in certain areas. The game is 
 designed for you to Kick Ass, so don't expect to be too challenged. There are some trial and error, 
 easy death areas , but at least you spawn at a decent area to try again. Most of the unlockables 
 are easy to get, and only give you backstory, concept art, comic issues, etc... I wish the game 
 let you play the single player mission as a darkling. Which you can in multiplayer. Speaking of 
 which, multiplayer will only last you a weekend, and after that you'll be done with it. All in 
 all, The Darkness was fun to play thru once, and did some things I've never seen in a videogame 
 before ( The Catcher in the Rye scene?) Unfortunatly, I have no incentive to want to play thru it 
 again. Multiplayer is bleh as well. A waste of money at $60 bucks. Worth a rental or on the cheap, 
 say $40 or so. Like I said befor though. This game is like a summer movie, it razzle dazzles, but 
 you'll forget it when your done........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arab_prince
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness. A game about a mobster who receives this terrible curse, The Darkness . Plot: You 
 play as the protagonist, Jackie Estacado. You are a hitman for a big mob family. On your 21st birthday 
 you end up failing a mission you were sent out on, and are perceived as a traitor to the family. 
 Of course one man cannot take on entire mob, so you inherit the Darkness. The darkness is a demon 
 that takes control of your body. With it, you receive unbelievable power, which you can use against 
 your foes. Your powers only work however, in the dark. So you will find yourself shooting lights 
 around you quite often. The plot is a good one, and a deep one, which will keep you holding on 
 to your seat the whole way through.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in the Darkness I found to be very unique. You don't get a cross hair for 
 shooting, instead just a laser point. This applies to all your guns. This makes it hard at times 
 to get headshots. For example in other games, you aim a couple of inches away from someones head 
 and the game will give you a head shot, but in this game, you have to shoot with the laser right 
 on the persons face. Its more challenging, but more rewarding. For those that don't like this, 
 there is an auto-aim option, which you can turn up or down.
  
  At first, I found the movement to be awkward, but I got the hang of it pretty quickly. There are 
 many things about the game that just stick out. For example, if you are wielding two pistols, and 
 you come across a corner, you will automatically twist your pistols to peek around the corner to 
 help you. As a character you can jump and crouch, etc. Also, the gameplay isn't too linear. Say 
 if you have to go to a certain area, you wont have a map marked telling you where to go. You have 
 to find it by yourself, by using maps in subway stations, on the streets, etc. This adds a bit 
 of freedom to the gameplay, which is nice. Especially since you don't have to do each mission right 
 after another. You can wonder off and help other civilians if they need it.
  
  The darkness' power's is where the real fun is. You get a total of four different powers which 
 you can use. You can take control of one of the heads and begin sliding along the ground, to sneak 
 up on people, or reach objects that are unreachable to Jackie. You can use a Demon Arm, which is 
 an arm that extends and break lights, lift cars, or.. impale enemies. You can use Darkness guns, 
 which are very powerful weapons to help with undead creatures. And you get a black hole. This black 
 hole can be used to suck up enemies or obstacles, such as doors. All of these powers are fun to 
 use, with the darkness guns being an exception. However, you can achieve total satisfaction through 
 one means. The way to be completely happy, is when you eat a heart. Once you kill an enemy you 
 have an option of eating their heart or not. If you do, one of the demon heads will rip into the 
 victims chest and extract a nice juicy heart. The two heads sometimes fight for the heart, but 
 it is the right head that always wins. The visuals and sounds of this process is what makes the 
 event so satisfying. Dare I say it is as satisfying as chainsawing an enemy in Gears of War? (for 
 those who have played Gears of War)
  
  On top of these powers, you get options to summon little darklings to help you out on your adventure. 
 You get four different kinds of darklings each with their own purpose and talents.
  
  Graphics: One thing you will notice about this game is the amount of detail put into the visuals. 
 The environments are very detailed and can look almost life-like at times. Half the time there 
 is a cut scene, I don't know if it has finished or not, because the cut scenes look identical to 
 the gameplay. However, there wasn't much detail put into the darkness itself. You can notice how 
 the darkness sometimes passes through your arm or through cars, etc, which ruins the experience 
 for you at times. However, the detail in the game is too great to give this game a rating lower 
 than 9 in the graphics department.
  
  Sound: The score was beautiful. However, tend to repeat often, which can get boring. But all the 
 music is top notch and matches the mood.
  
  Value: The game is a great game. It is short however. It will not take you more than 10-12 hours 
 to beat this game once. There is multiplayer, but it feels broken due to the immense lag. It is 
 extremely hard to play the online due to the issues. If there is a patch put out, I'm sure the 
 multiplayer will be more enjoyable.
  
  Side note: Instead of loading screens the game has a unique feature. Instead of Loading It shows 
 you a cut scene of the protagonist sitting in a dark room, talking. What he talks about changes 
 due to where you are entering. For example, if you enter a subway station, he mentions what he 
 thinks of them, if you enter new area, he can tell you some background information. There are a 
 great number of these cut scenes but towards the end of the game the cut scenes begin repeating.
 
  
  All-in-all, this is a very unique game that was quite ambitious. With more time it could have been 
 a remarkable game. It just needs some tweaks here and there. A great game nonetheless :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikael_schiffer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is based on the best-selling comic book series of the same name, published by Top 
 Cow Productions.
  
  As Mafia hitman Jackie Estacado, you'll spend most of the game wandering around a big, semi-open 
 replica of Manhattan, talking to people and trying to stay one step ahead of your ex-boss, who 
 wants you dead for failing to collect on a debt. Surviving means you'll have to take out all the 
 goon squads and small armies of corrupt cops he sends after you, as well as doing favors for other 
 family members in return for them helping you out. True Mafia style :)
  
  In the begining itself Jackie is possesed by a demonic force called The Darkness. Having the demon 
 on his side puts all sorts of cool abilities at Jackie's disposal. The Darkness takes the form 
 of a pair of dragon-like heads on either side of Jackie, but they don't last long in the light 
 - any light - so when you're in a fight, you'll need to shoot out every lightbulb you see if you 
 want them on your side.
  
  Powers from The Darkness includes attacking enemies with its Head tentacles, Impaling/Pulling with 
 a whip-like tendril and the ability to shield u from damage. U are also offered darkness powered 
 pistols which has unlimited ammo.
  
  You'll also be able to summon stunted, imp-like helpers called Darklings from strategically placed 
 spawn points. Your control over these is limited, and they're useful mainly for buying you time 
 and drawing enemy fire.
  
  Later in the game, u can create a dark void/vortex/black hole which pulls everything towards it. 
 It really shows off the rag-doll physics and also helps u recover urself.
  
  The best part of the game , however, is the Heart Eating. U can align your screen at a enemy's heart 
 and send ur tentacle/snake head to eviscerate the heart of ur foe. This, my freind, is stuff that 
 makes a fun game
  
  Since all ur cool powers needs a dark surrounding youll probably spend most of the game killing 
 enemies in an area, breaking all of the lights to power back up, then moving on to the next batch 
 of enemies. This lather, rinse, repeat style of gameplay gets old around the 5 hour mark, which 
 is only about halfway through the game.
  
  The in game scripting is excellent, and the story is well taken. Although the ending didnt satisfy 
 me, The Darkness shows panache in its well directed narratives. The game features nice graphics 
 and the gritty gore is presented in the most beautiful way. The sound effects are great too. Production 
 value is truly Peter Jackson/George Lucas class!
  
  The lack of length is compensated by its Multiplayer component. The Darkness enable you to play 
 as either gun-toting humans or wall-crawling Darklings, and the Shapeshifter matches - in which 
 you can instantly transform from human to Darkling at will - are a thing to behold.
  
  Apart from the gripes, which include short single player (a common sight for gorgeous FPS these 
 days) , repetitive combat (repetitive coolness i must say) and the rare frame rate drops, this game 
 delivers great entertainment for the gore-lovers and avid action buffs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gueroring1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  The game itself is very good. I believe it has a very good UI for the controller in how to control 
 the the darkness. The story itself is awesome and is linear. I feel the side missions were a little 
 out of place. There were only a few side missions to really notice them. There was no exploration 
 that really could be done. Also note the text is really hard to read sometimes.
  
  Well the only other thing that is good or bad in your view is the weapons in the game. You really 
 can go through the whole game with just the pistols, there really is no need in the other weapons. 
 Even when you get weapons to control the darkness i sometimes forget they are there. Besides the 
 pistols you also have the darkness power that is all you really need.
  
  So this game is really good and only hope there is a sequel with much improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vadicta
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is one of very few original shooters out on the xbox360, and this game has all of 
 the flash that you'd expect for $60 as well. The dialogue, and story for the game are some of the 
 best i've ever seen in a videogame. It actually does a good job of sucking you in. The game is 
 strong in language, but it is based on a Garth Ennis (i know i didn't spell that right) graphic 
 novel, so i'd expect as much. The gameplay works well. You have your standard guns which works 
 as it should, the only problem with the gunfighting in the game is that your character, will jog 
 around rather than running, so if your not close to cover when you start getting shot you're screwed, 
 and then you have all of your different darkness abilities. All of them work fine with the exception 
 of the yellow ability. It'll take a while to get used to, and when you do get used to it you'll 
 still find yourself going up walls when you don't want to, and sometimes when you try to attack 
 somebody the thing will just nip the air around him. You also have different minions at your disposal, 
 but to be quite honest i never really used them that much. The online to this game is the only 
 major flaw. After more than four or five people enter the game it will lag. Not just bullet lag 
 either, more like Oh my gawd, is this host playing off dial-up?!!! lag. The game is fun and original 
 in the single player area, but online it's a nightmare, so if you act like it doesn't have online 
 until a patch hopefully comes out you will find a rich and rewarding experience,. (it's September 
 now and a patch still hasnt shown up leaving me to beleive that one will never show, which means 
 that one of the componants of the game has been left unplayable, and that leaves me to lower the 
 score drastically.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HCMF-
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  So, where do I start? I have mixed feeling about this game, very mixed indeed. On one hand the 
 game was a nice surprise, for the first half of the game I couldnt get enough. The game play mechanics 
 were so fun and different; I just had to get more of it! Graphics are nice, sound is good, voice 
 acting is great, and the flow of the game is at a nice pace. But then, after playing the game I 
 felt ripped off. Lets start with the good. The game play is rock solid. Using the Darkness is fun, 
 easy, and rewarding. Picking up cop cars and hurling them at the poe-poe has never been this much 
 fun. Using the demons to aid in the mayhem was a nice touch. At its core the Darkness is a FPS, 
 but due to your unholy ability to wield and direct the darkness the standard FPS run and gun game 
 play evolves into an almost run and gun while being god type game play. Graphically the game looks 
 and feels right for most of the game. Everything is textured and the character models look great. 
 For the most part, the environments look like they should and aid in the gritty underworld atmosphere 
 the creators were going for. The lighting is superb; thankfully so, for busting out any and all 
 lights is a must to survive. The sound, and voice acting is outstanding. Mike Patton did some amazing 
 work as the Darkness, truly you have to hear this stuff to believe it  oh, and it will haunt you. 
 On the other hand, after playing the game the bleakness, and vast emptiness of hell, made me 
 want more. Not only that, but the city streets are empty. Late in the game you are full on nutty 
 Darkness power dude, and you want to tear the city up, but you cant. There simply is no one to 
 torment, no one to fear, no one to rip apart, no one to run away, no one to attack unsuspectingly, 
 no one to stalk, no one to destroy, no one. When you have the power of the Darkness at your side 
 you want to use it, but you cant. Dead bodies everywhere  meaning most games have a problem with 
 bodies disappearing in front of your eyes as you watch, but not in this game, no sir. You can visit 
 a part of the city weeks after you caused a little trouble, and alas the dead are still there in 
 the middle of the street. You see there is no one in the game to walk the streets, thus no one 
 to complain about the dead, and no one to clean up the mess. If fact the only part of the city 
 that seams to have life is the subway, and you cant destroy anyone there  ARG! The multiplayer 
 seams like it was added late, as in, oh snap: what about multiplayer? Kinda fun, but kinda fun 
 as in mowing your yard, it felt like playing it was a chore, and not fun. Stick with the single 
 player. Although the game is short, and the more you play it, the more you want from it, this is 
 a fun, addicting, and different game. What a surprise, now only if they had waited to release it 
 1 more year, so they could finish it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlwood830
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Of course the Darkness powers are fun. I was an old Darkness fan from the time the comic first 
 came out, but I did not expect this to be a very good game... especially after watching some of 
 the screen shots that came out showing the shoulder tentacle outlook. But man this was a truly 
 fun game that I had to play from start to finish. It pulls you in and then it's just fun. The game 
 just has nice, surprising touches. I watched the whole movie To Kill a Mockingbird inside Jenny's 
 apartment while thinking that it was probably just going to stop or change to something else eventually. 
 But obviously it didn't. You can change the channels on any tv that you can touch anywhere in the 
 game and all of those shows are complete. Nice effect... kind of makes you wonder what kind of 
 stuff you might not have noticed elsewhere in the game.
  
  Trust me, this one is fun and definitely replayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyGaminFilip
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  This game blew my mind away! The graphics, the gameplay, the voice acting and the story was amazing! 
 Once you beat the game, you can just never get bored of it! You can play it over and over and you 
 still won't get bored because you know you can still get fun achievement's and embrace The Darkness! 
 I always wanted a game like this to come out, a true horror game where YOU are the horror! This 
 game might have a short story but when your done, it feels like you've done a lot! I have always 
 wanted a game like this to come out, a game I will never get bored of and want to play every single 
 day!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streamer1122
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 7, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  Such high reviews have been awarded to this game and I must admit, it does have some unique features. 
 Nevertheless, I was disappointed when I played it and Ive now had to return it to the shop.
  
  You play the role of Jackie. An up-and-coming gangster working for your uncle Paulie. You begin 
 the game as an average gangster in a car running from the cops when you accidentally crash. Your 
 handed some guns and set off on your merry way killing as many people as you can and soon enough, 
 you have the power of the darkness.
  
  The Darkness is a tentacle monster which spawn from Jackies back and offers four main abilities; 
 each of which are unlocked as you play the game. All sounds good so far?
  
  Now heres the downside. The actual game itself is based around two subway stations from which, 
 you can visit around nine different districts. In each of these districts are
  Either; hideouts, family members, business or friends which you will visit throughout the game. 
 The majority of the time, you will be given a job from one district and need travel to the objective. 
 This means youre requires you to go to the subway (queue the first load scene) , catch a train 
 (the second load screen) , exit the second station (third load screen) , then do the business. Then 
 you have to report back. So back to the station, back on the train and back out the station with 
 a total of six load screens in your belt. Another downside is the idea. The graphics on this game 
 are impressive and youde expect to see them a lot. But to use your Darkness powers, you ideally 
 need to be in the dark, so; you smash every light source from here to kingdom come and once youve 
 finally finished, the beautiful graphics have gone. Only a vague outline is visible, courtesy of 
 the darknesss ability to see in the dark. Unfortunately, it doesnt offer as much as it could. 
 I wanted to use the Darkness to walk over buildings and down streets like Dr Octopus in Spiderman. 
 Sadly, this isnt the case. Overall, this game is a good laugh and offers something new to play 
 with. Some mini-games are some fun but expect lots of loading scenes and lots of repetitive travel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SideburnsAreGo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 7, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  Whenever a comic book inspired game hits the platforms my skin begins to crawl in anticipation 
 of yet another title butchered. Most often comic based games hardly deliver the atmosphere, storyline 
 or character personality the comics so well portray. Most of the time we're lucky if the game even 
 makes a half-baked attempt at creating an immersive story.
  
  Luckily, The Darkness does just that. From moment one in the game you're thrown into the action, 
 brought to the player in a juicy bit of in-game cut scene that has you sitting in the back of a 
 car barreling down a NYC tunnel. And it's one hell of a ride with the cops on your tail and the 
 car going in against traffic. For a brief moment you're allowed to wield an incredibly unwieldy 
 shotgun, which the main character Jackie took an insane amount of time to get ready to fire in 
 the first place. From that moment on, the game picks you up and has you struggling against your 
 bad, mobster foster parent 'Uncle Paulie' and the Darkness that has taken over your body. Sounds 
 like fun? It is. The Darkness is not just the name of the entity that takes over Jackie's body, 
 but it's also the place you'll spend most of your time in during the game to keep your powers. 
 Shooting lights out will mostly become second nature to you in the process of this game, often 
 taking priority over shooting the badguys in the face. Luckily, pumping any 'ne'er do well' full 
 of lead is one of the easiest things due to The Darkness' excellent auto-aim function, which sadly 
 tends to do it's job a little too well. Head shots, or a few rounds to the body, pretty much do 
 the trick against almost all of your enemies, regardless of the type of weapon you're using. This 
 enables you to pretty much run through your opponents with the guns you had from the start, wielding 
 two handguns John Woo style, firing them independently, racking up kills by the dozen. The computer 
 AI also tends to contribute to this; at best the mobsters or unliving creeps you're firing away 
 at will make a half-baked attempt at returning fire, or sometimes even run straight out of cover 
 where you can hit them with ease. Pretty much the only time the computer kills you is when it's 
 shooting at you from a pretty much invisible hiding spot and you just can't seem to find him. Still, 
 nobody said you need far too intelligent enemies to have some fun blasting away at them, and the 
 feel of your two handguns combined with the sound they produce do the job quite well. Just don't 
 expect firefights to become as engaging as those in Gears of War. Ofcourse there's more to the 
 Darkness than gun play, and that's where the Darkness Powers come in. Starting out with a basic 
 shielding power that soaks up stray bullets that could've possibly hit you, throughout the game 
 you'll receive a demonic arm which is good for lifting heavy objects, smashing barricades and impaling 
 enemies. You can send one of the two little demonic heads that come out of your shoulder to crawl 
 through ventilation shafts and other tight spots to open locked doors or flip switches and even 
 kill guards and devour their hearts. (No really, you can devour the hearts of any opponent you 
 kill in the game to earn you a higher Darkness score that seems to give you more energy) On top 
 of that you're able to summon a little Darkling, a crazy little demon that comes in four distinct 
 flavours who will try to help you. Sadly enough the game's sometimes passive AI makes these little 
 helpers a lot less helpful than they could have been. Now nobody likes putting holes in mean people 
 if it doesn't show right. And that's where the Darkness' greatest power comes from. It's rich visuals. 
 The game has some excellent lighting and the game's surroundings come across as very natural, yet 
 sufficiently gloomy, dark and brooding. Often a slight film-noir feel creeps down your spine when 
 playing the game, and that's a really good thing, bringing you in just the right mood. The good 
 sound only contributes to that, from the creepy Darkness voice to the NPCs you meet. If only their 
 damn lips would move and their facial expressions change, this game would be like watching an animated 
 movie of great quality. Kudos on the good visuals, excellent voice action and lovely sounds. Ofcourse 
 every coin has a flip side, and so does The Darkness. While it's levels look great, I found them 
 often confusing. Yes, your objectives often state you roughly where to go, but I found myself having 
 to look for the right door and the correct alleyway far too long on several occasions. Never mind 
 the sometimes hard to find paths around blocked doors etc. These moments deduct from the atmosphere, 
 the immersive story and rather give you a sense of feeling a little lost and unsure what to do.
 
  
  So all in all The Darkness is a fun game that should be entertaining you for a quite a while. If 
 only the enemies were a tad bit smarter, the Darkness Powers more important to the game and the 
 levels a bit more logical in some places, this one would have been excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimalDeathX
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  the darkness is one of the best games i have ever played the game play is really good and the darkness 
 is awsome to control the story like is one of the best u are basicly integrated with the storyline 
 it not like a crappy game where u just get teleported to the spot u actually have to walk through 
 the town which is pretty cool the graphics are amazing the textures and the shadowing are just 
 amazing. the storyline is just like a movie and how u interact with people is cool with the games 
 options the only little flaws in the game is your character mouth dosnt really move to the words 
 he says and at this point the online is so laggy you cant even move hopefully they realease a patch 
 soon then the online would be pretty cool so i really recommend this game to anyone who likes FPS 
 then you have to play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuskv626
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: This is the best looking game out there. The attention to detail is mesmerizing. Individual 
 characters add to the immersive quality of the atmosphere.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game co-stars with the incredible graphics to create a living environment 
 for Jackie to inhabit.
  
  FPS Gameplay: The game plays like most other first person shooters. The guns lock on pretty well, 
 and each weapon has its own feel and specs. Jackie should have a sprint option though. Although 
 the speed of the walk is realistic, in the game world it feels like it takes forever to get from 
 point a to point b.
  
  Darkness powers: I'll have to say that the programmers accomplished an amazing feat. The programming 
 to allow an eel-like serpent to freely crawl on in game surfaces in realtime, or to allow Jackie 
 to create a small black hole where pieces of the environment and other characters swirl within 
 is simply amazing. However, despite the technical prowess it took to develop the darkness powers, 
 the darkness comes off as clumsy and not-nearly-as-menacing as the lore would suggest. Just to 
 get this awesome power to work you have to stay in the dark..... well that means that you spend 
 about 50% of your playtime breaking or shooting out lightbulbs. Yes, that's right. The embodiment 
 of unbridled evil can be beaten by a 99 cent bulb. The Darkness crawl power, although neat, is 
 many times hard to control and not that handy. The black hole power really is neat and in close 
 combat situations can make for a spectacle. However, there were many times that the power misfired 
 and failed to suck anything in, despite the 10 or so enemies around it. The arm power, which allows 
 a large tentacle to shoot out at your target, really is the most useful. You can impale people 
 and lightbulbs alike without wasting bullets.
  
  The Darklings: Wholly useless. They just get lost or disappear. Several times the light killing 
 variety would stand under a light, refuse to destroy the light... and finally be killed by the 
 light overhead. The kamikaze variety would wander, ignore the enemies in the terrain only to return 
 and detonate next to me (which by the way can kill you) . I hope the programmers take a lesson from 
 the programmers of Overlord regarding properly reactive minions.
  
  Story: Well the New York chapters were great! I was immersed, and pleased that there was a variety 
 of missions and side missions. However, Chapters 2 and 4 take an odd turn (Spoilers abound) . These 
 two chapters take place in World War 1! Well that's not exactly right.... the setting is inside 
 the world of the darkness which attached itself to the Estacada family during WW1. Did that make 
 sense? Either way, it's hard to go from a bustling and complex NYC to an empty Call of Duty rehash. 
 These levels really sucked me out of the game.
  
  Ending: (Spoilers, duh.) The ending... well I won't tell you the ending exactly except to say that 
 it is abrupt. Everything builds up to a final confrontation but then falls flat. There is no great 
 final battle. As a matter of fact, the final boss is killed with 2 shots of your pistol. I'm not 
 sure if I'm disappointed though but if the designers weren't going to let you cut loose at least 
 give me a mean cutscene where the darkness goes to town!
  
  Hopes for a sequel: I'd jump back into the world of the Darkness. The game is immersive in a way 
 unlike any other game out there. I hope they make the darkness seem more powerful, fix the darkling 
 problems, and do not return to WW1. Lastly, the only suggestion I'd have to make the city more 
 immersive 1) add traffic on the streets and 2) have the people in the subway cars move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Since the first trailers of this game was displayed, it looked as if that game, was going to be 
 different than it is now. It didn't really seem to amazing at first until they started pouring 
 actual visuals and videos of the game. Here is my review of a game created by Riddrick Creators.
 
  
  Gameplay - You may enjoy this game, easily because it's a shooter, but it's more action packed 
 then shooter referenced. It definetely is action packed in places, including the introduction of 
 the game, and throughout. The most compelling part of the gameplay that changes everything up a 
 bit, is the Darkness itself.
  
  The Darkness is practically it's own unique gameplay, all by itself. You use the darkness mainly 
 for devouring hearts in the beginning of the game, until you obtain the other three powers, which 
 will help solve puzzles and get your ass out of tight situations. The main focus of the Darkness, 
 is that you don't really need to devour hearts of enemies, only certain people, unless you want 
 the achievements of course. :)
  
  If you do then you will see some gory devouring hearts going on to your right, which makes this 
 game pretty awesome for allowing this. There's three puzzle powers, which all will be used at least 
 once for a puzzle, but all the puzzles aren't so hard... They pratically aren't even puzzles... Speaking 
 of powers, there's the Creeping Dark, one of the darkness guys, (snakes if you will call them) 
 is off on it's own at your control. The other power is the Demon Arm, Black Hole, and Darkness 
 Guns. All of them will be obtained later in the game.
  
  There's also Darklings, which could be goblin like servants that do what the description says, 
 such as Beserker. He will or she, whatever it is, will help you in situations killing enemies until 
 it dies. But will only stay alive if you have darkness surrounding it. Speaking of light and darkness, 
 your going to be shooting out light, to use your dark powers. Just don't miss the light with your 
 guns, but later in the game, once you get the Demon Arm, it will take out lights for you at ease, 
 allowing you not to lose much ammo.
  
  Besides the shooting and darkness components, there's a living breather NYC Downtown world in the 
 game... Well not really. The Streets are mostly empty, and you'll only interact with people in the 
 Subway. Only highlighted name people. It's pretty interesting as these people who are highlighted, 
 are needed for side quests. Side quests are pretty simple, and the longest sidequest can take about 
 15 minutes. The last thing about gameplay, is probably the amount of stuff in the game. There's 
 a good amount of guns, good amount of dialouge, and the phone number system they put in the subway 
 is pretty neat. Just beware you might need to remember about calling someone on the phone to continue 
 the objectives in the game, as some people might not know what they are supposed to be doing.
 
  
  Graphics -
  
  The characters look interesting, but some of the character faces look disturbing. Jackie, the main 
 character, looks cool enough, but everyone else besides Jenny, Jackie's Girlfriend, look pretty 
 weird. The subway, the city, all have great textures, but the only thing glitchy about the graphics, 
 is when the Creeping Dark get stuck in a hole or can't move anymore. Sometimes the framerate will 
 drop a bit, but besides that the graphics are good, even though many people expected much more.
 
  
  Sound -
  
  Music is awesome in this game, and is goes really well. I love the piano music, which is supposed 
 to be romantic/sad music, that is heard from the background during the main game or when going 
 through menus. I don't reccommend playing a custom track with this game at all as it won't be needed. 
 :P
  
  Value -
  
  The main storyline can last 10 to 15 hours, depending on your mode. If you want to get the collectibles, 
 it can take about 3 - 5 extra hours. The side-quests in the game come at different times of the 
 game. There's three at the start, and a total of fifteen during the entire game. There's a total 
 of 5 chapters, making the last chapter the shortest, and the third chapter being the longest. You'll 
 probably have more trouble findiing out where to go, then being killed. The spooky death sequences 
 are a nice touch, and you can skip almost every cutscene. It's a good idea not to unless you're 
 going for some achievements.
  
  There's multiplayer modes, a total of four different types, the usual Deathmatch and TDM, CTF, 
 and Survivor. The only downside is that there's usually lag when playing Shapeshifters, which is 
 one of the games choices when playing a mode. A total of 8 maps depending on if your playing CTF, 
 and there's really nothing to compelling about getting the achievements when it's laggy. Another 
 downer is inviting and trying to enter someone's game. RawrMaster, and I tried playing on it but 
 it doesn't allow it and there's a Connection Timed Out thing allows popping up. : (
  
  Summary -
  
  Darkness is one hell of an adventure and is worth playing at least once in all 
 perspectives. If you're looking for a Mature action-shooter game, this is worth the rent! If your 
 going for most of the achievements, and trying to deal with the lag, then buy it! It really depends 
 on the mood. It would have been nice if the game was longer, or at least more challenging as the 
 AI is pretty dumb. You'll be happy they are dumb at some spots, but all in all you'll have a blast 
 no matter what.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etiennec9
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I'd scream bloody murder if I died even once, but I'm not as cool as our (anti) hero 
 in The Darkness.
  
  To begin with, the loading movies were a welcome relief, adding characterization through the entire 
 game with only a few repeats, and a noir style that will likely live on into the foreseeable future. 
 If you don't know what I'm talking about, trust me; the movies were a nice change of pace, and 
 far better than those in Gears of War, which were also very much better than what's common, but 
 which drove the story in GoW but did little for characterization. These movies did both.
  
  The controls make good sense, but were a little hard to get used to at first. I don't like reading 
 instruction manuals if I don't have to, and I didn't but I was frustrated for a little while. Now 
 that I've gotten the hang of things I've got no complaints.
  
  The darkness powers are fantastic, though I found little use for them. The slithering biter is 
 practically useless except for the rare occasions where the game's designers made you use it to 
 get into the next room. Otherwise I never bothered. The arm was also not a favorite. The void was 
 awesome and got me out of many jams. Summoning darklings is the best thing ever. Give me a light 
 killer and a kamikaze and the darkness guns and I'll go to town any night of the week. And those 
 darkness guns are everything. I never used another gun after I got those two, though it was nice 
 having an assault rifle occasionally now that I think of it. The M-16 puts down enemies at quite 
 a distance with just a few shells.
  
  The fatalities are a nice touch but I rarely bothered getting that close because even when you've 
 got a darkness shield you're still vulnerable to multiple gunshots, and it was rare to encounter 
 just one enemy at a time. I tried to maintain the advantage of distance whenever possible. The 
 dead/dream sequences with zombie nazis and britons was the highlight of the game for me. A little 
 reminiscent of Myst at time (which is fine) and a lot creepy all the time. Good fun! and no moral 
 dilemmas. I must admit that the moral dilemmas made the game interesting at times, though there 
 weren't enough of them to warrant having any. It wasn't a RPG so I don't mind having the dialogue 
 dictated for me. I'm not expecting to choose my adventure in a FP shooter. I think ethical ambiguity 
 should be a part of some games, but pick your battles. This game didn't require such choices. Really, 
 the protagonist is a softy, murdering gymboid. He's no hero so let's not pretend, BUT if you're 
 intent on pretending, make it matter. Let our decisions matter, have some chance of altering our 
 environment or the story. Don't rail me down a story arc all the while giving the appearance of 
 choice. Okay, I'm done.
  
  thanks,
  
  Elmer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jet2x5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Just to start off, the big score for this game is probably a little overboard on how much I like 
 it (since there is a big tilt) , but this is still a great game.
  
  ::PLOT::
  The story of the game is pretty interesting; at first it starts off like a normal plot. You are 
 Jackie Estacado, a hitman, who works for his Uncle Paulie. Him having saved Jackie from an orphanage, 
 he raised Jackie to help his crime ring. Something goes wrong on one of the missions, and so Paulie 
 thinks that Jackie cheated him, and he sends all of his hellish (not literally) forces after him. 
 After being chased for a bit, something strange happens.
  
  A mysterious black-colored force emits itself from Jackie; it is the Darkness. It kills the enemies 
 in his way, and he begins to control it barely. As time passes, he learns that the Darkness has 
 been passed down through his family bloodline and wants to control him. As Jackie, you can't let 
 that happen, so you must battle Uncle Paulie and his goons, along with the overwhelming power of 
 the Darkness.
  
  ::GRAPHICS::
  Certainly this game sports some spiffy graphics. Not the best seen on the system, but good nontheless. 
 There are only a couple mistakes here and there. Jackie barely moves his mouth when he speaks, 
 and to be honest, that's all I can remember. There isn't a whole lot wrong here, so there are decent 
 graphics overall.
  
  ::SOUND::
  This game's sound is spectacular. The soundtrack is excellent and fitting throughout the game, 
 with music picking up during the action. One spot that shines is the voice acting. This game has 
 the best voice acting I've heard in a video game ever. It certainly deserves praise.
  
  ::GAMEPLAY::
  The gameplay is similar to that of most FPSes. You can run and gun if you please, 
 but some of this game is based on being quiet. Even on the default difficulty, it's easy to get 
 killed by some flying bullets. Early on in the game when you obtain the Darkness, you can use the 
 powers that come with it. The one you start with is the Creeping Dark. You control one of the snake-like 
 creatures that is on the screen when the Darkness is out. You can slither around and up walls and 
 ceilings, attacking enemies with a little stealth.
  
  Later on come more powers, but I won't say them all. There's only four total, but they're pretty 
 cool powers to say the least. As for controlling the Darkness itself, you press LB during the game 
 to bring it out. When you're hit, it may absorb a few wounds for you and then disappear back inside 
 of you. The trick is, the area must be dark when it is out. That means you must shoot out lights 
 and such, or the Darkness will burn and retreat. Another thing about the shadows is that using 
 the Darkness powers will take energy, so you must stay in the shadows to recharge.
  
  ::OVERALL::
  I tried to say most of the things about the game I could, so there you go. But the 
 main thing is that this is not the average FPS. They added more to the mix, making it more interesting. 
 And it certainly has the best story I've ever seen for an FPS.
  
  Overall, this game is highly recommended. It is worth the money.
  
  =9.7 out of 10= 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow7871
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is A really good game that was made by the same people that brought you the Elder 
 Scrolls games, with a Compelling story and and sharp Game play. The story is about a Mob hitman 
 named Jackie who is the host of a being known as the Darkness, needless to say the Darkness is 
 a blessing and a curse, the reason being is Light is your enemy and the Dark is your Ally. As a 
 host of The Darkness your given special powers that are useful in one situation or another, you 
 also receive a sheild whenever you manifest The Darkness however you cannot remain in the form 
 without Darkness energy, to gain Darkness energy remain in the Shadows or Devour the hearts of 
 your fallen enemies, also the more hearts you eat the more powerful you become. The voice acting 
 is well done, Jackie sounds just as you would think a Mobster may sound and the Darkness sounds 
 demonic and down right deranged, the music is heavy metal that starts up during combat. Game play 
 is great and easy to pick up for anyone who's played a First Person shooter one thing to know small 
 weapons such as hand guns and SMGs are not reloaded they are dropped and replaced by other pistols 
 and SMGs you'll pick up bigger weapons however do require a reload. All and all a good game worth 
 the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Rarely does a game successfully mold story and gaming into an enjoyable experience. Often, one 
 element is sacrificed in order to improve upon the other element. With The Darkness, I have finally 
 seen a break in this trend. The Darkness is an above-average, though slightly conventional, shooter 
 with a storyline spectacular enough to compensate for most of the games flaws.
  
  In The Darkness, you play as a mafia hitman named Jackie Estacado. The game begins on your 21st 
 birthday. Unfortunately, your special day quickly turns into a nightmare. Right from the get-go, 
 your psychotic uncle (who happens to be the New York Mafia Don) , Paulie, is trying to kill you. 
 During a typical job, you were knocked out and, unfortunately, something went wrong and now Paulie 
 has put out a hit on you.
  
  From a gameplay standpoint, The Darkness is actually just above-average. You have your standard 
 weapons - dual-wielded pistols, d-w'ed SMGs, shotguns, rifles, etc. The Darkness has some very 
 neat tricks, especially a big tentacle which you can use to impale enemies and hurl them (and cars 
 and other stuff) through the air. However The Darkness' final unlocked ability - the black hole 
 - is actually a bit of a letdown, not because it is too weak or unimpressive, but because it is 
 actually too powerful. Once unlocked, the black hole makes the game much easier. So much so, that 
 it is safe to say that the second half of the game is easier than the first simply because the 
 black hole is such as powerful weapon. Also, I would've liked to see more abilities from The Darkness 
 and if not more, than simply more creative ones. With only four different abilities, The Darkness 
 does not stay very interesting to use for long. Apart from these flaws, the gameplay in the Darkness 
 is pretty great.
  
  With much of the New York mob and a bunch of crooked cops on your ass, things don't look to good 
 for you. However, not far into the game, you become possessed by a sadistic demon known only as 
 The Darkness. With the aid of this demon (manifested as some snakes and tentacles on your back) , 
 combating the mob becomes less difficult. You hurt Paulie's business and wait for the higher-ups 
 to take him out as punishment for his incompetence. Unfortunately, Paulie only gets angrier and 
 murders Jenny - the love of your life and the only pure soul in this twisted, f-ed up world. From 
 there, things only go downhill...
  
  The Darkness is a great achievement in that this great storyline (which is actually pretty breathtaking 
 once you play the game) is melded into a game which is already pretty damn impressive.
  
  Technically, The Darkness is pretty astounding. The graphics, while not top quality, are very good 
 and really add to the atmospheric quality of the game. The main points of interest are the excessive 
 and yet oh so necessary amounts of blood and gore. If you want a gauge as to how violent this game 
 is - it has a mechanism through which you can eat hearts - human hearts. Awesome? Or just disgusting? 
 Either way, this game is gory as hell. The audio in Darkness is even more impressive than the visuals. 
 Every single voice actor/actress in this game is superb. Every line of dialog is made convincing 
 by the great cast of voice actors. In addition, there's a lot of good ambient music.
  
  However the most impressive technical aspect of this game is found in the little details which 
 make the world more realistic and immersive. For instance, the TV channels feature real shows and 
 full-length movies (such as To Kill A Mockingbird) . Also, the game is just downright creepy and 
 disturbing as hell.
  
  The Darkness is a great game with only a two major flaws (both of which are mostly made up for 
 by the great story) . However, don't let these flaws keep you from playing the game because I guarantee 
 you will enjoy it. It's just a shame that your attacks are so limited because this makes the game's 
 replay a value a lot lower. I hope Starbreeze makes a sequel to this game because judging by the 
 ending to this one, I would assume that the sequel would be insane amounts of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AGamerDiet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I was a huge fan of Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butchers Bay so I 
 had very high expectations for this game. It is not always a good idea to have such high expectations 
 because it often difficult for the developers to meet them. This is the case with The Darkness. 
 While this is a great game, it just doesnt IMHO live up to its predecessor.
  
  Gameplay: The game is a basic shooter with some RPG elements. In this way it is like CoR. Its 
 a good setup and can allow you for some downtime during the action. The shooting controls on this 
 game are sluggish, at the very beginning of the game they can even feel broke, but after at time 
 you do get used to them and they do work satisfactory, just not as well as I would have liked. 
 The Darkness powers themselves are quite awesome and are easy to control. Although sometimes the 
 Demon Arm wont always hit what you are aiming at and the Creeping Dark can get you all turned around. 
 Not that big a deal with the Creeping Dark however since recall is easy and you can just pull it 
 back and start over. Basically you will go into a room take out all the lights and then lay waste 
 to the enemies in your path. You then move on to the next mission and repeat. There is a story 
 and it does send you on a hunt mission that is more open but still you are just wasting your enemies 
 and then eating their hearts. Interesting and certainly fills the gore meter for those who want 
 it.
  
  Graphics: These are quite good which is to be expected since CoR was one of the best looking games 
 on the Xbox. The same issues that they had with that game remain however, with thing looking a 
 bit on the shinny side but thats not really a big deal. I do like how you are in first person 
 view but you still see your shadow and your shoes (if you look down) . I also like the cut to third 
 person for the interactions screens although its obvious they dont take into account you characters 
 current condition. This is more obvious then in CoR due to the big honken tentacles you should 
 have sticking out your back while climbing a ladder. And the large amount of weapons you must be 
 carrying since Jackie never reloads, he just switches guns. None of these are present in the cutscenes. 
 Still its easy to suspend belief and overlook this. The game just looks great.
  
  Sound: Voice acting is top notch. The ambient sounds were appropriately sickly when calling for 
 it and otherwise pleasant except for some of the absurdly loud TVs and the break dance music. Speaking 
 of music, I like the general dramatic The Darkness sort of choir music that shows up occasionally 
 but much of the music during the actual battles was quite annoying and became quite loud so I had 
 to turn it down. Especially as I had trouble hearing some of the things people yelled at you and 
 had to turn my general TV volume up. Oh speaking of having your volume up so you can hear some 
 of the voices, you may want to be careful with that if you have kids or sensitive neighbors because 
 much like CoR there is a LOT of cursing in this game. When I mean a lot, I really mean a LOT, one 
 phone call got me a string of f - bombs. And of course you have the creepy voice telling you to 
 murder people and such. These are not a problem for me but again it could pose a problem for others.
 
  
  Value: I played the game through on medium. It took me about a day and even then I had gotten lost 
 a bit and did some wandering so if you go straight for the main story it will take even less time. 
 I have not decided if I am going to play it again. I may on the hardest setting just to do it, 
 but it certainly wont get the playtime that CoR, Gears or COD2 (3 other shorter games) did. I still 
 think it was worth the play and so I still will recommend a buy even at full price.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: While I liked the game I cant say I loved the game like I expected to. It is possible 
 those very expectations were the problem. Its possible that just the dark subject matter was the 
 problem as my first few hours of play felt overwhelmingly oppressive to me. Even the subway didnt 
 give me the respite I was looking for. The entire game I just kept thinking this isnt going to 
 end well and there is nothing I can do about it. Condemned did a similar thing where it was all 
 dark all the time but that was a bit different as it was building suspense. This game wasnt really 
 building suspense but the overwhelming dread was there anyway. It loses something, that dread without 
 the suspense. You dont really have the fear of the next thing around the corner because you know 
 you are the most powerful, instead you just have an uncomfortable weight sitting on your shoulders. 
 However, I have to allow that my own environment (heat, humidity, no sunlight and playing too long 
 without a break) and attitude (I like good guys to win, I know its clich&eacute;) may have contributed 
 to my feelings on this. The second day I played was not as bad and I actually had quite a good 
 time as I let go and just played. I would have liked some choice in the events though, especially 
 at the end like in Condemned, but we were not given it. Your fate was sealed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  now this is one of the best FPS games i have played but tehres a catch it is very very very cofusing 
 at times and you need the guide to help you if your not the pro at puzzle games ( not to say this 
 is a puzzle game) it is kinda hard at times and its a bit frustrating at times towards the end 
 it is a good game for its demon play like useinf teh creeping dark to do a quick kill is awesome 
 but sence this is a shooter game it falls at the shooting parts guns are a bit under powered and 
 when you end up at the World war 1 level there way under powerd but i loved the demon play like 
 i said useing creeping dark to make a quick kill and use your demon arm to stab someone then use 
 black hole to swirl them around the area thats pretty mutch what the game is special for but i 
 loved it was just a bit puzzleing at times and very very very confusing to and i knew snece 2K 
 did prey (witch puzzled me for hours at times) i knew there would be some of it the over all game 
 is great but it falls flat with teh shooting at times so if you like the kind of action where you 
 really do some big action and stuff this is the game but if your in it for the shooting id suggest 
 a rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harfmil
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  This is the first review I have written, so I hope everyone enjoys it.
  
  First off, I am not a big first person shoot fan. I played Unreal Tournament and Quake 3 Arena 
 back in the day on PC and got my butt handed to me on a regular basis. I never could get the hang 
 of the view and spent a lot of time getting lost and killed. I was excited about The Darkness though, 
 because I am a big fan of the horror genre and games that have dark themes. It has not been a disappointment. 
 It took me a little while to get used to the controls and get the hang of the view. After that, 
 the game just keeps getting better and better. I dont really want to give anything away, because 
 the story line is great, but this was one of the few games where I felt a little bit emotionally 
 involved with the character. There have been a few WTF moments and many Kickass moments. It 
 is definitely a great mood game to sit in the dark and get a little freaked out.
  
  The only complaint I have is that the multiplayer seems to lag. Im not sure what the cause, but 
 a few friends and I have experienced it. I think the concept for the multiplayer is great, but 
 with the lag it gets quite frustrating.
  
  But online play aside, this a great game that I highly recommend to anyone who likes the dark/horror 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Negimakun
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  This game is good, and higly recomended as a rent. The game play is short for my tastes, and the 
 world war one parts are boreing and repeaditive, along with most of the level designs, and gameplay. 
 The story will keep you on your bum playing all night long. And the darkness powers are extremly 
 fun to use to slay your eminems. The amount of gore in the game is over the top, and dosent add 
 anything special to the game. The multiplayer is fun when not laggy, and shapeshifting is pretty 
 cool. Overall the game will keep you entertained for a short bit fo time, and shouldnt let you 
 down if you are into these types of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markscpu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  The suttle yet beautiful ambient music lingers throughout the backround of The Darkness, making 
 you feel like you're playing a Hollywood movie. The voice acting is great and the main character 
 is perfect as the Gothic Hitman reminiscent of Robert DeNiro in Goodfellas. The graphics are only 
 a notch above Riddick which was AMAZING on the Xbox. Now if only the developers could make a true 
 RPG first person shooter set in modern times&gt; HINT!
  
  The game lacks any real puzzel or challenge, but it has a very real world feel to it that reminds 
 me of the game Flashback All I can say is, the developers of this game REALLY need to make DEUS 
 EX 3! I'm sure it would be out of this world. If you like this game, go out and get Deus Ex: Invisible 
 War. Now, for the downfall. The Hellish nightmare segments of the game were maybe too dark and 
 disturbing. I got lost several times because I couldn't see where I was going and I think the Hell 
 segments take away from the replay value.
  
  Also, where is the save feature!???? You cannot start a new game without it erasing your game with 
 current progress. You cannot save at anytime, it is autosaving at checkpoints only. So, you will 
 NEVER be able to save that special moment in the game and return to it to show a friend. Major 
 dissappointment, but oh-well -I definiatly will play through this game more than a few times.
 
  
  Also, the A. I is pretty bad. They are not like Gears of War where they are unpredictable. You will 
 never really have an enemy charge at you.
  
  But, the unique Darkness features have you feeling like a badass. The music is really first notch 
 and moody. The graphics are better than almost any fps with the real lighting effects. Let me say 
 again however that Chronicles of Riddick was way ahead of its time on Xbox and this game is almost 
 the same in the graphics department. Get this game now. You will not be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sty1ez101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Jackie Estacado, 21 and wanted dead.
  
  In this game, Jackie has been adopted from childhood by Frankie Franchetti, leaving his girlfriend 
 and the orphanage. Growing up he becomes a contract killer for his Uncle's crime family and finds 
 Jenny again one day. He and some friends failed a money-collection deal and are now wanted by his 
 Uncle Paulie. This game starts out with you on a hit to kill a construction site foreman, cops 
 on your tail through a new york tunnel going upsteam at high speed. During the action you are given 
 a shotgun to help repel the cops by another passenger but he is then quickly killed by the drivers 
 swift turns, you hop into the front seat and minutes later crash into a contruction site and the 
 driver is half dead with no chance of living. Paulie accuses you for the money collection and now 
 wants you killed. After coming into contact with your girlfriend (Jenny) , you find out she also 
 is in danger. Jackie is now looking for help and is now seeking to destroy Paulie's business. Later 
 on you are blown out of an apartment window and survive and you hearing voices. Jackie has become 
 possessed by The Darkness , a demonic creature that has been around for a long time now aids Jackie 
 on his 21st Birthday. Throughout the game you learn to harness its powers to take out your enemies 
 in optional ways much faster than your modern weaponry . You can also summon minions called Darklings 
 at chosen locations with their own unique characteristics and uses. These all consume darkness 
 energy which can be regained by standing in shadows and dark areas. Switching powers and weaponry 
 is done through the D-pad arrows and firing weapons is done using your trigger fingers are actually 
 sensitive with the left and right trigger on your controller which I noticed part way through the 
 game. You have a wide selection of weapons which can all be carried at once, but your starting 
 pistols and others pistols you pick up are good enough to run through the game with. This game 
 has a just right difficulty setting on medium and hard only needs more thinking rather than faster 
 reflexes. There are fair achievements in this game, collectables in the form of phone numbers are 
 scattered in each area which are not always visible to the players eyes which helps them get used 
 to using the darkness in many ways. It is very easy for you to navigate around the environment 
 and communicate with people that give side missions throughout the story in subways. The Multiplayer 
 part of this game is somewhat slow and laggy which needs some work. This game has very nice graphics, 
 motion capturing (orally needed a few touch ups) , voice acting, and an absolutely brilliant storyline. 
 Its like The Suffering and The GodFather in a head-on collision.
  
  This game is worth every FPS gamer's time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightrade
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I know how people always say that halo is the best, but I think this game is better. Halo is really 
 good but no fps amazed me as this one. The graphics look stunning, the action is just amazing, 
 it looks and feels so real like your in the game itself. Although the story does not stay true 
 to the comics I think it's really good still, it's very emotional sometimes. Also the games difficulty 
 is exactly how you choose it. If choose easy it's easy or if choose medium, it's medium, and etc. 
 Also the game is very interactive with the environment, you shoot a bullet it makes a mark, you 
 can also lift objects with your powers and can talk to other characters. The only problem with 
 the game is the multiplayer it isn't as fun and is very laggy. Overall the game is amazing, every 
 360 or ps3 owner should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AutoBarn
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I haven't experienced this level of close-but-no-cigar disappointment since Dead Rising, another 
 game with extraordinary production values and a genre-perfect storyline that was ultimately crippled 
 by ill-thought out mechanics.
  
  The Darkness just doesn't feel fun to play.
  
  Visually, the game is a tribute to the talent and vision of Starbreeze's art team - this is a truly 
 immersive world that represents a real step forward for the FPS in its depth of motion - moving 
 around always feels fluid and connected to a physical presence, rather than just a floating head 
 moving through space. As soon as you pick up the controller and beginning looking around, taking 
 in the rollercoaster ride of an opening sequence, you can't help but smile at the experience that 
 lies in front of you.
  
  The sound design is also uniformly excellent, with only one of the stitched-up Brit soldiers sounding 
 like Dick Van Dyke A success in my book.
  
  Mike Patton was an inspired choice as the voice of The Darkness, and conjures up readings of the 
 script that are dripping with menace and genuinely otherworldly.
  
  The storyline doesn't disappoint either... games that can truly claim to offer an emotionally engaging 
 journey without the cracks of videogame logic showing are few and far between, but The Darkness 
 manages to walk the fine line between Emo-edginess and true horror really well, and takes the player 
 on a journey which is consistently suprising. If any title is the videogame equivalent of a page-turner 
 , this is it. ( Reloader anyone?)
  
  The problem lie in the way the character evolves. At first it's all good - you're blowing away 
 wise-guys with robust physics and great blood effects, enjoying the execution moves (how many other 
 games have you played that let you SHOOT A GUY IN THE MOUTH?) and relishing the thought of the 
 powers yet to come to you. And as they are reavealed, cool as all the powers at your disposal are 
 (in concept at least) - they just never come together in a way that is instinctive to use. The 
 Darklings, though brilliantly animated and characterized with a real sick charm, just don't have 
 the AI in place to make them worthwhile in combat. Trying to guide them into an environment, while 
 you take out the lights to ensure they survive the encounter, all the time taking hits from the 
 enemy, feels like an exercise in playing the game the way the Developer wants you to. I often felt 
 like I was consciously leaving the enemy alone just so I could see what the Darklings would do 
 if manoevred into such a position that would enable them to kill. They never quite do what you 
 want them to, and when they DO, you can't help feeling it might have been easier just to leave 
 the lights, stay in a dark corner and blow everyone away with your pistols.
  
  The Darkness is also hampered by the same problem all darkness-stealth games have to deal with 
 - darkness doesn't look very good (mmmm look at all that High Definition... erm... blackness) and 
 it doesn't make for an easily-navigated game environment. It's always confused me how so many of 
 these designers thought it was a good idea to come up with a genre that basically said Ok... we've 
 build these beautiful worlds - somebody hit the night vision... what this needs is a twist of fuzzy 
 green . After a while the darkness of the game becomes really tiresome, and you'll get sick of 
 wandering into beautifully lit environments, only for the first order of business to be the taking 
 out of all the lights and plunging the world into yet another murky playground. The shimmering 
 light effects that radiate around you when you are using The Darkness go a little way towards defining 
 the environment, but not far enough, and the way The Darkness highlights the edges of objects around 
 you can at times make the game more like playing through a Maya project than a believable world.
 
  
  I've never known a game to offer me so many cool powers, yet make me feel so unempowered. The darkness 
 tentacle is really clumsy, offering no direct control with the right stick, but shifting around 
 you once you have locked onto something as you move your body.
  
  To control the Creeping Dark is to control an anti-grav shopping cart with a cool halloween mask 
 stuck on the front. With a camera that is completely disorientating even when the lights are on, 
 you'll at times wish you had a show horn trying to get this thing where you want it to go. Trying 
 six times to get your spooky black tentacle thing through a tiny hole in a wall so you can stealth 
 kill the guy on the other side does NOT make you feel like a badass.
  
  More often than not, encounters leave you feeling like you SHOULD use one of your powers just because 
 they are there, rather than a kid in a candy store with all these fun ways to interact with the 
 world.
  
  It's a huge shame, and a huge missed opportunity, because The Darkness gets right what so few other 
 games do - it's like a really cool movie, with a great script, fantastic special effects, an emotive 
 score, and guess what? YOU get to star in it.
  
  It's just a shame it leaves you feeling like you're a REALLY bad actor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setho10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  Of the many games released on the last generation of consoles, few were as influential as The Chronicles 
 of Riddick. The hard work of actor Vin Diesel and developer Starbreeze payed off with a game that 
 remains one of the elite examples of a genre-bending first-person game. It's with little doubt, 
 then, that Starbreeze's first current gen offering has been awaited with gaping, salivating jaws. 
 For those interested, I will say right off the bat that The Darkness is not as good a game as Riddick 
 was. In fact, if it weren't for the excellent presentation, The Darkness would most likely be set 
 to the side as just another shooter. The Darkness is based on the comic series of the same name 
 published by Top Cow and it uses it's license to the fullest. The game stars Jackie, a Mafia hitman 
 whose boss (and uncle) turns on him on his 21st birthday. Luckily for Jackie, he survives the assassination 
 attempt. Of course it would happen to be at that moment that Jackie is possessed by the demonic 
 Darkness. The tentacle-shaped demon sprouts from Jackie's body and makes itself useful with a variety 
 of attacks that help Jackie attain vengeance against his uncle. Of course there are many great 
 twists to the story that I wont ruin here. Suffice to say that The Darkness is much more story 
 oriented than your average shooter, and the story is written and told flawlessly.
  
  Unlike the story, the gameplay of The Darkness is only so so. Since Jackie is protected by a literal 
 shield of darkness it is important that he stay in the dark as much as possible, thus allowing 
 the shield to recharge and his offensive abilities to ready. While it is interesting to have the 
 super-human Darkness powers, it is annoying to have to shoot out every light in the entire game. 
 This is especially apparent early on before you can take out lights with the Darkness' tentacle. 
 In a game where ammo isn't always easy to come by, it is annoying having to waste it by shooting 
 out lights. There was even one point in the game where I had to shoot someone through a door to 
 enter a building. Unfortunately for me, I had wasted the last of my bullets on shooting out the 
 lights outside. This forced me to travel throughout the game's open ended world, searching for 
 some extra clip. Gunplay in The Darkness is only mentionable due to the soft lock feature that 
 is automatically turned on when you start the game. The feature essentially points you reticule 
 towards an opponent regardless of where you are actually aiming. While this is nice for beginners 
 it can be difficult to get headshots as the lock targets the stomach area. You can adjust the soft 
 lock to the level that you want, but it is confusing why the game couldn't employ an auto-aim feature 
 similar to Halo's. Guns themselves sound appropriately powerful, although, other than Jackie's 
 pistols, all the guns in the game are standard fair- an M4, AK 47, Uzi, etc. It isn't until halfway 
 through the game that you get the Darkness guns. These guns use the power of the darkness to assault 
 enemies. The guns aren't as powerful as some of the later human guns, and you can't use another 
 Darkness ability when they are equipped, rendering them pretty useless. Of course The Darkness 
 wouldn't be anything if it weren't for the Darkness powers. These, though, can often be more frustrating 
 than fun. The Creeping Dark allows you to shoot a Darkness head from your body and control it as 
 it slithers through vents and stealthily takes out enemies. Two problems result though. First off, 
 the power has a time limit on it, and at the lowest level it is woefully too short to make the 
 ability of any real use. Secondly, when traveling indoors it can be confusing controlling the Darkness 
 because it slithers up every surface it reaches and the camera isn't always helpful in showing 
 you where you are. The second power is the Darkness arm. This can be used to lift heavy objects 
 out of Jackie's way, impale foes, or smash lights. This is the power that will get the most use, 
 simply because you wont want to waste ammo shooting lights. It's also fun impaling foes and throwing 
 cars into opponents. Although most of your powers will improve as you devour dead enemies' hearts, 
 the arm doesn't seem to change throughout the game. This is fine though, as the arm is perfectly 
 effective from the beginning.
  
  The next power is not really a power but a weapon- the afore-mentioned Darkness Guns. While the 
 guns are supposed to be an all powerful weapon they seem to do only average damage, and the rocket 
 like alt. fire has maybe a ten foot range making it useless in long range combat. And, like I said 
 earlier, you can't use the Darkness arm while you are using the guns. This means you will have 
 to alternate between shooting lights and shooting enemies which can easily result in death. Your 
 final power is a black hole and it is an important feature in beating some of the later enemies 
 that are protected by riot shields. It can take down multiple foes at a time, take out large swaths 
 of lights and can even break holes in walls. The downside of the black hole is that it takes away 
 all your darkness power. This means no shield to protect you from incoming fire. So you'll play 
 a couple levels jumping out from behind cover hitting the black hole button and diving behind cover 
 for a couple seconds waiting for it to recharge. While this is ok on normal difficulty, on hard, 
 when enemies can take you out in one shot, it is often more of a risk than a benefit, meaning that 
 you'll be using this power mostly against those few shield protected enemies and when you are facing 
 a large group of enemies. The final piece of the Darkness puzzle are the darklings- little goblin 
 like creatures who attack enemies for you. While these beasts can be helpful at times, it isn't 
 until the very last level that they become essential. Still, they are a humorous addition to the 
 game, and it can be addictive collecting all of the costumes for them littered throughout the game. 
 One thing that can't be argued about The Darkness is that it looks and sounds incredible. Featuring 
 a fantastic and gritty vision of New York City, and some even gorier visions of Hell, The Darkness 
 sure looks great. Textures are incredibly sharp- you can see the intricate details in Jackie's 
 pistols. The lighting, of course, is excellent, especially the dark-enhancing vision The Darkness 
 affords you. If there is any flaw with the graphics its the lip movement during speech, which is 
 oddly understated. For a game that supposedly motion captured it's voice actors this problem is 
 most puzzling. Of course this takes very little from the graphical package, and is made up with 
 little touches like the graffiti in the subway and the excellent animation of The Darkness itself. 
 In addition to looking cool, the voice acting behind the Darkness is great. In fact, all of the 
 voice actors in the game do a superb job. I wouldn't hesitate to call this some of the best voice 
 acting ever seen on the X360. Even more amazing than the voice acting is the music. The orchestral 
 score is not only appropriate but also beautiful, haunting and powerful in its own right. The licensed 
 songs are also well chosen. All in all the sound of this game is by far its highlight. There are 
 few games around with the whole audio package, and this is one of them.
  
  All told the Darkness doesn't play poorly. I had a fun time playing it, I just felt that there 
 could have been so much more done with the game than what was delivered. While the presentation 
 and story are excellent, the Darkness powers don't seem as cool to use as they should be. The gunplay 
 is solid although its nothing special, and the lack of basic shooter mainstays like grenades lower 
 its appeal. There aren't that many guns to play around with, and while they all feel unique amongst 
 themselves, the feel of shooting an AK 47 has been done much better than this, even on the X360. 
 I recommend playing this game is only for the great story and unique premise. Realize before going 
 in though, that this game doesn't have the same depth as Riddick. Finally, the game isn't all that 
 long- I beat it in only a couple days. There is a multiplayer component although my Live connection 
 is down so I can't comment on it. There are very few reasons to replay this game unless you are 
 a stickler for achievements and are attempting to find all of the bonus content in the game. The 
 Darkness is best played if you keep your expectations low. I definitely recommend renting this 
 game, as it will only last a weekend, but it will be a fun one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes a great presentation makes all the difference in the world in a game. When all is said 
 and done, The Darkness isn't much more than a simple tale of revenge that involves mobsters and 
 a supernatural demon thrown in. The thing that makes the narrative that much more interesting though 
 is the way the characters are portrayed and how the story is told. By taking a few liberties with 
 the player's control via in-game cut scenes and assembling some excellent voice actors, Starbreeze 
 Studios has created a game that has more than just some fun gameplay, it also has a great set of 
 characters and a script that holds plenty of surprises from beginning to end. It's a genuinely 
 compelling game with genuinely likeable and hateable characters.
  
  The Darkness' gameplay revolves around, surprisingly enough, shadow and light. Early in the game, 
 it controls like just another fps really. It's a bit underwhelming too after the thrilling opening 
 sequence, since you're just running around with a slightly weird aiming system shooting slightly 
 stupid enemies. However once the Darkness comes in things immediately start to get interesting. 
 As each new Darkness power is introduced, the game seems to revolve less around shooting guns and 
 more about using your Darkness powers to get out of tight situations.
  
  The Darkness powers are all fun to use and are effective in unique situations. The demon arm is 
 a great power to bring out in the close-up action sequences, the black hole power is best used 
 in sequences with lots of enemies around, and creeping dark can help get rid of enemies that can't 
 see you yet. The Darkness guns are only useful in certain parts of the game but can be essential 
 with a particular group of enemies that prove hard to kill. Once you have these powers, the game 
 just doesn't feel as much like an FPS anymore, since the standard guns almost seem useless after 
 that. Another darkness power at your disposal is summoning darklings. The only time I ever found 
 myself summoning these guys was to solve the various puzzles in the game that require them, such 
 as blowing a hole into the wall with a kamikaze darkling or activating machinery with the light 
 killer darkling. Other than that they aren't that useful as the Darkness itself is quite enough 
 to deal with any situation. Also the only time guns are really needed in this game once you have 
 the Darkness powers is when there's a lot of light around.
  
  So here comes the part where the game feels rushed. First off, the multiplayer is lag itself manifested 
 into an online mode that keeps score of how much lag you have. Sometimes you win, sometimes you 
 lose. It doesn't matter. It's not fun to be in rooms that have more than four people in them, because 
 after that limit is reached, the game is literally unplayable. Another thing that seems a bit less 
 polished than the rest of it is the AI. Now comparing to last generation, the AI doesn't seem that 
 bad but these days I think we all expect a bit more from a group of angry mobsters than to just 
 stand around and shoot when they feel like it.
  
  So visually, this game is a bit of a mixed bag, but generally the game looks very good. The cut 
 scenes during load times that show up with Jackie talking about his past and his motives are very 
 good-looking aside from the occasional SUPER close-up on his face, the characters all generally 
 have great detail and the environments are great, but sometimes the way the characters move is 
 a bit unnatural when they're not engaged in an in-game cut scene, and the way the lips move is 
 a bit iffy at some points. Still the graphics are great overall and are definitely a step up from 
 Riddick.
  
  The sound in this game is fantastic. The voice acting is very exceptional for a video game, and 
 is very obviously one of the main focuses of the game's production. The the quality of the voice 
 acting in this game ranges from great to excellent and there wasn't a single annoying or unconvincing 
 character in the game. Jackie's voice actor is remarkably both believable and likeable, and I couldn't 
 get enough of the Darkness' creepy demonic voice, that shockingly was recorded with no post-work 
 on the actor's voice... that's scary. The voice acting really brings this game to life and so do 
 the sounds. The chaos of the game's action scenes are brought to life by the sound effects of torn 
 flesh and pounding bullets. The sound presentation in this game is simply the most remarkable thing 
 in the whole package, and it elevates the narrative by a lot.
  
  The value in the single player campaign is fair enough. It comes in five chapters which last about 
 2 hours each unless you're playing on easy mode where you can just run your way through everything. 
 On your first run through the game I recommend either normal or hard setting depending on how hardcore 
 you think you are, the game is never really that hard even on hard mode, but on easy it's just 
 way too easy, so skip that especially since you don't get an achievement for beating it on the 
 lowest difficulty. Along with the roughly 8-10 hour storyline the game comes with 15 side missions, 
 100 collectables to find, six darkling outfits to get and of course the amazingly laggy multiplayer, 
 achievements accompanying all of them, so there's plenty of reason to keep playing after you've 
 seen the ending. If you're looking for something with decent online you better just skip this one.
 
  
  I didn't go into The Darkness with sky-high expectations or anything, the quality of the story 
 and characters was a pleasant surprise for me and the way the gameplay grows on you as you go along 
 helped make it even more engaging, so I found myself anticipating each chance I got to play the 
 game until I was finished, then I went back again almost immediately to take care of the rest of 
 the side missions and collectables which was a fun diversion for me. It probably won't last quite 
 as long as some of my other games due to the multiplayer being a slideshow lag-fest, but all in 
 all it's easy to recommend the game because of its great characters, good story, fun gameplay and 
 excellent presentation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FobKilleR
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  From the get-go this game is both fun and immersive, however, parents I strongly advise you not 
 to buy this for little Jimmy, as it's also quite a violent little number to play. (ie: eating hearts, skewering 
 people etc.)
  Brought to you by the team who made the Riddick game for Xbox last year, the shading and character 
 models are insane, and coupled with an outstanding voice cast filled with colourful language and 
 accents, you will easily be immersed in this universe. (try to play it in the dark !!! hint hint)
 
  There are loads of hidden extras to unlock and the attention to detail, such as the ability to 
 just sit and watch TV (and change the channels) is an added bonus. Gameplay is relatively short 
 at around 10 -15 hours , but going back and unlocking everything will take a long time.
  Also a great game to grab for your gamerscore, for some easier achievements just by playing the 
 main quest. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swazonek
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Daeveloper Starbreeze has gone from being relatively unknown to critically accalimed since the 
 release of Riddick on the Xbox and anyone looking for a fun M-rated FPS with a great presentation 
 would do no harm in checking out The Darkness, their first next generation game.
  
  The Darkness is based on the comic book of the same name and has you playing a mob hitman named 
 Jackie Estacado. The game starts off with an exhilarating car tunnel action scene ending with Jackie 
 trying to assassinate someone for his Uncle Paulie. Uncle Paulie gets aggrivated with Jackie and 
 places a hit on him. The story continues from here and gets better and better as it goes with a 
 shocking plot twist early on.
  
  The Darkness plays like an ordinary FPS at the beginning but early on in the game a force known 
 as The Darkness attaches itself to Jackie giving him all sorts of insane and fun powers. You can 
 call out the Darkness by pressing the left bumper button and then use Darkness powers by pressing 
 the right bumper button. When the Darkness is manifested, it acts as a shield since you die in 
 a only a few hits without it. Jackie gets 4 Darkness powers throughout the game which are the Creeping 
 Dark, Demon Arm, Darkness Guns, and the Black Hole. The powers all use up Darkness energy which 
 is aquired by staying in the dark. Being in the light causes your darkness energy to deplete as 
 shown by coloured meters on the tentacles that stick out from Jackie's left and right shoulders.
 
  
  The Creeping Dark is a snake-like tentacle thing that can climb up walls, get through small places, 
 stealth kill enemies, and pickup items such as keys for you. The Demon Arm is a tentacle that can 
 impale enemies and move large objects out of the way. The Darkness Guns are dual pistols that use 
 up darkness energy instead of ammo but since it depletes the energy so quickly and the normal pistols 
 are about the same strength, they just end up being useless. Finally, the Black Hole is what you 
 would expect- A large hole that can suck up enemies and send them flying.
  
  The game's New York subway system acts as the game's main hub. There are two stations with a subway 
 train that brings you from one to the other. In these stations are exits that lead to New York 
 streets where most of the action happens in the game. There are people in the subway stations that 
 give side-quests to complete. There are only a small amount of side-quests but they are fun to 
 do and they add a little more value to the single-player game.
  
  Part way through the game, Jackie finds himself in an otherworld that is very different from New 
 York. Here instead of killing mob gangsters, you will find yourself killing zombie german soldiers 
 and helping out american soldiers in a hell-themed warzone. The game's atmosphere changes completely 
 making it seem like your playing a Call of Duty game with zombies and these otherworld sections 
 of the game just seem out of place. It also doesn't help that these sections take up a rather large 
 chunk of the game.
  
  Besides the main story and the side-quests, there are 100 collectable phone numbers and letters 
 to get. These activate extra content such as concept art and development screens. The Darkness 
 also has 50 achievements to aquire which are all designed well and give the game some much needed 
 value. The Darkness' main story only lasts around 10 hours and by the end, you wish there was more 
 to it partly because the characters and the story are so interesting. There is a also a multiplayer 
 component to the game but as of now it is very laggy and the maps are far to small. It just really 
 feels tacked-on.
  
  The Darkness is presented extremely well. The atmosphere is appropriately dark and moody with the 
 environments showing great detail and textures. The character models are all very well-done as 
 well. The detail in the game is made better with televisions in the game that actually show whole 
 length movies. While these details dont make the game any better, they certainly are a nice touch.
 
  
  The voice acting in the game is possibly the best part of the sound. Each character is voiced so 
 well that all the characters seem very realistic. The Darkness has a voice that is creepy and demonic, 
 something you wont forget. The sound effects in the game are good but nothing special. The music 
 is great with appropriate italian music for story scenes and hard rock music for the action scenes.
 
  
  Those looking for a FPS with an interesting story, fun M-rated action and neat powers should definately 
 purchase The Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  You know that feeling you get when a game kind of comes out of nowhere and completely blows you 
 away. Yeah I know, you have not had that feeling in a long time. Well, wait no longer, The Darkness 
 delivers that feeling once again. It's by far one of the best FPS's to hit us this year. You play 
 mob hitman Jackie Estacado whose Uncle Paulie is the Don of NY's mafia organization. On your 21st 
 B-Day you start to hear voices and find out your Uncle wants you dead. Whoopee, way to ring in 
 your 21st dude. The game is by 2K, who made Prey, which was another great game that took the FPS 
 shooters to a new level. As with Prey, The Darkness take a conventional FPS and straps on a third 
 arm, basically. Not only can you dual weld handguns, but you can arm your darkness powers to really 
 take out the scum of New York. The Darkness has very similar graphics to the game Prey, which is 
 pretty darn good. The movements are very smooth and detailed. The MSGD (motion sensitive graphics 
 detail) is superb. I agree with Gamespot on the fact that online does feel a bit tacked on, you 
 can tell that 2K isn't too keen with the MP side of gaming. Which sucks because that is what Microsoft 
 is good at. This also really dents the owning value of the game. In conclusion, I would strongly 
 suggest that you get your hands on this game if you are a FPS fan, either rent or buy. Its a good 
 solid game with a very cool and deep storyline that will have you going What the hell? Oh cool! 
 through out the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destructiontalk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Bascially this is a horror game it only made me jump a couple of times. But Your jackie and your 
 a mob hitman and somehow you were sent to go get some money for you boss named Paulie and when 
 you get to the place where the money is the money isnt there so Paulie gets pissed off and trys 
 to kill you. Paulie picked you up at orphanage when you were young and Raised you up to be part 
 of the mob. The game starts out when you wake up in a back of the car and your with 2 other guys 
 from the mod and your speeding down a tunnel and your handed a shotgun to shoot the police that 
 chasing you at the end of the chase the car crashes and you fly out of the car somehow when you 
 wake up from the crash you get possed by the darkness You get these powers which are these 2 little 
 snake like arms on each side of your shoulders. You can use these powers to eat your enmeys hearts 
 out bite there faces off etc. As you process throught the game you get more powers but a big part 
 of the game is light if you get into the light then your darkness level with decrease but you must 
 shoot out the lights around to increase your darkness and heal your self. You can also summon darklings 
 which are little creatures that you can command to kill your enemy's open doors and there four 
 different kinds of darkings, Berserker which is a basic darkling, shooter which uses a big giant 
 gun to kill your enemys, kamaikae which kills them self to blow this up and emys and one more which 
 I Havn't unlocked yet. I'm not to spoil anymore of the story but the story is brilliant and very 
 good. the game play is good and fun. There alot of core and realism in the game such as the ablity 
 to call people on the phones wacth tv within the game and use tthe subway which is your main source 
 of transportation. The graphics are simply breathtaking in this game some of the best I've seen 
 on the 360 in a long time. But the multilayer is horrible with the features and lag on both the 
 360 and Ps3 version of the game but you can skip the multi player and beat the main game and be 
 satisfied. This is game is amazing and one of the best 360 games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OvErLoRd_7
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  No one really expected a game based on a middling sci-fi movie to be all that good, but Starbreeze 
 Studios beat the odds with the release of The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay. With 
 its intense combat and stealth features, Riddick was a challenging and exciting game that had no 
 business being as good as it was. Starbreeze's success with the game has led them on to another 
 licensed property, although this one has as yet not been made into a movie. Instead, The Darkness 
 is based on the eponymous comic book series produced by Top Cow in the 1990's. It revolves around 
 the story of Jackie Estacado, the current wielder of the Darkness, an ancient and malevolent power 
 that requires a human host to manifest itself. With the power of the Darkness behind him, he attempts 
 to defend himself against the predations of his adoptive Uncle Paulie, who runs the crime family 
 that Jackie is a member of. After their relations take a decidedly bad turn, Jackie's forced to 
 wipe out Paulie and his friends while struggling to take control of the powers that he's suddenly 
 inherited. The game here thus lends you a number of supernatural powers that are unlike anything 
 you've probably encountered in a first-person shooter. With the help of the Darkness, and lots 
 of guns, you'll have to tear your way through Hell itself to pay Paulie back for what he's done 
 to you. GameSpot's game guide is here to help! We've got tips on completing the game and all the 
 different powers and abilities that are available to you. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-IV
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 5, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a first person shooter where you play the character Jackie. He is a Bada$$ you 
 could say. He gets into some trouble with the family and ends up stumbling upon a gift known as 
 The Darkness on his 21st birthday.
  
  Without giving away the plot, the game is not realistic to any extent. Most of the things that 
 happen to Jackie early on in the game that would not be considered normal by any means, are just 
 neglected by Jackie who seems to not care or take knowtice. Maybe its because he feels godly or 
 something, but its rather rediculous in my oppinion. The game features some cool abilites, Jackie 
 gets to use the powers of the darkness throughout the game. Some of things that happen when using 
 these powers are quite gory and satisfying, but not to the extent of a game such as Gears of War. 
 There are only about 6 guns in the game and they are not orignal and do not feel to work right 
 (shotgun is terrible) . Your character moves like a slug, and in order to use the darkness, you 
 must turn off the lights. While playing through this game, I found I was turning off the lights 
 more than I was acctually fighting enemies. Half of the game is spent in a world much like hell 
 and it is rather a pain to get through, rather than acctaully enjoyable. The games AI is straight 
 out dumb. It is really bad. You have these little darklings that fight along side you, but are 
 more of a pain than a help. If they enter the light they die, but for some reason they do this 
 on there own. They don't stay away from the light. Also, I had one darkling set up his machine 
 gun pointing at a wall and firing, WHAT THE HELL!!! Visually this game is high end. The environments 
 and the lighting is gorgeous. The only complaint I have is that most of the characters faces are 
 off par with everything else. They do not look very nice. This game is close to the Unreal engine, 
 but still not as good.
  
  The sound is where this game shines the most. The music fits with the tempo of the game. When your 
 in a fight it may start playing rock music, but then when your just strolling around in the subway 
 its calm rather depressing music. The voice acting is well done as well, and is performed by several 
 big actors.
  
  The reason this game is of poor value, is that it is only about 10 hours long and is relativily 
 easy (singleplayer) . The hardest part in the game is the very beginning. The multiplayer is not 
 even worth trying. It suffers from major lag and connection issues, terrible auto-team selection 
 (it will make you switch teams in a match) , the guns do not work very well, darklings are a dumb 
 idea (little demons from the single player, that at are fast but do very little damage) , and most 
 of the things that make the Darkness unique and that were featured in the single player are no 
 where to be seen in the multiplayer (Darkness powers, none) . I definitly compare this games multiplayer 
 to be similar to FEAR's but even worse.
  
  You can definitly see that Starbreeze tried to make this game as much like Riddick as possible. 
 The beginning of the game is much like Riddicks, where it starts off just like a movie. Unfotunaelty 
 the great gameplay mechanics from Riddick did not transfer over at all.
  
  If you need to get a game for the summer, just buy one that has already been released. This is 
 a great rental, no more than that. Wait until Bioshock, that is the game to buy. Stay away from 
 this one. This should be called PREY 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N0oB_PwnZor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Instead of being the hero chasing the villain its quite the opposite in The Darkness. Your fighting 
 somthing thats inside you and your trying to figure out away to control it. In a way you are the 
 monster of the story. Everyones out to get you except a selected few of the older guys in the game. 
 You are Jackie Estacado and its your 21st birthday , you got jumped on a by bouncer and two of 
 your friends are driving you through a tunnel. You know nothing of whats going to happen to you. 
 You end up crashing and resulting in the deaths of your two friends. You fight your through a construction 
 site and make your way up to a cementary with a few bumps along the way. This is were this demonic 
 creature takes over your body and this is were the real fun begins. I dont wont to ruin the game 
 but The gameplay is Kickass and the visuals are amazing. Its really a great game. The story is 
 accounted for unlike most other fps which really makes this game stand out and gives it some depth. 
 Buy it or embrace the Darkness.... ... ... ... ... ... . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent, cinematic story, intence, bloody action sequences, incredible attention to 
 detail, free roaming world, excellent graphics and superb voice acting.
  
  The Bad: Some minor graphical glitches, fairly short game, subpar multiplayer.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Everyone knows the FPS genre isn't very inventive. Usually, the setting and weapons change, but 
 most FPS games are the same old same old, with nothing but different colors of paint to differenciate 
 between them. The Darkness, from 2K and Starbreeze, does something that most FPS games don't: it 
 dares to be different. How? With a very cinematic storyline, which was adapted from a comic book, 
 unique gameplay elements and amazing little details found around the world.
  
  You play as Jackie Estacado, a mafia hitman working for his Uncle Paulie in New York. On your 21st 
 birthday, Paulie desides you need to be out of the picture. Unfortunately, he fails to realize 
 that a powerful entity known as The Darkness stirs inside you, and awakens to give you super human 
 abilities. One thing that developer Starbreeze did an excellent job of was making Jackie not your 
 typical anti-hero. It's often hard to figure out if he is an anti-hero at all, or just a hero coming 
 from one of the least likely of places. Jackie is a complex character who the player cares about, 
 which is something a great action movie has, and this great game has as well.
  
  The gameplay of The Darkness kinda feels like a combination of the creepy elements of F. E. A. R. 
 and The Godfather, but it's done extremely well. What makes it unique is the inclusion of The Darkness' 
 powers. Those spooky looking tenticle things do come in handy. When you harness the power of The 
 Darkness, you have a darkness shield making you harder to kill. You also gain four abilities during 
 the game: the creeping dark, which allows you to find and kill enemies before Jackie enters a room, 
 The Darkness Arm which skewers any enemies in it's range, The Darkness Guns, which are powered 
 up guns that do more damage than the usual ones, and the ability to summon Black Holes that suck 
 all enemies nearby up into them, killing them instantly. To fuel these powers, you need to devour 
 the hearts of those you kill. This is a pretty graphic way to get your munchies, but it works out 
 well... You also have the ability to summon Darklings, that are basically minions that do your 
 bidding. Darklings come in four varieties: gunner, beserker, kamakazi and light grabber. Beserkers 
 are your typical beat em up guys. They run up to enemies and beat them up with a weapon determined 
 by the outfit they are wearing. These range from a 2K Sports Baseball Bat (EB Games/Gamestop Exclusive) 
 to a Jackhammer. Gunners carry around a chain gun and mow down enemies while you are finishing 
 off the rest of the room. Kamakazis carry an explosive on their backs, and use it to destroy an 
 obsticle blocking your way, or a large group of enemies. Light Grabbers are used to take out the 
 lights in a room. You are unable to activate The Darkness in a lit room, so you need to take out 
 most of the lights in order to use your darkness powers. Light Grabbers help in this process. Also, 
 if you walk by a light with The Darkness activiated, it's energy is drained by the light, so make 
 sure you take the lights out!
  
  The weaponry in The Darkness is pretty basic. You have your standard, machine guns, dual machine 
 guns, dual pistols and a shotgun. If you run out of ammo, you can use your Darkness Guns, which 
 don't run out if you are in the dark, until you find a few extra clips. They may not be the most 
 glamerous of weapons, but they work very well, and fit well into the storyline and theme.
  
  The Darkness plays great, and is also fantastic from a technical aspect. The graphics are very 
 nice, and will remind you a bit of F. E. A. R. because of it's dark overtone. The characters are very 
 well animated, the enviroments are filled with detail and the voice acting is outstanding. The 
 most impressive of all the voice acting has got to be The Darkness itself. The voice actor's voice 
 wasn't altered at all for the game, so that's what he actually sounds like. It makes you wonder 
 what he does to his co-workers... The attention to little details is amazing. The subway stations 
 in the game are covered with unique graffiti in each area, there are posters that are both funny, 
 and unique at the same time, you can turn on a TV in the game and watch old cartoons or Flash Gordon, 
 and then there's the phone. During the gameplay, you discover and pick up pieces of paper that 
 have phone numbers on them. If you dial the phone number, you will get a typically hilarious answering 
 mashine and some collectable content that you can check out in the pause menu. My favorite one 
 has got to be the Emergency Response Help Line, and I will say no more.
  
  After beating the game, and testing the online multiplayer once, I only have a few complaints about 
 this amazing shooter. First, I encountered several graphical glitches during the game. They always 
 happened at random times and didn't hurt the gameplay, but they were there. Second, the game is 
 awesome, yet pretty short. I beat it in under 12 hours. Third, the multiplayer is a mediocure rip 
 off of Quake, and looses a lot of the single player story's charm. I honestly don't think any of 
 these small problems hurt the game's preformance for the most part, but they do need to be noted.
 
  
  Overall, The Darkness is an outstanding game that is a must play for all FPS fans, and fans of 
 cinematic stories alike.
  
  Gameplay: Very cinematic storyline, amazing details and unique gameplay elements make The Darkness 
 shine, not litterally of course.
  
  Graphics: There were some minor graphical glitches I encountered during gameplay, but not many 
 problems here. The game looked fantastic.
  
  Sound: Superb voice acting, especially by The Darkness, and excellent musical score.
  
  Value: 
 It's a fully priced game, but the campaign is something you will want to play over and over again. 
 The online may not be very unique, but I'm sure it will bring several additional hours of enjoyment.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: You are mine, Jackie... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightyboosh13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  OK The negatives first and theirs quite a few major and minor flaws with this other wise great 
 game.
  
  1) AI (noticably enemy AI) is very lacking especially when it comes to using the Darkness powers. 
 They are even more primitive than Riddick or that game just hid it better. This is my biggest gripe 
 as with the GREATEST FPS's the battle mechanics are extremely important and this game lacks great 
 shoot-outs. Even with your special powers it becomes just a way of taking down your next dumb ai. 
 If you love your Halo, Rainbow, Ghost or HL battle mechanics than this game may disappoint you. 
 But if you like innovative ways of destroying ai and a intriguing storyline you may find forgiveness. 
 I did...
  
  2) Motion and Reticule. Something as simple as a reticule can and is very important as you are 
 always using it. I just never enjoyed the Darkness's reticule, Yes it was small and unobtrusive 
 but it was just poor, at least let us customize. The motion of characters is very uneasy and stuttery 
 which looks un-natural again this is forgivable but it is annoying for a next gen game.
  
  3) Controller Sensitivity. I spent the first 30 mins of the game trying to get the right movement 
 (Y&amp; X) and it just never felt right. I in the end found a sweet spot but it wasnt as sweet as 
 I have found in other games.
  
  4) Graphics. I don't wanna say to many negatives coz they are pretty good. But some textures are 
 bad and the game is just a little too dark and the lighting some times doesnt match it. If you 
 turn up the brightness it becomes too washed out and other spectrum too dark. But you get used 
 to it, but I did spend ages trying to get the right feel. 5) Trekking back and forwards is a little 
 annoying and the load times are a bit tedious especially with how some missions are so easy and 
 simple but require exiting to a new area, killing so called guy/s, returning to place given mission 
 get new mission. If the game had a) no loading b) decent sized missions that were a lot harder 
 or more engaging battles it maybe forgivable.
  
  6) Unbalanced Darkness weapons. Jeez some of them are just to powerful. Even the first power can 
 leave your body go after 4+ cops and take them straight down with bites to the face, much easier 
 than using your guns. ANd then the Darkness black hole thing is just annoying as it is just too 
 powerful by far. Sucks in all the enemies on your screen which is just ridiculous as it also takes 
 about 10 secs b4 u can use it again.
  
  7) Multiplayer not good... nuff said.
  
  Their are even more flaws but to the good...
  
  1) Yay a storyline and its pretty decent and 
 gets you involved, bewildered and intrigued. Its not the best storyline ever but at least it has 
 1 compared to some recent Clancy titles.
  
  2) What a start to the game. Bloody, comic book, mayhem that even though you have little control 
 over (on-rails) it sets the mood briliantly.
  
  3) The Darknes powers though come so suddenly and not as dramatic as I'd of liked are pretty cool 
 to play around with. Shame that the game doesnt really show u how to use them best u have to learn 
 yrself. The powers are a lot of fun and fairly impressive.
  
  4) The graphics are very good yes its dark but it does look great and the light bloom can look 
 nice.
  
  5) The characters have (character) yay!! which sooo many games lack especially FPS games. I felt 
 a little sad when a certain character dies. And I found myself laughing at some of their quirks. 
 The synching is in most parts great though it does lose itself every now and then.
  
  FINALLY...
  The game is a must play and dont give up at the start as it does feel a lil hard 
 especially aiming. Have auto-aim on even though im a good shot, auto-aim makes the game more playable 
 especially when it comes to shooting out lights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nudie_Magazine
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is the new game by developer Starbreeze, who's last game The Chronicles of Riddick 
 was quite possible the greatest movie based game ever made. But that dosn't really mean anything, 
 since most movie based games suck, but The Chronicles of Riddick was also an excellent game on 
 it's own merits. Now that the back story been filled in, The Darkness is based on a comic book 
 of the same name, the story of the game features many of the same characters as the comic, but 
 is more like a hollywood-ification the source. This isn't a bad thing at all, it makes for a much 
 tighter story. The story goes, that Jackie Estacado, a mafia hit man for your scumbag uncle Paulie 
 Franchetti. Everythings going just fine, until you don't collect for him and he gets pissed at 
 you. Look at the bright side though, it's your 21st birthday and you inherited The Darkness. The 
 story in The Darkness is one of the biggest draws, featuring many heart wrenching twists and turns 
 that will leave you on the edge of your seat 'til the very end. In the game, the darkness is embodied 
 by these two snake-like heads on the left and right side of the screen. With the press of a button (left 
 bumper) they will appear and give a handful of unique and endlessly usefull powers. The first is 
 called creeping dark, and it allows you to control one of the snakes and use it to open locked 
 doors, do recon, and perform stealth kills. Next, is the demon arm (my favorite) which allows a 
 tenticle to shoot out and impale enemies and lift up objects which can then be thrown and most 
 commonly, to bust out lights which up until then had to be shot out with fire arms. Then you get 
 the darkness guns, these two guns which are powed by the darkness, the left gun fires a sonic boom 
 type power shot, while the right one is like a mini- chaingun. The last power is a black hole, 
 which can be used as a grenade, when fired into a room it will suck up everything in the room from 
 furniture to enemies, it's really powerful but is balanced out by the fact that with each use it 
 drains all your darkness power. Along with all those powers you also get a halo-y type shield which 
 lets you absorb more damage and the ability to devour hearts, this means that the snake head (always 
 the right one, I feel bad for the left one) bites the heart right out of the dead enemies chest 
 and chows down on it. It's incredible nasty and awesome and bad ass and... your response will vary 
 but I think it might be the coolest thing in a videogame in way too long. The game is not very 
 challenging at all but it is incredible satifying. The gun play is awesome, mainly with the inclusion 
 of execution moves which occure when you get right up close to the enemy. These are really awesome 
 and really violent, one particularly good one was when you sneak up on an enemy with the dual pistols 
 and you go on to shoot out both his kneecaps (from the back) and then shoot them square on the chest 
 as they fall to the ground. The story mode a lot of fun, but it won't last you very long (even with 
 the various side missions) it'll take the average gamer about ten hours. I'm not sure how others 
 feel about this but I think there's a lot of replay value, go back complete all the side missions 
 or attempt to get an achievement you may have missed. The graphics for the game are pretty great, 
 the game has a great atmosphere and lighting engine, there are some minor short comings with some 
 not so great animations, but it's not too bad. But whats even better than the excellent graphics 
 is the incredible sound, all the voice actors did an incredible job, with the standout being, atleast 
 in my opinion, Mike Patton as the Darkness. His voice is so creepy and over the top... it's just 
 too awesome. Last we got the multiplayer, it's not much. I personally think it's quite a bit of 
 fun, expect for when it lags which will happen no matter how good the hosts connection is after 
 a certain amount of people join. The multiplayer is standard fair except you can change from standard 
 human to darkling, the little demons you can summon in the single player storyline. As a darkling, 
 you can crawl up the walls and on the ceilings, and you can jump really far. Overall, this game 
 is awesome, if you liked Riddick you'll love this. If your in need of a kick-ass shooter, you'll 
 love this. If you just are a straight up shooter fan, you should at least give this a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eastside49er
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  You start out as Jackie Estacado. A mob hit man who just turned 21 years old. You wake up after 
 a night of partying in the back of a car, which is speeding down a New Jersey tunnel and that is 
 when all hell breaks loose. First the cops are after you, then the workers in the tunnel start 
 trying to kill you. The car ends up crashing and that is when one of your dying friends lets you 
 know that your Uncle Paulie has a hit out for you. Right before you start the blood bath, The Darkness 
 also comes over you.
  
  You start out going through a basic tutorial in which you will learn how to switch between weapons 
 and your darkness powers, although you start out with only one darkness power. You will also learn 
 basic moves like jump, reload, how to summon the darkness, etc. You have a few moves, like execution 
 kills, in which if you hit the right trigger while being close to an enemy, a nice little animation 
 will happen and depending on your weapon of choice, the animations are different. You push the 
 RB button to use your selected darkness power. There are a wide range of weapons, but there could 
 have been more. Same goes for the darkness powers. You only have 4 darkness powers and 4 Darkling 
 types. The Darkling types are little demons who help you kill through out the game. Just like the 
 darkness powers, the more powerful your darkness meter gets, the more darkness powers and Darklings 
 you will be able to use. One Darkling will blow himself up to protect you, while one of your darkness 
 powers will open a mini black hole, which kills anything that it comes in contact with. You gain 
 more darkness power by eating hearts. The more hearts you eat, the more powerful you become. Sounds 
 sick I know, but it feels so good to tear open a dead enemies chest and see one of your darkness 
 heads eating away at his or her heart. The controls and gameplay are sound, but in the end there 
 should have been more and sometimes controlling the darkness head can be a pain.
  
  You spend a lot of your time in the two main train stations. Canal Station or Fulton Station. Here 
 you will have a chance to go on little mini missions, find out more on why Paulie wants you dead 
 and you can get between areas of interest with ease by train or foot. Much like in EFBB, the voice 
 acting and graphics are the games strongest asset. The voice acting in this game is like that of 
 a good movie and the detail is made known from the faces of the people you are talking with, to 
 the environments you are fighting in. Both areas are top notch and some of the best yet of this 
 generation.
  
  Once again Starbreeze makes sure you have lots of collectables, from phone numbers to dial, in 
 which you get a funny/weird answering machine or person on the other end to notes you must mail. 
 This unlocks art work, mini movies, etc. You can also get new outfits for one of your Darklings 
 to wear. In return he will give you a little sarcastic message, like want to go shopping? . The 
 multiplayer is a basic MP. You have Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, etc. You can 
 either be human or a darkling and depending on the game you can shape shift from human to darkling 
 and back again. It is probably the worst part of the game because it feels like it was just thrown 
 in there. Personally I think this game would have been great with out MP and Starbreeze probably 
 could have just left it out entirely and should have concentrated more on the SP, much like how 
 they did with EFBB.
  
  Overall this is a game you can finish in one sitting. It took me about 10 to 12 hours to finish 
 on normal and really the only reason to play through again would be to pick up those achievements 
 you missed via your first play through. Starbreeze did a great job with the game as far as the 
 story, atmosphere, graphics and voice acting go, but they could have tightened up the controls 
 a bit more and there just isn't enough darkness power/darklings in the game for my taste. The MP 
 is nothing special and probably could have been left out completely. The game leaves you hanging 
 at the end so there will probably be a sequel, which is a good thing because I wanted more carnage. 
 This a great game and I say it is worth playing if you have nothing else to do on a hot summer 
 night. I would say rent before you buy because one play through is probably good enough. Fans of 
 Escape From Butcher's Bay will not be disappointed.
  
  --east 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameboy360
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  When you think of mob games in new york free roam action/adventure games come to mind. The Darkness 
 breaks this mold by combining intense first person shooting with a powerful force known as the 
 Darkness. The shooting was done very well for a game more based around using the drankness powers 
 to rip and tear your enemies to pieces. There is an auto aim option which can be adjusted in the 
 option screen if you need help hitting foes. The darkness, though, is where theg ame really shines. 
 As you porgress you learn new darkness powers allowing you to eliminate enemies in more than a 
 few ways. The creeping dark is used to creep up on enemies or reach places unreachable by the character. 
 The vortex, or black hole which is given to you later in the game, sucks up groups of enemies, 
 spins them around, and then spits their limp bodies back to the ground. Not only do you play in 
 the streets of New York, but also in the darknesses mind, or hell, where WWI continues on forever 
 as allied frankensteined soldiers battle the faceless nazis. The drastic chnge in setting keeps 
 the game interesting and fresh all throughout. The graphics are top notch with olny slight problems 
 with lip syncing. Guns look cool with spot on slide action and muzzle flashes. The drakness, as 
 it looms over you at times, looks like it has a life of its own. Overall The Darkness is the light 
 at the end of the tunnel during the drought of summer games. A must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  I guess here comes my drunken review of this game...
  
  Im on my 2nd play thru, and so far, im quite impressed, whist other fps games pit you against a 
 numerous amount of cannon fodder, with several typical guns to use... this game pits you against 
 a bunch of mobsters (and nazi-look alikes) with some wicked ass powers that you aquire through 
 the darkness, a demon living within fueled by anger and hatred... The story in this game is what 
 captivated... I have never played a game more in tune with its story telling, hence why im playing 
 it again, and again...
  The voice acting is amazing, with the darkness voiced by the talented mike patton... which helps 
 its creepy atmoshere...
  
  there is so much to this game to really go into full explaination... Your powers are limited to 
 use of the demon arm, a weird worm type thing you can remotely control, a portal that sucks anything 
 into it, the darkness guns, and the lovly use of summoning demons to do your bidding... you can 
 find secret uniforms to dress your demons up (randomly chosen uniforms that is) who, saw, cut, 
 mutilate and destroy your opponents... its quite the gory game too, all the blood, bullet decals 
 (on the bodies of unsuspection victums) While the game is amazing at best, I felt that it wasn't 
 as long as it possibly could have been, and the replay value isn't all that amazing...
  The multiplayer was added at the last minute.... you can tell as its incredibly laggy and the lack 
 of ragdolls is dissapointing...
  
  Rather than condem the game for its multiplayer, I would recommend this to anyone who loves first 
 person shooters, as the darkness is once unique and amazing game that should be played by anyone 
 who owns a 360...
  
  and don't write reviews whilst drinking, nor drink and drive kids... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tidus4444
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I never read any of the comics. I just knew that this game had to be bad ass because you had an 
 arm that could stab people and toss around the world. I mean its nothing particulary new, but it's 
 definitly something that stands out from all the other boring run and gun corridor shooters on 
 the market. I beat the game and I have much to say about it. First of all if your looking for the 
 same amount of WOW you got gtom popping off a locust's head, don't expect to find it here. That 
 doesn't mean this game isn't worth your 60 bucks though. The story itself makes this game worth 
 your money. From the opening scene in New York City to the very last moments, the story keeps you 
 latched. I don't want to spoil anything but theres one cinematic in the game thats so insane, and 
 all i have to say is torture and power drill. ;-) . The Darkness powers as a whole are very fun. 
 It looks awesome when you impale an enemy with your darkness arm then blow away the next incoming 
 enemy with your shotgun. The gunplay is pretty cool at first. The way the weapons sway as you run 
 and as you lean around corners for the most part looks real and innovative, but does the actual 
 shooting match up? The shooting gets boring and old after awhile. Its nothing new and different. 
 Some of the guns feel weak and fake. The A. I is also really stupid. Honeslty for a next gen game 
 the A. I is horrible. It's just little things about the A. I that stand out that make the intelligence 
 stupid and poor. also your minions are pretty stupid too. The detachable darkness arm has very 
 poor controls and can get very frustrating after trying to get around for only a couple of minutes. 
 I mean it's cool, and once you get the hang of it i guess its fun, but its still alot harder to 
 control then it should be. But as a whole the gameplay is always very fun and thats all that matters 
 right? The graphics are straight up Chronicles of Riddick all over again. The shading, bumpmapping 
 on all the textures, animations.. etc. is all clean and realistic. Sometimes the world looks a 
 bit dirty though, but it's only at rare times. The voiceacting is well done. 90% of the characters 
 sound very believable. The things people say around the world gets very repetative. Besides the 
 people that give you side quests, the people have only 4 or 5 things that they say when you approach 
 them. If your bored with all your games and want a fresh experience then definitly check out darkness. 
 I researched alot about the game and read alot of reviews from people about the game to see if 
 i really wanted to spend 60 bucks on this, but im glad i did. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HummaKavula
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a hotly anticipated action game from Starbreeze, the creators of the critically 
 acclaimed Chronicles of Riddick released in 2004.
  It was known for its unrivaled graphics and top notch action sequences. So the big question is 
 does it live up to the hype? The short answer is simply: yes, it most certainly does.
  
  To begin with, the games visuals are a masterpiece, with incredibly sharp textures and lighting 
 and unique art design and setting. It's one of the best looking games on the 360.
  The area of New York you're allowed to walk around in isn't terribly large, but what's there is 
 very detailed and looks amazing.
  The game is basically free-roaming, there are two subway stations, Canal St. and I forgot what 
 the other one is called, but they both look very different from eachother, with different characters 
 walking around and different art design. You can talk to some people in the areas and they can 
 give you side-missions such as killing someone or delivering a letter or talking to someone. They 
 aren't really very varied and they don't hurt the main mission so you can breeze through the game 
 without even bothering with them.
  But if you do complete these quests you're rewarded with a piece of note with a phone number on 
 it, if you go and dial this number you'll unlock extra content such as a concept art, a video, 
 a screenshot or even a The Darkness comic. You can also find these notes hidden throughout the 
 game, you'll most likely come across a whole bunch of them.
  
  The characters and story in the game are very deep and very involved, your uncle Paulie has grown 
 tired of you for some reason and decides he wants you dead. He puts a bomb at where you're supposed 
 to kill someone on your birthday, but you survive the explosion, so you're basically just hunting 
 him for revenge.
  What is also incredibly cool is that you're possessed the same day by The Darkness, which is two 
 snake-like tentacles shooting out of your shoulder-blades. What you can do with this gift (or curse) 
 is taking control of one of the tentacles to stealth kill someone. There's a demon arm you can 
 impale enemies with or lift objects out of the way. And very late in the game you get to use a 
 black hole which sucks enemies and objects into it, it's a great display of the games physics, 
 it's a neat little trick but sometimes it just seems too easy, because the black hole is basically 
 instant death.
  Oh, and there is one power to call fourth dual pistols draining power from The Darkness itself, 
 it's pretty standard and not alot more powerful than your regular dual handguns, they look alot 
 cooler though.
  
  What's kind of weird though is that sometimes some characters are speaking their lips aren't always 
 moving the way they're supposed to. They stand there talking with their mouths closed, especially 
 Jackie, it looks ridiculous and it hurts the immersion a bit.
  The A. I is also disappointing, they tend to do some unrealistic things like running right at you, 
 and sometimes when you're using the tentacles to stealth kill they sometimes just stand still and 
 stare right into the wall.
  Another lacking thing is the variety in weapons and how ineffective they are, you will most likely 
 use the dual pistols throughout most of the game because they're the strongest ones.
  
  If you were looking for an action game to satisfy you for a week you will be disappointed, the 
 game can be completed in a dedicated weekend, it's about 12 hours long. It doesn't have much replay 
 value because the campaign is very linear, but you can choose what chapter you want to play if 
 you would like to replay it, maybe complete some sidemissions for extra content.
  I haven't tried the multiplayer yet, I'm banned from Live for reasons I won't tell you, but I heard 
 it's very lackluster and buggy and laggy as hell.
  You can play as a human with big powerful guns or as a darkling. The darklings are very fast, they 
 can also climb walls but their attacks are weak. You can transform into either one whenever you 
 want, it's kind of cool but it won't last for very long.
  
  Like I said, the game isn't a very long ride, but what's there is pretty amazing, you'll feel like 
 you've done alot before the game is over.
  For a third of the game you'll spend time in an otherworld, where a neverending World War 1 is 
 being fought. The people stuck in that place has to fight until he is shot, only to be revived 
 again and live the terrible nightmares over and over again for eternity.
  There you will try to find out what the hell is going on, and you will eventually find out what 
 The Darkness really is, and whether or not you can stop it.
  One of the things that is unique about The Darkness is its pacing, one moment you're out in the 
 streets of New York eating hearts, and the next you're cuddling with your girlfriend Jenny while 
 watching TV in her new appartment.
  
  Whenever you go into a new area, Jackie will talk for a moment, about what's going on or whatever 
 else he feels like. It's mostly a part for you to understand what's going on throughout the game, 
 but it's also used to overshadow the loading times. You wont tell the game is loading because you're 
 mostly listening to whatever Jackie has to say, but after a while when he says the same thing over 
 and over again it just gets a little dull.
  
  The Darkness can't be in the light for too long, or he will go away, so you'll have to get rid 
 of the light sources around, either by simply turning off the lights with the lightswitch, or shooting 
 it with your guns or using your demon arm ability. It's a neat little trick, but some might think 
 it's annoying, because you'll fight the light almost as much as you're fighting enemies.
  Whenever The Darkness runs out of energy you'll have to stand in the shadows for a few seconds 
 to refill, and he will recharge by consuming the shadows around you. You can also refill your energy 
 by devouring human hearts, it's also one way to level up your Darkness level. So you're basically 
 getting stronger by eating hearts. It looks incredible while doing it too, but for some odd reason 
 the right one always seems to win, poor Leftie.
  
  The Darkness is simply an amazing game with amazing action sequences, especially in the prerendered 
 ones where The Darkness takes a control of Jackie. It is one of the best singleplayer experiences 
 in years and it should not be missed. Now, about that sequel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markfarren2004
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Well It has been a while since I last bought a game for the Xbox and honestly I didn't have high 
 hopes for this one as most games based on comics, movies, and other popular culture icons usually 
 end up dissappointing and/or useless garbage.
  
  The Darkness was a big surprise in that respect because it is an excellent crossover between comics 
 and games. You play Jackie a mafia hit-man who has fallen out of favour with the current Don and 
 he wants you dead. Celebrating his 21st birthday Jackie is on his way to a hit and is doublecrossed 
 by Paulie. It is then that his powers called the Darkness are revealed. His powers can perform 
 all manner of special abilitys creeping with one of his tentacles, created a black hole that sucks 
 everything into it (very cool) and my personal favourite the demon arm which can impale enemies 
 and lift cars off the ground.
  
  The graphics are excellent with some of the best visuals yet seen on xbox 360 so far and the story 
 is top notch. The game was developed by Starbreeze and if you can remember they are the company 
 that created Chronicles of Riddick and many of the special close quarters combat moves have returned.
 
  
  The only problem I have with the game is the combat which seems a little lacklustre as guns don't 
 seem to be too powerful and the AI wouldn't be the most impressive I can't help compare it to F. E. A. R 
 which had excellent A. I but poor story and dull enviroments and The darkness is the opposite. Overall 
 it is an excellent game with a great story and it is very cinematic in its presentation. (The World 
 War I part of the story is awesome) Definately worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macca366
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  The darkness is a first-person action game with a few innovative twists and a very compelling yet 
 supernatural story.
  
  The darkness is a superb high-quality game with graphics so detailed and amazing that I'd say it 
 rivals Gears of war. The game starts of with an impressive action/interactive set-piece and then 
 throws you into the action.
  
  This is not a pure shooter such as Halo, if you're up close to enemies you do these very slick 
 'execution moves' and such, also you inherit a very disturbing power early in the game, which is 
 essentially some kind of evil entity that possesses you and gives you these very cool abilities 
 but at the same time is partially against you..
  
  The graphics are amazing.
  The sound is perfect, eating human hearts never gets old.
  The game play is very smooth, fast-paced 
 and exciting and differnent to any other games, with your supernatural abilities you can do many 
 cool things which I do not wish to spoil for you. As you gain some of them along the way.
  
  The story and atmosphere is where it really shines. This is your average linear game either, 
 it is to an extent free-roaming. You can explore the streets of New York, and the subways and even 
 catch trains between stations. Make phone calls to number you see, or guess number. Post letters, 
 ask for help from the assistance person etc.. The story is your basic mobster/mafia type revenge 
 thing, but it pulls so much emotion from you. You learn to care for Jackie, especailly after some 
 horrible events that aren't very fair, it might leave you angry or thinking, Those mother fuckers.. 
 . You're going to get into this.
  
  The game does not just take place inside new york city either, you explore another place that lets 
 you understand The darkness, the entity corrupting you more and do some strange but intriguing 
 things.
  
  The game has some awesome That. is. so. cool. moments too.
  
  The only downfall is that it is quite short, and since the multiplayer is very tacked on and something 
 you won't stick around for it doesn't have much replay value. Unless you're a perfectionist and 
 try to get all the extra content from the campaign or want all the achievements.
  
  If you want a very engaging, emotive game with the highest quality of action, an immersive story, 
 a twist, and some things you've never seen before, then you should most definately get The darkness.
 
  
  Or rent it for a great day/night or two of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leroysavage
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Oh My. That's what I said as this game started. The opening Sequence plays out like a movie, just 
 like Riddick did. You watch a little, you play a little, Credits continue to roll, storyline begins 
 to flesh out.
  
  When it comes to the story, I haven't screamed out NOOOOOOO in a long time during a video game.... unless 
 the 360 crashed or something.
  
  This game is well put together. A Great Story, Fantastic Graphics &amp; Effects, even pretty good 
 Voice Acting.
  
  A little on the short side, but something that will stick inside your brain long after you finish. 
 Some of the city areas get a bit tedious, and some of the Side Missions are just obvious attempts 
 to make the game last a little longer. STILL, I really enjoyed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zentrixu
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  I love this game, everything is on the top here, the Graphics are on the same level as Gears of 
 War, even better i think.
  The Charackters they figured great, you the player will take real care of the Charackters and their 
 destiny.
  The voice acting one of the best in Game History and the Gameplay it feels new and it feels fresh.
 
  BUT buy this game for the single player Campaign not for Multiplayer, that you can ignore.
  The single player experience is one of the strongest since years and it has more depth than the 
 other games, the perfect mix of story telling and gaming is the darkness.
  Do not MISS THIS GAME i think its a must have titel, the story is a mix of a Scarface Movie with 
 a littel bit of the CROW and full of Hellraiser Movie Elements, and the mix is perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigJon089
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  i thought the single player was a great experience with the use of the Darkness powers and the 
 story was a little confusing but after you play for a while it starts making sense and getting 
 pretty interesting but once you try to play online multi-player it seemed that all the greatness 
 of the single player is nowhere to be found. From what I played there was only lag and the darkness 
 powers from the single player weren't even included but i think the single player is worth at least 
 a rent but the multi-player is not even worth playing. Strong RENT!! cause the single player is 
 worth playing even though its pretty easy on even the hard difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. I had never heard of darkness until now. But anyways the game and story 
 are pretty nicely done just missing somet stuff.
  
  The graphics are nice with not bad ais to deal with. The game places you as a contract killer hitting 
 his 21 birthday and of course all birthdays has a surprise, well for you its something that you 
 wish you can have in real life lol well for some of us.
  
  The game allows you to have powers but the only way you can use them is mostly in the dark aka 
 any lights hitting on ya will prevent the use of the powers which is pretty cool. The powers range 
 from lifting objects and throwing at your enemies to ripping their hearts out... pretty sick I guess.
 
  
  There is alot of areas to cover making it a some what open game style the down fall is that most 
 of the areas have to be unlocked aka playing more of the story.
  
  Some of the down falls in the game is there is really no day and night system in this game meaning 
 its always dark making it pretty much as no worry game. Sometimes you wish you had the day and 
 night system to make the game abit harder then able to run pass the lights and to the enemies faces 
 to deal with them... o well. The game also lacks the open concept. Most of the buildings are closed 
 or locked with a few open for you to do quests in. Weapons also are a pain to find, if you run 
 out of ammo then you have to rely on your powers which don't work in the light, if you get stuck 
 in a position with no ammo and power then you have to melee it which is pretty annoying. But overall 
 the rest is pretty good
  
  The game has a few gore parts which you will know when you buy it or rent this game. There are 
 alot of finishing moves which can be preform when your face to face with your enemy, most of them 
 are cool but they get old pretty fast. So if your the gore type or love to blow people away then 
 this game might be for you. its a must buy for those into the first person shooting and power hungry 
 players for the rest rent it.
  
  O before I forget there is online but a few problems such as lag which can be over come after playing 
 the match for a bit or playing wtih people around your area. The online those allows you to transform 
 into a creature which is fast and deadly but of course nothing is more deadly then a guy holding 
 a shotgun in your face.
  
  I would tell you the powers and abilites but I would like to hold those back on this review since 
 really it would give away alot of the game. So if you want to know more rent or buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigchi222
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Brutal..... absolutely brutal.... and I am not just talking about the violence in the game. Well, 
 let me start by saying that unlike some M-rated games this one DEFINITELY cannot be played in the 
 presence of children, nuns or men of the cloth. With that said the overall premise of an anti-hero 
 with special DARK abilities is not new, but presented in a very unique fashion. The story is hokey 
 at best and for some strange reason lips don't always move when the story is being told, which 
 really hurts the immersion factor when it occurs. Some of the canned visuals are nice to watch.... but 
 after about the 75th time the shock factor, and therfore the hook starts to fade. Kind of like 
 the feeling you get when you buy one of those systems that sounds like Mii . Lots of fun until 
 you have no other friends to invite over to see it and you realize a gimmick is a gimmick is a 
 gimmick. And lastly.... where the **ck is Nosferatu? The other system got the full movie, at least 
 if I get bored I can watch a movie. Why did we not get this little tid-bit? Rent this title, and 
 if you are a Nosferatu fan go with the other system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienhunter187
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Imagine this: on your 21st birthday, youre betrayed by your uncle, hundreds of people try to kill 
 you and you just happen to inherit two black tentacles that come out of your back and have a taste 
 for human hearts.
  
  Welcome to Jackie Estacados life. The mob hitman is set up by his beloved Uncle Paulie at the 
 beginning of the game for reasons unknown. After a brilliant and breathtaking car chase and shoot 
 out in a New York City tunnel and construction site, Estacado begins hearing a strange voice saying 
 its going to control him soon.
  
  Eventually, the voice reveals itself to be a timeless entity known as the Darkness. It then possesses 
 Jackie giving him unrivaled powers to extract his revenge on his enemies and those who betrayed 
 him. Jackies travels will take him to different colorful figures like Butcher Joyce, his Aunt 
 Sarah and Jimmy the Grape. Everybody wants Paulie out of the picture as the game continues. Only 
 Jackie can ultimately send him packing.
  
  Jackies love interest in the game, a small departure from the comics, is named Jenny. Shell have 
 a prevalent force throughout the game including emotional support and motivation for Jackie when 
 things get tough.
  
  Jackie will also get sent to the Other World, which is a boring bland place of nothing but brown, 
 lightning and World War I Krout zombies. Jackie will have to fight his way out of the hellish place 
 and get back to Earth to continue his voyage.
  
  The Darkness powers are at the center of the gameplay in Starbreezes latest game. You start out 
 with the Creeping Dark which is one of the tentacles that comes out of your back. It can be used 
 to scout ahead and attack would-be assassins. Its also used to solve simple puzzles to get into 
 hard-to-reach areas that Jackie couldnt go.
  
  After you kill a person, the tentacles can eat their hearts. The more hearts you eat will make 
 Jackie stronger and level up his powers. Theres also a convenient achievement on the Xbox 360 
 for eating 300 hearts.
  
  Later, as the game progresses, youll pick up new powers like the Darkness arm, which you can 
 use to impale people and move large objects. Youll eventually come across the Darkness Guns. 
 One gun shoots like normal while the other gun shoots some kind of force and will knock anything 
 out that it hits. The final power is a black hole that you can summon and suck the bodies of any 
 enemies into.
  
  Perhaps the most surreal and entertaining aspect of The Darkness is Jackies little helpers called 
 Darklings. These mischievous demons can be spawned from certain points that are scattered throughout 
 the game. Depending on which of the four types you spawn, they will kill any enemies in a number 
 of gruesome ways. Theyll also help move cars and unlock doors for Jackie.
  
  The true charm of the Darklings comes from their one-liners. The first Darkling you spawn will 
 come out of the ground and look at you and then say, Free at last, free at last! Others will 
 say my condolences to your family after they hike their leg over the body.
  
  The gunplay is one of the most impressive parts of the game. Picture John Woo crossed with Equilibrium 
 and thatll give you an idea of what its like. Jackie doesnt reload his guns. He picks up new 
 ones and throws the empty ones away. Theres only a red dot for a reticle, so aiming isnt as easy 
 as games like Halo or Shadowrun. But the game does have friendly aim assistance that you can increase 
 or decrease.
  
  Therell be many firefights where you can just charge in shooting both pistols and emptying the 
 clips into mob shooters sent to kill you. Youll also eventually pick up submachine guns, AK-47s, 
 M16s, shotguns and an assortment of other deadly weapons. The pistols are still the most useful 
 and the most exciting to watch.
  
  If you get close enough to an enemy and pull the trigger, Jackie will pull off an Equilibrium-style 
 execution that not only looks brutal, yet satisfyingly cool. Most of the weapons have execution 
 kills and they differ on what position the enemy is in when you shoot them.
  
  The gameplay does have its faults. To use the Darkness, Jackie needs to stay in the shadows. Any 
 of the powers including the Darkness guns and the black hole drain the Darkness power. If Jackie 
 ventures out into the light too much, the tentacles will retract and Jackie will be vulnerable. 
 The thought process is sound. The problem is, in most of the gunfights and exchanges, there are 
 way too many lights to truly take advantage of the Darkness powers. Youll spend more time shooting 
 out the lights to get to the enemies than itll take to just kill the enemies with your guns.
 
  
  You might also get bored to death going from objective to objective because of how slow Jackie 
 walks. There is no sprint button. Jackie seems to only walk at a fast walk or a slow jog, at best. 
 Some objectives require you to traverse an entire neighborhood, which could take quite a while.
 
  
  The graphics are as impressive for the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 as The Chronicles of Riddick 
 graphics were impressive for the Xbox. Starbreeze truly knows how to take advantage of the technology. 
 The textures arent rivaled by any game. The only problem is the box and flat look of almost everything 
 in the game. Its especially noticeable on the character models. The textures bring the characters 
 to life, but Starbreeze should have done a better job of rounding the edges. Some smaller things 
 like the lights on cars and ambulances are noticeable because theyre completely flat. Its like 
 somebody took a box and just painted the lights on them. It doesnt detract from the game, but 
 it is somewhat jarring considering the amount of detail everything else has.
  
  The animations for the NPCs are extremely stiff. The enemies that youll fight roll around, crawl 
 and will take cover. But Jackies allies and the random people in the subways just rock back and 
 forth in one place during a conversation and walk like theres a stick shoved up them. When Jackie 
 goes into a subway, the main way to get around the game, the entire area comes to life. Later in 
 the game, theres a somber music playing that pulls on the emotions. People stand around talking, 
 some are playing music and dancing and others are looking for Jackie. They all look pretty believable. 
 The atmosphere of the game is unrivaled by anything else out there.
  
  The problem is when you go up into the city streets. Unless youre in the middle of a fight with 
 somebody, there wont be a single person on the street. You might see three or four innocent people 
 outside throughout the entire game. With so much work put into the atmosphere, especially the subways, 
 some more could have been done to the city streets. They appear completely lifeless, which is strange 
 for New York City.
  
  The A. I. is a problem in the game as well. The enemy A. I. isnt the worst in gaming and it isnt 
 the best either. The main problem is with the Darklings. If you summon a gunner darkling and theres 
 enemies in the area, he will not move from a single spot. He will just stand in one area and shoot, 
 whether hes shooting the ground or a wall. Some NPCs will just walk into you as well if youre 
 in the subway.
  
  The voice acting and story-telling is where The Darkness really shines. None of the voices are 
 recognizable off-hand, but they do an excellent job. The conversations are believable, the emotions 
 are real and the characters feel real. The only problem is the lip synching or lack there-of. When 
 you look at Jackie or another character during a conversation, their lips hardly move.
  
  The best part of the voice acting is the long monologues that Jackie has during load times. Hell 
 sit or stand in a bright spotlight talking about different parts of the game or the storyline. 
 It offers a way to skip the boring loading screens.
  
  The only truly disappointing part of the game is the multiplayer. It sounds good in theory. You 
 have standard Quake-style fast-paced action and you can turn into Darklings on the fly and crawl 
 up walls and around people. But the netcode is some of the worst that Ive ever seen. It makes 
 the netcode of Call of Duty 2 at launch look like Halo 3s online. Hopefully, Starbreeze is looking 
 into a patch because the game has potential.
  
  Overall, Starbreeze has a winner on their hands. The game itself is brutal and gory and many parts 
 will pull on your emotions. It does have its problems, but they are more than outshined by the 
 excellent voice acting, graphics and gunplay. If Starbreeze takes time on the sequel and builds 
 on everything with this one, it could be one of the best games of the year. The Darkness is definitely 
 the best game of the 2007 summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fLYsTATUS
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  yo this game is a must play. a little slow but the story and 'darkness' skills are awesome!!!! 
 your character is very detailed and almost gets some in the game. trust me, you will see. the guns 
 are great and the darkness is a great touch to the overall play. its also great that you can make 
 a choice on what your character does throughout the story. the downside is sometimes when your 
 playing you feel like its a movie and get a little bored. thank god for the skip button. my overall 
 opinion is an excellent game that will keep you busy for a couple of hours. gotta blast -Jimmy 
 Neutron 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleepisawesome2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I have been excited for this game since I saw the story trailer and it was so well crafted that 
 I knew the game would also be just as well carfted. Well I wasn't dissapointed by The Darkness 
 the story is amazing you play as a member of the franchetti crime family named Jackie Estacado. 
 On his 21st birthday he gets powers from the darkness which include a tentacle that impales enemies 
 to a black hole that sucks in everything around it enemies or objects. So the whole entire plot 
 of the game is getting revenge on your uncle paulie who sends a hit out on you on your 21st birthday. 
 The story gets better and better the more you go on although the ending battle kinda annoyed me 
 because you do alot of awesome stuff in cutscenes but you don't actually play them but they still 
 integrate it in the storyline by explaining why you can't play it. So anyone should rent the game 
 atleast because of the story.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good too it dosen't really beat the story but it still is fun. You get the 
 regular assortment of weapons in modern day shooters like pistols and ak-47's and shotguns but 
 the aiming system is really good because all the crosshair is a red dot or when your dual-wielding 
 2 dots but theres no hud so it really immerses you in the experience because laser sights are more 
 realistic than just a circle on the screen. The game uses a rechargeable health system like call 
 of duty 2 or rainbow six vegas although the game is still pretty hard even on normal because it 
 takes quite a while for it to charge it up. Also it explains the rechargeable health system because 
 the darkness protects you from bullets. The darkness powers really make this game original not 
 exactly innovative since certain things that you do you can do in other games other than the black 
 hole and demon arm. All together though the darkness's gameplay isn't the stand out part of the 
 game it does it's job fine and it makes you think differently about other shooters like I was playing 
 vegas and I wanted to press a near dead peoples bodies to eat their hearts........
  
  Ok, the graphics are amazing all of theharachter models are so detailed and the enviorments are 
 super detailed but they are pretty small. The gun models look good but I didn't really like how 
 a pretty long line of smoke follws your gun after you shoot off a shot. The graphics though really 
 make the game any more immersive and you will spend time enjoying them because Jackie moves pretty 
 slow. The sound is really good too I was suprised at how good they were since the graphics were 
 so good but all the gun sounds are good and devouring hearts sounds so brutal. The vocals are also 
 another reason the sound is so good each person sounds authentic and the lip syncing is also awesome 
 some people just feel real with their hand motions and such. There also is a guy who is alot like 
 Jach Nicholson in a area called Grinders Lane.
  
  Now theres also a multiplayer mode that is pretty fun but can be amazingly laggy at some points 
 but its just kind of fun because of the variety of 2 completely different play styles since you 
 can change from human to darkling in certaing game modes. Which are the same darklings from the 
 single player game and they control suprisingly well also they can climb on walls and jump a good 
 amount of feet. The multipalyer is kind of tacked on and its just something which adds a little 
 replay value but if they could release a update to fix the lag it could be alot more fun and also 
 the graphics are the same in multiplayer as in singleplayer which is a awesome accomplishment.
 
  
  All together though the darkness has the best storyline on 360 and has pretty good gameplay to 
 boot but the replay value isn't that good but I'm still glad I bought it because I'm on my second 
 playthrough playing it on hard and I still haven't gotten bored yet also I am beating it again 
 on another profile and this is the only game I have wanted to play it through 3 times and I would 
 still beat it again after that. I even think its the best single player experience on 360 I would 
 give it a higher score but the scores I gave gameplay, Graphics etc. is what I think about the game. 
 I can't wait for The Darkness 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't already heard The Darkness is based off a comic book originally made in the mid 
 90s. You've probably never heard of it, probably because the comic book wasn't all that popular. 
 However the game is a fantastic experience that everyone who has some sort of appreciation for 
 games should enjoy. From it's great voice acting, to interesting weapons and gameplay ideas The 
 Darkness never gets dull. Unfortunately the adventure the game takes you on doesn't last that long, 
 but it's still fun every bit of the way.
  
  You start off in the back of a car with you're two mob buddies. They talk about how you went to 
 go collect some money but you couldn't get it since there was an enforcer who knocked you out. 
 The action picks up rather quickly as police start chasing your car since they identified you're 
 part of the mob. You end up getting in a high speed chase into an unfinished tunnel and crash your 
 car. This is where your story starts. You play as Jackie Estacado an Italian mob contract killer. 
 You work for your Uncle Paulie, apparently Paulie doesn't like you to much since his present to 
 you for your 21st birthday is a bomb in a closet. You end up making it out alive, but it's obvious 
 that you're in some serious trouble. As you fight through some of Paulie's hitmen it's obvious 
 that The Darkness would've been fine as any other normal first person shooter. You start out with 
 dual wielding pistols, but eventually you'll be using shotguns, dual machine guns, assault rifles, 
 and automatic shotguns. These guns help out with long range battle, but if you are to encounter 
 and enemy up close instead of doing a melee hit like most games would (although that's still an 
 option) The Darkness allows you to do executions. These executions are short 2-3 second animations 
 of some pretty stellar death animations for your foes. Jackie can bash the guy in the head and 
 then stick a gun in his mouth, or maybe shoot out the back of his leg and shoot him in the head 
 as he lies on the ground. These executions repeat a few times, but there's always something a little 
 different to make them seem new. Plus they look really awesome regardless so who's to complain?
 
  
  Even though The Darkness would've been fine with these attributes alone the greatness doesn't stop 
 there. About 10 minutes into the game you get possessed by something called The Darkness. It manifests 
 you and allows you to use it's two snake like demo heads to your disposal. You'll start out with 
 just a creeper which is just one of the heads creeping around biting guy's faces off. But you'll 
 progress to get a Demon arm which can stab enemies in the stomach and throw them a few hundred 
 feet, darkness guns, and a black hole which sucks in enemies and kills them instantly. All of these 
 darkness skills are fun to use, but you have to achieve them somehow right? And what a better way 
 than to EAT HUMAN HEARTS. After anytime an enemy dies, or someone who tries to attack you, you 
 get the ability to take one of your demons and have them dig right into the guy's ribcage, rip 
 out his heart, and swallow it whole. This helps you gain Darkness levels so you can use things 
 like darkness guns, or creepers for longer periods of time. In order to even attempt to use any 
 of these skills you'll have to stay in the dark. The Darkness feeds off of the dark, so you'll 
 spend a lot of time using ammo to shoot out lights, which gets annoying at first. But a few hours 
 into the game you unlock the demon arm which can take out lights without using bullets. Which is 
 a very helpful addition.
  
  It's obvious that The Darkness is very focused on what it wanted to accomplish, but the more interesting 
 part of the game is attention to small details. You really feel like you're playing as Jackie, 
 as he can do real world things. Small things like dialing a pay phone to call someone, sitting 
 on the couch with your girlfriend, or just blowing out candles on a cake really makes the character 
 come to life. The bigger part of Jackie's character that makes him seem believable is the great 
 voice actor. In fact every single character in this game has a great voice actor. Even minimal 
 roles like an old harmonica player has a very strong believable voice, the game is also very well 
 written. Pretty much every part of the story or dialog seems to be straight out of real life, there 
 are no corny lines or lame one liners. The game is also very good at keeping the player interested 
 because of the way it's set up. It's sort of a free-roam first person shooter. Although you always 
 have something to do, at any point you can go to one of the various subways and look for some people 
 who need some help. These side missions can be anything from a girlfriend trying to get her apartment 
 back to an old mobster who wants to get rid of some jerks looking after assets. There's around 
 8-12 side missions that you can take, they all seem well developed and not tacked on. Obviously 
 there's nothing as climatic or epic as the main story, but it's enough to satisfy anyone who wants 
 to take a break from the main story. Finally the style of the game is fantastic. Mixing real world 
 mob story with a hellish demon origin story works very well. The mob story takes the majority of 
 the game, and although the crazy WW1 hellish demon sequences that explain how The Darkness came 
 into your family are not as fun, they keep the game fresh. And although the hell world has a very 
 bland red and black tint to the world it still holds a lot of the humor in the game. The immortal 
 British soldiers are fun to throw around with the demo arm, or just continuously do executions 
 on them only to seem them get back up, never, gets old.
  
  Despite the games magnificent achievements it does have some short comings. The storyline as good 
 as it is, only lasts so long. Although there's plenty of reason to replay the game and help some 
 people you didn't last time, or try to accomplish the hard setting. It will only last so long, 
 and the extremely laggy multiplayer isn't a good substitute. Other minor problems like the fact 
 that Jackie looks more like a Vampire than a mobster are hardly plausible reasons not to get the 
 game, but the lack of length does eventually kill the game. A rental will do just fine, you won't 
 be missing anything. The biggest mistake you could make though is not play this game. It's fantastic 
 for as long as it lasts.
  
  _________________________
  
  ACHIEVEMENTS?!:
  
  The achievements in this game are incredible easy. If you have a guide you can get 800 points in 
 a weekend. And if you have a friend who can stick with you for 250 games of capture the flag, then 
 you can get the full 1000 in little over 2 weeks. If you want an easy 1000, or just some easy points 
 look into this game. You don't need to be in a rank match for the multiplayer achievements, and 
 you can play the game on easy for single player achievements. Also the hard mode isn't really as 
 hard as it sounds. I died six times throughout the game on hard, of course I knew exactly what 
 I was doing. But it's still easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsCoPeSeYeS
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This game was seemed alittle wierd to me at first when i was reading the previews. Having wierd 
 corny snake critters commin out of your shoulders seemed dumb to me. But i had some extra money 
 and bought the game anyways because i needed something different. Holy hell was i wrong about this 
 game! Graphics are simply amazing, one of the best storylines out there on the xbox 360, awesome 
 controls, and the demons are just freakin awesome. I couldnt add anything to this game at all except 
 for even more darkness powers. The shooting in the game feels great and the auto aim feature doesnt 
 lock on too easy or to hard, its just right. But the most fun to be had is with your darkness powers. 
 My favorite is the dark arm which allows you to impale your enemys with a sword like appendage 
 that reaches out 10 or 15 feet. you can hold them in the air with it or throw them in any direction, 
 even bounce them off walls. The rag doll effects are also pretty nice. My all time favorite part 
 of the game though... is the close up executions you can do if you pull the trigger within a foot 
 or two of your enemy. Im on the last chapter of the game and im still discovering new executions. 
 The two creatures that come out of your shoulders are very cool. They have great animation and 
 make some creepy noises. They also move around on thier own and hiss. They seem to talk to each 
 other sometimes too. And when they both look back at you, its creepy as hell. All in all this is 
 an awesome game that only has one problem so far. Sometimes the computer controlled characters 
 will freeze up and stand like a manican when your talking to them for a few seconds. But only once 
 in a blue moon does that happen. Go out and buy this game, you will def not be sorry. Its the most 
 single player fun ive had yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game, I knwe I had to buy it. The theme looks awesome, as do the powers, story 
 and the gunplay. And I can say I was right about all of those elements being awesome. While the 
 game is a little short, it is still an unbelievable game with many twists and turns.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is excellent. The gunplay is done very well, althoug once you get your more 
 advanced darkness powers, I didnt find myself using conventional guns as much. The Darkness powers 
 are easy to use, and are so visceral.
  
  Sound- The music and especially the voiceovers are great. I especailly like Mike Patton from one 
 of my favorite bands, faith No More, providing th voice of the Darkness is the best in the game.
 
  
  Value/fun- This game has high replayibility, I beat it yesterday, and I just started a new game 
 today. All the elements fit togetether so well to create a great game.
  
  Summary- All in all, Anyone who likes an excellent shooter mixed with excellent darker elements 
 and powers should get the Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  I think the story is told very and the voice overs are incredible. The gameplay is smooth and very 
 intuitive while the darkness element makes it feel fresh throughout. Multiplayer is fun but not 
 incredible and the modes are pretty standard for the most part. I love the game's overall package 
 and it keeps me interested to play more of the game everytime i clear a part of the story. If you 
 are curious to try this game out, it will definitely not disappoint despite the somewhat short 
 but very fulfilling story and otherwise great gameplay. Another fantastic game from the creators 
 of the Butcher Bay game and I look forward to more of their work if its anything like this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krois
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Because Chronicles of Riddick really blew me away, I had very very high hopes for The Darkness. 
 I can't really complain too much about it, but I will say that it's not quite as exciting and dynamic 
 as the trailers make it out to be. Most of the really cool stuff you see The Darkness do is actually 
 within scripted cut scenes. In game, your darkness powers are not quite as lively and interesting 
 as they appear in the trailer. In fact, most of the time it feels like the darkness powers are 
 just eye candy rather than cool moves you actually use all the time.
  
  Still, the game has a pretty good story and nice action sequences so fans of FPS's should probably 
 give it a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taylorfam
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  this game tells an amazing story, one of the best. but it needs to be longer. it had awesome gunplay 
 and some awesome abilities to use on foes. i loved this game while it lasted. some of the exploration 
 parts were very tedious and it was weird that it was always night until the end, but those flaws 
 are insignificant because of the crazy thrill ride the game delivers. in comparison to riddick 
 its not quite as good but it still delivers an insanely unique and fun experience. the graphics 
 and gameplay are extremely next gen too but the multiplayer is not great.. so, despite the length 
 of the game and the small flaws i loved this game and its definitely a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OfficerJurala
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  This game is an excellent FPS that has some of the best visuals yet on the 360. I cannot wait for 
 the remake of Chronicles of Riddick. This is a must play for FPS fans and a buy for anybody who 
 likes to own games that are interesting and different. This is one of those games that you will 
 beat and then forget about for a few months or longer and then go back and play like wow this game 
 was soooo cool. The sound on this game is also very good and sounds great on a surround sound system, 
 controls are easy to get used to, and the lighting effects are espeically well done. Comebine everything 
 with the pure sadistic fun of using the darkness powers to kill the enimies and you have yourself 
 a pretty sweet game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  The Darkness which was originally a comic book series has finally been made into a video game for 
 the 360. It's everything you would want from a dark, twisted game that's violent to the core and 
 will want you coming back for more. You are Jackie Estacado, a mafia hitman who has just pissed 
 off one of the most dangerous mafia dons in New York, his uncle Paulie after what was suppose to 
 be a simple money pick up that went wrong. After being hunted down by Paulie's goons in a cemetary, 
 an evil entity known as the Darkness awakens within Jackie. One thing that sets this shooter apart 
 from the rest in terms of gameplay is the darkness abilities that Jackie learns throughout the 
 single player campaign. While shooting is one important aspect about the game, it's what you can 
 do with your powers that makes this game a whole lot of fun. One such dark move known as the Creeper 
 allows Jackie to focus his powers into one of the tentacles which allows you to navigate, stalk 
 and kill enemies by biting their faces. There is a minor problem with this move as it can sometimes 
 become hard to vavigate up walls as sometimes it will get stuck. You can control minions know as 
 Darklings and these little buggers can be quite handly in humorously killing your foes. And what's 
 really violent about this game is the ability to eat people's hearts and this is really violent 
 as the tentacle rips right into the dead body, pulls it out and swallows it right in front of your 
 face.
  
  Another fun move is the dark arm which allows you to stab through an enemy and throw him around 
 and pick up other stuff. This was personally my favourite move but there are other gorgiously horrific 
 things to do in the game aswell. Execution moves are so fun to watch as when you get right up close 
 to an enemy and pull the right trigger Jackie will perform the move in a bloody fashion. This game 
 feels very non linear as you can explore the city to find your objectives. It has this exploration 
 feel where you have to make your own way using directions that are on signs. The graphics in this 
 game are gorgious and some of the best you'll ever see in a 360 game. Facial animations of NPCs 
 are perfect and make character interaction a lot more interesting to watch. Lighting is some of 
 the best I've seen especially on the train station walls and it looks so real. A lot of graphical 
 detail was put into this game like on doors when you go close up and the graffiti on the walls. 
 The cutscenes are impressive in detail and what's good about this game is that load screens have 
 been replaced by these cutscenes and that to me is impressive.
  
  Sound is superb. The voice acting is top notch, especially Jackie's voice of a wise guy mafia hitman 
 with a Brooklyn Italian accent and the very creepy voice of the Darkness. There's quite abit of 
 talking in this game and especially in the telephone conversations if you can collect all the phone 
 numbers hidden throughout the game as they can be funny to listen to. Guns sound real good and 
 the background music is perfect. Jackie will also talk throughout the loading screen about things 
 he's experienced in the past and about the places he's been to which really helps to understand 
 his character more.
  
  This is a good length game with a superb single player that has an excellent mafia story with a 
 supernatural twist and multiplayer where you can be both human and a Darkling. If you're after 
 a shooter that can supply you with more than mindless shooting than I definately recommend The 
 Darkness as it's a shooter unlike any you've ever played and one that is in desperate need of a 
 sequal. So come and ebrace the darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blu-dolfun
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Good: Well to begin I must say that these are some of the best graphics that I have seen on the 
 360. I found the lighting and shadows to be the most astonishing element in graphics. This adds 
 a lot of character to the game and makes it stand out a whole lot. Although this may look like 
 your average shooter in screenshots and some game movies, it plays very differently. You can find 
 yourself challenged in some puzzling moments in the game. The video sequences also gave the game 
 a real movie feel to it. The voice acting it phenominal. You could not ask for better voice actors. 
 Another thing on the upside of things would be the graffiti on the walls. These pieces were actually 
 created by real crews/artists. (CHECK THE CREDITS!) The single player mode is very solid and has 
 a gripping story from start to finish. At some points you may get a little lost if you do not follow 
 directions properly, but once you find your way, its back to the action. There are also a few side 
 missions that you can pursue if you wish. The player is given freedom to roam, which I believe 
 is a great mechanic is the game. Not so much freedom to get lost in the streets of NY, but enough 
 to feel that the game is not completely linear. The action contains gunplay as well as powers you 
 may earn throughout the game. They are evenly distributed in both single and multiplayer modes. 
 Every power has a different purpose and every weapon is used at different ranges. Unlocking content 
 was one of my favorite things about the game. You aquire phone numbers while playing and call them 
 on pay phones. By doing this you unlock content that you can view later. The phone calls are done 
 very well and are often funny. Some of the content can contain full comic books from the original 
 The Darkness This is an amazing title. I would highly recommend it for fans of first person shooters. 
 Single player has replay value. Bad: The multiplayer mode is a bit bland and can get old after 
 a while. The maps are very small and modes seem limited. Overall: Worth playing if you are really 
 into first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tarantula878
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is next gen shooter that delivers. It starts with the incredible graphics that look 
 realistic. The lighting and voice syncing is just perfect to. Also everyone you meet is interesting 
 to talk to and sometimes do mini quests for. I also liked the small explorable environments like 
 subways or the World War I villages. The game play is also another excellent part of the game, 
 especially when you use the darkness to perform tasks like kill make weapons for you. Also the 
 campaign and story are rich and deep and are probablly the best part of the game. Sadly thats where 
 the goodness ends. The good thing is that there is that there isn't that much bad about the darkness. 
 To start with the multi player that really is bad. The physics engine is one thing that is lost 
 in multiplayer. Whenever kill someone there is no physics whatsoever. Another thing is that most 
 smaller weapons act the same and are practically useless. The last bad thing is the multi player 
 performance. The game lags so much when playing multiplayer I could not even move for 10 seconds 
 without me warping and forth. Despite some technical and game play flaws the game really fun and 
 is a must buy for any shooter fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a first person shooter by developer Starbreeze, who made the Chronicals of Riddick 
 game. Lets get to the review,
  
  Darkness plays like a typical first person shooter, exept you got this weird-ass creature called 
 The Darkness that comes out your back. The Darkness has 4 ablilities, The Demon Arm which is this 
 crazy ass arm which you stab Mother****ers with, The Black Hole which is a.... black hole, Creeping 
 Dark which allows your tenticle to extend and creep to places you cant reach, and Darkness Guns 
 which are guns with unlimited ammo. As soon as you start playing The Darkness, you realise one 
 thing, this game is rated M FOR MATURE, and it damn well shows it, you can eat ****ing human hearts 
 for ****s sake! It also presents you a really good story that you'll actually pay attention to.
 
  
  The graphics in The Darkness are awesome. The game always maintains a sold framerate, with very 
 few dips. Character models and environments look amazing. Though Jackie's lip movement whenever 
 he speaks seems a little... wierd, since it seems his lips hardly move at all. Though thats one 
 of the very few problems this game has.
  
  Voice acting in this game is very good. I'd say amazing, almost movie like. The game's soundtrack 
 is hardcore during the action sequences, and will keep you pumped up througout.
  
  Darkness is really short, and will probably last you 8-10 hours if you do the sidequests. The multiplayer 
 mode doesnt help at all, due to it being laggy and crappy. Unless the multiplayer mode is fixed, 
 darkness probably will be hanging on your shelf for a while after you're done.
  
  All in all Darkness is a good rental for the time being. Untill the multiplayer mode is fixed wait 
 for the price to drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theodin211
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  When I popped this game in I was greeted with what I realized was a incredible game. The visual 
 graphics are stunning and satisfing. The blood and violence can satisfy any gamers blood lust. 
 The storyline is great and well thought out. I have not yet experienced the multiplayer yet This 
 game is very addictive and I would give this a 10 out of 10 any day of week. Buy it, love it, stick 
 it under your pillow, read the handbook in the bathroom, dream about it at night, show your friends, 
 your mother, your cousins and your friends and allow then to wow in awe of your presence and your 
 masterful luck of owning this wonderful work of game design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dungeonbuster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Starbreeze has a thing for anti-hero types, introducing players to Riddick's escape from Butcher 
 Bay and now as mafia hitman Jackie Estacado on a vendetta of revenge against his Uncle Paulie. 
 The twist, though, is that Jackie's dual gunplay is followed up with the kind of supernatural power 
 only the Crow could appreciate. The idea sounds pretty awesome: mix together some hardcore action, 
 a story penned by one of the writers responsible for the Darkness comic, and top it all off with 
 some multiplayer. It's a great trip into the shadows, but not all of them run as deeply as I had 
 hoped they would.
  
  Jackie Estacado's twenty first birthday was celebrated with a gunfight through a traffic filled 
 tunnel and a present from Uncle Paulie, one that blew up in his face and tried to kill him for 
 not showing enough respect. See, Paulie happens to be the bloodthirsty Don of the mob family that 
 Jackie belongs to, and he and Jackie had never really seen eye to eye. Paulie brought Jackie in 
 from the orphanage, raised him to be an itchy trigger finger for the family, and then blew him 
 away when he grew tired of Jackie's inability to kiss his ass.
  
  Unfortunately for Paulie, Jackie has a deep, dark family secret buried inside his soul, a family 
 skeleton with razor sharp teeth and a penchant for turning human hearts into chewy gummi bears. 
 And on his twenty first birthday, it has awakened. With Darkness comic alum Paul Jenkins onboard 
 with a story written for the game, there's quite a bit to expect from the title.
  
  Starbreeze has followed up on their experience from telling the story of Riddick's escape from 
 Butcher Bay by bringing the graffiti strewn walls and dark alleyways of comic anti-hero Jackie 
 Estacado's New York to vivid life. Thanks to the lavish detail that they've given the world that 
 you'll be exploring, such as being able to actually see your own feet so you don't feel like a 
 bobbing camera with guns, even those that haven't read any of the comics such as myself will learn 
 what the score is by those that Jackie will meet along the way to his appointed reaping with Paulie. 
 While it might not be absolutely faithful to the source material, there's still quite a few surprises 
 and twists in store for players.
  
  Although not all of the NPCs that you run into will have much of anything to say as much of the 
 story is pretty linear along with whatever dialog choices you may have, much of it succeeds in 
 creating a solid atmosphere that dominates the rest of the production. Enemies will swear at you, 
 others will mock you, and for each collectible that you pick up and dial up on one of the in-game 
 phones, you'll hear a unique recording that will either make you laugh or worry about the person's 
 sanity on the other side. Even the loading screens have been filled with content, either with a 
 random clip showing Jackie play with his weapons or talk about something from his past giving you 
 something more to look at than a filling bar. And when you die, you're treated to a series of eerie 
 cuts as the Darkness seemingly brings you back to life from the last checkpoint.
  
  There's more. Televisions scattered around the game will even display cartoons, movies, and music 
 videos depending on what channels you flip through. This is the kind of stuff that you can actually 
 stop in your gun toting tracks for a few minutes in order to catch some quality time in front of 
 the boob tube as all of it is licensed stuff. Sharp voice acting and the ability to deliver several 
 dramatic moments of brutal violence and romantic tension play up it's Mature rating with more than 
 just the gunplay, even when some of it can be pretty hit and miss at the worst times. Starbreeze 
 did went all out to create a living, breathing nightlife for Jackie Estacado and it shows.
  
  The controls take a little getting used to and the shooting actually has some assistance for 
 the laser pointer crosshair that will often automagically home in on baddies and light sources 
 which FPS veterans may not like, although it doesn't ruin the gameplay as much as you think it 
 might since the game's lead based action isn't anywhere near as fun when the Darkness awakens. 
 Jackie will dual wield pistols and be able to bash brains with rifles and larger toys later on 
 with a blood spattering melee attack. He even has an execution move that he'll do if you're close 
 enough, dispatching his enemies in a variety of Mature rated ways depending on what he's got in 
 his hands at the time. Jackie pretty much guarantees that whoever he executes won't be coming back 
 to ruin his night. And if he takes a few hits? Just run off and hide somewhere safe until you recover. 
 There's no health bar to worry about here.
  
  There are plenty of victims for Jackie in the game, i. e. food for the Darkness, from punks in the 
 street looking to pick a fight to well dressed assassins, to some of the creepier horrors waiting 
 elsewhere. And they are most definitely cannon fodder... for the Darkness. If you go in head first 
 with your guns, they'll stand and shoot at you from where they are, take cover, and do the whack-a-mole 
 thing from behind whatever they are hiding. Don't expect them to try and flank you or do anything 
 fancy other than take potshots at where they think you are. But when you can use the Darkness, 
 things get a lot more interesting and you can tell what the real emphasis is here.
  
  When the Darkness finally awakens within Jackie, one of those hit and miss moments in the otherwise 
 great story comes up as he cleans up a graveyard of mafiosi in deadpan fashion in one of the more 
 anticlimactic parts of the gameplay. I guess if you've got tentacles growing out of you with a 
 hunger for hearts, that's just one of those things that you get used to. It would have been more 
 interesting to have actually heard some kind of reaction other than watching a monologue on listening 
 to the voices in Jackie's head during a loading cutscene right before he goes off to visit his 
 girlfriend like he had just added a new gun to his coat rack.
  
  Armed with the Darkness, the gameplay changes up in a big way as it opens up plenty of unique options 
 that keep the title from feeling like a second rate FPS. Although there are plenty of weapons to 
 collect, they'll fade into the background thanks to the Darkness and soon you might have more ammo 
 than you know what to do with as you'll eventually be able to take down entire gangs with enough 
 supernatural fury to call in the Ghostbusters. At first, you'll only be able to use a power called 
 the Creeping Dark which is a snakelike tentacle that you can send along the ground or crawl along 
 any other surface to perform roto rooter service on someone's face as you come up to them. It can 
 go up buildings, into small spaces, and over walls to scare the hell out of those that see it. 
 It can be hurt as its shot at, forcing it to retract with a very cool rewind effect as it snakes 
 back to Jackie, but he can always send it back out to hunt after it feeds on the shadows.
  
  You'll even be able to summon Darklings, small, gremlin-like manifestations of the Darkness 
 that have a variety of abilities. Small portals seen while you are the Darkness indicate the spots 
 from which you can call one of these foot soldiers for evil. The first one you'll be able to call 
 up is the Berserker which, like the name implies, can be used to break things open whether its 
 a door or a person. Hidden costumes scattered throughout the game can also improve the Berserker's 
 ability to dish out damage, allowing them to wield things like a baseball bat, a sword, or a jackhammer. 
 The little critters will also say things like I'm cured as they electrocute the nearest corpse. 
 They burst into a puff of darkness when they take too much damage from bullets or the light, but 
 you can always summon more although each portal you use is restricted only to one type. So if you 
 try and summon another Darkling from the same spot, you'll blow up the one that came out from it 
 from before.
  
  To improve your chances of survival, the Darkness provides protection for Jackie by soaking damage 
 while it's active and while it still has the strength to do so. It regenerates as long as he can 
 duck into the shadows, making light as much of an enemy as Uncle Paulie's trigger happy minions, 
 and this also feeds into the pool needed to use other abilities such as summoning Darklings. The 
 Darkness will also grow stronger by feeding on the hearts of his dead enemies, giving the corpses 
 that Jackie leaves in his wake a purpose other than marking his territory. Certain hearts found 
 as you progress in the game will also unlock other powerful abilities such as new Darklings to 
 command and certain abilities, such as a Demon Arm for impaling enemies or the Black Hole for sucking 
 in and crushing your foes before scattering them like dead leaves.
  
  Much of the game is set up along the two subway stations that Jackie will visit as he goes on his 
 errand of vengeance, although it can feel extremely linear early on as some exits from the subway 
 are simply closed off by cops due to emergencies . Later on, as more areas open up, Jackie can 
 explore on his own, although most of the places that he might be able to visit won't have much 
 happening there unless it's attached to the current part of the story or to a side quest that you're 
 working on. As a result, New York can feel kind of small especially with so many doors scattered 
 everywhere with only a tiny fraction actually leading anywhere. There are occasional surprises, 
 but the meat of the gameplay is found only when you follow the breadcrumbs.
  
  On the other side of the coin, players that like to poke around and explore what is open to them 
 will find a ton of collectible items in the game which unlock extra content in the form of comic 
 covers, concept art, and even videos detailing some of how the game was put together. By talking 
 to people that Jackie runs into that have actual names, he might even be asked to perform a small 
 favor or two. In keeping with the living, breathing world that Starbreeze has put together, don't 
 expect these harbingers of work to have icons popping in over their heads to show you who might 
 have something for you. If you hear someone calling out Jackie's name, or just feel like chatting 
 up someone with a name that you can pronounce, it pays to see what they might have, but you'll 
 have to do a little footwork to find out.
  
  The Darkness is as much of a technical achievement as it is an atmospheric experience, but while 
 the graphics look great and the audio is top notch especially with Mike Patton as the Darkness 
 and Dwight Schultz as Uncle Paulie, there are a few things that I wished could have been done better... such 
 as the beginning car chase. It was a really great sequence, but for most of it, Jackie rides in 
 the backseat unable to shoot at the cars that are coming at them... even though his pals are telling 
 him to. I tried to turn around, take aim, and start firing even though Jackie had just gotten up, 
 but you just can't until later on. And for a game as focused as it is on the Darkness, you really 
 can't sneak up on anyone other than by using one of your powers to get the drop on them so don't 
 expect Jackie to go Sam Fisher on too many people in the game.
  
  The Creeping Dark takes some getting used to once you have the ability as it has a tendency to 
 get spun up on corners and tight turns. It also can't go everywhere as I found out when I tried 
 to snake it through an open door, only to find that it couldn't go through it probably because 
 the story wouldn't let me. There are invisible walls like this in certain areas to curb your snaking 
 and keep it from potentially breaking things, but you really have to look around to find out where 
 they are.
  
  The game also keeps track of your progress with a checkpoint system that automatically saves you 
 at certain spots. This isn't so bad, but some of the checkpoints can tend to be scattered far enough 
 apart that it can be a pain in repeating certain fights just to get to where you died. One was 
 particularly nasty, as it saved you in the middle of a gunfight.
  
  There was also the occasional oddness with the graphics, as some people getting up from a bench 
 would get a twitchy head, or how some characters would eventually lose their lip syncing. I've 
 also gotten stuck in certain areas. In one spot, I jumped atop a broken chair to get at a collectible 
 that I could pick up and found I couldn't move anywhere and had to restart from the last checkpoint.
 
  
  When the last bullet casing drops to the concrete floor and the Darkness is all but sated, it's 
 all over before you know it because of the ending that leaves you hanging. Given the atmospheric 
 story and the detailed world that Starbreeze has put together, the surprisingly weak ending calling 
 out for a sequel feels like it should belong in an episode than in a full blown game, especially 
 after it feels as if it has railroaded you into a corner that gave you little choice but to do 
 what the script is asking.
  
  And that's where the ending disconnected with me, when it actually gave me the illusion of a choice 
 that I wasn't entirely convinced of taking. I tried to walk away, to be the better man, leaving 
 Jackie's final victim to beg and bleed to death in his own home, to defy the Darkness. Unlike the 
 conflict between Zeus and Kratos, I really didn't feel that strong of an urge to do what needed 
 to be done at the end after all that Jackie had seen and done. But the door was literally locked 
 on that count as it set itself up for a possible sequel.
  
  The online multiplayer is probably the worst that I've ever experienced on a console. The Darkness' 
 online offering suffers the kind of lag that I remember from my modem days on the PC and I'm on 
 the broadband connection that I use to pay CoD3, Gears of War, R6: Vegas, and Lost Planet with.
 
  
  There's no split screen or co-op, which will probably disappoint some would-be disciples of darkness. 
 Up to eight players can slug it out by linking up 360's together, though. As expensive as that 
 sounds, it's probably ideal since the online portion over broadband is where a lot of the problems 
 seem to be... especially with games attempting to host a full eight on one map. If you can get it 
 to work and actually find a low populated game that won't lag out or send you teleporting all over 
 the place in unplayable bliss, you'll get to experience several gametypes which include the basic 
 deathmatches and capture the flag modes. There's also a survivor mode in which the last one standing 
 is the winner along with infection variants such as Last Darkling where one person starts out as 
 a Darkling and kills the other players who are humans. Killed humans turn into Darklings until 
 there's only one human left alive who automatically wins. Last Human does the same thing, only 
 in reverse.
  
  One twist is in allowing players to be Darklings. They move quickly, are small and hard to shoot, 
 and their attack consists of jumping forward and eviscerating whatever is in their way. Their attacks 
 are pretty fatal, but that's the only kind of attack that they've got as a trade off to not being 
 able to wield weapons.
  
  You can even set most of the gametypes to allow what players can enter the game as. You can go 
 Humans only, Darklings only, or Shapeshifters which allow human players to change into Darklings. 
 Some game types are preset, like CTF's Darklings vs. Humans or Last Darkling, and there are plenty 
 of other basic options to choose from such as allowing players to join the game is progress, randomizing 
 teams, or toggling auto aim on or off. The maps do look good and and there's also a leaderboard 
 for competitive minded players to sink their skills into.
  
  When I managed to actually play multiplayer without skipping everywhere on the screen, much of 
 it still felt a lot like your basic shooter, only now its modded with Darklings and shapeshifting. 
 It's not terrible, but it's not exactly as much fun as I thought it would be even without the lag. 
 It simply doesn't compare to the single player.
  
  In the end, The Darkness offers a strong single player experience by pulling the player into Jackie 
 Estacado's supernatural world of mafiosi honor and blood vendetta vengeance. With gameplay that 
 can feel like a cross between the Crow and the Godfather, it's anti-hero angle is a lot of fun 
 as long as you stick with the single player. A weak ending and the awful multiplayer will probably 
 make this a rental for players looking to get a little more out of the title, but fans of the comic 
 and achievement completionists might find enough of a reason to take the plunge. The Darkness has 
 enough going for it to root for the bad guy for either camp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Louis51
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is the latest game from Starbreeze, whose last game, The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape 
 from Butcher Bay simply blew away critics and gamers alike with its unique blend of first-person 
 shooting, adventure, stealth, and melee sequences, as well as a well-written story and arguably 
 the best audiovisual experience available at its time of release.
  
  So it's safe to say that The Darkness has a lot to live up to. And in many ways, it lives up to 
 the hype and expectations. It falls short in a few areas, such as the enemy AI, but taken as a 
 whole, The Darkness is one of the best first-person shooters on the XBox 360 and probably the best 
 game released this summer so far.
  
  Getting in to the depths of the gameplay is unnecessary, as the chances are you've read GameSpot's 
 review or watched the video review so you know what it's all about. But I will touch on graphics 
 and sound.
  
  The game looks simply amazing. Its style is very similar to Riddick, but tops it in every way. 
 The game's character models are superb, as is the level and geometry design. The textures are incredibly 
 crisp and diverse, and the game runs at a consistent frame-rate.
  
  The game sounds even better. The voice acting is some of the best to hit the 360 thus far. It's 
 almost flawless. Additionally, the script is superbly written. Jackie stands out as the best voiced 
 character, and as well as being a total hard-nut, he also has some lines which moved me in his 
 sadness. The music is outstanding, particuarly the orchestrated music, but the rock music is also 
 very good and both set the mood perfectly. The guns and SFX are as you'd expect. Riddick sounded 
 awesome, and this is pretty much on par.
  
  All in all, The Darkness is a game you should definitely buy if you're into shooting games, gory 
 games, or are just curious to see if Starbreeze can create two excellent shooters in a row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda450
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first popped this game in my 360, I wasn't exactly amazed. The game did a few things that 
 made me a bit uneasy (not the least of which is an opening driving sequence that actually made 
 me a bit nauseated, not because of blood and gore, but because of a poor AI driver. You'll see 
 when you play it.) including fairly standard weapons and a opening level that isn't very creative 
 (a construction site! gasp!) . But it doesn't take very long at all for The Darkness to right these 
 wrongs. Since I'm on the games flaws, I might as well point out a few more. First off, if this 
 is New York City, where is everybody?! I'm pretty sure NY isn't supposed to look like a ghost town. 
 The game also makes you pay attention to street signs and other small details in the environment. 
 I know some people who like this, and some who dislike it. Personally, I think it's great, because 
 the graphical clarity in this game easily allows the signs to be read. Its awesome that the game 
 doesnt hold your hand, and gives you a nice sense of freedom.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Like I said before, the guns in this game are nothing special. The pistols are the most 
 useful because of the plentiful ammo and the fact that there is a very generous auto aim which 
 always seems to lock on to the enemies heads. The darkness powers are a completely different story. 
 Throughout the course of the game, you will earn four different powers as you level up your darkness 
 level (this is done by eating the hearts of your enemies :D ) These are very useful in battling 
 enemies, and also play into some rather easy puzzles. Youll also control Darklings, of which there 
 are four kinds. They can be a blast to use, and have some great dialogue.
  
  GRAPHICS: These are some of the best graphics on the 360, plain and simple. The character models 
 are superb, the environments are VERY detailed, your guns smoke when you use them, and theres 
 just an overall polish to the game to make it look great. The voice syncing? Not so much
  
  SOUND: The best script with the best voice actors Ive ever heard in a game. Nuff said.
  
 
  LASTING APPEAL: The multiplayer is pretty much terrible. Its very shallow and way too fast-paced. 
 Its still fun to play through the game and unlock the extras, which even includes issues from 
 the comics. Very cool. Be warned, though. If you have a small TV, reading the comics can be nearly 
 impossible. But still, Ive played through this game twice, and I rarely do that.
  
  BOTTOM LINE: The Darkness knows where you live and what youre thinking. Itll possess your dog 
 if you dont buy its game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hullo12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  From the very first moment you start the game you immediately can tell this game is made by the 
 same people who did The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay (if you played it that is!) , 
 and that isn't a bad thing Starbreeze who have developed The Darkness have taken the great feel 
 of that game and just improved it in this great shooter. In the singleplayer campaign you play 
 as Jackie Estacado basically a Mafioso-Goth which is a great mix because it creates this tough 
 character and makes him feel quite dark. Anyway it's your 21st birthday and you get betrayed by 
 you Uncle Paulie who tries in many ways to kill you, so the game focuses on this big rivalry between 
 Jackie and Uncle Paulie. As you progress through the early parts of the game you inherit The Darkness 
 this supernatural force that is puppeting you which gives you all sorts of cool and weird powers 
 along with appearing as these two snake like creatures over your shoulders who will eat heart evil 
 enemies hearts. The gameplay is solid through out, it is really easy to cycle through your darkness 
 powers and use them especially the late game black hole power which is just immensely fun to use 
 and becomes addictive to use at any point. The AI can be a bit passive at times but can give you 
 some real intense firefights. One Cool feature about the darkness is the lighting in the dark, 
 because you recharge you darkness powers by staying in the dark you can see in the dark with this 
 nice orange/golden light mixed into the dark, like the way Neo see's things when he's blind in 
 the matrix Revolutions except a bit toned down but again a very cool effect. The level design is 
 very open spaced and you can explore anywhere in little sectors basically with the subway system 
 connecting most of the New York levels together, it is very non linear like in The Chronicles of 
 Riddick but can turn into quite a negative thing, many a time i spent walking in circles because 
 i couldn't find what i was looking for but the game tries to make it easy as possible for people 
 to direct themselves without losing that real world feeling of not having a trusty compass and 
 map that you just so happen carry around with you all the time, so the game has information booths 
 and maps of the local area outside subways and street signs so players should wisely reviews these 
 at the start of a mission just to get their bearing.
  The Graphics are just amazing, it has the feel of Chronicles of Riddick but a more next-gen feel 
 to it, characters look really well done lip-sync is also done well and the world war one levels 
 give quite a brutal and scary graphical feeling to them with scary lighting and allied soldiers 
 with stitches all across their faces holding it together it really creates a creepy feeling. Voice 
 acting is really good from major characters to randomers on the street, gun noice sounds realistic 
 and the darkness voice acting is just plain creepy. The Game itself is a good 10 hour plus, with 
 the great storyline and cutscene moments making the game move along nicely but also making you 
 feel you've covered a lot of ground in very short time, there are no load screens instead you have 
 jackie telling a small story to move the plot along or see him fiddling with your guns (unless your 
 cutscene finishes early and theres a little bit left to load but thats quite rare) , however they 
 can be annoying sometime especially if the same one keeps on cropping up You think the subway is 
 dangerous...... . The only bad things i can say about The Darkness is that the Multiplayer isn't 
 great it's not lasting and not enough was put on developing it and it gets old pretty fast so it 
 might be alright for a few weeks after launch but in a few months time people will be back to gears 
 of war, halo 2 and rainbow six vegas. Guns themselves don't feel as effective as the darkness powers, 
 a lot of the time you'll find yourself burning through ammo after being inacurrate, i don't think 
 it's an overall bad point because it does add the idea that your not a fire arms specialist so 
 your not going to be shouting boom headshot every five minutes although it can be tough to kill 
 enemies with normal guns if you dont get the head shot.
  Overall the Singleplayer is excellent, graphics and sound are brilliant, darkness powers are cool 
 and eating hearts is (forgive me) just plain fun. Which leaves the game with a good lasting value 
 and giving players a chance to come back for more especially if they are determined in getting 
 all the unlockable content! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abattoir_blues
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This summer there really hasn't been that many great games, and I think I was looking for a game 
 that would satisfy my gaming urges this summer. The Darkness pretty much is that game, its a must 
 have and in all around fantastic game.
  The Darkness is a tale about a young mobster who gets in trouble with his powerful uncle and the 
 whole game your uncle is trying to kill you and you have to kill him and his gang before they kill 
 you. While this is all happening you happened to be possessed by a demonic powerful beast that 
 gains strenght in the dark.
  The developer of the Darkness is the same team the made a game called Chronicles of Riddick, which 
 was hailed by critics and suffered with bad sales. Starbreeze does a great job with the Darkness 
 but maybe not as imersive as the prison setting in Riddick. The Darkness is set in New York and 
 except the subway area New York just feels too empty. Other than that The Darkness stays unrepetitive 
 through the whole game. The Darkness has a really great story and it is very nice to see a game 
 with one because it is really rare . The game is about 10 hours long, but it is a thrill ride through 
 out, and you probably will want to play through it again to see what you missed and finish some 
 of the quests.
  The game is not really hard it has some moments you might through down your controller in anger, 
 but thats just because the ai is good, but once you get the higher darkness powers such as the 
 black hole your enemies won't stand a chance.
  There is also a cool take on a really popular genre you may have seen alot lately, lets just say 
 the whole game does not take place in new York.
  The Graphics in the Darkness are nothing short of amazing there really is some of the nighest lighting 
 effects I have ever seen and it really brings New York to life. On top of that the voice acting 
 is great with some very good actors that make the story even more believable and the game has some 
 great music from other 2k game such as oblivion.
  The Darkness is a really great and unique experience but with that said once you finish the single 
 player there really is not much there with the Multiplayer and it feels a bit tacked on. Other 
 than that the Darkness is one hell of a game that every shooter fan will want to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdelima
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  When I found out that The Darkness was made by the same people who made The Chronicles of Riddick 
 for the XBOX I eagerly anticipated it to be released. Why? Riddick easily had one of the most enjoyable 
 campaigns for the XBOX. Well it did come out about a week ago and I must say it really falls short 
 of its hype. Sure the game at sometimes rivals Gears of War's graphics, and the voice acting is 
 nothing short of brilliant (the whole game sounds like a good episode of the Sapronos) . That's 
 all great but the game simply doesn't explain where to go, what to do, how to do it well enough 
 or at all. The game's objective system is beyond horrible and to find a place you need to go you 
 usually have to just walk around the streets, look at the street signs, and hopefully somehow find 
 an apartment, house, kitchen, or bar. The story is good but hyped up a little too much by GameSpot. 
 The Darkness power that Jackie gets early on in the game are fun to use throughout. Eating the 
 hearts with you darkness tentacles never gets old. The games conclusion is among the worst in gaming 
 history, and that's being polite. There is absolutely no feeling of have being satisfied with beating 
 the game. Not even a Im finishing the fight moment that Halo 2 was lame enough to leave us with. 
 The game just kind of ends... horribly. To try to make myself feel better Ioaded the multiplayer 
 option in the game and found it to be just offensive. It is single handedly the worst FPS multiplayer 
 game I've ever played. Imagine the most laggy game you've played over LIVE and multiply that by 
 100 and that's the best quality game one will find in matchmaking for The Darkness. The Darkness 
 introduced some cool ideas but do to a shallow campaign, horrible conclusion, lack of content, 
 and horrible multiplayer, really falls short of being even an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  First understand this - FPS are my favourite kind of game. Ive been playing them since Wolfenstien 
 3d on the 486 and every now and then one comes along that really holds my attention and stands 
 out from the crowd.
  
  This is another one of those games...
  
  The story and the voice acting is top of the line. It just doesnt get any better than this folks. 
 Its like taking part in your own gangster movie, its that good.
  
  The graphics are some of the best ive ever seen in a FPS. Whilst it doesnt have vast open environments 
 like HL2 or COD2, the locations in The Darkness are so wonderfully crafted and detailed that you 
 never really notice. The textures are so sharp and the characters are wonderfully lifelike. The 
 animations are great and the artistic impression of new york feels gritty and hard.
  
  You have a small degree of freedom in the sense that you decide when you want to progress the story 
 and as you get further into the game you can decide which areas you want to visit. Generally its 
 a linear game but there are some side missions thrown in there just to pad it out a little. Shame 
 there werent more though, i had so much fun playing this game it blasted through the 10-12 hours 
 gametime far too quickly but its by no means a short game.
  
  The darkness powers add a facinating change to FPS and the way they you wield weapons. My only 
 gripe prehaps being that the Black Hole ability is too powerful and can be used far more than they 
 should have allowed. It should have taken longer to charge it up. Put simply, you can keep your 
 heavy assault rifles! I want tenticles!!!
  
  Oh and the game is brutally voilent. I wont spoil it for anyone but lets just say the game has 
 an 18 cert for a reason so anyone thinking of buying this for a junior should think again.
  
  Mike Patton is on amazing form as the voice of the darkness. Its creepy but not particularly 
 scary. Made me smile every time i heard him.
  
  If you buy one FPS story driven game this year. Make it The Darkness you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BustaSag
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Well.. first of all, imagine a world with the loyalty of The Godfather &amp; the darkness of The 
 Crow put into one sweet phuckin' video game. The Darkness told an interesting story about how a 
 mafia don named Paulie adopted a boy named Jackie to raise as an assasin for the family. When things 
 go sour, Paulie does the unthinkable to the lost love of Jackies life. This is a game of sweet 
 revenge. The graphics were near perfect. The darkness powers are sweet, especially when you get 
 to rip out &amp; eat the hearts of all of your enemies. I loved the fact that you have small demons 
 to get your back. The weapons were cool but no sniper rifles. The multiplayer isn't too bad. If 
 you dig creepy FPS games then you should at least rent it sometime. This game was not a waste of 
 money to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kintzer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  I'll admit, I was skeptical before I played this game. I rented it instead of buying it because 
 I have been bored with all the other games lately. I was pleasantly surprised. The graphics in 
 this game are phenomenal. In HD, the environments are beautiful, and the animations are well done.
 
  
  The controls are tight and easy to use. The only problem I have with any of the main character's 
 powers is with the demon arm. It's tough to be accurate with it in certain spots. The sound effects 
 are awesome, especially in digital surround. The voice of the Darkness slithers out of hte rear 
 speakers in such a way that it can provoke goosebumps. The tilt factor in this game comes from 
 those subtle nuances that make games memorable. For example, the loading screens are various clips 
 of the main character relating past occurrences and current beliefs to his girlfriend, Jenny. In 
 these scenes, the background is pitch black and Jenny is only there in thought or is off-camera. 
 So, instead of watching a loading progress bar crawl across the screen, you get to watch great 
 voice acting and eye-pleasing scenes while learning more about the main character's past, which, 
 in most cases, fuel's the storyline. I guess the only complaint that I would have is that the replayability 
 isn't huge. There is a multiplayer, but that is definitely not the draw here. Thus, playing through 
 the game on hard is probably the best way to get your money's worth. Also, doing as many of hte 
 sidequests as possible is definitely worth the extra time and effort. Keep gaming!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Ever wonder if you have a dark side on you that just wrecks havoc and tears opponents hearts out!? 
 well this is what 2k games and Starbeeze have done by bringing a superb first person action game 
 The Darkness 
  
  When you start the game you find out that your character is Jackie Estrado (apologies for spelling) 
 and it's his 21st birthday! hooray! and he gets the present of a lifetime! yeah two tentacles on 
 his shoulders that just.... kill. devour and wreck havoc amongst everything!
  
  You will obtain the Darkness right befofe the end of the first level and after a few trusted words 
 by the Darkness detailing how he rules Jackie and why he lusts for blood...... he will eventually 
 appear and show off it's power! and it will start to devour hearts , warp people into black holes 
 and summon Berserkers!
  
  From a graphical prespective The Darkness looks and feels like a 3rd gen game the charcter's facial 
 expression and skin texture and even The Darkness looks pretty damn cool to say the least
  
  Another stand out point for The Darkness is the sound and voice acting for the character's 
 Jackie for example is just a real new york contract killer that we all wanna be and so are the 
 other NPC's who sound really fnatastic and again the Darkness with their voice slightly croaked 
 but just soo.... evil!
  
  The Darkness is a fantastic acheivement for the Xbox360, including New York two handguns and a 
 pair of tentacles on your shoulders devouring hearts.. The Darkness is definetly a look out this 
 Summer for Action game fans.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XboXEma90
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:03 am PT
Review:  This game is a GREAT example of what a next-gen game should be !
  GREAT graphics
  GREAT story
  GREAT acting
  GREAT powers
  GREAT fun I really enjoyed this game because the 
 elements are putted together in the best way, and the free-roaming factor is at the right place.
 
  I'm DEAD FU**ING SERIOUS:
  BUY THIS GAME NOW !
  TRUST ME !!
  The story is token by the comic, and the environments are the SAME as the comic !
  This is the 
 BEST example of licensed game.
  Starbreze (creators of the Riddick's game) are a great company, as we know, but this time..... they 
 outclassed the previous game.
  The multiplayer game's also very good, but i prefer the singleplayer game.
  At the end, this 
 game shouldn't miss in your collection.
  
  p. s. sorry for my english, but, i'm italian. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Carnage
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  {SPOILER WARNING!!!}
  
  The Darkness, based on the Top Cow comic series, is a very good game and I think it's worth a play. 
 Many of the fans of the comic, such as myself, will be very pleased with the work Starbreeze and 
 2K put into it. With that said, I also belive that many hardcore gamers not familar with the comic 
 series may not like it enough to play through it more than once unless they realy like the premise 
 of it. It's not your average first person shooter and thats where it varies from other games on 
 the market. It has very different feel to it but that's a good thing because it should have that 
 odd, eerie feeling that you sometimes get when reading H. P. Lovecraft or Edgar Alan Poe.
  
  The gameplay is very unique. They have a relatively good selections of weapons but instead of relying 
 entirely on your guns like most shooters you rely more on your Darkness powers. The powers you 
 acquire in the game are well done and many comic fans will be thrilled to use them but it would've 
 been nice if you get new powers by eating hearts instead of acqireing them by doing story missions. 
 The first power you get is the Creeping Dark, it's good to get in a few stealth kills and use to 
 get past certain areas but realy that's about it and going up walls and ceilings gets a little 
 confusing. The second power you acquire during your first trip to the Otherworld is the Demon Arm, 
 it's a real blast to impale a mobster with the demon arm and toss him around like a rag doll and 
 it saves ammo when it comes to taking out lights but you can't realy use it much more than that 
 and picking things up to use them as sheilds doesn't work well. In that same trip to the Otherworld 
 you get the third power which is actually two guns that let you use them to control the Darkness, 
 they work well enough for gunning people down but there's no added value to them realy. The last 
 power you get is the ablity to create a Black Hole, it's probaly the best power to use against 
 groups of enemies and it's almost like cheating because it kills everyone and you can keep doing 
 it as long as your in the shadows but don't think it's exactly like a black hole because nothing 
 disappears so you can devour your enemies' hearts to level up.
  
  The Darklings are a realy nice feature and their comments and actions are sometimes hilarious, 
 like they'll dry hump or urinate on dead bodies and once I even heard one qoute Hamlet but with 
 a little twist of course. They all have their special uses. Gunners shoot stuff and complain about 
 commies; Kamikazes are suicide bombers; Lightkillers do exactly that; and Berserkers use hand-to-hand 
 weapons to kill and they have unlockable costumes with a different weapon and style to each. The 
 Darklings are fun but their AI is not very good and they sometimes disappear or stand in the light 
 too long and die. They're easy to kill too so you won't realy rely on them to do the work that 
 much.
  
  The Enviroment is very detailed, probaly the most detailed I've ever seen in a game. From the streets 
 to the subway you'll think your in the real world. The Otherworld is just as detailed and has an 
 odd artistic design to it. But one of the biggest design flaws is trying to make the illusion that 
 the enviroment is entirely free roam, it isn't and some areas like Gun Hill or City Hall Subway 
 Station you'll only need to visit once. You also spend just as much time in the subway stations 
 as you do outside and it always seems to be night outside except when you take on Uncle Paulie's 
 mansion.
  
  The voice actors are top knotch. Every word from major or minor characters are full of character. 
 Mike Patton as the voice of The Darkness couldn't have been a better choice, his lines from We 
 are one to his hideous laugh is perfect. The character models are good and the little touch of 
 moving their hands makes them seem more real than they would just standing there. The biggest flaw 
 with this game though is that the character models lips don't move much or at all when they talk, 
 it sometimes takes away from the story and it's a little annoying because those are flaws from 
 the last generation.
  
  The Darkness TV is a nice feature but it's not realy needed except for certain news items. The 
 system also seems to be on a cycle and everytime you enter a new area, that cycle begins at the 
 same exact place. I've only watched a little bit on the TV. There's a cartoon channel that's pretty 
 much entirely Popeye cartoons, there's two channels for music videos, another channel commited 
 to kung-fu movies, another channel with a Flash Gordon movie and other sci-fi stuff, there's a 
 few more but they mostly consisted of old black &amp; white movies like The Man with the Golden 
 Arm and To Kill a Mocking Bird that you watch with Jenny early in the begining of the game.
  
  Now the thing that shines the most is the story. It's dark, twisted and almost touching at 
 times. From start to end your hooked and it moves at a nice pace but felt like it could've been 
 a lot longer. The simple things from Uncle Paulie's hatred for Jackie, Jackie's love for Jenny, 
 the internal struggle between Jackie and The Darkness, and Jackie's unrelenting vengence blend 
 together nicely. I think the ending is perfect though it's not a very happy one. One thing that 
 bothered me though was that there was no 'choice'. The game seems to rub it in your face that you 
 can choose to listen to your inner demon or defy it. But that choice is only illusion and it would've 
 been nice to see multiple endings. The side missions don't realy add to the experience of the game 
 much because their very easy and you usaly only get concept art or something along those lines 
 but it would've been nice to gain something else every once in a while. The unlockables are good 
 but only for real fans of the game or comic series, the unlockables range from concept art to entire 
 comicbooks to a few movies. The comicbooks are real nice but you need a big TV to read the dialogue. 
 The system to unlock them was very intrigueing but took FOREVER because you need to dial each one 
 into a phone and listen to various voice recordings. Some of the recordings are funny and a nice 
 touch but like the TV it's not needed. The Otherworld unlockable way is more pratical because you 
 have to just put them in a mail box.
  
  Overall, I think it's one of the best comicbook games ever made. The gameplay and story makes it 
 a good choice for hardcore gamers and such but many may find the need to pass it over. It sticks 
 close to the comics but at times comic geeks like myself would've like to have seen a character 
 or at least heard a news cast or something that dealt with other Top Cow characters like Witchblade 
 or Magdalena. It would've been a nice touch to have Angelus also (actually I unlocked some concept 
 art for her character so I think they possibly may have had her in there but ultimately cut her 
 out or maybe they're saving her for a possible sequel) . I have my hopes up that if this game does 
 good that there will be a sequel where the characters' lips move and there will be more comic references. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow4287
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  the darkness, the highly annticapated title from starbreeze (chronicles of riddick: escape from 
 butcher bay) is story about jackie estacado, who fudes with his uncle paulie well trying to control 
 demons within him known only as the darkness, which gives him abilities that are rechatged by waiting 
 in the darkness, which allows him to create black holes, impale enemies (and civilians) with a 
 tentacle and so on, which brings us to another way of recharging powers, eating hearts whichs is 
 made with a fantastic animation which the demon head (manifestation of the darkness) will dig through 
 his chest and tears it out where the head will sometimes get in your face and chow down. another 
 aspect is the sound, the voice acting is fantastic with much emotion put into the characters when 
 they are struck with something important. another excellent aspect is the graphics, which are fantastic 
 in the eerie detail put into the fantastic envoirments and the characters also are amazing with 
 the action, for example when jackies talking you will see him waving his hand aimlessely, and thats 
 the story of the darkness! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotchtapegoob
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this game when i first heard about it. I started saving my scrap money and started reading 
 the comics before it came out. Then i was convinced it was going to another great game that I could 
 play for 6 months without getting sick of it (gears of war, rainbow 6) . My family told me to rent 
 it first before spending the 60 dollars and i'm glad i did. I beat it in two days and the multiplayer 
 sucks. within those two days i got 22 of the achievements and I'm bored with it already. A five 
 day rental from blockbuster turned into a 3 day sadly. I had high hopes for this game
  
  Don't get me wrong, it was a cool run through and the tenicals were fun to use, espicially the 
 one that shot out and stabbed people, but that's about it. Rent it and find the story, I wouldn't 
 buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerooslo7990
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness - *Rated M*
  
  People tend to be slightly harsh on first person shooters, as there are so many on the market right 
 now. Many people say been there, done that , well now I finally have a game to debunk that statement. 
 The darkness is a action filled, gunsablazing, heart eating FPS and is one of the best FPS on the 
 360/PS3. If only it lasted longer. Graphics- The game looks amazing, there is no denying that. 
 Not only from a technical aspect, but from a style view point as well. The environments look fantastic, 
 and the darkness powers look great. The character models were all motion captured, and are some 
 of the best looking humans on a console to date. The game maintains a dark gritty New York, as 
 well as a Hellish version of... well.. hell. The game maintains a stable frame rate, and little 
 to any graphical glitches. The only complaint I can give is that when characters talk their mouths 
 don't always match up with what they are saying, but that is a very minor complaint compared to 
 the great quality of the graphics.
  
  Sound- Not much to say music wise. The music channels on the TV's scattered threw out the game 
 are very nice, but thats about it. However, the voice acting is top notch. Very few games have 
 this good voice actors behind the characters, but this game is one of the best. From you girlfriend 
 Jenny, to the very creepy voice of the Darkness itself is all great.
  
  Story- This is the reason you should get the game. It starts with a bang, as you wake up in a speeding 
 car being chased by cops with your buddies trying to get away. From there you earn your darkness 
 powers, find out about Paulie, and then go to hell. I won't ruin much else for you, but it is one 
 really good story.
  
  The Darkness- This is the main selling point for the game, your powers. Early on in the game, you 
 earn the ability to control the darkness, and it is very cool. You have two snake heads on both 
 sides of your head, these guys (well, the right one mostly) eat hearts and detach them selves to 
 sneak into air vents and eat your foes faces. In order to level up the darkness you have to eat 
 the hearts of your enemies. Your other powers are summoning a 'arm' to take out lights (which you 
 have to do to keep your darkness power up) impale people, and move stuff around. You can also summon 
 a slightly overpowered black hole to suck up nearby enemies. But I never found my self using the 
 darkness much, due to shooting people in the head is easy, and while cool the moves sometimes took 
 to long for me to execute.
  
  So why only a 8.4? Well, this is the only real complaint I have. It is short. The difficulty is 
 variable, but the game can easily be completed in about 10 or less hours. But, the story, graphics, 
 and sound are all top notch. The multiplayer, takes away all of your darkness powers and turns 
 it into a regular first person shooter. The only difference is that you can turn into a darkling 
 (cool comic relief helper characters/demons that help you out in the main story) which while interesting 
 is marred by horrible lag, making it not worth playing (unless you really like achievements) . If 
 that sounds like a bad deal to you, then you probably shouldn't buy it. But no matter what, you 
 should play it (purchased or rented) as it is a blast while it lasts.
  
  ~zero7990 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  the darkness is a very unqiue game. it has good graphics, great dailogue, and a amazing storyline 
 from start to finish. the game is all about a man named Jackie Estacado who is in the Mafia. when 
 his uncle: Paulie decides to kill him for not bringing his money. throughout the game you are fighting 
 of his men and he police not only to stay alive but to get your revenge and respect. throughout 
 the game you will have people that will help you and give you info but you wil be doing all the 
 dirty work. another very cool thing aboutt he game is your darknes powers. on his 21st birthday 
 is when he acquires these powers and when you start to wreak havoc. all the power are amazing and 
 you will never get bored with them. in the game you must stay in the dark to kep your power and 
 to stay alive the light is your enemy and will make it difficult for you in the game. the execution 
 moves are awesome and the game has alot of blood and gore. exspecially when you devour your enemies 
 hearts. enough with the single player the multiplayer is pretty good as well. you know the usual 
 shoot em til their dead thing but this ime you can transform into a demon and climb walls, run 
 really fast, and claw your enemies wich makes online for interesting. to sum it all up for you 
 if your into Sci-Fi horror FPS then this si the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedfacekilla57
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is here and waiting for you to embrace it. One of the many anticipated summer games 
 has made its way to the 360 console, and you wont be disappointed. You are Jackie Estacado, you've 
 been in the mob for a while now, and today is your 21st birthday. So far your life has been going 
 smooth, You've got a girlfriend named Jenny, who you love with all your heart, but will do anything 
 to keep her away from what you do on day-to-day basis. The storyline is amazing, and combat is 
 even better. You devour enemies to get stronger within the darkness, gaining new powers and new 
 minions to summon to your side while you perform skull-crushing executions and unleash hell upon 
 your enemies. The multiplayer isn't as great, but still worth the play. The soundtrack in this 
 game makes killing people even more satisfying, and the graphics are eye candy thanks to the new 
 engine used by the creators of the chronicles of riddick, this game will not disappoint. Awesome 
 game from start till finish.
  
  You are the Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troy716
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game to date on the 360 for me. I have been playing all weekend ,and just can't 
 seem to stop. The voice over is just amazing, and the soryline is one you can follow. The sidequests 
 are really fun, along with the interactive enviorment. I would recomend this game to anyone who doesn't 
 mind hearing the F bomb dropped here, and there. Im not even playing the multiplayer here, im only 
 speaking for the single player campaign, but for me ,I dont care ,the single player has sold me 
 on these guys, and their abilty to become a major player in the video game industry. I can only look 
 forward to what they have lined up next, and if its anything like this, Im in 100%. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine1701
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard they were making a Darkness game I was mixed. Sure I thought there was a good 
 concept behind the whole thing but I was never impressed with licensed games outside of Riddick 
 and Star Wars. When it got decent but not amazing reviews I was even more divided over whether 
 to pick it up or not. After a few recommendations from friends and an endorsement from my brother 
 I decided to take the plunge.
  
  And boy was it worth it.
  
  Graphics-wise The Darkness has been done well. It might not be on the same level as Gears of War 
 in this department but its still worthy of the next-gen game title. You can get easily immersed 
 in the city and, as a fan of roleplaying games, I'm glad that designers still think of immersion 
 when they design a game. From the eely texture of the Darkness Tentacles to the graffiti on the 
 wall, the visuals have been covered.
  
  The environment is equally impressive. The mood is set from the beginning that this game is a mix 
 between film noir, crime drama, and horror story. The people feel real (although some of the background 
 characters have AI issues) and you can get caught up in all the violence without a hitch. When 
 you play the Darkness there's just that eerie feeling that something is going to happen and its 
 that much cooler when it does.
  
  Story! You mean an assemblance of dialogue and action that results in a plot that may actually 
 create a catharsis with an audience? Yes! I know, you're as surprised as me that you can still 
 find that in a game that can be classified as a mindless first person shooter. You feel pissed 
 when something bad happens and gratified when you accomplish something. You'll get involved in 
 the story and not want to put the controller down until you find out what happens to poor old Jackie 
 Estacado in the end. That being said, if you're able to sit down for a day or two, you can probably 
 finish it. The Darkness, like Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay (what I can only refer 
 to as a sister game to this one) is fairly short and you can run through it on easy without going 
 through too much difficulty. On the technical side, there's a few scuffs in its polish and you 
 can pick out glitches and AI bugs when you look around. This can give it the appearance of being 
 clunky but give it a chance. Overall, The Darkness' strong story and compelling action allow you 
 to overlook some of its more glaring pitfalls and just enjoy the blood-soaked time you'll spend 
 playing it. One of my friends couldn't have said it better when they told me that it was, the 300 
 of the video game industry . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellblazerUSA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  With a large fan base already waiting to tear this game apart if it didn't meet their expectations, 
 Starbreeze had a huge task in creating a game for a cult comic-book hit.
  Luckily, with the fantastic Chronicles of Riddick for the Xbox and PC already on their resume, 
 they succeed in every possible way.
  
  Jackie Estacado isn't the good guy- he's just THE MAN. Period. An orphan, hand picked by a mob 
 boss as his top hit man, Jackie already has more than enough cool moves in killing than most US 
 Marines. When he inherits his Darkness powers during a hit on his 21st birthday, it's kind of like 
 strapping a nuke to a chain gun...
  
  The Darkness... ahhh. That fantastic taste of using a force barely in your control. Bite the face 
 off a goon using a tendril or skewer him with a sharp tentacle when he least expects it. Too many 
 bad guys? Summon a black hole and watch your foes get thrown around like rag dolls...
  And remember, should you just get tired of killing people yourself, you can summon Darklings- entities 
 born out of the darkness, capable of ripping enemies apart, knocking out lights, laying down cover 
 fire or just blowing themselves up to take out a wall. They also provide much of the needed comic 
 relief, by making sometimes ridiculous comments or simply by urinating on the dead...
  
  Played from the first-person perspective, The Darkness does all it can to immerse you in a cinematic 
 experience. From the opening car chase, driving the wrong way in a New York tunnel, to moving between 
 your destinations using the subway system, The Darkness adds detail to the world in simple touches. 
 Want to watch TV? Sure, go ahead- use any TV (that you haven't inadvertently shot to pieces) in 
 the game world and you can choose between several channels of actual programming. Tired of pursuing 
 your uncle Paulie through New York? Cool- take on a side mission from the several NPC's, more than 
 willing to try and make you run a fetch quest or ask you to whack someone...
  
  The detail goes beyond what you're asked to do... It needs to be seen to be believed. The Darkness 
 is easily one of the best looking games to grace the 360 so far. Lighting is phenomenal and makes 
 you regret that you need to blast out all the bulbs in a level to use the full potential of your 
 powers. Levels are often grimy, dark and fantastic to look at. Everything from the tiles on a subway 
 wall, to the gore spread on an abattoir floor is rendered perfectly. Shadows are ccast across highly 
 detailed characters, with wrinkles in their faces when they talk- you can actually see some of 
 the specific inflections from the actors and their VoCap renditions.
  
  Sound is another feature where this game excels. It's a given that you need to play this game if 
 you're hooked up to a 5.1 system. Gunfire echoes around you, your darklings cackle in the background 
 and when the action heats up on screen, the music is just spot on in timing and mood.
  
  Finally, a mention should be made of the storyline. Subtle in depth and a treat for mature gamers, 
 the story is a Sopranos-meets-Silent Hill tale of love, revenge and a fight for the ownership of 
 Jackie's soul. Written by Paul Jenkins, the story balances between realism and chaos.
  
  Get it, experience it and play it again. Fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdog988
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:12 pm PT
Review:  idk anyother way to find out so i had to review it... does anyone know the song with jackie and 
 jenny in the park at the end of the game?
  the song thats playing... what song is that its awsum
  other then that i just rented the game 
 cuz im a little short on cash but i already beat it in like 2 days its a long game dont get me 
 wrong me and my friend stood up all night and played it and darnk like a gal of monster and coffie
 
  its my fave game of all time none the less 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ra7krz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The first 30 mins i played this game, i was not impressed, the controls seemed clunky and the story 
 the usual, only after i stuck with it, did i appreciate the greatness of this game. The story is 
 very, and i mean very entertaining, its what will keep you playing for hours. the AI is dumb at 
 times, but its forgivebable, and the enemies will sometimes take alot of damage and just refuse 
 to go down. The darklings are very funny, but are as dumb as rocks. Well if you remember the good 
 ol xbox days, and if you played a gem called chronicles of riddick, you will find a home with the 
 darkness. It has been a while since a really good game came out, so dont miss out on this masterpiece 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3m3si5
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Everything hits the right spot but unfortunately there are a few annoying snags ( but I wont go 
 into detail ) the creeping dark can become frustrating when you try to make it climb a wall but 
 you find yourself losing any sense of direction if you creep onto the wrong surface. Also the AI 
 is rather stupid at times, fair enough some people will say something about you when your in the 
 Darkness mode, but apart from that.... they barely seen to be scared of seeing something unreal 
 before them. ( must be the fact that the city's ridden with demons or something. ) Good point is, 
 i havn't come across many games that puts you in the hot seat for being the bad ass, how cool is 
 it that you can lift up a police car and squash the officers up against the wall.... or play clay 
 pigeon shooting with a mob goon before devouring his heart. If only the multiplayer incorperated 
 those features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I will freely admit that I was bursting to get my hands of this game as it looked, from the previews 
 etc, to have everything I personally want from a FPS. And surely some of it was there. The dark 
 atmospherics, the evil Darkness semisentinal arms and the tinges of gore with a reasonable story. 
 However I do have to say that overall I'm a little disappointed. Largely this game is let down 
 by some pretty slow and sluggish game play. I mean does the guy really walk THAT slow! There are 
 several incidents of glitchy frame rates and lots, and I mean LOTS, of load intervals that can 
 really slow down the momentum of the game. After playing it for a while the novelty of the semisential 
 arms eating hearts and attacking people wears a bit thin. So what you're actually left with is 
 a pretty repeative game of shooting, biting and eating people on slow missions around New York. 
 The cut scenes etc are quite tidy and there's certianly an atmosphere about the game. However this 
 has been done before and dare I say better on Condemned which dripped nerve jangling atmosphere 
 and tension that The Darkness just doesn't have. Also the game itself is pretty short.
  
  So for most parts you'll find yourself going WOW those arms are great and the darklings are funny 
 evil buggers. Then you'll find yourself getting ever so slightly bored with the same shoot em and 
 eat em play. Not really a game for the established horror FPS shooter and more for fans of the 
 comic and new to this genre. For me you can get a better game, now cheaper, in Condemned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tensor44
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is great but is dose have its down falls. I've only found one, which is the no HUD 
 its nice not having those thing crowd up your screen but maybe add like a health bar or ammo bar 
 in a corner or some where. The graphics are great and very few hitch up happen during game play. 
 Also i love this part, you can go any where in the game and do anything. You can pick up cars and 
 throw them at people, you could pick up people and throw them too. It's a fun game to play and 
 is easy to learn but also not a hard game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virtuetek
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  PROS:
  If you like FPS game then this game is a must buy. The detail that the developers put into this 
 game is unbelievable. I've been waiting for a while for a decent game to come out for the FPS genre, 
 finally something hit. I've heard some gamers said they finished the game in 8 hours. They must 
 have run through everything with their eyes closed. It took me around 30-40 hours of game time 
 to explore, collect, and devour hearts!
  
  The game has a great brutalness to it. Definitely not something your younger kids should play. 
 Curse words a-plenty, but it doesn't seem overused as much as the Scarface game did. In Scarface 
 it seemed like they said it constantly, just because they could. Like a kid learning to curse for 
 the first time, saying it non-stop.... but I digress.
  
  The aiming was a little weird. It's not a technical shooter like R6 Vegas.... it uses a lot of the 
 auto-aim. But it works cause the game is just supposed to be a brutal blood bath.
  
  The graphics completely add to the atmosphere and darkness . The detail on the textures are sick. 
 I found myself just checking out the environment from time to time with awe. The sound is great. 
 Constant detail on the characters voices, background noise of the city, trains, bums, etc. It was 
 awesome in my 5.1
  
  The multiplayer is alright, nothing to compare to Gears of War or R6 Vegas!
  
  CONS:
  When 
 performing the side quests it got a little annoying taking the train back and forth. I'd spend 
 2 minutes in one area, then jump on the train, load, and then spend another minute, then jump back 
 on the train, LOAD. It got a little annoying, but this is a MINOR detail that can be easily overlooked. 
 Sometimes the minions you summon don't follow your direction. This got a little annoying so I stopped 
 really using them. The Darkness powers are so powerful it doesn't really matter.
  
  OVERALL: If you've been on the fence about this game, not sure if you should buy it..... STOP.... go 
 get it! It is worth your time and money. Starbreeze deserves a million sold for this single-player 
 masterpiece. Get to it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - This game controlls kind of similar to Riddick - in which you have the mellee attacks 
 that does crazy stuff - but they aren't as good in which you could counter in riddick and take 
 people's guns. The darklings rarely help you do anything most of the time they just die right away 
 - but once in awhile the beserker will actually kill a bunch of guys. The powers you get are basicly 
 the fun of the game - you get a power at the middle of the game where you can throw stuff and pick 
 up people , then near the end you get this black hole thing that pretty much makes the entire game 
 into trying to pull the black hole off a hundred times . The level design for this game is horrible 
 . Some parts have great design where enemies are in cool spots for you to kill them , but the majority 
 they are in random spots where they just aren't fun to fight. There are a couple of cool kinda 
 of playable cinematic that you do - and when your talking to people you can choose what you want 
 to say lots of the time. Also , you can kill lots of important characters to the game whenever 
 you feel like . The story of the game isn't anything that great either. Also , the framerate of 
 the game is pretty slow - but it's still very playable.
  
  Graphics - This really stands out about this game - the graphics are amazing . Sound - Lots of 
 great voice acting , lots of music , and great sound effects - another part of the game that surpasses 
 the gameplay
  
  Value - The multiplayer is horrible , it's incredibly laggy - there are fun modes , that would 
 probably be fun if you could play them - but it's so laggy you can't even
  
  Good Tilt - the only good single player FPS out on 360 - but defintly can not live up to Riddick 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakBear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  First of all the game brings a fresh new taste and feel to fps. The story of the game is provocative 
 along with presentation. The only fault to the game is its length and replay value. The multiplayer 
 matches feel tacked on and hold no real substance. Multiplayer could've been truly amazing, one 
 mode could be one person playing Jackie with the Darkness and the others playing weak humans. Humans 
 could coordinate attacks in hope of surviving and control lights to weaken Jackie's darkness abilities. 
 Another mode could've been, every character has the darkness and they go at each other. To make 
 this more interesting, when the darkness is summoned and attacks such as demon arm (usually one 
 hit kills) , when used against another player with the darkness summoned, that player's darkness 
 will defend against the attack that will cost darkness energy. Now the player can make the usual 
 gruesome kills with the darkness when all the energy is consumed. Then the opposing player can 
 use a demon arm, creeping dark, or black hole to finish the other off. Another issue is the game 
 takes about 10 hours and that's it. Side missions are standard kill or pickup based. The world 
 is big but it would've been nice if it were larger like GTA or Morrowind and there were more missions 
 which would equal to damn near endless fun with the darkness. I may have my qualms about the game 
 but it has such an amazing storyline and a fresh spin on fps that it's still a game to play, although 
 my recommendation would get the game over the weekend by rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MATRIXMAN3780
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Story:
  You Play as Jackie Estacado, adopted by the orphanage by Paulie the head honcho of the mafia. It 
 is now your 21st birthday, and you are finishing up a job with fellow gang members, you awaken 
 in the back seat of a convertable racing through cars. Your gang members tell you that the money 
 collection deal had gone wrong, and it is all downhill from there. Your Uncle Paulie suspects you 
 of foul play in the money collection, and places a hit on you. Eventually you hear a voice in your 
 head, not just any voice but a demonic voice. No you don't have schizophrenia, you have been possesed 
 by The Darkness. It has been in your family blood line, and it awakens inside of you on your 21st 
 birthday. The Darkness uses you as its puppet basically.
  
  Gameplay:
  After the Darkness had taken is hold upon you, you learn that you obtain several different abilities. 
 The first that you obtain is the Creeping Dark which allows you to send one of your snake-things 
 to go off on their own and fit through small ventilation shafts, climb up walls, etc. You also 
 obtain the Darkness Shield which protects you from about 50% of gunfire while standing in the shadows. 
 The Next Darkness power you obtain is the Demon Arm , quite possibly my favorite. This power allows 
 you to shoot one of your tentacles off into people, objects, lights, etc. When you Impale people 
 and you can fling them around into walls and such. The other two powers i will not go into much 
 detail, but they are the ancient weapons - Guns that use the darkness as ammo And Blackhole - Sucks 
 enemies into the central point and flings them unconscious. All of your darkness powers are fueled 
 by the shadows. For example, lets say you are constantly using the demon arm, if you are currently 
 standing in a dark area, you will see the two snake monsters inhaling a dark vapor which in turn 
 is your ammo. You can easily break lights, but sometimes when you do it gives away your position, 
 or sends civilians into a panic. You do level up in this game, which increases the power of your 
 darkness powers. You level up in a rather gruesome manner, your snakes lunge off to dead bodies 
 and actualy eat their hearts out. They added so much detail in this game, you can easily overlook 
 all the easter eggs on the walls and stuff. There are 14 Side-quests (i think) that vary in length 
 and 100 collectable items that are randomly scattered throughout New york. The game offers a fairly 
 open-endedness to the areas you can visit. Graphics:
  Absolutley Stunning. I would say much better than Gears of war. You can just see every detail they 
 took the time to put into the game, and then polished those details several times over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaine666_2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  The darkness is a very engrossing game with very imaginative characters. The fabulous voice acting 
 of the italian gangters you blow away to the people in the subway really brings this game alive. 
 The guns feel spot on although i didnt quite get the reloading system, he systems to change the 
 guns half of the time, shame there wasn't any other melee weapons like a knife ,bat ,bar or something 
 because when you are out of bullets the butt of a gun doesnt quite cut it. The darkness powers 
 at the start i felt dissapointed with, because i didnt feel powerful until later on when your abilities 
 get unlocked. This game will give you a thrill ride, rent or buy, but please play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Starbreeze did a wonderful job making Riddick feel like an open-ended interactive movie. They attempt 
 to accomplish the same thing with the Darkness, and while the game tells a good story with great 
 attention to detail in the presentation, the environment is lacking. The world, while technically 
 open ended, still feels more like a maze than a real world. The paths to different locations and 
 events all feel quite linear and more often than not, you find yourself backtracking through areas 
 you feel you have seen enough.
  
  The gameplay is pretty good, although the game could have made better use of a larger weapon variety, 
 as well as making some of the more powerful weapons feel more satisfying. The Darkness powers are 
 fun at first, but the system never really grows much and you find yourself killing most enemies 
 in the same couple ways.
  
  The story is pretty deep and a ton of attention was paid to the way it was presented. In this respect, 
 the game does a great job of making you feel like you are living a movie. The story might get pretty 
 cheesy by the end, but that's just my opinion. Also, the voiceacting is hands down some of the 
 best seen in any recent game. Overall, it's a solid if not short FPS with a couple neat ideas. 
 I would say it's only worth a rental though since the mulitplayer feels very tacked on just for 
 the sake of having it. You will not find many reasons to enjoy the MP when there are so many superior 
 MP experiences on xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaySplasher
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  This game is not to be missed. You play as Jackie Estacado, a 21 year old Italian Mafia hit man. 
 The game's noir crime feel will draw you in more and more. You wind up being betrayed by your adopted 
 Uncle Paulie and soon after, you obtain the Darkness, a supernatural force that is not to be reckoned 
 with. I will not go into detail because it is up to you to get the game and try it out. The visuals 
 are amazing by the environments and the textures and graphics of the weapons you wield. The voice 
 acting is excellent, it made me feel like I was in the Godfather or something :) . The gameplay 
 is very smooth and compelling as well. The guns sounds as realistic as those in real life and the 
 replay value can range from moderate to high. GET THIS GAME NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  I had the game for almost a week now and so far I really like playing the single player as it is 
 awesome to use the demon powers on the mafia crew.
  
  The single player game is really short like most people are saying around 8 to 10 hours to beat 
 without doing side quest and stuff. The cool thing about the single player is that it is well done 
 with the storyline that will make you feel like your actually part of the game and part of the 
 main character Jackie.
  
  The graphics in the game is so well done that its looks so real, maybe not the characters but the 
 environment itself is what stands out. Especially walking through the subway looking at walls, 
 floor, and benches, they look amazing.
  
  The multiplayer in this game is really bad as it lags a lot, but keep in mind that the single player 
 is what the company was mainly working on, so for those of you who only want a game for multiplayer 
 might be disappointed. But for those who like a good story telling game, this game is must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  If you are a PS3 owner you will be starved of games to play so when this comes out in a month I 
 would buy this game. I was going to buy it for the PS3 but I got bored so I got it for the 360. 
 A move I regret. If you own a 360, wait a couple of months and let the price come down, then by 
 it. Look at the price of Rainbow 6 Vegas on play, &pound;17.99 a stunning game with a stunning 
 price.
  
  Whilst this is not a bad game, and please don't think it is. It's just not great, I think the rating 
 gamespot have given is about right.
  
  I looks good, not great but good.
  
  It plays ok , not good but ok.
  
  It has a lot of darkness (obviously) . So be prepared to stay 
 in shadows and shoot. Your darkness powers are quite neat. I quite like the beserkers, these are 
 like smart grenades. They spawn and run off to kiss arse. You can direct them to a degree. You 
 can dress them up in shirts you find from time to time, makes you smile for a while, however this 
 is an 18 rating so I question how people of an older age group need this function.
  
  On the subject of 18 ratings. I wouldn't let young ones play this, the combination of quite graphic 
 killing and bad language is a touch to much for my liking. So I think 18 is a fair rating. I have 
 noticed some frame rate issues. The 1st was on the first level elevator, it got all jerky. Also 
 strangely when I focus in on lights to shoot them it gets a tad jerky.
  
  I am finding the interaction with other people in game boring. you walk up and press the A button 
 when you select the response you want. Whilst the process works, it doesn't enhance the game. It 
 really is boring.
  
  You have t travel between location via the subway, which is quite realistic. In that I got lost.... 
 Get on the train and go, but if you go to the wrong place you can get a bit pissed.
  
  So to some up.
  
  Good game, but not a stunner.
  
  If you own a 360, wait for the price 
 to drop.
  
  If you own a PS3, it's collecting dust and needs to earn the vast monies you splashed out, so buy 
 it.
  
  Haven't played multiplayer yet so no comment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torgue21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  In The Darkness you are Jackie Estacado, a mod hitman who is betrayed by his uncle/boss and now 
 is out for revenge. Sounds rather formulaic and overdone. But the twist is that on his 21st birthday, 
 Jackie gained a new power called, the Darkness, that can help him with his quest for revenge. But 
 the Darkness has plans of it's own...
  
  But I do not want to spoil anything for you here so will say no more about the story. The graphics 
 here are top notch! The character models and environments are extremely detailed. Everything from 
 the Graffiti to the cars to the eating of the hearts animations are amazing to look at. Other xbox360 
 games can't even match the game play graphics of the Darkness with any of their full blown cinematic 
 cut scenes.
  
  Speaking of the environments they are semi-open ended. By that I mean you can travel to and from 
 different neighborhoods of New York by the subway at your will. But these areas are pretty small 
 and unpopulated (except for enemies of course) and there are a lot of loading screens to get from 
 one small area to the next. They are mostly used for complete side missions when you are not on 
 the main story quests. But being small compared to other open-ended games you can still get lost 
 sometimes and it is often hard to find out here a objective is. You could be wandering around like 
 an idiot for 10 minutes before you realize where it is you need to go.
  
  In battle you have a number of guns at your disposal like pistols, sub-machine guns, shotguns, 
 assault rifles, and riotguns. You can dual wield the pistols and machine guns but the smgs run 
 out of ammo fast. Pretty much the only guns you will use are the pistols and the assault rifles. 
 The shotgun is terrible and even at close range it takes several rounds to kill someone. But the 
 real weapons of this game are the Darkness. When you activate it you have two tentacles with mouths 
 at your side. You can use them to dish out pain on your enemies through powers such as sending 
 a tentacle out on its own to flank an enemy, creating a black hole to suck them in, impaling them 
 on a sharp tentacle, or shooting them with special Darkness guns. You can also summon darklings, 
 which are little imps that will seek out and kill enemies in gruesome ways. To gain power and recover 
 energy you must eat the heart of your enemies and of course, STAY IN THE DARK. That means taking 
 out a lot of lights with your guns and tentacles.
  
  The games story including side quests should last about 12-14 hours. After that you have multiplayer 
 which is not the core of the game and you can tell when you play it. It feels rather buggy and 
 laggy so you will not get as much enjoyment out of it as you would the singleplayer. In the end 
 it is the little things that make this game great. Like the full length movies you can watch on 
 various TVs through out the game world and calling random people on a payphone. Although this game 
 has some minor flaws it is a great ride and you would be sorry to miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godzillavskong
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a GREAT game. It has excellent voice acting that helps immerse you into the right 
 away. The story is basic and not to drawn out. You may have seen this before in the type of movie, 
 where the main character is not such a bad guy, gets double-crossed by his mob boss, and has to 
 take vengeance. The only thing different though is that there is two demons spawning from your 
 back. The graphics are gorgeous. Environments are detailed and blend in nicely with the theme of 
 the game. I also found the character models to look very smooth. The framerate also stays consistent 
 and doesn't bog down when you start bringing death to enemy after enemy. If I had one gripe with 
 this game it would be the lip syncing or lack there of. I found it annoying to watch the cinematics 
 and the main character looked like his lips were sealed shut. If gamespot can rate Perfect Dark 
 Zero in the 9's then I feel that The Darkness deserves to be put in the 9-9.2 range as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Afraid of the dark? Than you will utterly fail at this game. If you aren't then it shouldn't be 
 that much of a challenge. You are Jackie Escasomething [ I can't remember the last name] and you 
 are possesed by something called the Darkness, and you will learn to use it as your weapon along 
 with your other weapons which will mostly be pistols. In order to use the darkness though you must 
 stay in the shadows. I would tell you what the darkness actually does, but I consider that a spoiler. 
 It wil ruin the fun of the begining of the game. The beginning of the game doesn't explain everything, 
 so you will have to keep playing the game to learn more. The graphics are very impressive, particularly 
 character models, they are smooth and polished. The characters were well thought out and had near 
 perfect voice-overs. The game sounded great, from just city sounds to you devouring others. The 
 Acheivements were thoughtful and weren't too hard or too easy to get. And finally... The multiplayer. 
 Meh.... It sure does lag a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmer94
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. The locals were just creepy and the darkness powers were downright fun to use, 
 specially when you get to eat ur enemies hearts. The darklings were cool too...
  
  ... This game actually quenched my thurst for virtual brutallity. Sure in gears of war you can chainsaw 
 someone in half. But can you rip out their hearts and eat them to get more powerfull? Didn't think 
 so!
  
  This game definatly earned its M rating and really isnt for the faint of heart. The gore factor 
 is above alot of other games that claim to be edgy. What other game lets you bite the hearts out 
 of your opponents?
  
  I really enjoyed the darkness and can't wait to go back and play it again...
  
  My only complaints 
 with the game are that I got mad at the retical for targeting, it was pretty hard to see at first. 
 Like Riddick before it, the darkness is really short. You can prolly finish it in a weekend. But 
 there is enough to make you wanna go back and finish it again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonMarc
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  When i went to go pick up some games i pre-ordered at ebgames. I saw a copy of this behind the 
 counter I was told it was the last one so I decided to get it . I was skeptical at first but when 
 I popped it in I was amazed at the games great frame rate and voice acting. I am not very far into 
 the game but I cant seem to put it down. All the environments are we developed except for the occasional 
 fidget here and there. The soundtrack to the game is that perfect mix of scary and exciting at 
 the same time. The powers that i have achieved so far are awesome they dont get repetitive and 
 they keep you wanting to look for more people to kill just to use them. The only drawback for me 
 is that you get all these awesome guns and weapons and most of the time they are useless because 
 you keep using your powers to kill everything in your path. But the biggest shining light for this 
 game is not the achievements even though that is a plus it is the fact that you can rip out the 
 hearts of your enemies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnzk_x
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 30, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  this game kicks asssss it have very nice graphics 100% next gen and very nice story line with nice 
 game play i would say stylish game play starbreeze delivred a great game bettter than riddick they 
 tried to make the darknesss diffrent from other fps by using powers and making a nice free world 
 with very nice graphics, the AI in the game is not that smart but you can play it at hard its gonnna 
 be hard to beat but i say again the game willll last from 8 houres to 10 houres while playing the 
 side missions, the side missions are prettty coool, allli can say this game rocks you should get 
 this game this game is reallly great game one of the best on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaRkNeSs2393
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! This is when I feel extremly proud to be considered a Gamer. Original, compelling, 
 action packed, immersive, and great voice acting are elements that make this game rock. So the 
 game starts off with a hit gone wrong, with you having bad guys thrown at you every witch way. 
 But soon, you get demonic powers that calls itself The Darkness. With these Darkness powers you 
 can do all sorts of nasty stuff to your victims. First off you have this Demon Crawl, witch allows 
 you steer around a tentacle around and bite peoples' faces clean off. You can also use the Demon 
 Claw, a giant claw like that impales people. There's some other stuff that's cool too, and you 
 can summon Darklings, comedic litte henchmen who try (and normally fail miserably) to kill your 
 enimies. The guns are good, just the normall FPS set, but aren't the star of this FPS joyride. 
 The graphics are only fair, but I LOVE the ambience in this game. Whether you are in this hellish 
 WWI setting or in New York you feel like you're there, not just some guy with a gun. On a little 
 side refrence I find funny, the WWI segments are better than the average WWII shooter out there. 
 The voice acting is the best I have ever heard in a video game out there. Period. This is the only 
 game where I can say I have heard someone break out into tears from fear/ shock and sound like 
 he means it. The special treat for me is that Matt Patton (lead singer of Faith no More) is the 
 voice of The Darkness. But, just like the demon The Darkness, the game has some evil points to 
 it. First and foremost, why no splitscreen? There are people out there who DON'T have Live, you 
 know. Also, I really wish you had a damn car in this. It gets so irritating just walking (and sometimes 
 ride the subway train) to place to place. Also, the AI can be somewhat stupid. I have seen on multiple 
 occasions enimies firing into walls, and they don't seem to know a thing called self perservation. 
 And why dosen't anyone ever question your tentacles/ mouth thingys? It's not they can't see them, 
 it's just that no one ever wonders (mainly people on your side) Huh, I wonder where Jackie got 
 those things? 
  
  Besides the bad, this game ROCKS. If you appericiate and excellent story, awesome shooter action, 
 innovative material, and mafia themes, you will love this excellent new shooter, The Darknes
  Come, embrace The Darknes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Happyastro
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  From start to finish this game kept me playing to the end. I bought a copy two days ago and finished 
 it after 28 hours. There are a number of plot twists and turns that will keep you guessing to the 
 end (think Max Payne with demons) . The game places you in the role of a young orphan adopted by 
 a Mafia boss. Your character has a special relationship with a female orphan and was temporarily 
 separated on his adoption. Years pass and your character is now an up and coming member of the 
 New York mafia, while the female orphan remains on the straight and narrow. Things go bad when 
 the Mafia boss (his adopted father) decides to kill your character after feeling jealous of his 
 advancement within the mob. Without spoiling the plot your character has an interesting relationship 
 with a demon, during his time of crisis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frruxano
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The singleplayer is just a mastepiece thats clear. The multiplayer Isn't 
 the best but If've you play it foree a while, than you're really getting the fealling ot it. And 
 what I like about the gam is that you really have to do things. And find places where to go. Graphics: 
 I Really like the faces they look outstanding and than the gamaplay is just freaking awsome. espacially 
 the execution moves and twhen he's in front of a wall in raises his guns damn&gt;!! SO that; s why 
 I give it a 9.6 It is atleast higher than a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Damn this game is good, when I first heard about it I didnt think much of it because im not a big 
 FPS fan. But as I looked more into the game I thought I should make an exception with this game 
 because i thought it looked great (I did this with condemned too) I got it yesterday and DAMN this 
 game is brilliant, stunning visuals, excellent story and voice acting, smooth running and fun gameplay. 
 Using the power of the darkness is so fun devouring hearts and impaling people, its has plenty 
 of gore. It is action placked and fun and using the darkness never gets boring. I also like the 
 added touch of usng the phones and picking what to say to people its a bit like an RPG in that 
 respect. Theres not much more I can say just buy this game have fun and don't forget to play in 
 the DARKNESS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syco722
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that this is THE most creative game I have played in years and it is also the best...... Everything 
 from the sweet guns to the AWSOME darkness powers that NEVER get old is just plain awsome! If I 
 had one complaint it would probably have to be the aim speed (but here's a little tip) ADJUST THE 
 SENSITIVITY! THHIS GAME RULES! dont let anything get you from at least renting this game if not 
 buying it..... Oh yea and the multiplayer aient to good but I dont play it anyway so that doesnt 
 matter to me..... Just please play this game I can promise that you won't regret it.... unless you 
 like sucky games... then you'll hate this one.... but if you like ABSOLUTLEY AWSOME BEYOND EVERYTHING 
 GAMES then you will love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Darkness had my interest since it came out and it turned out to be an amazing achievement. The 
 game has awesome graphics, very top notch for the 360. The gameplay is absolute unique because 
 of the powers of darkness you can use. It is absolute enjoyment using the darkness against the 
 mob gangs and devouring their hearts. Also the shooting interface tries to keep the game have realistic 
 movement and it does work impressively well. If you played the game chronicles of riddick, this 
 game has that same feel but only with dark powers. But both of these games were developed by the 
 same company so duh....
  
  Now compare to other shooters I played. This is one of the best stories I seen from a shooter. 
 Very gripping and just wants you to play more to find out about Jackie and his evil powers. Who 
 would of thought demons and mafia would mix together pretty well. Now I would love to explain the 
 story but if I did that this review would be very long and boring. Although this game does have 
 its flaws, the story campaign will only take about 10-15 hours to finish which isn't bad really. 
 But when you play the game, you expect more of what the darkness powers can do. For example I always 
 hope to use those heart eating eels to like you know tangle someone and chomp their heads, you 
 will know what I mean once you play the game. But they never do that really. Also the AI sometimes 
 does get a bit annoying like your darklings and enemies. They sometimes don't obey so much, sometimes 
 there a bit useless in some situations. But these flaws are noticable but no bother to play this 
 fun game. Overall this game is extremely fun, if your an fps or a fan to the comics or that you 
 just want a good story then this game definitly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tagheuer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game is a great FPS experience because its different from all the other FPS out there. The 
 game is great just when the game starts in the opening credits there the action starts its like 
 a cutscene/gameplay movie. You start in a car chase and then you already have to kill somebody, its 
 real fun.
  
  this game has beautiful graphics and a great framerate movement it never freezes. The voice acting 
 in the game is great. Almost everything in this game is perfect. The only thing that is not perfect 
 is that the game is kind of slow, what I mean is that for each objective its going to take you a 
 while to get there and you will probably get lost and it will take you longer to get there.
  
  This game has a great setting and in one part of the game it changes and both of them are great. If 
 you like bloody FPS with a twist this is the right game for you.
  
  WARNING: this game is rated Mature for a reason it is really bloody/gory it has a lot of coursing, 
 well its really my kind of game:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CMoZe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Really fun game to play through, did not loose its edge throughout the game.
  Very cool affects, a good mix of gun play and super-natural elements. Gun sounds were not exceptional 
 but worked well for the game. The game has a very dark feel to it, from the excessive profanity 
 to the intense, realistic gore. There are also a few flaws in the game itself. Firstly the black-hole 
 ability is just way to powerful for the game, can be used in succession and makes all other methods 
 of attacking insignificant. The auto-aim feature on the guns was not welcome as it took most of 
 the skill out the game. I found this game very easy and beat it in two sittings. The length of 
 the game is not to bad but playing on medium was much to easy to mow through much of the game without 
 difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Puckett
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  The best asset to the game is using the Darkness powers and the little darklings, especially the 
 gunner and kamikaze ones. I am glad this game was released since there has been nothing to play 
 for a while now. The good thing about the game is it does remind me of the comics from which it 
 is based upon. I think the only part about this game which was weak is that it was over way too 
 quickly. Maybe if they make a part 2 it can be a lot longer. How does everyone else feel about 
 this ?? I bought this along with Transformers, The Bigs and pre ordered Vampire Rain too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Yet another excellent game added to the console world! 
  Over the span of my life, there have been epic games like Halo and Goldeneye that really set the 
 tone for games to come . Well, once again we are here to dissect yet another beast that raises 
 the bar to yet another notch.
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  You are a young mobster named Jackie Estacado who was supposed to pick up cash from a drop point, 
 until your uncle Paulie decides to ambush you. While they do succeed in killing you, they lucked 
 out because you are resurrected by mysterious yet amazingly brutal powers. These powers are often 
 referred to as The Darkness , hence the title of the game. However, since Uncle Paulie is very 
 persistent and doesn't like being pushed around by punks with guns, he takes certain measures to 
 ensure your misery.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  The Darkness is a game that sets a brutal, yet enticing pace from start to finish. As the game 
 goes on, your powers become stronger and more stylish. Don't feel like having a full-blown shoot 
 out with corrupt cops? No problem, just create a black hole that will vacuum the life out of anything 
 in the vicinity. Since, Jackie doesn't seem to have his switchblade handy, you could always just 
 impale your enemies with your demon arm. But, while everything is stunning, gruesome, and vulgar 
 the game seems to lack superb artificial intelligence. Occasionally, your darklings may become 
 hinged in the wall. At other times it seems as if enemies lose their aggressiveness creating an 
 imbalance in the combat system. Despite the flaws with the A. I. you will find that they still do 
 a solid job and often give you a run for your money even with all your darkness powers. Graphics: 
 10/10
  
  Less than a year before Gears is released it seems that the crown for best graphics has been handed 
 to The Darkness. The atmosphere in New York flourishes with detail and has a very dark mood. 
 Since the game takes place at night, the streets are bare with minimal civilians, making you feel 
 very isolated and uncomfortable. Which are typical places to fight corrupt cops and mobsters. After 
 you stop drooling over the sheer amount of effort put into the city, you will notice that the character 
 models look identical to human beings. The gameplay part of this game benefits from the graphics 
 because they are so immersive that you are pressed to find new ways to kill because it looks so 
 brutal and cool.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Another aspect of this game that is perfect is the sound. The weapons sound loud and the darkness 
 powers sound vicious which are perfect for this scenario. The voice acting helps many aspects of 
 this game as it significantly adds a big chunk to the story and atmosphere. The anonymous being 
 (I do not want to give away any spoilers) that advises you on what to do with your power adds to 
 the creepiness of the game with his demented voices.
  
  Controls: 9/10
  
  One of the minor problems I had with the game was the controls. When I first started playing the 
 game they felt sluggish. But, this was no problem as they give you the option to adjust the sensitivity 
 to your liking. Another problem that was easily fixed in the options sector was the auto aim which 
 had to be lowered a considerable amount to get the proper feel for the game. Once you get the Creeping 
 Dark power early in the game it allows you to scout ahead with one of your snake heads and kill 
 enemies in a stealthy manner. But, for certain parts of the game that required using the snake 
 to unlock doors I found it problematic to get the snake through a vent. Differences between both 
 versions (Xbox 360 and Playstation 3)
  
  While the original thought was that both versions were identical, they're not. As everyone knows 
 that the PS3 has 2 more movies you can watch on televisions spread across the city. Also they contrast 
 graphically as the Xbox version is sharper, while the PS3 version is washed out, has frame rate 
 issues, but is more vibrant in colors. The controls on the 360 are superior as it is more fitted 
 for FPS type games. For the PS3 version you must use L2 and R2 to fire both weapons, which combined 
 with the layout of the analog sticks, can result in frustrating moments as you struggle to use 
 the oddly mapped controls.
  
  Closing:
  
  Despite the differences for each console, don't let it hinder your views on the game. This is a 
 AAA quality game that has raised the bar for games of all genres. This proves to all developers 
 that in order to make a great game you should include an immersive atmosphere, good graphics, and 
 most important of all voice acting. Because every single aspect of this game relies upon each other 
 and without certain aspects the game wouldn't be as highly regarded as it currently is.
  
  Reviewer's Score: 9/10, Originally Posted: 06/28/07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Starts off like your usual shooter then about 20 min later adds something amazing in. 
 Alien tenticles anyone? these tenticles are a great addition to the game. You can make them slither 
 across walls and on the floor then get them to eat there face off. After the enemy is dead you 
 use the tenticles to eat the heats of the enemy to gain energy and make you character stronger. 
 As the game says The Darkness the idea around it is you are the dark so if you shoot out the lights 
 in the room you regain energy and makes your life alot easier taking enemys down. You also get 
 these comedy relife creatures that help you out. One is just a goblin that goes up to the enemy 
 and eats his face then u get 3 others one with a gun one that blows itself up and one that can 
 make energy. There amusing to watch and can say funny things sometimes. Theres also abit of freeroam 
 in the game (not much freeroam but some elements that make it one.) going from train stop to train 
 stop doing missions.
  
  Sound: Now i think the sound is good the soundtrack is great there is great sound effects and the 
 voice acting is really well done too. But i think that jackies voice is annoying and spoils the 
 character a little bit. But hey, you cant have everything.
  
  Graphics: They awesome. its up there with the best.
  
  **** Box: You can get lost easy and 
 do loads of mindless walking around for ages. Overall: Great game that has all the elements for 
 a class game. If your a comic fan or like your horror shooters. Then buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bababadong
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  I personally found this game to be a surprising combination of other video games like Prey, Call 
 of Duty, and F. E. A. R. It has a lot of the creepy weapons from Prey, the health and battle system 
 of it was very similar to that of Call of Duty, and it has the clean-cut creepiness of F. E. A. R. 
 If you're a fan of the comics, you'll understand the awesome plot right away. If you're not a fan 
 of the comics (which I'm not) , you have a great time figuring out how The Darkness came to be, 
 why it wants to control you, and why Hell is the way it is. The voice acting was some of the best 
 I've seen in years. The action was creepy and at the same time very well pursued. Almost all the 
 aspects that people want to find in the game were very close to perfect. But there were a few problems 
 with the game that I could mention. The multi-player seems like it didn't have enough time spent 
 into it. It's very laggy and barely has any tactics from the single player game that makes this 
 game The Darkness. Also, there are a few bugs, and they appear when you don't want them to. When 
 you're in the heat of battle and your gun won't work because of some kind of bug and then you die 
 all of a sudden, you might get a little ticked off. Finally, the ending was one of the worst I've 
 seen. If a game builds up like it did, then it should come out with some sort of ending that will 
 tie up loose ends. Instead, you're just laying there... And that's it. I know that they need to 
 open it up for some sort sequel, but come on, it could've been better than that. But other than 
 that, it gives you a lot to do, the side quests are somewhat abundant, it's very interactive, and 
 the fighting is put together very well. So, if you liked one of the three games I just listed, 
 then I strongly recommend the game that is, The Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0dazubeN
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:28 pm PT
Review:  Jakie has problems... after hitting puberty oh say around eight years ago, on his 21st birthday.... he's 
 gonna hit it again. The Darkness is a mob story straight as if it were from Martin Scorsese, with 
 a twist. As stated before the main character on his 21st birthday he gains some new responsibilities 
 ... also known as the darkness... and ancient evil that possesses a host to controll them to its 
 will. GAMEPLAY- The gameplay is amazing in this game. You have the weapons you would expect and 
 gunplay that is on par with halo. but on top of that you have your up close and personal executions. 
 You are able to shove your gun in an enimies mouth and watch the beauty. Also with your new found 
 powers there is the constant struggle to maintain... darkness. Among your powers are demon heads 
 that are comparable to serpents attached to your body that can travel and maul your adversaries. 
 there is also a demon arm which impales your opponet in the torso. there are others that are equaly 
 interesting. Looking at this game you feel like you are playing a non linear linear shooter... there 
 is a set path but you can also vere off for a while and do something else before traveling back 
 on path. The TVs in the game play full length films to tv shows to music videos... all full length. 
 Another neat feature is that instead of stupid loading... screens there are nice cinematics that 
 fill you in with story or are just strait up stylish.
  
  9/10
  
  GRAPHICS- This game IS probably the most detailed game I have ever played. Everything is well done 
 and has some of the best graphics on the 360. The blood in the game is 3D and isn't a red scrape 
 on the ground... it bulges out and has deminsion. The Grafitti in the game is smart and interesting 
 to look at. The characters all look convincing to very disgusting. Your guns smoke after being 
 shot and have thier own physics. The graphis are very good and over all immerse you deep into the 
 game.
  
  10/10
  
  SOUND: Now in this game I really commend the voice acting. The characters sound very convincing 
 and it feels like a real mobster movie. The darkness (mike patton) has the best voice for the character 
 and has a creepy interesting and unperdictable sound. The guns sound like guns and everything is 
 in place.
  
  8/10
  
  VALUE- This is where I have to divert from praise and give a little bit of bad news... the game 
 is shooter short... you may be wondering what shooter short is... well looking at most shooters you 
 can see that most shooters are around 10-18 hours long. This game is shooter short... I beat it 
 blazing through in around 10 hours. After ward I played the side missions and took my time and 
 took in the game I got another 16 hours. Multiplayer is tacked on and isn't worth playing as long 
 as you don't care for achievements.
  
  7/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alucard316
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  As the name emplies it's best to be in the darkness as you will have more power. The ability to 
 eat the hearts of your enemies is key to leveling up your powers and gaining more darklings I enjoy 
 impaling one and shooting another and taking their hearts. The graphics are great and the extras 
 are worth hunting for as the messages you get when you unlock something are humorous. When you 
 get a new outfit for the darklings it's always interesting and what they do to the dead is funny. 
 The zoom function is not that great for gun fights as it will only slow you down. It's best to 
 shoot out many of the lights you come across as the shadows they make will replenish your dark 
 power. This is one of the best in it's class in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimzon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  ok.... how to approach this
  
  let's start with the game play since it is the core of the game or at least a good 30% of it.
 
  
  the game plays fairly smooth with a constant fram rate which is always a plus in a shooter. the 
 controls are intuitive to say the least and the menus and the in game choices are quite perfect. 
 The Darkness powers are easy to use each has its own use and its own perk and no they are not overpowered 
 as many seem to think.. those who say so must have finished the game on the easy setting... even 
 the black hole power is terrific really but it forces you to get close to your enemies -who will 
 probably shoot the hell out of you before you get there- and leaves you drained for a few moments 
 afterwards which is quite enough usually to get your ass handed to you. Not to mention that managing 
 to get rid of ALL the lights is never as easy at it sounds and it will often results in you rannig 
 out of darkness power because you ended up under a bright spotlight you did not notice or too long.... in 
 other words the game just feels right although some game play elements could have been improved 
 upon and the movements Jackie could have been sped up just a little, yes the Darkness is not a 
 twitchy shooter but still sometimes it can get slightly bothersome. It's nice to say also that 
 there are no real loading sequences.... since every time such moments arrive there is an animated 
 scene of Jackie speaking or doing something.... also the fact that when he is speaking he seems 
 to be doing so with Jenny from a spotlight surrounded by darkness is a true touch of genius.
  
  Graphics. Well let's say it, The Darkness looks AMAZING. The chiaroscuro in the game is awesome. 
 the Physics are accurate and realistic, the details are as clear, as crisp and as sharp as ever 
 especially in the subway stations. Sometimes you will notice the odd not so detailed face in the 
 game but it is trascurable .... what might make some noses turn is the lipsinc and the lip animations 
 which are not quite up with the rest of the graphical splendor of the game itself. some of the 
 animations and the ragdoll physics could have been handled better as well. It is to notice that 
 the game lacks an HUD for the vat majority og it (icons remain on screen for a few moments when 
 you, say, select a darkness power or a weapon, but vanish almost right away truly making you feel 
 as if you were playing an interactive movie and not just a videogame.
  
  Sound: there is only 1 word to describe it..... perfect. it is everything it should be, excellent 
 gunfire, lovely sound effects in general -with the single very small flaw that some of the impacts 
 of objects thrown around could have been a lil louder- . The voiceacting is particularly shining 
 in this game, excellent characterization but for the love of GOD do all italian americans have 
 such a poor grasp of the italian  it''s quite an experience with 
 full blown surround sound. that and the Darkness itself has the creepiest, most fitting voice of 
 all the characters.
  
  Value: now... if you are someone who buys a shooter for the multiplayer aspect the Darkness is not 
 for you, The darkness has an excellent story, very dramatic and emotional in several points that 
 never really has up and downs but remains on a good solid level the entire time ..... it is abo9ut 
 10-12 hours long..... more if you decide to complete all the side missions which albeit simple add 
 flavor and fun to the game. The multiplayer tho is just a rather run of the mill experience but 
 it should not bring the overall score of the game down seen as the game is not MP oriented as the 
 developers themselves said over and over and focuses on the single player and its amazing story 
 which will drive you to replay the game a few times to get everything the way you wanted it to 
 be and of course the achievement which are not impossible -like some other games like GoW or Dead 
 Rising- but are just right to keep you playing those extra few hours
  
  all in all... I love the setting, I love what they did with the character and I love the supernatural 
 element
  
  this game deserves to be experienced 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a new FPS adventure based on a comic character. While I have to admit, I never 
 read Top Cow's book, I remember it's release, and I always get it confused with Witchblade... oh 
 well. One question (that fans of the books might be able to answer but is never addressed) is how 
 the comic character seems to have some kind of suit on, but the character you play as looks like 
 Glen Danzig with snakes coming out of his shoulders.
  
  Where this game shines is in it's single player story, which follows our hero from action, to action 
 gone bad, to bad gone weird. The supernatural elements are well done, the voice acting and script 
 are well done throughout, but my wife called it well when the lack of lip sinc was such that she 
 said they looked like puppets. As a shooter, it falls a little short. While the environments are 
 convincing and the level design is solid, overall, the gun play itself is the biggest letdown in 
 the game. Its not broken, it just barely does it. There are only a couple of kinds of weapons, 
 and ultimately the pistols you start with work best. When your Darkness powers kick in, you get 
 the feeling that the game wants you to use them most. Given that the guns can be so underwhelming, 
 one can only assume this to be true. The Darkness powers can be fun and gives the best action experiences 
 in the game, but after you get used to using them, the novelty wears a little thin. It never gets 
 boring (the story drives hard enough to keep that from happening) , but if it wasn't for the variety 
 given to you by the narative, the game would have fallen very short. Before I start nit-picking 
 here, let me just say that the game looks great. There are lots of great effects, the design is 
 spot on, and the grapics in general (textures, lighting, characters, environments, ect.) all look 
 great and the game runs very well, especially considering how nutty the game can get. Sound is 
 great, the music is appropriately moody. There are a lot of nice details that reall make you think 
 that the developers really put a lot of thought into a lot of things. The collection system is 
 pretty cool, in that you find phone numbers on various fliers and paper that you use to call the 
 numbers on a pay phone. You can even call numbers you see manually. The game has a real spooky, 
 evil tone that seems to fit well. The evil minions you summon are fun to watch, do lots of cool 
 stuff, and have great lines. The snakes that manifest themselves at your side even have personality, 
 and the way they tear hearts out of your victims to upgrade your powers is great. The game really 
 makes you out to be a real bad ass, and the death of your enemies is satisfying in a real sadistic 
 way without going too far.
  
  Now, lets pick. The game engine runs smooth enough, but your character moves like its swimming 
 in molases. Its not so painful until you find yourself backtracking a level and you can't seem 
 to move fast enough. Its nice to see your character move like a real person (and climb, jump, ect) , 
 but the sluggish movement grates on me a bit. The so so gun play was mentioned earlier, and is 
 pervasive. The game is set in New York, and while you are presented with it like it is open to 
 exploration, in fact you can only move through the story in a linear fashion, but back track as 
 you please. (?) The inclusion of free zones like the subway and your girl's house, where you can 
 choose to do the right or wrong thing and do little side missions is nice. Its also nice that skipping 
 it doesn't hurt you, especially given that it gets a little tired quickly. Your darklings that 
 you summon can be flat out dumb, and the enemies in the game act the same way sometimes. When under 
 pressure, they just run around and shoot blindly. Not long after you get your powers, you find 
 yourself dependent on them almost immediately. Sometimes you have to use them to solve puzzles 
 or move foward in the game. You can summon a snake and contol it yourself, moving through air ducts 
 and sneak around. While its cool and other powers can be used to move the story forward, you often 
 feel like your hand is held a little much and that you're never really using them in origional 
 ways. Lets face it, we've been way spoiled by games that allow for open and creative play, so the 
 linear stories are really starting to feel stale.
  Mulitiplayer is fine, but it won't sell this game. You've got your standard modes, with some twists 
 in being a darkling to give variety. Good players can find good use for the powers, but it won't 
 be somthing you do primarily in play. Stick to the single player, where the story gives enough 
 pay off to keep you coming back for more.
  Overall, given the slow summer release schedule, the Darkness is actually worth picking up. Those 
 who don't know the story or characters need not worry, the game stands on its own. For those looking 
 for the next great multiplayer experience, pass for that. But if you are looking for a casual adventure 
 to eat up 8 to 10 hours, check it out. You'll be pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakaweb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is difficult to put down once you start playing. So far I find the controls to be excellent 
 and the gameplay is absorbing. I've only played for about one hour but this is the real deal. This 
 game is worth adding to one's collection. The folks who designed this one are imaginative and talented 
 artist. Presentation is top notch. The story is interesting and the game is driven by it but the 
 way the Darkness take hold of Jackie is a bit bewildering. It seems to just happen, but once I 
 got pass that I was hooked. I want to know what will happen next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  For all those who thought a game based off a comic character would be a bad idea, well your wrong. 
 The Darkness is probably the best game to come out since Gears of War (maybe even better!) . The 
 game play is fantastic, with the ability to control the darkness and command darklings to do your 
 bidding you'll have hours of fun. And the controls are very easy to get use to. For all those who 
 are looking for a game with a good story plot, The Darkness has one (and I don't feel like spoiling 
 it) . This isn't just some random killing game with a vague story, everything done in this game 
 has purpose. Of course the graphics are fantastic, but that's expected. All and all I'd say that 
 they game is a must buy for everyone who owns a 360. There's nothing not to like about this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkslade
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  this game is one very enjoyable experience that should not be missed.
  yes its a first person shooter, but the game is much more than that. with its strong story from 
 beginning to the way you encounter other important people during the game makes this more interesting.
 
  for me its hard to keep me into a game before i get bored and stop
  playing, so far this is keeping me on my toes, with the excitement of
  what is coming and not knowing 
 is all the more welcome. the game controls are actually very good, and the options are all there
 
  with the ability to change the visuals and difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is very fun to play but it has some flaws. First, the good. This game has awesome 
 death scenes, great looking blood, and nearly perfect controls. The story is one of the bests in 
 awile. Now for the not so good part. New York is so big it is hard sometimes to find your missions, 
 the game is tough so its not as easy as it sounds or looks, the online is horribly laggy but overall 
 the online is fun. I like this game alot and once the patch comes it will be great. Buy this game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilkrups
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  this game is well worth every penny. its like rediscovering gears of war the sheer thrill of biting 
 some tards face off and devouring his heart LOL quite sick i know but if you like shooters and 
 freaky stuff this game is for you!!!!!!
  
  the game is dark and secretive at the start and you are unsure of what is really happening but 
 soon it all becomes clear. your uncle paulie wants you dead because you have a conscious and a 
 brain and he doesn't like medelers in crime family telling him what to do. so he puts a price on 
 your head.
  
  but when in the dark you start to hear voices, and then the the darkness manifests its self and 
 the fun and mistery starts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofhalo3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Truely Unique - and fun !, this is a must play if you; Like FPS, like action games, or just like 
 video games in general. This is a very good and fun game, with plenty of replay, I am not one that 
 cares for multiplayer, so I am not even considering that as part of a game for review. I was expecting 
 numerious things from this game being that it came from the makers of 'cronicles of riddick'. let 
 me tell you, I am not dissapointed, the graphics are great, and this has some of the best voice 
 acting I have ever heard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowhunter13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  It has a very engaging story, they voice acting feels like its an actual person talking, the graphics 
 are spectacular, when you can see them, The darklings are funny and the combat is fast pace. The 
 voice of Darkness is played very well, so much so that it seems like the thing speaking is truly 
 not human. The game is a bit short and the multiplayer sucks. I didn't read the darkness comic 
 before or any comics really, but this game might just have changed that. Plus, you get to impale 
 things and eat their hearts, that in itself is awsome. Plus the story and kick ass combat, makes 
 this game a masterpeice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_X5213
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a game based off the comic series; the darkness. Starting off, it was made by Starbreeze, 
 a company infamous for it's damn near perfect movie-game The chronicles of riddick, for the original 
 Xbox. So when I heard this game was being released, I swiftly added it to my must buy list.
  And boy was I in for a ride!
  
  Pro's 1) Absolutely gorgeous graphics, It's been quite a while 
 since I looked at my screen and said, damn thats pretty! You will be amazed at how great the detail 
 is, such quality.
  2) An interesting and fulfilling story line which will shock you at some points. Bonus points if 
 you've never read the comics (such as myself) I found myself battling harder when characters I 
 had grown attached to were in trouble.
  3) Originality. This game has plenty of it. Sure, the story is a little cliche at times but it's 
 okay. This is not your average shooter. when you step into darkness you summon these demons to 
 help you and give you powers. It's insane really!
  
  With all that, you're probably wondering why I slapped the Rent it first title on it. Con's 1) 
 Man, It's over? That's right, this game is really really short. like, 6 hours short ( 5 if you 
 don't do side missions) . That's like a hour for every 10.00$!
  That's ridiculous. My jaw DROPPED when the credits started rolling. 2) Maybe flesh out the relationship 
 between Jackie (main character) and the darkness. You'll hear the darkness talking but Jackie does 
 not acknowledge it. ever. If i didn't know any better, I'd say He doesn't even know they're there 
 3) Multiplayer. It kind of reminds me of quake 3. Why is that a bad thing? Well the servers for 
 this game are a joke. 3v3 is fine. but ANYTHING above that will send you into a lag fest. It could 
 have been good too. maybe a patch will fix the multiplayer, only time will tell .
  
  
  Thats my two cents on the darkness. It has an amazing (but short) single player and a tacked on 
 multiplayer. If you're a perfectionist who loves to play games several times through on every difficulty 
 and collect everything ( and believe me, there is a lot to collect ) then by all means, buy this 
 game. right now. but if you only like to play once and skip collecting everything and are looking 
 for a good multiplayer. Rent it. But nonetheless this is a must-play.
  If you like shooters and have a 360 then at least give this game a try. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vicon1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic i played the online and its a bit laggy so i thought i wasted my money, 
 so i decided to play singleplayer,,, i hate single play but i am having a hard time putting my controler 
 down from this story mode. Also i love the fact you can choose what to say in certian situwations 
 and that you dont get all powers right away this way you are excited about progressing through 
 game becuase you never know what will happen or what you will get next. I have almost 45 games 
 now and i have to say i am definetly sure this is my best one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiggerbug
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the funnest games i, ve ever played on the 360. and one of the funnest period! it, s 
 like res. evil 4, condemed, and doom3 all in one. i played it from 4.00. pm when i got it t, ill 5.00am, 
 woke up at 9.00am and played it all day till my fingers were numb and it just keeps getting better! 
 new powers and different things keep happening all the time, it, s like it never slows down. i, m 
 just about to finish it, and thats the only thing that sucks about this game cause i know it, il 
 be a little while before another cool game like this comes out! like, halo3. it also does, nt keep 
 you running around in circles if you pay attention to the signs and stay alert, you wont have any 
 problens at all finding where to go. i gave it a 9.5 but it could be a perfect 10 and that aint 
 no lie..... this is a must, must have if you have a 360 and a dam good game! nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Starbreeze is finally back. First off, i have never read the comic that this game is based off, but 
 the story is very easy to follow, and the game becomes truly engaging. This game doesn't have swarms 
 of enemies, but rather, is very deliberate in it's pacing, story, and how you progress. Once you get 
 your appendages things pick up a bit. The game has alot of interactive moments (answering phones, searching 
 for a specific person) but keeps you hooked all the while. The graphics are very detailed and sharp. 
 Excellent voice work helps as well. The only fault i have with the game is it's length. It can 
 easily be beaten in a day. Still, it's a definate must play, but the $50 price may be hard to swallow. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4degrees
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is the most well made games I've played in some time and I would probably go as far 
 as to say that it is the best on the Xbox 360 (I can't speak for PS3 as I don't have one but from 
 what I've heard its great on there too) .
  
  Anybody who has looked into this game for at least 30 seconds knows that its about Jacki Estacado 
 and this power he inherits on his 21st birthday. We also know its from Starbreeze (the same guys 
 who brought us Riddick... which I have not played but I've read great things about so don't expect 
 to hear about Riddick over and over again like in other reviews) . Since we all know this stuff 
 by now I want go on and on about it.
  
  So here is the review:
  
  The game starts you off in a car chase scene that plays out exactly like one would in an action 
 movie. You are being chased by the cops, and they aren't just trying to pull you over and ask you 
 if you are aware that you were speeding, going 75 mph in a 45 mph zone. THEY ARE SHOOTING AT YOU 
 AND THEY WANT YOU DEAD!!!!!!!!!! Lucky for you your in the backseat and you have two guys up front 
 prepared with guns.
  
  So as you can tell this game starts you right in the middle of an action sequence. However, unlike 
 other first person shooters the action is unending and you do get plenty of chance to catch your 
 breathe and fool around doing other stuff such as explore areas of New York (please not that this 
 is not an open-ended game like GTA so don't expect to be able to go anywhere you please) and the 
 New York subway system. While your in the subway stations there are good bit of side-quests you 
 can do but don't expect to spend too much time doing them as they normally don't take long.
  
  The story is excellent. The game is played out to where you actually become emotionally attached 
 to some people in the game such as your girlfriend, Jenny for reasons that I won't get into because 
 its a spoiler. Like I was saying though, story in The Darkness is fantastic. The dialog is incredibly 
 realistic and believable and the plot makes sense and won't make you scratch your head and go huh???! 
 because something doesn't quite fit together.
  
  Gameplay is great. The guns are fun to use as they should be but the real treat in The Darkness 
 is The Darkness powers themselves. Being able to summon darklings to help rid of your enemies, 
 stab people and left objects with the darkness arm, the Darkness pistols, and summoning black holes 
 are all amusing and do not get old at any point in the game. The only flaw to the combat system 
 is the autoaim which sometimes throws off your aim a bit when aiming for small things like light-bulbs 
 to shoot out.
  
  Sound is also well done too. All the guns have very distinct sounds. Background noise as you walk 
 through New York such as barking dogs and people fussing are realistic too as they fad away while 
 you walk away from them. Voice work is ridiculously good in this game as well. Especially Mike 
 Patton doing the voice of The Darkness (with no voice effects what so ever which makes his vocal 
 performance in the game so great because of the diverse voice of the Darkness) .
  
  Overall this game has minor flaws such as the auto-aim (which I believe can be turned off if it 
 is too annoying for you although I kept it on) but remains the best game I have played in a very 
 very long time. Probably since the first Half-Life.
  
  Plus for Mike Patton fans the credits are a real treat as Captain Midnight by Tomahawk (one of 
 the many band Mike Patton sings for) plays at the start of the credits.
  
  Its simple. Buy this game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArmedWolf001
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is indeed a game worth playing. The graphics are definitely very good, but there not 
 perfect, so you may notice a few small graphical flaws while playing. The sound in general is pretty 
 good and the music will rock your socks. If you haven't read the comic books, the story will still 
 keep your interest. Theres so many little things they put into this game that really broaden your 
 experience playing it.
  
  The first bit of action you get into, you may find it hard to aim accurately for awhile, but don't 
 worry you should get the hang of it after a few shots. Also, if you get close to an enemy, press 
 any of the triggers and you will perform an execution move. With The Darkness laying dormant in 
 you, it opens up several opportunities making the FPS genre much more interesting in this game. 
 Controlling The Darkness is very rewarding. When you first start abusing the powers of The Darkness, 
 you only have the creeping ability, but as long as you eat the hearts of all your victims, your 
 abilities should progress quickly.
  
  The multiplayer is often laggy, but when it's not lagging it can be pretty fun. In my opinion this 
 game just isn't multiplayer material, so it gets old fast. But if you ask me, the singleplayer 
 alone is enough of a reason to play this game. I finished the game in about three days, so you 
 may find renting to be a better option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkWolswor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is a nice refresher from the standard FPS. Darkness powers that enable you to stealth 
 kill enemies, throw cars around, and suck people into an black void really seems irresistable. 
 The lack of a crosshair might seem to make aiming hard but suprisingly its quite easy, there is 
 of course auto-aim involved with this. The story is somewhat short but it's engaging enough to 
 make you want to play it a second time with the dificulty turned up or down. The joy of throwing 
 your opponents across the room with a demonic appendege just never seems to fade. The most annoying 
 parts of this game are the small bugs, the controls feel off sometimes and when using your powers 
 to climb up a wall you sometimes just ram into the wall instead of climbing up it. The side-quests 
 are an entertaining refresher... but for the most part they're all the same, take object A to person 
 B, kill this group of people, jump in front of a train for an sadistical tourists pleasure... The 
 multiplayer is THE biggest problem with this game, it seems like it has the possibility to be very 
 fun, but the lag makes any match unplayable, this is a problem effecting everyone at the moment 
 and many people are hoping for a patch to fix this, but If you enjoy watching your character teleport 
 into a wall then it might be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Nexus3367
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  I think the story is told very and the voice overs are incredible. The gameplay is smooth and very 
 intuitive while the darkness element makes it feel fresh throughout. Multiplayer is fun but not 
 incredible and the modes are pretty standard for the most part. I love the game's overall package 
 and it keeps me interested to play more of the game everytime i clear a part of the story. If you 
 are curious to try this game out, it will definitely not disappoint despite the somewhat short 
 but very fulfilling story and otherwise great gameplay. Another fantastic game from the creators 
 of the Butcher Bay game and I look forward to more of their work if its anything like this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: npili
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok, the game kicks serious @$$! One word summary: immersive! The action is really fun and gory 
 (dual-wielding pistols that pay homage to the gun-kata from movie Equilibrium AND you can command 
 crazy, monster tentacles and demons that have an affinity to eat human hearts) . But, I think the 
 coolest and most immersive part of the game (which isn't really touched upon on some of those game 
 review sites) was a scene where I got the choice to sit on a couch and lounge watching To Kill 
 A Mockingbird . I thought it was neat that it was playing the real movie, but was expecting it 
 to end and loop at some point (5 to 10 minutes into it would've been expected) . Well, just to see 
 (cause I'm a curious lad) , I sat there for about 45 minutes watching the freaking movie! It was 
 still going when I just decided to continue with the game (btw, it was still playing and I could 
 hear the movie in the background) . I probably could have stayed there and finished the movie if 
 I wanted or could have not even sat on the couch in the first place. But, that is where the immersion 
 comes in. Even though the game is linear, you have these types of scenarios in the game where you 
 can choose to do something that's totally different from the storyline or the action sequences 
 when you feel like it. The fact that they simply added these sequences just to draw you into the 
 setting and the character is a refreshing and totally unexpected element to add to this FPS. I 
 bought the game for the action, but now I'm more geared up to see what type of everyday choices 
 I'm allowed to make.
  
  I really like it so far and if you do end up picking it, remember not to just play it like a normal 
 FPS. If you see a phone, pick it up, dial a number (at times, you are able to dial whatever number 
 you want) , and see who answers. If you see a tv, don't shoot it, watch it and you may be surprised 
 at what comes on and if you hate it, feel free to blast it to bits! All in all, I recommend even 
 if you're not into FPS games since the story, dialog, voice-acting, music, and graphics are all 
 top notch. I highly recommend if you are really into unlockables (you can unlock full comics of 
 The Darkness) , achievements, and collecting since this game is chock full of them! Thumbs up, Starbreeze, 
 way up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madden118
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- This game plays great and has alot of nice animations. There are lots of cool execution 
 moves you can do! Ths makes the game alot more fun than other first person shooters. The Darkness 
 powers you have in this game are sick. One of the power you get is the Creeping Dark! This lets 
 you control one of the demon heads. While controlling this demon head you can pick up objects, perform 
 stealth kills, and climb walls and ceilings. The next power is the Demon Arm. This lets you impale 
 and lift objects such as cars or people. You can use to knock out lights also. Another power is 
 the Darkness Guns. These guns are created by the darkness and it uses the darkness energy as ammo. 
 The last power is the Black Hole. The Black Hole sucks in anything near it. This power just rocks!!
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are amazing!! Great lighting effects, and great textures. Its 
 one the best looking games ever! Sound- The game sound great. Great sound effects of guns and it 
 has the best voice acting ever in a game! It's just amazing.
  
  If you have a 360 or if your getting one this should be one of the first games you get. Its that 
 good!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stacyhilt
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I was a fan of The Darkness comic from the start, When I heard the Starbreeze had helmed the game, 
 being a fan of Riddick and Enclave I was sold. Not to my surprise or anyones for that matter this 
 game blew away all expectations that I had for games as an entertainment medium. We as an industry 
 need to take something away from what Starbreeze has done here, by creating a mature and compelling 
 game without being over the top ala' GTA franchise. On a side note Mike Patton has been one of 
 my favorite musicians of all time and his appearance gave this game a ton a credibility amongst 
 music and game fans alike. He is simply amazing and in my opinion stole the show with his vocal 
 range and performance as the not so nice voice in your head. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Its rare now a days with these next-gen games to have a decent OFF LINE story mode, but Darkness 
 has done just that. The game is abit confusing at first when you step into it - and the controls 
 are abit odd... but the game slowly starts to grow on you... if you allow this to happen you are 
 going to be in for a twisted right of horror as you start to find things out about your past. The 
 gun play is decent, not the best, nor is there any type of tactical covering system in the game 
 to conceal you from enemy fire - but who needs that really when you're harvesting the powers of 
 darkness, provided you stay away from the lite. The darkness powers are decent, you'll be happy 
 when you unlock most of the abilities. The game makes sure it avoids all repeatativeness and keeps 
 you busy listening to what the main character has to say about the storyline during loading times 
 - very nice touch by the way. The guns don't seem to handle like real - or have any real feel to 
 thatm for that matter, but it doesn't bother you very much once you start to use all of your powers. 
 The controls of the creeper are abit annoying - you are unable to look around freely and I feel 
 traped in crappy controls while running around as one - unlike the first footage they show you 
 of the creeper killing the man behind the tome-stone in the graveyard, if it had free controls 
 like that I'd be impressed. The graphics of the game are decent, and the programing seems to have 
 been done well - but when looking into the mirror the programming starts to suffer abit in the 
 framerate department. You'll really enjoy the storyline of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dailydownloader
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Most first person shooters in the last few years lack any originality in gameplay and story like 
 The Darkness. The Darkness contains many things that you just don't see very often or even at all 
 in FPS's. Some examples include close-up finishing moves that you can execute with just the push 
 of a button, or the insanely cool and realistic gameplay, graphics, and physics that are top notch 
 and nearly perfected. Let me remind you that those were only a few of the awesome things that you 
 can immerse yourself into while playing this game. (Let's not forget the darkness powers) Straight 
 from the beginning you'll find yourself in the life of Jackie Estacado, a man in the mafia with 
 a bad reputation. Right from the start that you are on a mission to get some money for your Uncle 
 Pauly, the head of the mafia. You don't get the money due to a no show of the people you were supposed 
 to get it from, and now your running from the cops. You then get the powers of the darkness which 
 is passed down from generation to generation with the first born son in the Estacado family. For 
 them to take effect, the first born son must turn twenty one on his birthday. So Jackie is possessed 
 by this power and is on his own to find out what the hell is going on. The gameplay and graphics 
 go together hand in hand. It's like this, with the graphics being so good, the gameplay elements 
 that you do in the game are that much cooler and funner to do. Ripping people's hearts out and 
 finishing them off has never been so cool looking and fun to do at the same time. This is where 
 The Darkness becomes so mind-blowing and awesome. Not to mention as you get further in the game 
 and the more the hearts you eat, the greater your powers increases throughout the game. Like I 
 said earlier in this review, the graphics are without a doubt top notch and almost the best I've 
 seen ever in a video game. This also goes with the physics being so well done too. I noticed little 
 things like Jackie's hair, gun wounds, overall shadowing throughout the game, and voice acting 
 are done so well. I love the cinematic feel of this game and how it sucks you into the game as 
 a whole.
  
  The sound is not bad at all but could be done a little better. Some things sound a little off at 
 times and the music isn't the best it could be. I was expecting heavy metal or something like that 
 more throughout the game because of how violent it is. But it's still pretty impressively done.
 
  
  The value is unquestionably there in this game. When you go through the game, you'll find phone 
 numbers that will unlock secrets like concept artwork and video's, actually comics that you can 
 scroll side screen and read, screens of the characters and levels. There is also three difficulty 
 settings from the start and multiplayer. I haven't played the multiplayer at all, but I've seen 
 video's of it and it seems still original and cool.
  
  The tilt is what it is. This game is so original and unbelievable that it could only deserve a 
 10, nothing lower. I've never experienced a FPS like this one, and that's the truth.
  
  I tried to be as unbiased as i possibly could while typing this review. But if you've read this 
 review, please take note of what I've said and if you disagree with it you disagree and I can understand 
 that. I still stand behind my review regardless of what anybody else thinks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoenir
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  This is a very well designed, and well executed title. Despite a few liberties taken with the license 
 they have done the IP justice. The game offeres great character interact immersing the player further 
 into the game. It also offers many collectibles for those collecters that must find every hidden 
 item. A number of unique achievements make for some interesting discoveries through out the play 
 experience.
  
  The only weak point in this game thus far is the multiplayer experience. The multiplay is more 
 or less a revamped version of the Alien vs. Predator shooters with some severe lack issues, though 
 the lag may be worked out at a later date. We just have to see. Aside from the multiplayer complications 
 the game plays well and is quite fun, with an interesting story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor117
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  good-everything single player
  alright-multi-player
  bad-nothing
  
  this is not just another f p s with its own little catch. If you like shooters and u have a little 
 imagination ur gonna love this game.
  
  multiplayer is pretty good if your good at it but if you dont like fast paced games like quake 
 4.. then your not gonna like this multiplayer. But even so id still highly recommened this game 
 even if it didnt have multiplayer.
  
  BTW. for you people who are wondering what the master of the darkness achievement is.... cause i 
 was too. press start and go 2 achievements and scroll down 2 number 39 (the master of darkness 
 achievement) and under it it will show all your darkness abilities, and depending on how much u 
 use them u will have a higher percent. Ofcorse the objective is to get them all to 100% and u get 
 the achievement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenzel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  WELCOME TO NEW YORK
  
  A whiz, a bang, and the flash of muzzle fire and The Darkness has already started. Only moments 
 after popping it into the 360 console, the games already off and running. After the opening cutscene 
 (done in the 1st person style made popular by Half-Life) The Darkness thrusts you into the action 
 immediately, throwing gunfight after gunfight upon you before the credits even finish rolling. 
 It's a great start. There's no long opening cutscene to explain the way things are, you discover 
 it on your own, and its a great hook that draws the player in further.
  
  GUN-KATA
  
  For anyone who has seen the movie EQUILIBRIUM, the words Gun-Kata should be familiar to you. If 
 you haven't, Gun-kata is a form of pistol wielding martial arts that blends kung-fu and gunplay 
 for destructive results. Appearantly, Jackie Estacado (the protagonist) is a student. The gunplay 
 in the game is both easy to control and fun, with special moves called Executions being able to 
 be pulled of on the fly. By running up to an enemy and tapping the right trigger, a close quarters 
 autokill is performed with satsifying (and bloody) results. The only problem with the gunplay is 
 ammo is scarce, like Resident Evil 1 scarce. You'll constantly find yourself with empty guns, but 
 its okay, because the Darkness powers more than compensate.
  
  SERPENTINE
  
  As you've probably guessed (if you've seen any screenshots at all) , during the game you aquire 
 a set of Darkness powers. Go figure, considering the game is called The Darkness. These powers 
 are what really make the game shine. The first power is the ability to guide one of your serpent 
 shoulders and have it stealth kill, pick up weapons, devour hearts, or just scout around. Its fun, 
 and the controls feel tight. As you devour more hearts, you get more powers. That's when the real 
 fun comes. The second power allows you to impale objects or enemies with a sharp tentacle. It works 
 a lot like the gravity gun from Half-Life 2, just stab and throw. The more hearts you devour, the 
 more powers, and they're a blast to use.
  
  HEART HEALTHY
  
  As mentioned above, there is the abillity to devour the heart of any fallen enemy. It acts as the 
 games experiance system; the more you eat, the stronger you are. It's gruesome, bloody, painful, 
 gory, and incredibly satisfying. It's absolutely awesome.
  
  AUDIO
  
  The sound in this game is amazing. All the voice actors are top notch and convincing. Audio clues, 
 such as footsteps are important and handled nicely. The music is perfect for the games dark (pun 
 intended) world, with orchestral music accompanying the slow parts, and rock opera paired with 
 the gunfights.
  
  OVERALL
  
  The Darkness is a brilliant game dripping with atmosphere, mood, tension, and all the right stuff. 
 This is a must buy game.
  
  Controls: 9/10
  Audio: 10/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Overall: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrafinha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Excellent work in graphics, ambient, presentation, offers good gameplay, almost perfect sound ingame. 
 AI could've been better, wepons and powers of Jackie should've been more explored in terms of divirsity 
 and eficiency, levels could've been wider and more interactif, not just basically the ligths, I'm 
 not gone speak of online mode because I didnt' try it, although I think that some games are for 
 one player only.
  Has a fan of the comic book it was nice to could have seen lots of darklings on screen at the same 
 time and not just one, lots of more powers and Jackie in costume, (would've been nice to drive 
 is Lamborghini too) , story related, good contet, I think there is nothing more we can ask, when 
 there is a conversion from comic to film or in this case from comic to videogame, I'm telling this 
 because of the look a like motion picture starbreeze gives to its games.
  Overall we have a good game, delivers almost in every aspects and is worthy of our time, just hope 
 Starbreeze folks keep doing their thing and deliver us another pearl like the past two, can&acute; t 
 wait for the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamekingpin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  The darkness is truly a masterpiece. The graphics are are the best on the 360, the sound is very 
 much on point, and the dialog really gets you deep into the game. This game has the perfect mixture 
 of intense FPS action, to calm parts that help the plot to unfold. You start off in the action 
 right away killing off hit men, then you escape to the calm subway to gather info. Then, its back 
 to the streets for more killing, and a rest at your girlfriends house before the next shootout. 
 All accompanied by a soundtrack that perfectly suits every situation.
  The game is so detailed not just in the looks but in the actual game, just turning on a TV and 
 flipping through the channels could cause you to forget about the tasks at hand just because you 
 were interested in the look of the television shows. (I know I was) The game play is wonderful. 
 The aiming system helps to make your bullets count; but who needs bullets to kill people when you 
 can just shoot out the lights and let the Darkness rip peoples hearts out. You may even want to 
 summon a darkling and watch this violent but humorous creature rip people apart while reciting 
 comical one liners. Even dying is entertaining as the screen turns red like you have blood in your 
 eyes and then hearing the Darkness's demonic voice telling you that dying is not an option before 
 respawning at the most recent checkpoint. Then there are the parts in between the action where 
 you take time to talk to people, gather information, and just enjoy the beautiful yet dark world 
 around you. You can interact with anyone but the people that actually have something to say will 
 be marked with a name to introduce their character. Almost everything about this game is brilliant. 
 The drawbacks are too small to really take away from the game. The AI is not really that intelligent, 
 the snake tentacle that you control will take some serious getting use to at first, and the multiplayer 
 is not much to talk about; but other than that all of the other great elements will make you forget 
 about these things. This is definitely worth playing I would highly recommend it. Anyone who liked 
 condemned and FEAR will love this game because it is like both rolled into one, with a touch of 
 the Godfather. The developers definitely put a tremendous amount of thought into this game and 
 it truly shows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendaryDante1
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:53 am PT
Review:  The gameplay of The Darkness seems to be another few layers added to the Chornicles of Riddick: 
 Escape from Butcher Bay. You still have Starbreeze's noticeable attention to detail with the head 
 bobbing, hands adjusting to move around objects to get a clear shot, helpful enemy dialog, etc. 
 This game, however, takes everything that you liked about Riddick and pushes it a step further. 
 Unlike most shooters (indeed most games of any genre nowadays) , The Darkness is very story driven. 
 The plot is very compelling, and you start to feel for the good characters and really hate the 
 bad guys. By the time you've downed about your 50th cop heart, you're surprisingly eager to get 
 to the bottom of things and rip apart the guys who have wronged you. Half of the storytelling in 
 this case is the story itself, the other half is the vessel that is telling it. The voice acting 
 is some of the best that you will hear in a video game, and there is plenty of it. The loading 
 screens are all little looks into Jackie's thoughts that stand well as poignant monologues. The 
 copious extras, TV shows, and movies are just some examples of great sound and attention to detail 
 that can be found throughout the game.
  As far as the game itself goes, it starts out slow and admittedly a bit clunky when you are your 
 mere mortal self. Quickly, you are shown all the incarnations of the Darkness' power in one life-saving 
 display and are ready to go unlock the rest of the powers once the smoke clears. While the darkness 
 powers are not seamlessly integrated into the game, they do make it a lot more fun (the most noticeable 
 problem is that enemies will all but ignore Creeping Dark even while you are biting the faces off 
 of and ripping the hearts out of people who are literally a foot in front of them) . What really 
 makes darkness powers fun is the demon arm (the second power unlocked) because it really lets you 
 feel like you are in control of an awesome power as you effortlessly put out lights, manipulate 
 objects, and impale enemies.
  In comparison to the darkness powers, the guns seem mundane especially when you've unlocked all 
 the powers and you are a one-man tentacle army. To counter this, the folks at Starbreeze gave long 
 cool-down times to counter the awesome power of the darkness and reward you for resorting to normal 
 guns by giving you excecution moves. These are akin to the melee counter attacks used in the Chronicles 
 of Riddick and produce the same effect: you don't waste ammo, the other guy dies in gory eye-candy.
 
  Last on the list of enemy-killing tools are the darklings. There are four kinds, but they don't 
 last long enough or act quickly enough to be much use, especially at later levels. Don't get me 
 wrong, they're funny, but they are not very functional. Compared to your body count (hundreds by 
 the end of the game) , it will take some trying to get each kind of darkling to kill more than ten 
 enemies in the course of the game.
  As far as graphics go, the game looks really good, and should be played in HD at all costs. It's 
 almost a shame that you need to be in the dark so much, because the coolest thing in the game is 
 to look at the serpent heads that make up your HUD in the light, when they glisten and you can 
 see their excellent textures.
  All in all, the darkness is a wonderful game with a great story, cool action, and the best looking 
 HUD that I've ever seen. It doesn't really deliver as a horror game so much, but as an action game 
 it delivers on every front. The only complaint I have is that the AI is lacking. Oh yeah, did I 
 mention that YOU EAT THE HEARTS of your enemies? The darkness if full of moments where you will 
 be wishing that you could take a third person perspective (e. g. an enemy takes cover behind a car, 
 so you lift it up and use it to crush him against a house, or while you are training your sights 
 on one enemy, you're also eating the heart of his fallen comrade, or you can talk to a hobo and 
 continually flash darkness mode (serpents and all without him doing a thing) ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindFreakRaven
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  This game was amazing from start to finish, stunning graphics, Great voice work, and Darkness powers 
 that seem to never get old. Dont avoid getting this game because you wont be dissapointed. At its 
 core, The Darkness is a first-person shooter, with Estacado's skills as a hitman allowing him to 
 make use of a wide variety of guns, from basic 9mm handguns and submachine guns to high-powered 
 assault rifles and automatic shotguns. Estacado will primarily use these in well-lit environments, 
 when he cannot efficiently use Darkness Powers, and they can also be used in conjunction with his 
 power for maximum effect. Mixed with all of his Darkness powers and it makes for one unique, macabe, 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The Darkness is your standard FPS with a lot of twists and innovations, as well as creativity. 
 You basically have the selection of an an arrray of weapons (pistols, automatics, pump-action, 
 etc.) and powers (which I'll detail more on later) . You begin the story on your way to a killing 
 (who doesn't love a good mobster) and soon the Darkness overtakes you, that's all I'll tell you 
 because the story is the high-point in this game, and gives you a real reason to keep playing. 
 Okay so the Darkness consists of your powers, and adds the real mix-up. As far as selection goes 
 you can use your powers to shield you, send off a tentacle to kill, you can devour hearts, create 
 black holes, summon darklings, and more. Once you really delve into the game you realize how much 
 you can do, but while the gameplay is great, you may feel like the game doesn't require specific 
 powers enough, and the innovative system somewhat goes to waste (unless you really find a way to 
 use it, depending on how you play) . The A. I. is somewhat clumsy, the Darklings need to be bossed 
 way to much and they often get stuck, but the enemy A. I. seems competent enough to provide a challenge. 
 Multiplayer is a little different in the fact you can be a human or shapeshift into a Darkling. 
 Variety-wise you only have about 4 game types (Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Survival, CTF) and 
 4 maps or so (not sure how many exactly) . The only bad part about multiplayer is, from what I've 
 seen, it's very laggy regardless of the host's connection (I joined green latency games and within 
 2 minutes it lagged way too much) . Once a patch is released for multiplayer I'd totally recommend 
 it, except it needs maybe a few downloadable maps and game types.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are pretty good. The facial emotions really aren't there, and 
 when the great voice-acting comes in you'll be dissapointed to see the characters barely moving 
 their mouths. The Darklings, powers, enemies, they all look great, as well as lighting, shadows, 
 and overall polish.
  
  Sound: The Darkness has great voice-acting, a compelling soundtrack (that really gets you pumped 
 up for battle) , and a variety of nuances that will keep the sound turned up. The guns, lights shattering, 
 doors opening, everything just sounds like you know it might and really immerses you.
  
  Value: Until the multiplayer is patched, I think the value is nill. As far as completing the game 
 you'll probably play through it at least twice (8-10 hour completion time on average) , and with 
 the shoddy and rushed multiplayer being so laggy, it might be pushed off once you're done until 
 a patch is released. The achievements really make you get your bang for your buck (hey, finding 
 all 100 collectables will take a keen eye) , as well as making sure you use all of your abilities 
 equally.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: The story is great, the weapons are great, the spells are great, the sound is 
 fantastic, the graphics are great, overall it's a solid package that is really worth your $60, 
 if not a long rental where you could spend some real time with it. I highly recommend this game 
 to any fan of a great story or innovative FPS'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headrush55
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:22 pm PT
Review:  First off, Mike Patton (lead singer of Dillinger Escape Plan for you people that don't know) amazing 
 job. In the beginning I thought his part was a little to textured but by the end I thought it all 
 came together well. There was some minor movement issues I have found but overall because the game 
 was so simple to pick up and play that minor detail was over looked. Powers were great but I've 
 talked to a few people that wish you could use more earlier (i think the time line was pretty well 
 done right.) I finished the game on easy in about a day. I don't believe that it was because the 
 game was short. I just think I logged a lot of hours into it. It often got me hooked. I did feel 
 like there were to many loading screens. I like that you put the main character talking to himself 
 but it was often annoying when I had a side quest in one subway ask me go to a place in the opposite 
 subway. It will have replay value to me though and I'm sure I will be playing it through again 
 soon. I also recommend this as a buy to most people i have met. I have yet to try the multiplayer 
 due to I don't like that style of multiplayer. But the game is worth the buy solely on the single 
 player alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cougar63
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The story mode in this game is right in step with the comic series. The Darkness powers are just 
 truly fun to use. The way you can scale walls and see what is ahead and stealth kills is genius 
 on Top Cow. Easy to pick up and play, plenty of extra content, including the comic series based 
 on the game to read as well. I am still involved in the story mode and what I have played so far, 
 I have not wanted to put down the controller. Not boring or repetitive by no means. Find new ways 
 to do things, the letter, phone number collectable are a nice touch. The fact that you cant die 
 and play the mission until you get it right is way cool. LOVE IT!!! Worth the 60.00 for this game. 
 Looking forward to playing it on line soon too, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  The opening scene has to be one of the most visually intense and exhausting intro to any game i 
 have ever played only behing COD2. Without spoiling it, let's just say that you are immediately 
 part of a ride from hell through a tunnel and you aren't driving but the visuals feel like you 
 are right there with every turn and fender bender. UNBELIEVABLE!! INNOVATIVE!! OOPS I CRP'D MY 
 PANTS.
  
  I wasn't expecting this game to deliver but it has 110%. It could have been a big disapointment 
 (think indian cheifs and aliens) or a revolutionary game and in my humble opinion it is the latter.
 
  
  Visually super stunning
  Movie quality voice acting, Awesome story, Creepy environment that at times makes the hair stand 
 up on end
  The Mob
  Creepy and stylish environments
  You actually can't wait to become more evil to kick the bad guys a''
  Sound is Superb
  
  
 This is an incredible game if you like FPS's with a Mob-Sadistic Demon-Evil -Kind of way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blt338
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  ok i got this game a day and a half ago, and just now beat. why u say, well cause i like to get 
 all the unlockables ahah. ok, on with the review :) . ok first off THE DARKNESS, IS A NAME THAT 
 JUST SOUNDS LIKE OOZES BAD-@$$. secondly that statement is o so very friggin true. u play a mob 
 hitman and somewhat nephew to a mob king pin named, paulie. and let me tell u hes a mean @$^&amp;, 
 actually about 99 percent of 80 percent of everyone in this game is evil. anyway, heres the review 
 score for the visuals of the game.
  u know i was actually shocked how well the game looked, cause im an idiot and still have a crappy 
 un-hd tv hehe. but like i said the game looked absolutely freakin amazing on my tv. characters 
 come to life with lifelike facial gestures, movements, and most of all they give a sense that ur 
 actually in the game. so in conclusion i give it a 10 out of 10.
  
  next up is gameplay. i was also thoroughly amazed at how fun this game actually was. i mean my 
 character jackie estacado is a tough son of a b@#%&amp;, and when i play this game i feel like 
 a tough son of a b@#%&amp;. lol so therefore for a job very well done i give it a 10 out of 10.
 
  
  next is sound.
  this game, in my opinion, has some of the most disgusting sounds thart have ever graced my ears 
 and i loved it hehe. for example u order these little impish demons around so in one level, a warehouse, 
 i turned on a table saw, summoned a, darkling, and he then turned to a enemy, put him on the table 
 saw, and then preceded to ram his nuts into the blade. if u can even imagine a sound like that 
 then u might know that they nailed it on the head, no pun intended. so for the achievment of some 
 of the nastiest sounds i award this game with a 10 out of 10
  
  next and finally is repaly value: now unfortunatly for thise who like like games, this is not one 
 of them. but i will say that this game is a very good game for online play, soley on the fact that 
 u can morph from a darkling into a human in mulitplayer modes. ill just say being a darkling has 
 its perks lol. if u buy it ull know what i mean lmao. so for this i give it a 8 out of 10.
  
  overall i am so very friggin happy too have bought this game. i can tell u without a doubt 
 that this is one of my favorite first person shooters on the 360 or any game system to date. i 
 highly reccomend this game to anyone who just wnats to kill muahahahahaha lmao. but seriously if 
 u are faint of heart do not buy this game. it is very violent na di do not reccomend it for that 
 reasn to any one whos squeamish. so to all u people who will buy it just make sure u dont do this: 
 DO NOT LET THE DARKNESS CONSUME YOUR SOUL MUAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA . HAPPY HUNTING YALL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRuNnIngShaDoWx
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is Starbreeze the creator of one of my favorite FPS game of all time Chronocles of 
 Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay. Knowing how good Riddick was I knew that I would have to buy 
 The Darkness their new FPS based on a comic. Gameplay: The Gameplay comprises of shooting guns 
 ofcourse and then using your unique Darkness powers that you aquire throughout the game. The Shooting 
 is quite fun and you can perform some slick execution moves from point blank with you pistols. 
 I pretty much only used my guns the whole game because the game is so easy you dont have to use 
 your Darkness powers (I had it on medium difficulty) . The Darkness powers arent really as fun as 
 you would think, each power gets boring quick. Some Powers are really useless like the Darkness 
 pistols. The Darkness Pistols are especially boring and useless and I was quite mad when I found 
 that out after using them. Overall the gameplay isnt anything special. AND IT DEFINITELY DOESNT 
 REDEFINE FPS GAMES. PERIOD.
  
  -AI sucks a$$ plus you dont fight anything other than people the whole game so it gets boring.
 
  -The Darkness Powers arent that fun after a while also adding to the boredom.
  
  Sound: Excellent, very well done music and voice acting. From the moody dark themed music to the 
 voice acting of Jackie Estacado himself is very very well done. The voice of the Darkness was done 
 so well that in the subway section (Cant use Darkness powers in subway but The Darkness talks whenever 
 you hit the button) that I actually forced the Darkness to talk just so I could listen to the various 
 lines performed flawlessly by Mike Patton.
  
  -Simply well done
  
  Graphics: Very Impressive graphics in this game. You will enjoy the visuals in this game. The only 
 problem I have is that when you look at, say the walls close up and personal it looks blurry, muddy 
 as some would say.
  
  -Fantastic graphics best weve seen in a while.
  
  Value: Obviously with a HORRIBLE Multiplayer and a Single player that lasts a max of 15 hours this 
 is where the game really hurts. I thought the multiplayer would be fun atleast for a couple weeks 
 that is, until I played it. I played exactly two games and I was done. IT IS AWEFUL. It just plain 
 sucks.
  
  I cant express how much the multiplayer sucks I really cant. Story: I had to mention the story 
 in my review just because it was so damn good. One of the best stories seen in a FPS. I dont want 
 to give anything away but man its good. Its another reason to play this game.
  
  -Its an incredible story that will keep you wanting more.
  
  Conclusion: Alright so the gameplay 
 isnt nearly as good as we thought it was going to be and there isnt much value to the game but 
 its still a solid shooter. Though Honestly I expected much more from Starbreeze but oh well I guess 
 there is always The other 20 good games coming out this year.
  
  -This game is a MUST RENT so rent it beat it and you will be satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jud0ka
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Chances are if you have been researching this game then you already come across what people think 
 of the graphics, sound and such. To this reviewer, the reason to play this game is to experience 
 a dark, disturbing story that could get you fired up.
  
  Some games tell such a good story that when a certain event happens in front of you. It can invoke 
 you to continue on and try to accomplish what the main protagonist is trying to achieve. This game 
 has that type of tale. It will inspire you to continue to finish your goal. I believe best not 
 to tell anything about what happens because you may expect it. The story does foreshadow but that 
 is normal with well written dialogue. Some of the most profound conversations to me are the ones 
 between Jackie and the Darkness. I cannot really go any further without taking info from the game. 
 The darkness powers are incredibly fun to use and the gun play is amazing. The development team 
 gathered inspiration from the move Equilibrium and the idea of gun kata. It is not as extravagant 
 as the movie but the gun motion is fluid and stylish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamishb99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  OK, maybe it's not quite as good as GTA or God of War, but it sure is spectacular! The openness 
 of the environment is similar to GTA, including side missions. This is not always a good thing, 
 as I became lost several times. But the freedom to roam and the brutality in which you can whack 
 innocent civilians is sweet. The Darkness powers are pretty impressive, although not nearly as 
 useful as the God of War's knives. Given the choice between swords attached to my arms by chains 
 or demon serpent heads as extra arms, I'm not sure which I would pick. So, in that sense, Jackie 
 is a bad a$$.
  
  Overall, a fun game with a good story and great graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  first of all, let me tell everyone here that I was sceptical about buying this game because of 
 the user voted, and what they rated it on average (7.9 as of now) so I wasn't sure about spending 
 $60.00 on a game that isn't too good. But I took a plunge and went for it and bought it earlier 
 today. I have to say that this game is amazing. I love everything about it. I will break it down 
 into sections.
  
  Gameplay: This game is so fun so play. Eventhough some people my complain because there's only 
 4 darkness powerd throughout the game, it's still really cool. They are all so fun to use and they 
 all look cool. I don't want to spoil it for anyone but my favorite so far is the creeping dark. 
 It's fun if you climb on walls &amp; ceilings with it and sometimes the enemy won't notice you 
 and you can take a nice chunk of their face off. It's really cool. the the helpful auto-aim is 
 good. It doesnt get annoying like some games where you can't even switch target's , it's so bad. 
 You can still freely look around it just aids you in getting the perfect shot (headshot is what 
 you mainly aim for) . And there are quite a few guns in this game to experiment with and see which 
 you like the best, although you will probably end up using your standard dual pistols for the majority 
 of the game. Another really cool thing about this game is the the loading screens show Jackie doing 
 something in a black area with a chair and a light on him, or it shows him talking about the specific 
 area you are going in. It's very cool, and I have never seen a game that has done that. What's 
 also kind of cool is that it's a little bit of a free-roam. you don't have to go straight to your 
 next mission right away some of the time, and you can just wander around for a bit if you want 
 to take a break from the missions, or just want to fool around with your powers.
  
  Graphics: This game has amazing graphics, it's easily one of the games with the best graphics i've 
 seen on these next-gen systems. Everything looks so real. I especially really like the graphics 
 on your tentacles and other powers. The tentacles look so cool on the sides of the screen, and 
 when they recharge, they suck in the darkness and even that looks really cool and kind of like 
 a smoke type of texture.
  
  Sound: This game has really good sound. The sound of the guns were very well done. Even the sounds 
 of the lights breaking when you shoot them sound amazing. You can just here the glass fall and 
 hit the ground. The sound I like most and what I think was made the best, is the sound it makes 
 when you devour someone's heart. you can just hear the heart coming out and your darkness tentacles 
 eating it (gross i know) . But overall the sound was very well done.
  
  Replayability: This game has some replayability, not much though. I think (not sure) that it's an 
 achievement stack so when you beat hard mode, you get the achievement for beating hard mode and 
 normal mode. But if you started on an easier mode than hard, you can still have the achievement 
 to motivate you to play it again on hard mode. But if you have already beaten hard mode, than there's 
 not much more to persuade you to play it again, besides trying to find the numbers to get more 
 collectibles. There are some very hard achievements to get in this game, mainly the one being, 
 the achievement were you need to kill all of the workers in the beginning of the game. It is very 
 hard because you're in a care going very fast and you have to time it right. Most people ar enot 
 sure if you have to kill all the workers, or just most. I don't know the answer to that question 
 either, as I did not get the achievement. But this is a achievement you can try to get if you've 
 done the other ones, because you can just start a new game and keep trying/ Although you still 
 have to sit through the beginning part before you get to shoot at the workers which does take up 
 a few minutes. But it's all up to you.
  
  Live: I've only tried the live for this game a little bit and it seems ok so far. A lot of people 
 say that it has issues with the lag and the framerate, and I have experianced that a little bit. 
 But people, don' t be discouraged, i'm sure that the company will release an update in not too 
 long of a time, and it will help, if not fix, the problem hopefully. Some of the achievements are 
 for xbox live and, a lot of people, me begin one of them, don't want to pass them up.
  
  Overall Synopsis: Overall, I believe that every fan of FPS that has a Xbox 360 should most definetely 
 buy this game. I am major fan of FPS especially very gory ones, and that is what this game has 
 to offer. I am glad I spent the $60.00 to buy this game. I'm not going to go overboard and say 
 that I would have spent a lot more money on this game if I had to , but maybe a few bucks more, 
 not much though. Also this game isn't too long, but you can still get your money's worth out of 
 a couple of play thorugh's trying to get the achievements. Some people say they dont care about 
 the achievements and only buy the games for fun. Well I buy the games for fun, and for the achievements 
 because in my opinion, achievements are a fun little extra to all xbox 360 game's that will motovate 
 people to play more and get more out of their money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinny502
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness pretty much pays great respect to The Chronicles of Riddick in that the main character 
 is also a person who needs light to do the worst of his deeds and the graphics are top notch for 
 the 360. I just completed the game on easy and im ready to replay it on hard after I check out 
 some of the multiplayer modes it has to offer. You will be able to beat the game in about 8 hours 
 or so depending on your skill, thats probably the only real big downfall, but the time spent in 
 the game is unique and worth having a look. It has a very engaging story with elements similiar 
 to PREY, and it has a lot of twists and turns in the plot to keep you wanting more.
  
  I would have liked to see more done with The Darkness itself (the living creature in which u control) 
 and possible more control over the darklings (your minions that you summon to help you) but overall 
 the game was a fun ride and id do it again.
  
  Perhaps one of the coolest things about it is the fact that you can take time in the game to explore 
 and you can even sit down and watch a tv (with a whole movie on it lol ) with ur gf as she conversates 
 with u... its just a really nice realistic experience.
  
  So go play the game all the way through and find out just how you can control The Darkness and 
 make it your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doonbuggy17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is just a masterpiece. While It depends on what you want out of a game In my opinion 
 its one of the best games on 360. The graphics are stunning and the game play is very different 
 but not in a bad way. This isn't your average run and gun which is what I thought it would be. 
 Its actually slow but it does depend on how you play. You die very quickly which makes you have 
 to think to overcome enemies and obstacles which is a plus. The writing, acting and atmosphere 
 is top notch. Everything is very organic so its very realistic feeling. It does not have that robotic 
 feel like most games. Living and breathing city environments with a wonderful music score. What 
 I like the most was its not a run and gun and thats what it looks like. Its more of a hybrid of 
 Survival horror, FPS, RPG which makes the game more interesting you can make your own choices on 
 how you want to do something. It reminds me Riddick, The Vampire series and a few other good games. 
 Its not an action packed shoot em up though it takes patience and the use of a brain. Its a work 
 of art in an industry that is lacking. I highly recommend The Darkness. It is very graphic and 
 Brutal though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubdub
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  in my opion better than the comics cause yuz can live the story. The game is a littel different 
 than the books but all the same its an awsome game that you should definetly pickup. Aside from 
 the good graphics they have some pretty cool voice acting from Mike Patton (the darkness) he's 
 the lead in the band FAITH NO MORE their pretty good and if you hadn't heard'em yet go check'em 
 out . In the sort version awsome go get it . Its a great way to spend $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrianLittrell
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  The Darkness, is something fresh for all gamers. This game combines great graphics with amazing 
 gameplay to bring you one sick ride. The game starts out fast and whips you right into as you start 
 off in a car chase. Your mafia friend dies and you simply kick him out of the car. Showing this 
 game is not for the feint of heart. The story is fun compelling and spilt up very well. It moves 
 nicely and gives you relative ease at moments and then takes you right back to the action. The 
 singleplayer is fun, bloody, and just plain innovative. I am really impressed. Multiplayer-
  This portion of the games is fun although it does suffer some huge lag issues. There is CTF regular 
 fights and TD. All of this is the normal run around for a shooter. The online allows 8 people and 
 you can be humans or grimmlins. You have the ability the shapeshift, but you are very vulnerable 
 as you speed around the map. Multiplayer feels a little stiff and just to laggy, but the game redeems 
 itself with a great story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavy_rocker29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a first person shooter where you Johny Estacado on your twenty first birthday inherit 
 bizarre and disturbing powers. This is the premise of the game and what makes the game so interesting. 
 You have 'The Demon Arm' 'The Darklings' and of course the heart munching tentacles growing from 
 your shoulders. these are really cool but like everything else the controls for these things are 
 relatively sloppy the aiming is always loose no matter how you adjust it and the creeping dark 
 is annoying.
  
  The non-linear progression of the story is fantastic it is engrossing and intense and is like an 
 eight hour mob movie it is superb. The problem is the lack of hints to help you out. The graphics 
 in this game are truly amazing not Gears of War but very detailed and moody. The subway's are particularly 
 awesome.
  
  The game is very short you'll probably beat it in one sitting and the multilayer is tacked on and 
 lame rent it first if you really want to keep replaying the story buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is about a hitman that gets betrayed by his Uncle Paulie who is trying to kill you, 
 In the mean time you gain the darkness, a Powerful demon that comes out of your back and are snakes. 
 These snakes and your minions help you survive in the streets where u will have epic battles facing 
 cops and mobsters. The gameplay is great with few minor annyoances, nothing that will ruin the 
 game, and you have a extremly sensitive lock on so if you have it on them it will lock on but once 
 he moves just a tiny bit it goes off so it leaves that little challenge. The AI are extremly tough 
 if you dont get them in the head but from far range are almost dopey like, and if you get up close 
 the executions are marvelous smacking them in the face n shooting in the chest, kkick out the back 
 of there leg and sticking a shotgun up to the back of there heads! Oh and did i mention your friendly 
 snake guys will rip out there hearts and tear of there faces?! The graphics are good enough to 
 be enjoyable and light effects will definitly help you if you have a helicopter chasing you you 
 can see its shadow and see it coming behind you. The sound is great guns firing dumpsters getting 
 thrown around, and if you like hard rock and metal, you will be surprised with the soundtrack, 
 unlike halo or gears while in firefights you get the heavy guitar and drums while you enjoy your 
 daily head popping. instead of the normal level through level you have side missions and you kind 
 of roam around the city, Kind of Like Dead Rising, something different, and i like it because you 
 can choose what you want to say to them (the NPC's) . Overall the game is great and if your in need 
 of a shooter with a great single player buy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaaz69
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is in essence, it's own beast. It takes a tired genre and gives it a good swift kick 
 to the groin, but that's not to say there aren't aspects that are lacking. There's obviously a 
 lot of blood, sweat, and tears that went into developing the game, but it's hard to get a feeling 
 that it's a little hollow. The game jumps right into the swing of things without the need for a 
 build up into the action and right away you're executing mobsters left and right.
  
  Unfortunately, the story line feels like a mish-mash of smaller stories thrown together and ultimately 
 leaves one wondering what's going on? Characters aren't developed and serve more or less as a guidance 
 of how to get from point A to point B. Even the explanation of The Darkness seems a little garbled 
 and not well explained, so while the game is very cinematic it has a hard time drawing one in and 
 immersing them in the story.
  
  The controls scheme feels a little clunky, but it's nothing game breaking. It serves it's purpose 
 without hindering any of the action. A minor annoyance is the subpar ability to control one's minions. 
 They are often non responsive and often disappear or get hung up, so they're use is limited to 
 certain situations.
  
  The sound is average with typical gun popping, in the heat of the moment action riffs, and mood 
 setting scores. Where it does shine is The Darkness. It really sounds evil and brooding, just what 
 you would expect from something so menacing and diabolical. You're minions as well are quite humorous 
 to listen to and watch and they argue with one another or in the way they treat your unsuspecting 
 victims.
  
  Graphics, while not top notch, still get the job done. One would expect a game of the genre to 
 be dark, depressing, and give the feel that no matter what happens, it isn't going to be pretty. 
 Thankfully Starbreeze did just that with gritty run down buildings, faceless zombies, and only 
 things that could come from a twisted imagination. With that said, the character models look stiff 
 and plastic. I think a little more time could have been spent in this area, but that is just a 
 minor annoyance and again, nothing game breaking.
  
  With all of that said, The Darkness it self feels... a little under whelming. There are only a few 
 special abilities you'll use and others are more or less to be used in certain situations that 
 would require them. I was hoping for a little more freedom and less utility , but that's what sequels 
 are for. Again, The Darkness' presence is menacing and a great antagonist, but as far as powers, 
 I just think it could have used more pizzas.
  
  Overall, despite the negatives I have listed, The Darkness is an enjoyable ride and a good collection 
 to an already stellar 360 collection. I really hope that this turns into a franchise game and the 
 developers are able to improve and capitalize the capabilities of the 360 to make a truly outstanding 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahughs007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  All I can say is 'sha-wiiing!' Man, I made a huge mistake trying to start the game on hard difficulty. 
 I was pulling my hair out by the second checkpoint. Initially when you play this game you think 
 of the original half life - or at least I did. The graphics are clean and polished, and you can 
 see that alot of thought has been put into the game to make it kind of like a cross between Max 
 Payne, Escape from Butcher Bay, and a spawn comic. What you don't see right away is the amazing 
 level of depth, and just how deep that polish sinks in. You will come to a point in this game, 
 where the action stops, and you find yourself immersed in your environment. It's almost as if you 
 are really hanging out in some dingy subway, and though you try to find something fun to watch 
 on the tv next to the homeless guy you keep going. This for me is where this game stands apart. 
 Aside from the film noir type feel to the game (hence the Max Payne flavor) I can't help but marvel 
 at the fact that they have thrown in a choose your own adventure style dialogue system, and given 
 you the same Role playing type optional non-combat oriented quests to break the monotony of just 
 killing killing killing. But don't worry, there is plenty of that too. Overall, the game is flippin 
 sweet. I still need to get a handle on the controls, so i can use the darkness to my advantage. 
 I also need to mention that it's oddly sad to see your little darklings get killed, when they work 
 so hard for you ;) (haha)
  
  Honestly the only complaint I can have with this game is that the lip movements on the characters 
 aren't very defined. It's not as if it's out of sync, they just don't move a very naturally. This 
 is easily overlooked however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cropentax
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Think of Star-breeze and Top chow as Chefs and good ones for that matter, they threw 3rd person 
 shooter and 1st person shooter in a frying pan and the result is and en-tre of fun game play, violence, 
 gore and creepy mashed up together. After a long execution one can devour ones heart and nothing 
 gives more pleasure and satisfaction than knowing he has no heart. I especially love the interludes 
 from Jackie where he keep one focussed on the beef. The darkness has managed to exceed my expectations. 
 The dark-lings also give a new meaning to let me introduce you to my little friend creeping behind 
 someone and blasting them to Kingdom come. One also never gets bored with the Paulie's guys who 
 seem to be everywhere well that means more hearts to eat. All in all The darkness lives up to the 
 resume of the same guys who made Butcher to which hands down is still a classic. Darkness is the 
 game of the summer and patches my wounds that are still healing from the ending of the Sopranos, 
 it makes me feel like a made Guy. For me its ten out ten for The Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kunzmann
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Finally, one of the most anticipated games of 2007 hits store shelves. The Darkness puts you in 
 the role of Jackie Estecado, a greasy haired mafioso hitman who on his 21st birthday, is possessed 
 by something called only The Darkness.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are superb. They are some of the best I have ever seen on the Xbox 360. 
 Guns glisten in the light and textures and lighting are magnificent.
  
  Sound: The audio is strong and consistent. The guns all have different but unique sounds and the 
 voice of The Darkness is simply extravagant.
  
  Gameplay: Simply put the gameplay is almost perfect in every way. You have your arsenal of weapons 
 ranging from pistols, to automatics, and to shotguns, but you also acquire some powers later in 
 the game. Theres nothing like walking up to a group of enemies and impaling one of them with your 
 demon arm only to scare and confuse the others.
  
  The weapon executions work really well. You simply walk up to an enemy with any weapon you have 
 equipped and press the left or right trigger to pull off a sweet execution.
  
  Final Analysis: The Darkness is a fantastic game that has many pros and very few cons. From the 
 high-octane opening car chase to the ending massacre The Darkness will keep you pinned to your 
 seat with a action packed eerie joy ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesrojao
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  Im still in shock at what you can do in this game. It rocks so far I've watched my demons eat heats 
 out and fight over it and my beserker wreck stuff up. The graphics are amazin and the gun selection 
 is great. My friends and i have finally put down forza motorsport 2 to play this game. Nothing 
 is better than being in the mob and killing other gangs and killing police officers lol. The sound 
 is very dark and gets you scared. The story is a great one and I have never even heard of the comic 
 book. I cant wait to start playin the multiplayer because I have a feelin it will keep me entertained 
 until hjalo 3 comes out. I recommend this game especially since I love first person shooters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik_r
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  Games with great stories are few and far between. Adapting a comic book strictly to a video game 
 makes so much sense. Comics and Graphic novels have all the advantages of film and none of the 
 disadvantages and they are a perfect match with one another. There is no rush to release a game 
 simultaneously with a comic so developers have all the time they need to put out a quality product. 
 As for the Darkness it is in general a very high quality product that has captured the comics in 
 all the right places and tied it all together very well so that it would fit in a video game world. 
 The darkness powers are toned down from the comics, but thats fine because they don't take away 
 from the usefulness of gunplay which is made incredible with that very unique cover like system. 
 The game drips with style, has the best graphics to date on next gen systems, has a very involving 
 narrative and for me that outweighs a few minor flaws that plague many fps anyway, IGN and these 
 other crap review sites can get impaled by my demon arm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skh447
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  You start the game as Jackie Estecado, a mafia hitman who works for his Uncle Paulie. Eventually 
 Uncle Paulie betrays you, because he thinks you want to be the leader. So you start fighting your 
 way out of Uncle Paulie's men. But the twist is, The Darkness. The Darkness is a demonic force 
 that picks a human host. The power system is really good. The gameplay is mostly a FPS, but some 
 parts make the game seem like an RPG. You have to find these phone numbers that give you extra 
 content if you enter them in a phone. Some parts also have letters. There are some side quests, 
 which makes the game more of an open environment. You can pretty much go anywhere. The environments 
 are really detailed and big. The multiplayer is the thing that sets it back. So far it's been nothing 
 but lag. In multiplayer you can be a darkling, one of the darkness creatures, or a human. The game 
 types are CTF, Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, or Survivor. The summary is, it's awesome. The multiplayer 
 would be better, if not lagging so much. The single player game is fantastic. Definitely a buy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac4raven
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  this game brought good gameplay with great graphics and lighting effects. It had some great sound 
 in it and was an all around great game. In depth stry tons of gunplay and some sad and hilarious 
 moments. The graphics were great you could see the strandis in your hair during the cutscenes and 
 the guns were pretty real. The lighting was the best though the way the shadows were and the sound 
 was good you could tell where enemies were by what they were saying like quick go through the door 
 was always a pleasurable moment. The gameplay was fun with all the execution moves and the different 
 darkness powers you get through the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hectorcamilo
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  the game have the good momen but is a35 hr rush that is still a good game. the game of having the 
 darness power still good are fun have a ok story u will no stock to it is no aaditet line but it 
 will give u for money the game is hart at the bigging but it easy to lenr the game so if go to 
 a gamestop don't foget to buy this game is fun and still a game that take the presure of the world.
 
  
  great!!!!!!!!!!
  great like this guy say:
  
  Ive seen alot of first person shooters but this takes the cake. The graphics are top of the line 
 gameplay never gets boring and theirs enough action to satisphy your shoot his head off needs. 
 Theirs nothing realy wrong with this game accept a couple minor glitches hear and their but what 
 game doesnt glitch these days. The darkness powers are fun and enjoyable and if your not the type 
 that runs around shooting you can use stealth to take many enemies as well.
  
  I mean come on poeple what do you realy want in a game anyway . If ypu ask me the darkness has 
 it all topcow really out did themselve with this game. The proccessors have been working hard for 
 years to release this game and if you ask me their work payed off the music is awome the sfx are 
 great gameplay is perfect and the game isnt that hard to play so far for the month of june this 
 is the best game:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:39 am PT
Review:  Going into this game I did not expect anything new or original. I played it for about 3 hours and 
 pretty much got sucked into the visuals and gameplay. The game is not Gears of War perfect, but 
 it is very detailed and huge. The gameplay is a normal first-person-shooter with a few additions 
 of demonic intentions.... normally that wouldn't go together, but this is an exception. I ran through 
 the beginning and have to start over to completely know what is going on with The Darkness powers 
 and why this guy was chosen.... i just rushed to get in it.... not watching the cut-scenes. The presentation 
 is very good and starts off fast and gets flowing early. Sounds, Music and lighting effects are 
 a big surprise... and very nicely done. The game to let anyone that don't know... is very violent.... NOT 
 FOR KIDS. Now that's out the way.... The game's multi-player due to my internet connection runs 
 smooth and has some good gun play.... a few hick-ups in the rooms, but I'm saying my router wasn't 
 running perfect.... try it again tonight. The game to my is a solid buy over-all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevie093
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Ive seen alot of first person shooters but this takes the cake. The graphics are top of the line 
 gameplay never gets boring and theirs enough action to satisphy your shoot his head off needs. 
 Theirs nothing realy wrong with this game accept a couple minor glitches hear and their but what 
 game doesnt glitch these days. The darkness powers are fun and enjoyable and if your not the type 
 that runs around shooting you can use stealth to take many enemies as well.
  
  I mean come on poeple what do you realy want in a game anyway . If ypu ask me the darkness has 
 it all topcow really out did themselve with this game. The proccessors have been working hard for 
 years to release this game and if you ask me their work payed off the music is awome the sfx are 
 great gameplay is perfect and the game isnt that hard to play so far for the month of june this 
 is the best game:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopsfun
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  first of all, for those of you who haven't played riddick (which is pretty much everyone) , you 
 can't go into this game to expect full running and gunning without some down time. that's because 
 this game is not just a shooter, but in fact more of an 'adventure' game. that is, there is platforming 
 at a minimal, dialogue choices, and RPG-like sub missions. also, you can expect a deep story. in 
 fact, at any point in the game you can just plunk down on a couch and watch cartoons, or flash-gordon, 
 or whatever. it's just so real and dramatic. oh, and just to tell you, the story can be a little 
 emotional at times. onto the breakdown!
  
  Gameplay: this game takes some getting used to, just for some of the darkness abilities. the whole 
 face button layout is wacky, usually being a-jump, b-melee, x-reload, activate, y-switch weapon, 
 but here it is a-activate, b-reload, x-redirect darkling, y-switch weapon, l-melee, and shoulder 
 buttons designated for the darkness powers. you need to keep learning through the game, because 
 you keep getting powers. because of the fact that some buttons are overused (d-pad) and some are 
 underused (x-button) , and that the controls are alien, its an 8.
  
  Graphics: this game really shows its colors through the visuals (pun) . it has multiple overlaying 
 textures that are fun to look at. the character models are awesome, and the gore is brilliantly 
 done (bullet holes! chest cavities!) . i give it a strong 10. in fact, it is so appealing to look 
 at that i just sit in the subway and watch people walk around, and interact. which brings me to 
 my next section...
  
  Sound: and while these people are interacting you may notice their wonderfully written and directed 
 dialogue. once again, i just sat there and listened to an amusing anecdote between two cops in 
 an alley. all the main characters are amazing, but the darklings have the best lines (what a surprise) , 
 which range from 'i like penguins', to 7-2, off-suit' (which is the worst hand in poker) . it is 
 all so darkly done, and it reminds me off the grunts from halo. strong 10.
  
  Value: what? it's a triple-a game with multiplayer, campaign, and like 4 hours of side-missions. 
 $60 bucks isn't that much money, sort of. 9, because i haven't beaten it yet, and don't know the 
 hollistic quality.
  
  Tilt: i love these guys games. they rock my socks off, and they keep me excited to play video games. 
 can't wait for a sequel, or something... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kadaj108
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  I was pretty excited about this game because I loved the Riddick game. I did have high expectations 
 for this game but I really wasn't disappointed. Could it have been better sure but I will take 
 it as it is.
  
  First off the Graphics are pretty good, although there is a few downfalls. The lip syncing was 
 passable and could have been so much better. We have come a long way form characters that just 
 nodded their head as they talked I would have expected more. The shadows in the game are excellent 
 it gives you that dark eerie atmosphere. The art was also pretty good gave you a feeling you were 
 in some what of a run down city with all the graffiti. I also felt that the left darkness head 
 could have done a bit more.
  
  The sound was pretty well done in the game. Guns sounded loud and had some power behind them, and 
 the gory attacks had their high points too. Music was well done although I feel their could have 
 been a but more variety. Gameplay was just fun. It was more of a run and gun then Riddick was but 
 it fit the game. Although i felt there could have been some use for stealth int he game and a few 
 times it could have come in handy. The Darkness attacks were great if gave you a real sense of 
 power to use them and were a lot of fun. The gun play was pretty standard nothing really standing 
 out but was fun none the less. There were a few platforming moments that could have been taken 
 out IMO. your character jumps maybe 2 feet in distance with not much height. They should have given 
 a character with the awesome Darkness powers a but more power in his jumps or they should have 
 taken that mess out. The left Darkness head I felt should have been a bit more animated and possibly 
 given us a melee attack to use with them like we saw in the cut scenes.
  
  The story was great and you really felt like you were driven to meet your goals. The cut scenes 
 during load times were a very nice touch, it gave you a bit more incite on Jackie. They did have 
 a good variety of them and it made me want to watch more.
  
  The one thing that really didn't sit with me well was when the moment hit when Jackie got his powers, 
 I felt it should have been Cut Scene worthy but instead you are just walking along then BAM you 
 have powers and you continue on your way. Other times i felt people acted way to casually about 
 the LARGE black demons sticking out of Jackie. Its like they didn't care and had little to no reaction. 
 I felt him coming to terms with it should have played out better. But if i could change anything 
 I would want the game to be longer. At least twice the length of what it is. I am sure there are 
 other characters in the Darkness universe that would have been very fun to see pop up in the game.
 
  
  In finale thought The Darkness is a pretty good game, and I think this would be a great game for 
 anyone to pick up and play. The story is well done and the game play is very satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: actionnerd
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This is the best $60 I've spent on a game since I started playing Pong on an Atari Arcade machine 
 in the 70's. I'm completely blown away. I just achieved the Romantic Kiss with Jenny. Wow. Hot. 
 Almost too real. So now that I've cuddled with her on her couch as she sweetly sleeps with her 
 pretty head on my chest, I will finish watching To Kill a Mockingbird , which is one of the all-time 
 classic movie greats. Another movie I'll watch later while playing this amazing masterpiece of 
 a video game will be The Man With The Golden Arm starring none other than Frank Sinatra as an Ex-Con 
 junkie as presented on the beat-up ol' b&amp; W TV stuck in a shopping cart parked next to a passed-out 
 wino on a bench in the Canal St Station right before you go up to Chinatown. Has anyone helped 
 the ol' Harmonica player in the Trinity Church Station? Suffice to say there's satisfaction in 
 intimidating a little street punk with your own Mafia Cred in order to spread a little harmony 
 in an apocalyptic nightmare that is The Darkness. It's freakin' awesome how immersive this title 
 is. A potato-sack outfit for your Beserker? How funny is that? Shooting the lights out? May sound 
 like Splinter Cell, but even Sam Fisher can't darken the back alleys of the Bronx to rip out a 
 baddie's heart, flip it up in the air and catch and devour it for extra strength! I can't believe 
 I had reservations about picking this up today.
  
  Details are the Devil. And The Darkness just kicked Satan's Ass right into its pile of detail. 
 Rejoice with all the joy you find in the Easter Eggs discovered within the first 45 minutes of 
 play. Here's a challenge to all of you ADHD sufferers who won't review this title more than a 9.0:
 
  
  How many of you guys are blown away in this game by just watching your body walk down a flight 
 of stairs ? Have you noticed the shadows on the zipper of your jacket, or how your controller seems 
 to make your whole body feel the pavement under your Italian designer shoes? I believe Starbreeze 
 launched the FPS/Adventure bar way up in the stratosphere with The Darkness .
  
  Are you playing this yet? No? Well, you better not play it if you're one of those unfortunate few 
 who remain among the unwashed ranks of the non-observant or willfully illiterate.
  
  I will propose to you that within the first two hours of your experience in The Darkness' world, 
 you will reach some sort of a minor epiphany about your life and video games, at the very least. 
 I cannot wait to get through this story, and I've spent too much time typing this review. I'm off 
 to my couch and my 360.
  
  
  
  Simply the most beautifully executed and intense game I've ever owned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilRiker
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign is very interesting and immersive. The plot draws u in and keeps u there. 
 The graphics are pretty crisp but upclose some textures look bland like an old Xbox game called 
 Riddick. The controls and movement of the character are somewhat sloppy but not hard get used to. 
 When battles get intense the framerate dips especially when u turn quickly to look to move and 
 run for cover, but usually the framerate holds up for the most part. Multiplayer is a throwaway 
 experience that obviously has not been optimize to handle large amounts of players at all. Multiplayer 
 is broken and can't be played at all due to serious lag issues; no doubt a result of lazy programming 
 - a tagged on option due to messy net code. As a result of receiving half of the game (single player 
 experience) I gave the Darkness a 5 for value because thats all you get - no multiplayer means 
 no points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alice204
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  the darkness is just an overall good FPS... the graphics are top notch and so is the gameplay so 
 any person waiting for that new innovative game that has an amazing storyline, then this is your 
 game period!
  so far im not very far in the darkness but it has already become my number one game out of all 
 others... the darkness combines a small rpg element by letting you do thing in the game like choose 
 between a list of questions to ask people while talking or doing good deeds (or ignoring those 
 plees for help :) ) ...
  Even though the game is gorey you cant help but feel an awesome sense of power as mafia hitman 
 and policemen fall beneath the smoke of your guns or the razor sharp teeth of the darkness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emerio
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Cursed with being so awsome, in a kickarse game. This game is just amazing. First time an element 
 like snake's have been used for a FPV (First Person View) and not to mention they slither across 
 the ground's and up walls! I havn't been playing this game long. But i've tasted offline and online. 
 I will get to online in a sec. But as far as offline awsome. The cutscene's in between the check 
 point's changes everytime, so your not seeing the same thing everytime you exit and re-enter. Can 
 you say sweet!?! I also like the telephones in the subway station's. You can dial random phone 
 numbers and get some pretty funny recording's from people's answering machines.
  
  Online:
  
  Well being new, there's ALOT of Lag. So let's hope they patch that soon. Also the 
 online is kinda like Gears of War, COG's &amp; Locust. Well this has Human's &amp; Darklings. You 
 can transform into them at any time during the round and turn back into a human when you up close 
 for a suprise attack. The badarse thing about being a Darkling, you can crawl up wall's and walk 
 upside down!
  
  They got an array of assult rifle's, a shotgun, and handgun's. Rifle's consist of AK47, M4A1 Assault 
 rifle, and this one weapon i havn't gotten the name to. It's almost like an automatic assult nail 
 gun. But maybe not.
  
  Anyway, yes, i love this game! I defiantly reccomend it for people who wan't to play outside the 
 box with some awsome creativeness!
  
  The Darkness will defiantly Brighten your day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CanadianGamer1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The darkness is an action adventure game set in new york city. You play as te scharecter Jackie 
 who is part of a mobb ring. On your 21 st birth day you are given demonic powers which aow yout 
 to use a variety of special skills. The best part about this game is the intense battles that you 
 can find yourself in. With your duel pistols by your side you can get through almost any fight. 
 The downside to the game is that the types of enemies you face seem to stay the same throughout 
 the story so it kind of gets repetitive. For anyone that enjoys a brainless shooter with intense 
 fire fights and a boat load of cool ways to take out ur opponents I would definantly suggest checking 
 this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VolcanoMan001
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I am going to keep this review short and sweet and concentrates on what I believe is the most groundbreaking 
 feature of this game. Many might think of The Darkness as just another FPS , but it is much more 
 than that. Not many games these days do a good job of immersing the player into the game world, 
 and many more almost blatantly make no attempt to put the user effectively into the role of the 
 procrastinator of the game itself. The Darkness is extremely innovative in the way that it thrusts 
 the player into the game to make you feel like you really are looking at the world through the 
 characters eyes. An extensive amount of attention to detail has been given in making the user actually 
 feel like they are the character on screen, and this detail pays off in one of the best immersive 
 experiences around. The way the character moves on screen is done quite well, and the arms and 
 body of the character and how it is integrated with the view movement and character movement are 
 probably the best done to date. The cinematic sequences when you command your character to do something, 
 such as blow out candles on a birthday cake, or climb a ladder, are also very well done and help 
 close the gap between movie and videogame. Conversations between the user and NPCs are also well 
 done in that the camera moves to third person, over the shoulder, and the user can manipulate it 
 in a limited fashion. It might not sound like much, but combined with excellent voice acting and 
 lip syncing, awesome sounds and graphics, and a great story line, it all comes together to create 
 a truly immersive cinematic experience.
  
  Starbreeze's commitment to making the best immersive cinematic experiences available for gamers 
 is definitely realized in The Darkness. This game lives up to, and in many cases exceeds, the quality 
 of their previous cult classic, The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjapanzer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  If it were not for the occasional bugs this game would be perfect. It is not the most inventive 
 title it is just loads of fun to play.
  
  The meat of The Darkness is in your dark buddies to your left and right, and about half way through 
 chapter one the player will begin to feel as angry at light sources as it seems to hurt your dark 
 brethren. Once an understanding of how to avoid light is achieved a kind of fluid control takes 
 over and the game takes on a cinematic quality that I find very appeasing. If you played Chronicles 
 of Riddick by these guys then you will have a good setup for how the flow of this game will play 
 out. If not go play Riddick and The Darkness hope to your god no one finds out.
  
  Aside from that game play is fantastic even with some bugs and darklings that are mostly ineffective. 
 You will find though that the game will keep you on your toes and the music will drive you at times 
 into a testosterone rage of executions and face eating. Probably the best part of the combat is 
 the executions. It has a Punisher kind of feel when you are fighting up close Brutal and Final. 
 Many of the areas can be carefully planned out to make the most of executions and cover giving 
 the player a god like feeling of invincibility at times. Of course nothing is more rewarding then 
 eating someones face and following it up with their heart for dessert.
  
  Its nice to see a game step away from the norms of running and gunning. There are opportunities 
 to avoid some fights and most do not require the need for bullets in any way. Many games have boasted 
 this but never delivered Deus EX but this game is about selecting the right action for the situation 
 not doing what is right or what is expected.
  
  Replay value is 2 to 3 times to find all the extra content. But it is enjoyable none the less for 
 each time you play through a level it becomes more scripted and cinematic leaving a very rewarding 
 feeling in the pit of a gamers stomach. That is my final word on the game: Rewarding.
  Achievements are well placed and creative. Some even give pause to a player's actions and enhance 
 the thoughtfulness of the game play.
  Plus in the end don't we all hunger for faces.
  
  Enjoy
  Ninja Panzer
  www. technosamurai. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiasmaRising
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness was a masterpiece before it was even conceived. When Star Breeze signed on to develop 
 this game, it gave an already genius idea wings. And finally, the incredible and awe inspiring 
 beast was set free on March 25th of 2007, allowing hundreds the opportunity to immerse themselves 
 in an unforgettable journey through the dark streets of New York. The Darkness begins as any decent 
 first person shooter would, with a gun in your hand. You run and gun and eventually stumble upon 
 the ability to slaughter with an evil force to be reckoned with.
  Although The Darkness was just released, it will surely become a timeless classic which will stand 
 alongside some of the greatest games of our time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DvonMK
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 26, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  yeah it a good story mode game...: D
  
  but....&gt;: o it is confusing, because im pressing every button to put the stupid /retarded flag 
 in my base BUT NO !
  
  and the darklings are soo weak and fast it makes them hard to play as on xbox live
  
  
  but 
 overall its a good game it says text reviews must have 100 words so i`l just put in a bunch of 
 words so i can submit it
  ok.... this is a good game though i think the graphics are amazing
  but its pretty scary ,, by 
 far the darkness is the scariest game that I have ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan874
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is an FPS with a twist: you have these demonic powers called the darkness . Your powers 
 include the ability to eat enemies hearts, grabbing things with your demon arm , stealthily crawling 
 around with creeping dark , summoning a black hole and summoning little demons called Darklings.
 
  
  the controls are a little strange but you adjust quickly. sometimes its really hard to see anything 
 on your tv because it needs to be completely dark for you to be able to use your powers. on the 
 other hand the storyline is great and sometimes you feel like your watching a movie (not because 
 of the visuals but because of the twists and great acting) .
  
  i would definetly rent it before you buy it because theres virtually no replay value once you finish 
 the story because the multiplayer is clearly an afterthought of the developers and it feels like 
 it was stitched together in less than a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  While the Darkness isnt the best FPS Ive ever played, its easily one of the best presented Ive 
 seen. Everything from the graphics and sound are extremely polished which helps the player become 
 immersed in Jackies world. Gameplay: The games main mechanic is of course, a FPS. The first thing 
 I noticed while playing the game was a extreme amount of auto aim. This is a good thing in the 
 early stages of the game when youre rapidly pressing the triggers to fire your pistols at enemies 
 and when your pin pointing your aim to shoot out lights. I dont know how well this will play out 
 farther down, but it could get annoying to people who dont like auto aim. Anyways, the thing that 
 really shines in the Darkness is well The Darkness (oxymoron) Theres nothing like using your 
 demonic best friend to sneak up behind a mobster, kill him, then devour his heart. Other powers 
 include a tentacle that lets you impale objects and people which allows you to throw them around, 
 creating black holes, and summoning Darklings which really are the comic relief of the game. It 
 really is quite funny to see the first Darkling you summon come up out of a hole in the ground, 
 move a car, and randomly attack some guy standing on the street. It also is very funny to shoot 
 them in order to make them say things like Im telling mommy! or I HATE YOU!
  
  Graphics: The graphics in the Darkness are extremely well polished. Everything looks very realistic 
 and highly detailed. The lighting is also very well done, well at least that what you get to see 
 of it (you really are meant to turn off the lights) The only gripe I have with the graphics is 
 when you get a close in on a hand or a face; youll start to see sorta muddy textures on the character 
 models. Other than that, I have no big gripe with the game.
  
  Sound: This is the best part of the game. The voice acting is top notch, everyone from Jackie, 
 Jenny, Paulie to The Darkness is so well done, especially Mike Pattons work on the Darkness. I 
 already knew he was a great vocalist, but damn does he do a great job for the voice of The Darkness. 
 Its just so creepy and demonic and at some points his voice is going places I never knew a human 
 voice could go. Another great thing about the sound is the music. During down time there will often 
 be classical music playing in the background which gives a sense of tension even with down time 
 and as soon as you bust out your guns a fast aggressive guitar riff starts setting the tone to 
 your gun fight. So basically everything from voice acting to music in this game is 100% perfect.
 
  
  Value: Its your standard FPS, yeah you can rush through the game and finish it 8 hours or so, 
 or you could spend your time with the game, look for collectibles/darkling costumes, be a good 
 boyfriend, help the people of New York, and do side missions which causes that 8 hours to turn 
 into more. There is also multiplayer which is actually pretty funny. What other game do you get 
 to be a hyperactive darkling that can crawl on walls and leap much farther than a human while letting 
 out some crazy scream?
  
  Tilt: the Darkness is over all an extremely well polished game that is worth every penny spent. 
 Everything from the great graphics and the wonderful sound to the story that immerses you into 
 even caring about Jackies fictitious girlfriend is so high quality, it hurts. Theres no getting 
 around it, this game is just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KainofLegacy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- Not Gears of War but really good
  
  Controls- Get kinda sluggish during multi-player but single player is spot on.
  
  Gameplay- 
 Changing from human to darkling is loads of fun. Some dialog options that won't hold up to games 
 like Mass Effect but add a little flavor to the game. You really get the sense of being Jackie 
 and wielding the darkness.
  
  Sound- Music during multi-player builds the action... voice acting is not the greatest.
  
  Bottom 
 line- Though I haven't read the comics this game just flat out rocks. There are some lag issues 
 online but hopefully will be worked out in the coming days. This is a must buy for shooter fans! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  With a huge amount of FPS games out there you almost get bored of the same thing over again. Shadowrun 
 tried to make the genre more innovative but failed, yet here it is succesful. But gunplay is still 
 a main part of the game.
  Graphics- Like what they did to the Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay, it amazed us. 
 Even in comparison with Gears of War it shines.
  Sound-
  The music helps progress through the story which is by the way very amazing, the weapon sounds 
 and everything else is well done but not totally amazing.
  Controls-
  People worried they might be clunky, this is not the case, just as any other FPS with some other 
 features.
  Value-
  Wonderful Single player campaign, yet very short this game won't share with you its great moments 
 for long unless you play it over several times. The Multiplayer is good not amazing, but adds something 
 to do after your 8-10 hrs of singleplayer is over. Conclusion- Buy it, but if you do not have the 
 kind of money to spend $60 on a game that wont last you long you might want to consider renting 
 it and beating it on your first day. The Darkness is a very fun game, but the fun doesnt last very 
 long. After you beat it you will want more, you will most likely play through it again xD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigaxel123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  What can you say? This game is fantastic on every level. I'll run through each section individually 
 to give you better perspective of what this game does right.
  
  Gameplay: Top notch. Intuitive and understandable control scheme works well when enjoying the gunplay 
 but especially well when controlling the Darkness. Because some of the maneuvers are seamless animations, 
 sometimes you have to wait a split-second before executing another move.
  
  Graphics: One of the finer points. Graphics are great, taking a really good engine, and overhauling 
 it. Great sense of lighting, a living breathing city, unique weaponry and abilities plus some cool 
 story sequences.
  
  Sound: Good but not great. Things sound like they should, but nothing here screams next-gen. I'm 
 not saying that they are bad though.
  
  Value: Its 60 bucks and the multiplayer is decent. It won't be in the bargain bin for a long time, 
 so if you really want to play it, buy it and enjoy it. You will want to play the story multiple 
 times through, its that good.
  
  Tilt: For 60 bucks you get a great single-player experience, decent multiplayer and replayability 
 for a while. If this games gets a sequel, and they improve multiplayer variety and performance, 
 we have another Gears of War on our hands.
  
  Just when the Xbox 360 started to go in cruise control The Darkness provides a great Summer-time 
 relief. The start of a great Summer for video games, especially if you've got a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _SemperFidelis_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  What this game can tell about itself is that it's incredibly original. While it might be a first 
 person shooter, it completetly creates an individual genre where only two games belong to: Riddick 
 and The Darkness.
  
  Similiarly to Riddick, this game has an incredible story, which also has depth opposed to most 
 videogames. But not only is the story intriguing, but the gameplay is pretty diverse too. While 
 mainly you'll be shooting, the twist of the Darkness is the darkness itself: the darknes possesses 
 you, and you can (partly) control it.
  
  This makes the gameplay much cooler and innovative, and also, the missions, objectives, the transitional 
 parts are pretty damn amazing.
  
  It won't be like, alright, next mission is on the other side of the world, and within 2 seconds 
 you spawn there... no. Take the metro. For example.
  
  It's a blast playing: the music, the dark atmosphere, the duality of the plot (mafia vs hell) , and 
 the characters finally have depth , they're not just 3d animations, you can feel for the main character (Jackie) 
 or simply hate Paulie.... whatever. You will definitely remember these characters more than let's 
 say... Wayne from Lost Planet.
  
  I'd like to point out that the dialouge is fascinating. The writers really released a qualify work 
 here. Every piece of dialouge could happen in real life. Brilliant work. And the developer's attention 
 paid to the smallest details is breathetaking: full lenght movies on TV, our character's legs are 
 VISIBLE!, people getting annoyed if you walk away from them while they're talking... etc. Also 
 the game's tone changes halfway where you enter a place that shares similiarities with hell, and.... 
 well, I'd rather not spoil it.
  
  Graphically, the game blows away almost everything: it has style. Although it's mostly dark, you 
 will always see the enviorment sourrounding you unlike in Splinter Cell Double Agent. So it's not 
 like well, it's nighttime, so why should you see the buildings? Plus, the character models, the 
 guns, the effects.... 100% nextgen. The only blowback here is the fact that there are some levels 
 where there are occasional slowdowns, which might take away a little from the amazingness of the 
 graphics.
  
  On another note, sometimes the game doesn't give enough hints to the player, sometimes resulting 
 in a painful procedure to find the next thing to do. For example, in the beginning, you have to 
 go to Chinatown. So you take the metro... but if you don't pay attention, it'll take you to another 
 place, and you get off, and you wonder... what the hell am I supposed to do? Of course, these puzzles 
 can be figured out within 5 minutes, but sometimes they really hurt the experience. Being rigged 
 up with the Darkness, and with the ability to summon 4 different darklings, and you're looking 
 for a switch for example? Blah!
  
  Overall, this game is a MUST HAVE for every FPS fan. It's not another run and gun game, this one 
 has everything it should: a compelling plot, an amazing character, amazing graphics, physics...
 
  
  While the singleplayer is only 8 hours , that's the case with most games anyway, plus, I guarantee: 
 these 8 hours are AMAZING. So I'd rather have an amazing 8 hours than 16 hours which has 8 hours 
 of boredom. This videogame has successfully set the new standards for the upcoming games.
  
  This IS NextGen!
  
  (Note: I didn't get the chance to try the multiplayer, but from what 
 I hear, the meat of the game is in it's single player campaign)
  
  Update. Score reduced from 9.7 to 9.5 due to the new rating system. The game is also the biggest 
 hit of the summer - even with now BioShock released. The Darkness is more epic, more fun, and it's 
 story is more original, than BioShock's. BioShock might be twice as long, but it often feels stretched. 
 See my BS review for more. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
