-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Golden Compass
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/thegoldencompass/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You get to play as a giant polar bear.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lousy timed button-pressing sequences make up the bulk of gameplay.
 Tedious busywork.
 Terrible platforming elements are capped by a bad camera and loose controls.
 Inferior production values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.2, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 3.9, 183 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Shiny
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Dec 4, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Golden Compass is just another family-friendly film cash-in with few redeeming qualities.

  The Golden Compass for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 owes a lot to 2005's The Chronicles of Narnia. 
 Like Narnia, it is a game based on a film based on a fantasy novel, and it even goes so far as 
 to summarily lift hunks of gameplay directly from the older title. Yet for some reason, the designers 
 picked all of the bad stuff while leaving behind the good. The result is a muddled mishmash of 
 gameplay ideas that lacks focus and certainly lacks any sense of fun.  

           When playing, be sure to don a warm sweater.      

  If you aren't familiar with the 
 accompanying film, or the Philip Pullman novel on which it's based, you will probably be rather 
 confused by the game. As Lyra Belacqua, you seek to save your friend Roger from the grasp of evil 
 folkloric kidnappers known as Gobblers. Lyra is accompanied by her daemon Pantalaimon (or Pan, 
 for short) , who is the physical embodiment of Lyra's soul, and she is occasionally joined by a 
 hulking armored polar bear named Iorek. Lyra also possesses an instrument called an alethiometer -- the 
 golden compass of the title -- which can answer any question that she asks it. You'll figure out 
 what's going on in bits and pieces and with the help of short clips from the Golden Compass film. 
 Yet you'll likely never care about Lyra or her companions, and important chunks of exposition are 
 completely glossed over, leaving you wondering what's going on or why you should care.  

  Gameplay is a mess. There are a lot of ideas at work here, but none of them pan out all that well. 
 First up: exploration. You spend a lot of time roaming about doing busywork, particularly in an 
 insanely long and boring sequence on the Gyptian vessel. The highlight during this level is -- get 
 ready for it -- mopping the deck. In other levels, these tasks may have you hiding under furniture 
 or throwing snowballs, but none of them are interesting, and they are generally sliced up by cutscenes 
 and other gameplay mechanics.  

  Platforming ushers in more mediocrity. Granted, there are some nice ideas here. Lyra can use Pan 
 as a grappling hook and latch on to poles for simplified Prince of Persia-inspired swinging, and 
 the duo can glide for short distances. There are also beams to keep your balance on as you cross, 
 though these moments seem to take forever, since Lyra walks across them so slowly. The controls 
 are super-loose, which is deadly on the dock level -- one of the dumbest platforming sequences ever 
 dreamed up. Not only do the slippery controls make Lyra a pain to maneuver, but you can't manually 
 control the camera, which makes it impossible to judge distance. Even worse, the camera has a tendency 
 to move on its own in the middle of jumps and balancing acts. Expect to reload this level countless 
 times, while cursing the designer who created it.  

  The Golden Compass relies heavily on timed button sequences, already one of the most overused mechanics 
 in modern-day games. Attacked by a giant bee? Press some buttons in the right order. Need to push 
 over an ice bridge? Press some more. Even some boss fights are won in this manner. There is some 
 action buried in here, though it's found mostly in the game's first and final levels. Playing as 
 Iorek, you'll paw through three types of enemies: witches, Tartars, and wolves. Once you build 
 up enough rage by using standard melee attacks, you can pound the ground to do extra damage. You 
 can also hold two buttons down to grab an enemy and fling it around, but for the most part, you 
 can defeat this tiny assortment of foes by mashing a single button. Some levels are capped by boss 
 fights, which aren't hard, but thanks to the lack of player camera control and the shoddy hit detection, 
 they're plenty annoying.  

  There are still more elements at play. Sometimes Lyra will try to deceive other characters, which 
 requires you to perform a set of minigames. Some of these games function properly, at least, such 
 as one where you push the left analog stick in a whack-a-mole variant. Others are simply terrible 
 and are so poorly explained that you may have no clue how the minigames even work the first few 
 times they appear. There's also the matter of the golden compass itself. Lyra can ask it questions, 
 and the accompanying minigame consists of keeping a reticle centered on the compass with the left 
 analog stick while executing (you guessed it!) another timed button-pressing sequence.  

           Every exercise the game throws at you is pointless.      

  Even the visuals can't 
 capture the fantasy magic of the film or novels. Animations and environments are crude, textures 
 are muddy, and there is absolutely no imagination to be found in the bland art design. There are 
 also some weird graphical bugs, such as blinking polygons and pixelated seams. Sound fares no better. 
 The musical score is fine, if unmemorable, but most sound effects are either embarrassingly clunky 
 or missing entirely. The voice acting is serviceable, but there are times when the same character 
 will talk over his or her own dialogue.  

  Initially, the wide variety of gameplay elements make it seem like there's going to be a lot to 
 do in The Golden Compass. Unfortunately, most of these facets are too repetitive, too frustrating, 
 or too boring to keep anyone's interest, young or old. So, perhaps unsurprisingly, the game is 
 just the latest in a string of movie tie-ins that sacrifice good gameplay for the sake of a quick 
 buck.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  Don't go and expect anything from this game if you're going to rent or buy it. 
  
  Positive
  - It comes in a box like every other game
  
  Negative
  - Weak story
  - Highly 
 dull and shallow gameplay
  - Hideous graphics
  - Irritating controls
  - Camera is horrific
  
  The Golden Compass is a movie game and you know have movie games are 
 right? Golden Compass is no exception; it's bad like most of the other movie games available on 
 the market or on the shelves ready to be sold. The movie isn't so good either but it's way better 
 than this lousy game. 
  
  Story is uninteresting, if you didn't watch the movie and you liked the previews of it, you should 
 watch it, but the game won't really help you understand the film's story. The main character in 
 Lyra and you will have a daemon pet named Pan. It's difficult to say more because the story is 
 so weak that you barely understand anything. Something else is that Lyra, or whatever her name 
 is has the golden compass given to her by a man. The Golden Compass is suppose to show the truth. 
 But it doesn't show the truth that the game is crap.
  
  Combat is a total frustration takes to the beautifully messed up controls and camera. Camera is 
 beyond repair and so are the controls. Gameplay is very repetitive, boss fight are generally uninteresting 
 as well. Also camera sometimes gets in the way. Well it's broken, not practically broken.
  
  Sound is bad including voice acting and sound effect. Music is really lame and sound effects 
 are almost embarrassingly bad. Some sound effects won't be heard for the reason because they are 
 either weak or no effect at all. Voice acting is functioning at times but it's boring.
  
  The Golden Compass graphics are terrible. This doesn't look anything like a next-gen game. On the 
 360 is looks like an old XBOX game or a PS2 game, early when the PS2 began. Graphics engine is 
 behind the years. There are some minor glitches. Environments look ugly and consist of textures, 
 ugly ones. Character models look really on the poor side.
  
  The game feels rushed and unfinished. I expected nothing more since it's a movie game. Some movies 
 have some great potential and then end up in a bad game. The Golden Compass on the 360 is just 
 too easy, has some terrible graphics, abysmal gameplay and some major shortcomings. In other words, 
 this game is a total mess. If only movie game creators took more time after the release of the 
 movie, then movie games can perhaps arrive to 6.0. Always better than my score anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 16bitmaster
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 8, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  Crap film, Crap game........... .... ... . . ... . .... ...... . . . . . . . . .j j j j t ju ujju 
 yj u yjuy yjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut 
 juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut 
 juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut 
 juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut 
 juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut 
 juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut 
 juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut 
 juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut 
 juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut 
 juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut 
 juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut juyt uj j jyjut 
 juyt uj j j 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay, it is a Video Game based off of a movie. But not just anymovie, but a Kids Movie. What's 
 not to love about it? Well, the controls. Think Prince of Persia, just more suckier.
  
  On the positive side: There is a lot of diverse types of gameplay and you get ride on a polar bear. 
 Come on, a Polar Bear! Whats not to love about that?
  
  On the negative side: The controls a really REALLY bad and need a lot of work, but that won't improve 
 cause their won't be a sequel right.
  
  Verdict: Since this is based off a movie (and its a kids movie too...) rent it only if you like 
 the movie. Other wise avoid completley 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneshotskye
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the release of the Harry Potter series, Oxford has become associated more with magical 
 children than late hours at the Bodleian. And maybe it's because I didn't attend the illustrious 
 Exeter College, but I honestly can say I never witnessed a young girl swinging from gargoyle to 
 gargoyle with the aid of a magical sloth during my time spent in the city of dreaming spires. This 
 image, however, makes an appearance in the first chapter of Sega's The Golden Compass, all before 
 our plucky protagonist spits some plum-like substance at the college fellows milling about below. 
 Give her a couple chapters, and she'll be off to save the world's children.
  
  The game gives a decent show in terms of first appearances, though it does come packaged with a 
 few rough spots. Environments are decently rendered, especially the aforementioned college of the 
 first level and the snow in later portions of the game. Characters look somewhat like their real-life 
 counterparts, though Roger suffers from Smoker's Mouth in some scenes and our main gal Lyra has 
 hair that looks more like she's wearing a polished wooden helmet on top of her head. When it appears, 
 the music gives a nice touch to the otherwise mundane sound of footsteps crunching snow, and the 
 video game is as well acted as the movie is. However, Lyra and her daemon Pan tend to sound a lot 
 alike - and by a lot , I mean to say that I mistook them for the same person during the first few 
 chapters of the game, leading to a few schizophrenic moments where I thought the girl was arguing 
 with herself.
  
  But once you sort the characters out, you'll find that there's plenty for each of them to do in 
 this game. The bear Iorek deals with most of the combat while Lyra excels at a hodgepodge of activities. 
 You can spend your time deceiving people in order to 1) weasel out important information, or 2) 
 weasel yourself out of a situation. You can engage in some stealth action to make sure that certain 
 undesirable individuals (like the fuzzball evil monkey) don't find you hidden behind a couple inconspicuously 
 placed crates. Or you and that magical sloth can swing around in the game's many platforming levels. 
 So yes, there are plenty of scenarios in the game, and after playing through a few of them, you 
 can't help but wonder who these activities are intended for. On one hand, Iorek's combat has been 
 watered down to jamming the X button over and over again; until the witches appear in later levels, 
 it is practically impossible to die if you are in the general vicinity of your enemy. On the other 
 hand, Lyra's platforming is unnecessarily difficult thanks to the challenge in gauging distances 
 in the game. The camera is static for the most part and because there is little room for error 
 in the sloth swinging (that hand has to make contact with the bar) , I found myself committing suicide 
 time and time again.
  
  And then there are the Alethiometer missions. Although these brain teasers provide the most fun 
 in the game, they can also be the most confusing, and few will be accessible to the tykes out there 
 - honestly, how many kids know the meaning to the word rapacious ? The game works like this: You 
 select a question for the Alethiometer, like Is Mrs. Coulter still looking for me? , and three 
 adjectives will be assigned to describe the elements of the question. In the case of this particular 
 inquiry, words like evil can describe Mrs. Coulter and perseverance her quest to find you. These 
 adjectives correlate to different symbols on your instrument. Some of these symbols are fairly 
 straightforward (the serpent represents evil ) while other associations are downright confusing. 
 Chameleons represent air and camels perseverance ; walled gardens are innocent , a term one might 
 think would be assigned to a baby, but the squirming infant is described as malleable . That is 
 a term which I've always used to describe materials that can be hammered out, like metals. Not 
 babies. My God, not babies.
  
  And then the game returns to mind-numbingly simple as you're told to focus on the question you're 
 asking. The more symbols you correctly assign to adjectives, the easier it is to control your starburst 
 cursor of concentration as it roves around the Alethiometer; keep it in the center of the screen 
 and you'll have an easy time answering the question. There are 48 queries to solve and 108 symbols 
 to discover; the more symbols you have Pan seek out using his ermine powers of sight, the easier 
 the questions are to solve. The easier the questions are to solve, the more you understand about 
 what's happening in the game. Conversely, you could just watch the movie, but Shiny's done a good 
 job of providing the next best thing, as you're treated to a handful of clips from the film before 
 and after each chapter. The clips are decent in terms of length, and help provide the back story 
 to the game; that being said, however, if you haven't had a chance to read the book or see the 
 movie, be prepared to be a bit lost in certain sections of story plot.
  
  The game is long enough to occupy a couple days of your time, and if the little ones are playing 
 this, they should be satisfied for a good week or so before every extra feature is unlocked. Still, 
 be prepared for a couple controller-flinging tantrums along the way since this game is frustrating 
 in certain sections. But if you or the kids enjoyed the book and/or movie, then chances are you 
 might want to go out and give The Golden Compass a shot. Just take my advice and rent this title 
 before sinking sixty dollars down to buy it.
  
  Pros:
  - Graphics are decent for the title, and locations are varied from schools to docks to frozen tundras.
 
  - Plenty of mini-games to engage in; most notable are the tasks involving the Alethiometer.
  - Game contains many extras to unlock, including artwork, movie clips, and a few featuretts.
 
  - Pretty solid voice acting and music clips.
  
  Cons:
  - Platform missions are overly frustrating as it is difficult to gauge jumps.
  - Combat is overly 
 simplified to mashing the X button until all the enemies die.
  - Game might prove to be too difficult in some areas for children to complete, but is too easy 
 for adults.
  - Lack of camera control can complicate a few boss fights - especially the flamethrower battle 
 later in the game.
  - Autosave system saves too infrequently, meaning that more often than not, you can't quit until 
 the end of a level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cupcake117
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 12, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game gives the book a bad name, though I found the book unimpresive.
  
  STORY
  The story is very weak, overall not long enough. It does not follow the book the way that 
 it should. It does not keep people in tune because it gets boring. Just a horrid story.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Gameplay is probably the worst part of it all. It gets very repetitive and boring. 
 The controls are absolutly awful, it is all push the buttons at the right time in the right order 
 and its confusing. You lose interest in boss fights right as they begin because of all the button 
 pushing. One of the biggest problems is the camera, it is constantly getting in the way of everything 
 especialy when you jump or are on a balance beam. The whole gameplay structure is so friggin bad.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are crappy, absolutly no visual interest at all. The game does not take full advantage 
 of next gen graphics. There are graphical glitches everywhere in the game that cause certian objects 
 to flash which gets anoying. You can look up close at something and see no detail, its bland and 
 most of the time it is pixelated.
  
  SOUND
  The sound is bad the music is not that bad but it could be alot better. Sound effects are late 
 and sound bad, sometimes there are no sound effects at all and that is not good. Character voices 
 are clutsy and sometimes makes no sense at all.
  
  OVERALL
  The game could have been a whole lot better if Sega took the time to do it right. Ok there is bad 
 sound, bad graphics, and bad controls which is the problem nothing next gen about this game. Poor 
 construction will give it a bad score of 2.0 nothing more.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
