-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Godfather
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/thegodfather/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great story that stays true to the film while delivering a unique, compelling new narrative.
 The city is expansive, lively, and uninterrupted by loading times.
 Extortion, driving, and combat are all plentiful and fun.
 Tons of varied and interesting missions.
 The characters from the film look and sound great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The graphics aren't quite up to Xbox 360 standards.
 Very little has changed from the previous versions of the game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.7, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 2,208 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: Sep 19, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The 360 version of The Godfather is a lengthy and enjoyable experience that puts the source material 
 to great use, but it's not much of an improvement over previous versions. 

   The Godfather  is widely regarded as one of the greatest films of all time. So when Electronic 
 Arts announced that it was making a game based on the license, though it made sense as a business 
 venture, it also seemed like a risky move to adapt such a beloved and well-known story to a video 
 game. That risk paid off with the PlayStation 2, PC, and Xbox versions of the game, and the game 
 remains mostly untouched for the Xbox 360 release. There are several minor but noticeable enhancements 
 and gameplay tweaks in the 360 version of the game, but, for the most part, this is the same game 
 that was released six months earlier on other platforms. That said, The Godfather on the Xbox 360 
 is still a satisfying, lengthy action adventure game, and more importantly, it remains faithful 
 to the classic film while also creating a compelling story of its own.  

          The Godfather remains mostly unchanged from the previous versions of the game, and it's 
 still a lot of fun to play.     

  The Godfather puts you in the role of a peripheral character that didn't appear in the film, but 
 nevertheless played a critical role in the story. While the character is by no means an official 
 write-in from Mario Puzo or Francis Ford Coppola, he meshes well with the rest of the story, a 
 large part of which is taken directly from the film. When you start the game, you can create a 
 mobster using customization tools similar to those found in EA Sports titles such as the Fight 
 Night and Tiger Woods games. You then begin the game and watch your father get gunned down in the 
 streets by rival mobsters. Flash forward a few years to the wedding scene from the opening of the 
 film, and your mother is asking the Don to take you under his wing and offer you work. As we learned 
 from the film, no Sicilian can refuse a request for a favor on his daughter's wedding day, so the 
 Don sends the imposing Luca Brasi to look after you and teach you how to be a mobster.  

  You start off as an unofficial enforcer for the Corleone family, which means your job is to muscle 
 merchants into paying you protection money. You do this by simply walking into a store and talking 
 to the owner. Usually the owners won't simply give in, but you can intimidate them by smashing 
 up their stores (or their faces) until they start to see things your way. In a new twist added 
 for the Xbox 360 version of the game, sometimes the business owners will ask you to do a favor 
 for them in exchange for a cut of the business. You might have to off a drug dealer who is scaring 
 customers away from a bakery, or take out a troublemaker who refuses to leave a hotel. These favor 
 missions bring some welcome variety to the extortion game, but they're so simple and easy that 
 they'll hardly have any effect on the way you play the game. Once you take over a business, you 
 get a payout each week, and there are dozens of shops you can shake down all throughout the five 
 boroughs of New York. Some stores are fronts for illegal rackets, such as brothels, gambling dens, 
 and illegitimate importing operations, and you can buy out these rackets to further increase your 
 weekly income.  

  Extorting businesses and taking over rackets isn't all there is to do, though. There are plenty 
 of story missions that you'll pick up as you play. Some missions are taken directly from the movie. 
 You'll have to drive the Don to the hospital after he's gunned down in the street, travel to Hollywood 
 to reenact the famous horse-head scene, plant the pistol for Michael Corleone to use to off Sallazzo 
 in the diner, and more. Most of the scenes are very faithfully re-created for the game, and it's 
 great to be able to take part in some of the most memorable moments from the film, such as Sonny's 
 ambush at the toll plaza and the assassinations of the Dons intercut with scenes from the baptism 
 of Michael Corleone's niece. In fact, the best part of The Godfather is that it handles the source 
 material respectfully and offers enough new content to feel like more than just a by-the-numbers 
 adaptation of the movie.  

  Helping to keep the game faithfully tied to the movie are the accurate depictions of the Corleone 
 family members. With the exception of Michael, all of the characters look and sound just like they 
 did in the movie. The voice acting is mostly excellent, with the exception being some of the stock 
 characters that populate the city beyond the Corleone compound. The music is taken from the movie, 
 and while you'll hear the familiar theme a few too many times throughout the game, the music adds 
 a nice touch of authenticity.  

          You'll see some of the great characters from the movie, such as Sonny, Clemenza, and even 
 The Godfather himself, Vito Corleone.     

  In addition to the characters, the city of New York has been carefully rendered in detail, and 
 you can spot specific scenes from the film as you travel the streets of Little Italy, Brooklyn, 
 Midtown, Hell's Kitchen, and New Jersey. The city might be a bit too accurate, though, because 
 some of the streets are confusing, making it a hassle to get around town. There are a lot of indoor 
 areas in the game as well, which you can freely enter without any load times. The Xbox 360 version 
 features improved interiors that are more varied than in previous versions of the game. So while 
 you'll still see the same bakery or hotel lobby throughout the city, you'll also see some unique 
 interiors that will help alleviate that sense of dj vu.     

  The Godfather borrows heavily from the Grand Theft Auto series of games, so you can expect the 
 same senseless violence and absurd mayhem those games are known for. You can steal cars, run down 
 pedestrians, shoot people at random, and evade the police. As you commit crimes, your heat gauge 
 increases, and anywhere from one to five badge icons will appear on the screen to indicate how 
 badly the cops want to take you down. It's easy to avoid the police for the most part, and you 
 can bribe them if you don't feel up for a chase. In fact, in the Xbox 360 version of the game you 
 can bribe police to actually fight alongside you. So if you bribe a police officer in a particular 
 neighborhood, for example, and then later find yourself in a shootout with rival mobsters in that 
 area, you'll see the police start gunning down your enemies for you. If you don't bribe police, 
 they'll shoot you or try to run you off the road, but the cars handle so well in the game that 
 you can deftly weave through traffic to avoid being caught. If you are caught, you're simply killed, 
 which isn't such a big deal because you can be revived at the nearest hospital for a small fee. 

          You can now hire a crew to follow you around and lend a hand -- or a gun -- when you find yourself 
 in a tough situation.     

  You might as well get used to hospitals, though, because you'll die often in The Godfather. Some 
 of the missions are quite difficult, usually because you have to face dozens of mobsters all by 
 yourself. However, unlike in previous versions of the game, you can now recruit lower-ranking mobsters 
 to be part of your crew. For a price, these men will follow you around and provide backup in gunfights 
 or act as triggermen while you drive. As you ascend in rank within the Corleone family, you'll 
 be able to recruit better and better men to fill out your crew. The artificial intelligence of 
 your allies is relatively good, and you'll definitely notice a difference having a crew around. 
 It still doesn't take much to get your crew -- or yourself -- killed. A single round from a shotgun 
 can take you down in an instant, and if you get caught in the crossfire of a couple of tommy gun-wielding 
 wiseguys, you'll get cut down immediately. You can find health tonics from time to time, but you'll 
 need to take cover and plan your attack wisely if you want to live.  

  The gunplay in The Godfather is simple but fun. You can lock on to enemies with the press of a 
 button, and you can duck or back up against a wall for cover. If you want, you can switch to free 
 aim mode, which controls a lot like your standard first-person shooter, where one stick controls 
 your movement and the other controls your aim. The guns in the game range from a .38 special revolver 
 to a tommy gun to a snub-nosed shotgun. There's also a variety of other weapons, including Molotov 
 cocktails, sticks of dynamite, garrote wires, and lead pipes. All of the guns can be upgraded at 
 back-alley arms dealers. You can carry all of these weapons at the same time, too, effectively 
 turning you into a one-mobster army. There are more than 40 scripted execution moves as well, and 
 you're rewarded for your brutality in the form of respect.  

  If you prefer to get your hands dirty, you can simply beat the life out of anyone you encounter. 
 You lock on with the left trigger, and then use the right analog stick to throw punches, slam opponents 
 into walls, or even toss them off rooftops. You can also strangle your enemies and perform neck-breaking 
 execution moves.  

  Combat is fun overall, especially because you're given a healthy set of options when it comes to 
 executing people. The AI is fairly good for most of the enemies. They'll often run for cover, team 
 up on you, and duck behind objects. Occasionally, though, you'll run into some glitchy or just 
 plain dumb enemies. Sometimes an enemy won't be facing you, but somehow he'll be pelting you with 
 lead. Other times enemies will just run up to you as if they can't wait to get blasted in the face 
 with a shotgun. Despite the infrequent AI oddities, the combat in The Godfather is a bloody good 
 time.  

  As you indiscriminately waste people, extort businesses, and complete missions, you'll earn respect 
 points. When you earn enough respect, you level up so to speak, and you can distribute skill points 
 to learn new abilities and improve your stats. You can level up fighting, shooting, street smarts, 
 speed, and health. These bonuses, along with the upgraded weapons, help tremendously later in the 
 game as the missions become more difficult.  

  The Xbox 360 version of The Godfather looks underwhelming in standard definition, but it's slightly 
 better in high definition. There are some fantastic fire and explosion effects, and the city of 
 New York looks and feels alive with activity; but you'll still see some blurry surfaces and jerky 
 animations from time to time. When driving around town you'll also notice some of the larger skyscrapers 
 popping into view a little late, which looks awkward. The frame rate isn't exactly smooth throughout, 
 but it keeps pace fairly well and never drops to critical levels. Overall, the game is nice to 
 look at mostly because of the way it authentically re-creates the look and feel of the film, but 
 there are few technically impressive moments in the game.  

          This is still an offer you can't refuse... unless you've already played it on other consoles. 
     

  The Godfather also comes complete with a few accoutrements of Xbox Live, but don't get your hopes 
 up too much -- for all intents and purposes this is still an offline, single-player game. You can 
 unlock almost 40 achievements to boost your gamer score. Some of these are as simple as purchasing 
 a safe house or extorting 10 businesses. Other achievements require more time and effort, such 
 as becoming Don of New York City. There's also an online leaderboard where you can upload your 
 stats to see how you compare to other mobsters around the world. On top of all that, there's an 
 available option for Xbox Live Marketplace in the in-game menu, so it's not much of a stretch to 
 suggest that Electronic Arts will be releasing some sort of additional premium content after the 
 game is released.  

  With the sheer number of businesses to extort and missions to complete, you can easily spend 20 
 hours working your way up through the ranks and eliminating other families before finally becoming 
 the Don of New York City. If you're a fan of the film, you'll appreciate the way the game pays 
 tribute to the movie. Even if you've never seen the film, the satisfying combat and challenging 
 missions make this game worth playing. However, if you've already played other versions of The 
 Godfather, there's no compelling reason to once again spend full price for what is essentially 
 the exact same game. If you haven't played the game before, though, this is definitely the best 
 version to get.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (143 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is an awesome game and very addictive. There are tons to do in the game even when 
 you beat the story mode and the side missions are fun. You have to take over businesses and rackets, 
 buy houses upgrade guns and it's just plain fun. The graphics are great and the car explosions 
 look so cool. There is a lot of stuff to customize your guy and there are a lot of cool suits to 
 wear to I just wish you could wear Vito Corleones tux. There are a couple of parts from the movie 
 in the game and there are even scenes from the movie in the extras menu. The thing I like most 
 is you can recruit a guy to come with you to kill people when they refuse that certain offer. The 
 cover system isn't that great but it doesn't bother me to much in this game. The only thing I wish 
 there was is more cars, there's only five cars in the whole game and they don't even look good 
 except for the sports car if you can call it that. Anyways The Godfather is a very good game and 
 enjoyed playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 4:43 pm PT
Review:  My latest rental is The Godfather, was the only sandbox game that I haven't played and for some 
 reason at my local video store it was always rented. I have to say after playing it a bit I really 
 enjoyed it and understand why it has been out so much. It plays just like a older GTA game and 
 you play as someone making his way up the family ladder to finally become the don.
  
  What I enjoyed the most was the extorting of local business's and slapping around the shop owners 
 trying to figure out what worked best to get them to pay up. Laughed out loud the first time I 
 by accident threw a shop owner into his own oven Also weaving your character into the Godfather 
 story without changing it was interesting and my favorite mission has to be putting the horse head 
 in the movie producers bed.
  
  The only part that was disappointing was all the Microsoft points you could blow on getting a certain 
 gun or the most powerful body guard faster than usual. I don't think I will ever spend a penny 
 on something like that. I would say this game is a definite rent and a decent purchase if you find 
 it for $10 or $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Save for a very small percentage of people, almost everyone would agree that the Godfather is one 
 of the greatest movies of all time. Right off the bat, it's quite risky to make a licensed game 
 out of such a well-known and beloved story. I'm glad to say that that risk happened to pay off. 
 The Godfather is a satisfying adventure that remains faithful to the classic film while managing 
 to create a different story of its own.
  
  The Godfather takes place in New York City back in the 1940s. You play as a peripheral character 
 who wasn't in the film, but nevertheless, he plays a critical role in the story here. Surprisingly, 
 he blends in well with the rest of the story, most of which is copied directly from the film. As 
 soon as you begin the game, you'll be able to create your own mobster using a customization feature 
 similar to those found in EA sports games. When you finally begin the game, your mobster is a little 
 boy who watches his father get wasted by rival mobsters. Then the game flashes into the future 
 a few years to the wedding scene from the opening of the film. Your mother asks the Don to give 
 you some work, and since no Sicilian can refuse a request on his daughter's wedding day, he sends 
 Luca Brasi to teach you how to become a mobster.
  
  You become an unofficial enforcer for the Corleone family, and your job is to muscle store owners 
 into paying you protection money. First you enter the store and talk to the owner. Usually he won't 
 simply give in, so you'll have to intimidate him by smashing up his store or beating the crap out 
 of him until he gets pushed to his breaking point. Once you take over a shop, you earn a weekly 
 paycheck, and there's dozens of shops scattered throughout the five different areas of New York.
 
  
  However, this won't be the only thing you can do. There are, of course, story missions to complete, 
 most of which are taken directly out of the film. Driving the Don to the hospital after he's gunned 
 down in the streets and traveling to Hollywood for the horse head scene are a few examples. Obviously, 
 you can play the game like Grand Theft Auto and just run around the city shooting people or blow 
 some stuff up.
  
  Like I said before, this game borrows many aspects the Grand Theft Auto series is known for. You 
 mainly go around the city jacking cars, running people over, shooting them at random, or being 
 chased by the cops. Once you commit any sort of crime, your heat meter, or gauge, increases anywhere 
 from one to five stars to alert you about how badly the cops want to take you down. You won't have 
 to worry about the police too much since it's pretty easy to escape from them. You can actually 
 bribe them into not chasing you, but since the cars in this game drive so well, you'll often times 
 escape from the police with ease. If you somehow happen to get caught, you're killed and revived 
 at the nearest hospital for a small fee.
  
  Unfortunately, you die in this game far too often. A lot of the story missions are hard, mainly 
 because you'll be fending off dozens of mobsters at one given time all by yourself. Just a single 
 shotgun round can automatically take you out. That's the only major gripe I have with this game. 
 It would've been helpful to have some sort of difficulty setting, like Easy, Normal and Hard, or 
 something like that. You will find health tonics occasionally, but you'll mainly have to stay behind 
 cover and plan your attacks wisely, which I think sucks a whole lot of the fun out.
  
  The gunplay in The Godfather is definitely quite good if you strip out the hard difficulty setting. 
 You can lock onto your enemies using the Right Trigger and take cover behind any solid object, 
 much like in GTA 4. There is a free aiming mode, which makes the gunplay feel somewhat like a first-person 
 shooter. You'll be using your typical 1940s guns. There's a tommy gun, a .38 revolver, a shotgun, 
 and so on. There's also some grenade-like weapons such as Molotov cocktails, dynamite sticks and 
 lead pipes. All the guns can be upgraded twice by arms dealers. You'll be able to harness all these 
 weapons at one given time, which is extremely helpful during combat.
  
  You don't always have to use guns, though. There's a hefty amount of executions to pull off. Basically 
 you lock onto someone with a button and then use the Right Analog Stick to throw punches, slam 
 them into a wall, or even throw them off buildings. You can also perform killing execution moves, 
 like breaking someone's neck or strangling them. The combat overall is really fun. The enemy AI 
 for the most part is good. They'll team up on you and duck behind objects for cover. There are 
 some occasional AI problems with your enemies, such as an enemy putting away his gun; an enemy 
 can just stand there and let you kill him; an enemy can be facing the opposite direction while 
 still hitting you. Still, these things are by no means common occurrences, and I'm always more 
 annoyed with a game having bad friendly AI, something that this game thankfully isn't filled with.
 
  
  The Xbox 360 version looks better than the PS2 and Xbox versions of the game. Since the game's 
 release date was in 2006, I can't help but forgive a few more graphical blemishes than I do now. 
 The environment is nicely detailed, even though it doesn't look all that great. The frame rate, 
 unfortunately, drops drastically when you're driving really fast while the cops are chasing you. 
 The characters -- especially the Don himself -- look fantastic for a 2006 game, even though I can't 
 say this was the best looking game to come out at that time, since Call of Duty 3, Gears of War, 
 and The Godfather were all released around the same time. The audio is, as expected, excellent. 
 The voice acting is definitely top notch, and although you'll hear the main theme a bit too often, 
 it makes the experience feel all the more authentic.
  
  With all of the many businesses to take over and story missions to complete, you can easily spend 
 over 20 hours playing this game from start to finish. While the overall difficulty setting could've 
 been considerably tuned down, the satisfying combat and the open-world game design make me look 
 past that. Any fan of sandbox-style games like Grand Theft Auto or of the movie will find a lot 
 to enjoy with The Godfather. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyConstantin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  The Godfather is one of the best free roaming games out there together with Grand Theft Auto IV 
 and Saints Row 2. And just because it feels perfect.
  
  The game starts by making your own character. Of course you can make an idiot, but its way more 
 fun to make yourself. After youve done that, you will jump straight into action by killing some 
 thugs in an alley.
  
  A big plus is the deepness, I mean, you can do allmost everything you could do in real life, for 
 example; you can give money to beggars, you can give a bribe to corrupt officers, you can buy cribs, 
 upgrade your weapons, doing favors, help people for money, everything is up to you.
  
  Another cool part about the Xbox 360 version is the online mode. Ok, its a bit crappy, because 
 you cant play with other but the Corleone Challenges are really cool. And after youve finished 
 them, you can compare your results with others.
  
  The Godfather for the Xbox 360 is a really cool and fun game, it has more content that the Playstation 
 2 and the original Xbox version. Besides that, if your looking for a free roaming game, this is 
 perhaps the best choice.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurok17
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  The games fun factor is the best thing the game has going for it. The graphics and some of the 
 physical things about the world are not the greatest but the gameplay, freedom and fun factor makes 
 it an instant classic. They packed a lot into the game.
  
  The game is a story only with a ton of side missions and extras. You don't actually beat the game 
 just by completing the story missions. You have to take over all of New York and become "The Don" 
 to really beat it. I am still only approx. 60%-65% of the way through the game and I'm about 40 
 hours in. 
  
  The graphics and physics and the attributes of the physical world are slightly sub par for a next 
 gen-system game but overall the gameplay and interaction with the game makes up for it. When this 
 game came out you could have one or the other but it was not very feasible to get both in a game. 
 For being nearly 2 years old I am still impressed. The Sequal (The Godfather 2) should pick up 
 the slack where this game left off combining the fun experience with the HD graphics and environments 
 we are growing to love. 
  
  OVerall if you're a fan of the movies you'll love the game. It's Grand-Theft Auto with the Godfather 
 Twist. Truly a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  The moment you start playing you notice the graphics arent exactly next generation. Your own created 
 character visualy seems to stand out making you instantly recognise the character was just fitted 
 into the game.
  The missions are not varied enough in my opinion. Although they're mostly very enjoyable. The melee 
 and targetting systems are fine. This is a large time consuming game. Once you finish the story, 
 there is still alot to finish. I have to say, the achievements are pretty tough to obtain. Even 
 the missions can seem frustrating. One thing I thought stood out was driving. Its actually extremely 
 fun to speed around and slide into enemies.
  Even the environments are fine. The city is extremely large and full of clubs, shops and rackets. 
 
  I would still say this game is worth the price even though its not touching the likes of GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  I had to write my own review because the game spot reviewer really missed the mark on this one. 
 There have been several changes to the game that I feel he really missed out on. 
  1.- Some businesses do ask you to do favors for them now in order for you to extort them. These 
 favors are pretty easy, but add something different at least. 
  2 - New interiors,. It was great to see some new interior designs to some of the fronts/businesses, 
 as well as some new warehouse layouts. I almost @#&* when I saw the new mansions designs as well. 
 The Barzini mansion is huge and no easy picnic to go in and bomb, although I did it the first attempt. 
 It was just a thrill to see that mansion though. So all the mansions have different layouts now, 
 unlike the previous game where they are all the same. 
  3 . - They added some new streets to make it easier to travel from the Hell's kitchen Industrial 
 Park to Hell's Kitchen, and to Midtown. They are a welcome edition, as traveling between these 
 areas on the previous versions was tiring and lengthy. By merely adding a couple of streets that 
 connect them, they really cut down on the longest travel time in the game. 4 . - New favor missions. 
 The Don and other associates will now ask you to do certain favors for them, they don't really 
 pay, but they give you respect. It's just nice to have some new missions. 
  5 - new story missions. There are new missions included in the story that were not in previous 
 versions. 
  6. - Changes to hit contract missions. The layouts of previous hit contract have been changed, 
 some even require different types of bonus kills now. 7. - Hired Bodyguard. You can now hire a 
 bodyguard who will accompany you every where. This guy is awesome. I had the soldier level guy 
 help me out on a of warehouse raids. This guy can take a lot of punishment, and has more health 
 than you do. He can also lean out your car window to do drive bys, and cover your back when your 
 in a car chase. The only draw backs with this guy is that he doesn't discriminate, so you're better 
 off leaving him home when you go on Hit contracts if you are trying to get the bonuses, because 
 he doesn't care who he blasts, especially cops. Your one star cop level will jump quickly when 
 he starts blasting cops. Don't worry though he'll only do that when you are wanted. 
  8. - Tougher cops. I swear the cops are tougher in this game. While I never really bribed them 
 at all in the first game, It pays to keep them under your control in this one. If you do a hit 
 on an enemy business in hopes of extorting it and you don't have the cops payed off then you'll 
 find out really quickly once you start killing that your star level has gone up and not only have 
 you angered the rival mob, but you've also got the police chasing you. On a positive note, paying 
 off the cops now means that you can have an army of cops hitting the other gangs with you, for 
 a limited time. 
  9. - Mob wars. Okay the first game had mob wars, but not like this. When you start a mob war, and 
 for some reason it feels easier to do now., in the previous game all you had to do was not die, 
 or pay off a fed before the timer runs out ( I never bothered bombing an enemy business) and if 
 you didn't then you lose the war and some businesses..... big deal. In the new version, expect constant 
 drive bys aimed at snuffing you out, and they are very aggressive, (one more reason to have a body 
 guard and to have the cops paid off) . Both rival gangs will continue to bomb each others businesses 
 as long as the war continues. It takes along time for those business to come back, so that means 
 a drop in revenue. 
  10. - New vehicles. You'll notice new cars driving around on the streets of NY. This I noticed 
 right away and was nice because the previous game didn't have a variety af cars. Of course the 
 cars still handle just as great as they did in the first game.
  11. Can no longer reduce heat levels by increasing Street smarts. This really makes improving your 
 street smarts not all that great, unless yo wanna carry more molotov's, dynamite and bombs; as 
 well as increasing time you get to view the pressure gauge. The point to this I guess was so that 
 you would take advantage more of bribing the police..... and I did. 
  12 . - Down loadable Don missions. This is cool and reasonably priced (600 MSPs) with it you get 
 more Don missions to do once you've become Don, you can now purchase Level 4 weapons. You also 
 get some free game money downloads., and the ability to hire a Capo level bodyguard..... sweet. 
 Although I think for repurchasing the game this should have been included for free, but at least 
 it's not too bad. 
  13- improved graphics. Okay the graphics are slightly better, but was anybody really expecting 
 them to be XBOX 360 quality anyways? Having said that I thought even on the PS2 the graphics were 
 better than any GTA's. 
  14 - when you high jack a truck now you have to deliver the truck, instead of just running to a 
 save point. 
  
  With all these changes I feel EA has made the game feel more immersive, denser, and you really 
 have more of a feel of the mob world. I loved the original version, but I thought that for all 
 the havoc I was creating with the other families that their response was underwhelming. .... I literally 
 felt like I was getting away with murder. That has been really addressed with this version. When 
 you hit a family in his game, expect to be hit back.
  I feel this game was worth re-buying, replaying, and I can't wait to play it again. With the short 
 game time 10-30 hours, depending on how much you wanna do, this game leaves you feeling satisfied 
 but still craving more, because it's so good. In many ways I preferred this over GTA..... I can't 
 wait for Godfather 2. I think the game spot reviewer needs to replay both versions if he missed 
 all the changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonicguy12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:04 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is a really underrated game. From the start of the game to the end I had the same 
 amount of fun. You have both main missions and side missions like the GTA series. You can chose 
 to do main missions and side missions whenever you want. Around the city you can take over businesses 
 and buy houses, which you can save at. The one annoying thing that I found in this game is that 
 you have to save at a house but that is how GTA works so I guess it's not that bad but if you have 
 to go all of a sudden it just gets annoying to go all the way to a house to save. Everything else 
 in the game works great in my opinion. The combat is easy to get use to and fun. There is actually 
 a point to getting money in this game because it allows you to buy upgrades for weapons and buy 
 houses to save at so you actually have a reason to trying to make money when not doing missions. 
 Beating this game 100% will take quite a bit of gameplay hours which is what I think makes this 
 game great because its actually fun trying to get 100% in this game. So because of the fun gameplay, 
 the length of the game, and the price tag I definitely recommend anyone to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  In 1972, the godfather came out to theaters and became an instant classic in american motion picture 
 history, now this time there is a game out, and although it may not be an instant classic, it is 
 still a really good game, and is probably the best movie-game adaptation on the market.
  The game sticks true to the story of the first godfather movie, the only downside, is that the 
 second and third movies are not included into this game. The story is spectacular in a way that 
 sticks true to the movie, and delivers in making it look outstanding. 
  The graphics are decent, I have played this game both for the ps2, and now the 360, and I thought 
 that this version would bring out the better graphics in the game, but they are a little better 
 then the ps2 version. The charecters look pretty good, when making the don, and everybody else 
 look good, except michael in the game doesnt look like he does in the movies. The car animation 
 looks like it did in the '30s and '40s.
  When playing the game you level up, you go from outsider, asscosiate, soilder, capo, underboss, 
 don, and don of new york city, it takes a long time to reach don of new york city, but it is pretty 
 fun along the way.
  In the game there are some things you can collect for achievements and extras, you can rob all 
 banks, own all safehouses, find all film reels, and etc., the real thing is the film reels, the 
 film reels help you unlock certain in game movies, which are the actual scenes from the first movie, 
 which can be pretty cool.
  The only bad part of the game is the slow loading when you go into certain areas, sometimes this 
 happens, sometimes it doesnt, but it is worth playing if you want a godfather expieriance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather PS2 is my first free roaming crime action game and i felt surprised with it! EA was 
 doing a great job! An then years gone by, i decided to buy the xbox 360 version and again, it's 
 a bang!
  
  The general story is still the same old great Godfather one story (thank's to it, the godfather 
 have greater story than GTA IV) with some extra missions and new favor missions. It is great and 
 will last forever.
  
  The graphics is the minus part of this game. The Godfather is phenomenal on ps2 but if you just 
 convert it to xbox 360 without major improvement, you will be dissapointed. It is a 2006 game but 
 the graphics look like a comic compare with GTA IV (okay i know it's not fair) . But, it won't decrease 
 the fun of the game.
  
  The gameplay is awesome! With simple but effective shooting mechanics, the ability to store unloaded 
 weapon, new feature: hiring a crew (too bad you can only hire one crew) , and upgradeable skills, 
 The Godfather can fight equally with GTA IV. But, the driving part on the godfather is very unrealistic. 
 you can drive as fast as you can but you can easily stop it by holding X a few seconds, but there 
 are new cars available on the game (so far i find 3 new cars)
  
  So, The Godfather is a great classic game! I really can wait for the next The Godfather game. Hope 
 it can come at 2008. It will be a huge rival for the new Mafia II come from Take Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 18, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  I bought this game like 6 months after its release and I had previously played so I was like whatever 
 I'll buy it. At first it's pretty good, but then it gets really repetitive and it sucks. First, 
 there isn't much to do besides the main storyline missions. They're some hitman missions you can 
 do and some business extorting and some other things but its not that great. Another annoying thing 
 is that theres like 3 cars in the whole game. Not to mention the difficulty of this game, it's 
 hard as hell! I guess the city is a decent model of 30s NY, but you don't pay attention to the 
 detail like you would in GTA 4, because honestly, nobody cares about 1930s New York City!!! If 
 you really want a GTA type game and you really like the Godfather movie, which I do, just buy either 
 Saints Row or GTA 4 because this game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Games based on movies tend to be god awful. This is a tradition that goes as far back as E. T. on 
 the Atari 2600. Other games that support this idea?!? Superman returns. Awful. Jumper. Awful. The 
 Golden Compass. Awful. King Kong. Awful. \This list of games could go on, and on and on.
  
  Finally a game that acutally has something to do with the actual movie. Fans of the Godfather movies 
 will be able to fully appreciate what this game is and does. Those who have never seen the movies 
 may find themselves tempted to take a few hours off from gaming to rent what many people have called 
 the best movie, and sequel of all time. 
  
  I happen to agree with these people. so this review could be seen as biased, but I'll try to be 
 as fair as possible.
  
  Lets be honest. This game is GTA set in the 1940's. Combine that with all the major events of the 
 Godfather movies and you have one hell of a game. You will do everything from sneak a horses head 
 into a movie moguls mansion to following Sonny's car to the tollstop and his final demise, to driving 
 Michael to the boat that brings him back to Italy. 
  
  THAT is the genius of this game. You are not one of the main characters in the movie, you are one 
 of the smaller unseen characters that could of existed within this fictional world. That is an 
 amazing concept that really lets you enjoy this game for what it is.
  
  The graphics are nothing spectacular, but the combat is quite fun, and the storyline combined with 
 the numerous sidequests can easily cause you to get lost within this game for hours at a time. 
 Plan on spending an easy 30 hours on this game.
  
  An added bonus is actually film clips from the movie that are unlockable by finding 100 hidden 
 package type items, this time in the form of film reels.
  
  The one low point of this game that really jumped out at me was the conclusion. 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  You somehow become the DON. What happened to Michael? Where did he go? Does your character some 
 how kill him and over throw him? This is a loose end that is really unfortunate considering what 
 a gem the rest of this game is. 
  
  To make things worse, you eventually get the title "DON OF NY" . Your reward?!? 1 million dollars 
 and unlimited ammo? 
  
  GREAT. Just what I need when all of my enemies are eliminated and I have nothing left to do?!? 
 That just does not make much sense and left me with a sense of... NOW WHAT?!?
  
  Overall. A great game and a must have, ESPECIALLY if you are a fan of the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZIjadi
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  The Godfather for the 360 is a very fun, action packed, game. The first time I played it, I was 
 amazed. The story follows the movie, except for some side missions. For example, helping a merchant 
 get rid of some rivalry. The end result of helping a merchant is them paying you and the family 
 every week. These missions are fun, but repetitive. There are a lot of them, and are essentially 
 the same things every time. The game play is clean most of the time, and the controls are easy. 
 The detail is great sometime, sometimes its not. You see a lot of the same things. The game is 
 essentially a GTA knock off. It's a big sandbox type game, and you do missions and work up the 
 ranks. The story, that is superb. It is the movie, but you can play it. It is supposed to be New 
 York, but it's not the same. Over all, the game is great, but I recommend you rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sportsplay90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  This is a very good single player game. It's ability to make people want to pla ythe story mode 
 is the reason this game is so great. There is a vast city of NYC and you can do practically anything 
 you want ot do. You can extort all the businesses and take over all the families. You ca ndo all 
 the favors and do all the hit contracts and all the otehr side missions and not even start the 
 story missions. It's a veryy good game and its accompanied by veryy great side missions. Its lacks 
 the multiplayer and it would be very hard to make a multiplayer out of ths game. It could be done. 
 You could have like a 50 person room and split into 25 each and side take a family or split into 
 smaller groups and get the five families and take eachother out. It would be very hard to accomplish 
 this but it is possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrodrz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  The Godfather, The Game. What else you need to know to buy it? Nothing else! 
  
  But if you still wanna know, i'll be pleased to tell you. As the name suggests, the game is based 
 on the incredible movie The Godfather. It features an amazing story, in which you create your own 
 character to take part of the events featured in the movie. The gameplay is incredibly fun. You'll 
 never get tired of extorting a shop owner or robbing banks, beside other missions. The gunplay 
 is pretty fun, with few weapons, but great upgrades and environment options which you can also 
 use to kill anybody. 
  
  Graphically the game is great. The cars, the clothes, the buildings, everything is fully detailed 
 and concords with the time of the movie. You'll always want to explore these things, even if there 
 are some rival mobsters along the way.
  
  I had really great impressions of the game. When I heard there would be a Godfather game, I immediately 
 raised my money to buy it. If you loved the movie, you'll definitely love the game since it's made 
 just the way it's supposed to. 
  
  With varied objectives, great looks and fun gameplay, The Godfather The Game is the best way to 
 believe you're a mobster, and experience how fun it can get to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_Rockhead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing since you start off by making your character. The storyline also starts off 
 great. Your father gets killed in an alley way by a rival mafia. During the game you can extort 
 businesses and take over racket. But watch out all of those businesses are defended and some highly 
 defended due to them being a high profit value or they are a warehouses. You are also able to upgrade 
 your weapons. In the game you are able to purchase safe houses were you can save your progress 
 or pick up weapons. In the Corleone family there are ranks you start off as a outsider. When you 
 slowly work up in ranks you are able to hire crew members to aid you in missions or buisness raids. 
 The best part through the game is working with the family getting closer to the don and then eventually 
 you will become the don. You may also become the don of all New York. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REMLOC
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS GREAT, ESECIALLY IF YOUR A FAN OF THE GODFATHER .
  ONE OF THE GREATEST THINGS ABOUT THIS GAME IS THAT MARLON BRANDO HIMSELF DID DON CORLEONE. I'M 
 A HUGE MARLON BRANDO FAN AND THERE WILL NEVER BE ANYONE LIKE HIM! THE GAMES OVERALL STORY FOLLOWS 
 PRETTY TRUE AND ACCURRATE TO THE GODFATHER MOVIES AS WELL AS TIES IN A NICE SUB STORY THAT INTRODUCES 
 THE REASON FOR YOUR CHARACTER, THAT BY THE WAY YOU CREATE. ALL OF THE THINGS YOU'D EXPECT TO SEE 
 ARE HERE INCLUDING EVERYTHING FROM MONEY LAUNDERING TO DRIVEBYS TO TURF HITS! IF YOU LIKE GTA OR 
 SAINTS ROW , THE GODFATHER SHOULD APPEAL TO YOU. ITS A VERY OPEN AND WELL SCALED REPLICA OF NEW 
 YORK CITY IN THAT TIME FRAME . MY ONLY GRIPE IS THAT FOR THE XBOX 360 IT'S STILL MOSTLY A PORT 
 WITH A FEW ENHANCEMENTS AND A FEW MORE MISSIONS .BUT NEVER THE LESS ITS STILL A GREAT BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatman_69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Where do I start with this one? Take the subject matter of arguably the greatest movie of all time 
 and try and turn it into a video game, a tall order indeed for any game publisher. Trying to then 
 shoe horn this into a GTA clone makes it even tougher as comparisons between these two legendary 
 sources and the resulting game will be made in great detail. Amazingly however, EA has succeeded 
 in delivering the goods, for the most part.
  
  The game starts off with you as a young boy who witnesses his father's demise in an alley at the 
 hands of the Barzini's. As you back away in horror, Don Vito Corleone grabs you and tells you to 
 " [look away, but never forget for one day you shall have revenge] ". Fast forward about 10 years 
 to the famous wedding scene from the movie and your mother pleads with Don Vito to help you out, 
 give you a job. The Don cannot refuse a request on his daughter's wedding day and so begins our 
 story.
  
  Luca Brasi is sent to find you and you begin a series of tutorial missions that instruct you in 
 the ways of pugilism, gun play and extortion among other things. The first thing you notice as 
 a player is that the controls are drastically different, especially from a combat perspective, 
 than your traditional GTA clone. You can grab characters, throw them around, smack and punch them 
 using a combination of the left and right thumb sticks. Although a little frustrating at times, 
 this combat mechanism works quite well, adds a new element and makes you feel a little more in 
 control than your traditional button mashing approach to combat. One question, why can't my character 
 jump (I ask the same thing of Scarface) ?
  
  Gunplay is your standard fare and the weapons are well done, especially the high end weapons such 
 as the fully automatic assassin's pistol and the top Tommy Gun. You start off with the low end 
 versions of the guns, but as you 'earn', you are able to afford better versions that do more damage, 
 fire quicker and hold more rounds. The Xbox360 version lets you purchase (via XBlive) bigger and 
 badder weapons that are worth the few extra bucks, just for bragging rights. The game allows you 
 hide against walls for cover and target so that you can jump out, fire and hide again. While this 
 sounds good, at times it doesn't work and leaves you locked up against a wall with a bad camera 
 angle; a sitting duck for an unseen enemy. Another nice element is that as you gain respect and 
 level up, you are able to add points to key character traits that boost your endurance, speed and 
 respect modifier in extortions. 
  
  Once you have the tutorials have more or less completed, you head out on a series of missions that, 
 if you are successful, allow you to take over rival gang territory and move up in the family. You 
 play the game as a character that wasn't seen in the game but was a main henchman in completing 
 'business' for the family, some of it witnessed in the movie. There are three types of missions 
 in the game; these include the main story missions, extortion missions and the favour/side missions. 
 The main missions of the game pull you into a good portion of the key events in the movie such 
 as the protection of the Don at the hospital, Sonny getting whacked at the tool booth and the planting 
 of the gun for Michael to name a few. The side missions consist of extorting businesses and rackets 
 that allow you to take them over from opposing families and starting earning money. Finally are 
 the favour/side missions which mainly allow you to perform favours or hits for NPCs.
  
  While the main missions of the stories are really good and give you a hypothesized 'behind the 
 scenes' look at how events in the movies occurred, there a little too few of them and if you just 
 focus on those alone, you can 'win' the game pretty quickly. The extortion missions offer a lot 
 to do, but the repeated use of locales, characters, dialog and scripting can make this a little 
 monotonous after a while. The side missions are fun as you hunt down bad guys and have to exact 
 orders on them sometimes with very specific bonus conditions such as they must be strangled or 
 be thrown off a roof. Having completed both the PS2 and Xbox 360 editions, there are some key differences. 
 The 360 version allows you to recruit a hired hand that can really ease what would otherwise be 
 a difficult mission. The 360 version also varies the locales a bit as well as adds a few missions 
 and variations on missions seen in the PS2 version. Some of these changes are included in the game 
 and some you need purchase via XB Live, which I view as a quick cash grab on EA's part.
  
  The driving component in the game is pretty good and the cars handle and differ in performance 
 depending on the model. However this element is really only used for transportation and isn't leveraged 
 for any other reason in the game. My biggest complaint is it can sometime be difficult to get in 
 the cars which usually results in you failing to get into the car or you getting run over by the 
 car.
  
  As you drive/run around and slowly knock off the missions, you eventually work your way up through 
 the ranks and eventually become the boss of NYC. This is a logical progression until you take over 
 Michael seat, which just doesn't make sense to me. You get the call to go and see Tom Hagen for 
 a meeting and then you are the boss with no rhyme or reason (yes it is a logical progression for 
 you to win, but I would like to understand how it played out) .
  
  The graphics are good, although the 360 version doesn't seem as up to snuff for a next gen console. 
 The sound effects are excellent and capture the sounds of the street, guns and cars. The game captures 
 the era well from a drabness and period perspective. The voice acting is well done through use 
 of the original actors and archive footage. The only complaint is the lack of Al Pacino as Michael, 
 but that's a legal thing between companies and mobster franchises (i. e. Scarface) .
  
  Overall the game is well done and is quite enjoyable. The enhancements to the 360 version are minor 
 for the most part. While not perfect, it does a good job at staying true to the source material 
 and defines some new elements to the often imitated GTA franchise to set it apart in areas. This 
 game at reduced prices as of this writing ($15.99-$29.99 CDN) is well worth the purchase and the 
 experience especially if you are a fan of the Godfather or not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: np1001
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  We have all seen or heard of the deeds of the mafia in the past (or at least, hopefully some of 
 us out there are at least that have at least heard of something, Like Scarface. The Godfather is 
 a perfect example of the Italian mafia that is based on family and honor among friends, and also 
 the honor of business. At the beginning of the story of the Corleone Family in New York, you are 
 just a boy that learns the ways of organized crime. Every mobster has a creed. Whether it is of 
 loyalty, vengeance, business, or inspiration, it always remains in their mind while they do their 
 works. Yours happens to be clearly one of these.
  
  Your father is killed at the orders of Don Emilio Barzini, who happens to be the leader of the 
 strongest Family in New York. You witness your first act of "business." Despite the famous line, 
 "It's not personal, it's strictly business," there is always going to be crime done for personal 
 reasons. Many acts in the world are out of feelings. However, it is wisest to never let one's feelings 
 get in the way of their judgement, for it can take it to a bad level of pressure. The beginning 
 of the game is the beginning of your immigrant's tale. With the part about immigration left out. 
 You are in the world of 1940s New York, where five mafia Families have taken over the city as if 
 their own. Anyone that is in danger would never be alive for long without the protection of any 
 one Family. You are pushed to join the Corleone Family (a good choice at that, not that you get 
 much choice..) . You have their friendship, protection, and a small cut of their power as long as 
 you remain loyal. The game's beginning, where you have no upgrade to any health or speed or etc. 
 at all, gives a good feeling about how dangerous the path that you have chosen in the game would 
 be in real life (you can die as many times as you wish in the game, but when you die without trying 
 to, it gives me a good feeling of how efficient the kill is, and makes me smile in a way that makes 
 me seem eccentric. Of course, many writers are eccentric, so I don't deny I am..) . The game has 
 a good pace and side missions (what better side missions than contract hits!?) to go with the main 
 plot. The main missions are done much better than the hits. This would be a reason why the game 
 can get boring after you finish all hits, missions, and extortion. You still have banks to rob 
 and secrets to find however. There are very few glitches (I've encountered one so far) and some 
 interesting but hard to find secrets to it. One of the secrets, trying to find a film reel, involve 
 blasting your way through a lot of people that look like they belong in hotel staff (red uniform 
 with buttons and all.) . The secrets, though, make up a small portion of the game.
  Extortion is a simple classic. The extortion in this game is basically what we already know (if 
 you've seen the episode of Monty Python's Flying Circus where the mafia tries to extort a military 
 base) and what we're about to learn. Some extortion is just plain fun, like smashing up a person's 
 smoke shop, torching innocents in the bakery's oven, killing mobsters in front of a store owner's 
 face, and beating the store owner himself. A lot of swearing can be witnessed here (one of the 
 racket bosses showed a pretty rude gesture to me) but that can be just hilarious ("Where the **** 
 did Paulie go!?") . And if the swearing isn't your thing, well, this game is rated M.
  
  The main missions and the fighting is what the game is all about. The fighting consists of hand-to-hand 
 combat, and shooting combat. The hand-to-hand combat is what the most fun type of fighting in this 
 game is. You move the right thumbstick up to punch, back and then up for a pretty strong punch 
 that would knock an opponent's teeth out, and move the thumbstick upper right/left for a different 
 attack. This can get pretty fun after a while. You can also grab people and beat them silly, while 
 you can kick people in the head while they are zoning out of conciousness on the ground. The shooting 
 combat is mainly like GTA. You aim using the left trigger, and obviously fire using the right trigger. 
 you can aim at different locations to see various effects (knee to get them off their feet, shoulder/arm 
 to disarm them, stomach to make them spit some blood out for a second, and head to instantly kill 
 them) . This can get pretty fun. I personally liked this game because of the graphics mostly. It 
 was well put together and worked well. I would rate this on my scale of 10 because of the way it 
 ran, how smooth it ran, and the graphics and also storyline. I reccomend you get this game. I did 
 not waste 1 penny when getting this game, nor waste 1 second of my time playing it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirzod101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The godfather was one of the best movie in history and EA decide to make a game of the flim now 
 i will say something the game is the best video game for the 360 and is better the the ps2 and 
 xbox and also the graphics are good the sound is good and replay is also good ss for the gameplay 
 well its a GTA clone it plays like GTA a bit but has better fetures then GTA like blowing up a 
 gang compone or something like that as for the graphics it has improved a bit in the 360 verison 
 and the story is based on the movie so if you have not seen the movie then you should not play 
 the game untill you saw the movie cause then you will be spoilling yourself. But is well done and 
 very good and fun and it also has downloadable contect over x box live and that is one of the new 
 fetures of the godfather for the 360 and the AI has also improved a lot censdering the 360 copablate 
 sorry for the spelling mistake it may seem long but after you beaten the game you can chose to 
 contoue it or you can start a new game all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather, one of the first games ever announced for Xbox 360, arrived almost an entire year 
 after it had its time on Xbox and Playstation 2. However, for my first outing with the game being 
 on the 360, don't expect any comparisons with the old versions. Also, I feel those comparisons 
 are unneeded since the game needs to stand on its own for 360. So, let's see how the Corleones 
 did:
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The Godfather is pretty much a 1940-50s version of the Grand Theft Auto series, but it comes with 
 a movie license and an already classic storyline twisted to form around a game world. First, this 
 game follows the storyline of the first Godfather, and leaves out the two sequels, which I feel 
 was done so that they can make them into their own games. The twist to the storyline is that you 
 play as Luca Brasi's crew member until he gets himself killed and then you assisting with the storyline. 
 That is basically the game's mission mode, but this game evolves past this, having a heavy amount 
 of side missions to perform at your leisure. Those include hijacking trucks, robbing banks, blowing 
 up safes, extorting businesses, performing hit contracts, and doing favors. All of these activities 
 and the mission mode reward your character with money and respect points. Money is then used to 
 purchase clothes, crew members, safehouses, weapon upgrades, and ammo.
  
  Respect points are a whole different story and are also the game's other main focus. Your character 
 has an RPG-like leveling system, caped off at level 50. each level is gained with a unknown amount 
 of Respect points since the games doesn't indicate what exactly you need to earn for each level, 
 but it tells you how many points you get each time you get them. This is rather odd to me, since 
 they might as well just made it say, "+ respect" when you earn it since you have no idea how close 
 you are to leveling up. Still, the number of points does help clarify what earns you the most points 
 compared to other activities. Moving this along, every time you level up, the game gives you the 
 ability to decide what you want to level up and you can choose between Street Smarts, Fighting, 
 Shooting, Speed, and Health. All of them list what you type of bonus you receive for leveling them 
 up, such as upgrading the streets smarts to a certain level will eliminate heat gained from stealing 
 parked cars.
  
  Finishing this section up, the game plays like most sandbox titles, with shooting having an auto-aim 
 and manual aim. The game also has detailed melee system, but it is nothing too special since all 
 you do is just wiggle the right control stick forward, left, and right to take care of business. 
 Finally, it has the negotiation techniques, which is basically throwing the owners around. However, 
 all of this stuff has a broken element to it. First, the auto-aim is horrid for this title, with 
 too many miss-aims happening and resulting in your death. The best way to explain this would be 
 with an example: say a gang member runs at you and gets close with a shotgun/tommy gun. You click 
 the auto-aim trigger, only for it to aim at a guy 700-ft away. Meanwhile, the gangster is filling 
 you with lead until you finally die. Yes, this situation happens quite a bit and it costs you enough 
 to says its a broken system. The next problem is with negotiations, which was presented as a big 
 part of the game, but it really is only big in the beginning. After you reach a certain respect 
 level, the businesses and rackets just hand over the protection money without a word. I guess this 
 is ok, but it eliminates the whole reason to negotiate with people. Besides those faults, the gameplay 
 is close to solid, with an addicting nature to it thanks to extorting, leading a few to utter "just 
 one more business" before running out the door.
  
  Graphics:
  
  For a version of a game that came out a year after others, its sad to see they have not taken the 
 time to upgrade this game's visuals. The quality is quite low, around Grand Theft Auto 3 for Xbox 
 level in visual upgrades. This means they added a bunch of shiny polish to the cars, upgraded the 
 characters a little, and... thats it. The game also suffers from framerate issues on highways and 
 explosive gunfights, which is sad for a game with such poor visuals. It really shows that this 
 game was rushed onto the Xbox 360 thanks these nagging issues. At least it supports 720p quite 
 well.
  
  Sound:
  
  The quality of the voice work, which is the most important thing for this game, is good. The game 
 has an amazing amount of speech in it, with all the characters have hundreds of one-liners to spout 
 out as you pass them or shoot at them. The music is pretty much dragged-out versions of the movie's 
 score, which is ok until you realize that its a small amount of songs. For this game, its almost 
 70 hours worth of gameplay, so having the same five songs play is during those 70 hours will get 
 on your nerves pretty quickly. Luckily, this is Xbox, so custom soundtracks are available.
  
  Bonus:
  
  As of December 2007, The Godfather on Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 both received 
 new content called the "Corleone Challenge." These are simple challenges which are setup as followed: 
 each challenge is selected from the main menu, but only a basic amount of challenges are available. 
 The complete set costs 260 MS points on XBL or $3.49 on PSN. Each challenge resets the game world, 
 but places your story mode character at a random starting positions. A timer and counter appear 
 at the top of the screen, depending on the challenge. These challenges do not effect anything in 
 story mode, but they also do count to your character, so don't think you can use them for boosting 
 your character's stats. The challenges are rather easy to complete, with the only "challenge" being 
 how fast you can do it or how many kills/hijacks/etc. you can do in the given timeframe. All challenge 
 have an individual online leaderboard, so go ahead and go nuts. This pack is for fans of the game 
 or achievement lovers since it has some seriously easy achievements to gain. Outside of them, it 
 is a skip. 
  
  Also, prior to this pack, they released the Don collection on XBL for 800 MS points or $9.99 on 
 PSN. This pack includes three favors, a new assassin to hire, level 4 for all the guns, and about 
 250 grand worth of in-game money. This pack is only for those who actually like the game and want 
 to have more enjoyment out of the game. Outside of those, I would just skip it since it wouldn't 
 be worth it. 
  
  Overall: 8.5/10.0
  The Godfather delivers for gamers who are fans of the movie trilogy with its nicely reformed storyline 
 and its amazingly deep side-missions extent the game a 60 hour experience. Achievement lovers may 
 want to avoid this one since it does take a good amount of time to finish outside of the new DLC. 
 Sandbox fans will adore this 1950s world, but hate the aiming system to death. Finally, the game 
 probably would have been a 9.0 if it wasn't for all the nagging problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardcoregamerXX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game has everything from robbing banks to paying off cops to a very good storyline. It does 
 get kind of repetitive taking over business again and again, but still fun. Personally, I liked 
 paying off cops near banks, running in and blasting all the bank guards heads off with a shotgun, 
 taking the loot and getting to my hideout. Now that is fun stuff right there. The story is also 
 very fun to beat and offers hours of excitement, but is a little too easy. I give it a 7.5 which 
 is solid but the graphics aren't that great. Still, worth buying and I do recommend it. It probably 
 won't cost much because it came out a long time  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather was one of my favorite games on the Ps2 so I was for sure going to pick it up on 
 the 360 with its better graphics and the achievement factor made me super excited. Then EA had 
 to go and add new missions and side missions to make the game even longer and more enjoyable than 
 it was back on the Ps2, and my mouth was foaming. Then when I finally bought the game this christmas 
 EA released more achievements and more gameplay features downloadable for a cheap price via Xbox 
 Live I couldn't wait any longer I had to play the game!
  
  Well the game looks a lot better on an HDTV that is turned all the way up than it did back on the 
 Ps2. There are subtle changes that make a huge difference when you are looking at the grand scheme 
 of the game. The character models look decent although there could be more of them if you asked 
 me. The cars shine in the sunlight of the not so realistic New York City that is the setting for 
 The Godfather. The city doesn't really resemble New York City in anyway at all, but it does just 
 fine with what it has. Locations that you remember from the movies are here so in the end that 
 is really all that matters. The explosions are hands down one of the greatest looking things in 
 the game.
  
  The sound in this game is very good. With the voices of James Cann, Robert DuVall, and Marlon Brando 
 the cast is only missing Al Pacino, but despite what some people say I did not find the replacement 
 to be all that bad. The city doesn't necesarrily sound alive, but the cars sound good. The Godfather 
 is a GTA style game so in the end it does really all come down to the guns and the explosions, 
 which are plentiful throughout this game do sound very well done. Hitting someone on the head with 
 a baseball bat or breaking a bottle sound like they should, not saying I've ever hit someone over 
 the head with a bat, but you get the idea.
  
  The Godfather pretty much controls just like it did on previous platforms, you use the analog stick 
 to aim and the rest of the game controls like any other GTA style game on the 360. The one main 
 problem that I had with the controls was the aiming, which sometimes worked amazingly, but other 
 times it would aim at an enemy that was dead on the ground while I was being shot at an enemy that 
 was standing right next to it. This required me to change to the user aim setting and then use 
 that to get a hold on the enemy that was shooting at me. This does cost some valuable time or health 
 if you are trying to take over a compound or something like that.
  
  Now that we have all the technological aspects of The Godfather out of the way lets talk about 
 what there is actually to do in The Godfather. The story has you as a mob hand (that you can totally 
 customize by the way) for the Corleone family and you slowly make your way up the ranks. The story 
 follows that of the first movie, but you see it from the side, not from the eyes of Michael Corleone, 
 and you do stuff that isn't in the movie as well. Some of the best missions do revolve around the 
 movie though. Some examples of this would be placing a certain gun in a certain toilet, cutting 
 off a certain horses head and placing it in a certain persons bed, or the finale taking care of 
 some family buisiness while Michael becomes Connie's son's Godfather. 
  
  After all this there are side quests of course, that are plentiful on the Xbox 360 even more so 
 than on the Ps2. You can even download more of them from Xbox Live. I reccomend downloading these 
 but I would stay away from the Coreleone challegnes at the moment seeing as how I am unsure if 
 they are working yet, since i have been preoccupied with other games. Anyways as you complete the 
 side quests and the in-game missions you become immersed in the game as your character rises through 
 the ranks of the Coreleone family becoming, Don, and then Don of NYC. Once you reach the Don level 
 though, the game doesnt really seem to notice it. You will be talking to fellow family members 
 and they will still talk about Michael as if he is the Don, even though your character is in fact, 
 the new Don. This is very disappointing, because it sucks you out of the game.
  
  Overall however The Godfather is an amazing game that anyone who is a fan of the movies, or action 
 games in general should play. The 360 is really the way to go, because of all the new content that 
 you cannot get on the last gen consoles. This is my third time playing through the game and I am 
 still noticing little references to the movie that I didn't notice the other times through, and 
 I will probably play through it again. I must say that The Godfather on the 360 is a must play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimppapa
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  If you enjoy the Mob as so many of us do this game will be very enjoyable. The way you control 
 your character is flawless. There is nothing better then beating the crap out of a dead beat store 
 owner who did not pay his respect to the Family, you know what I mean. Driving from NY to NJ over 
 the bridge or the Holland Tunnel is great then hijacking a truck is great family fun for children 
 of all ages, this ain't Sponge Bob Ladies. So take out your shot gun and fire away have fun robbing 
 banks and blowing the cowardly cops brains all over the vault oh how I love this game. Try it you 
 will enjoy it a lot. You also can hire a flunky to follow you around town he gets in and out of 
 your car and will fight along side with you just pick the guy with the Tommy Gun he is the best 
 of the hired guns. EA even has a site that tracks all your stats so you can see how well you have 
 done if you want more kills just leave one mob head quarters alone so you have someone to kill 
 off or you have nothing to do but rob banks and high jack trucks at the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  The best part of the game was you being able to hire a partner. A single player game becomes more 
 thrilling when you have an AI to be with. The AI was intelligent. Its weapon and fighting skills 
 will depend upon their rank. There is a slight problem though. When you are in a hurry, especially 
 when passing thru a door, when the door closes, you partner becomes left behind and you have to 
 go back and open the door for him so he can follow. One unique thing is when you heal yourself, 
 your partner becomes healed also (but at a slower rate of healing) .
  
  The cars in this game was unfortunately having only 2 doors. The reason is maybe because you can 
 only hire 1 AI to be your partner so the cars in the game is only good for 2. The handling of the 
 cars was great. It was was. It has good handling and braking. One thing I noticed though is that 
 the cars always emits black smoke.
  
  The civillians in the game was so fragile. One hit by your car and they die instantly giving you 
 heat. It's a unique part of the game so that players wouldn't just run over any civillian in the 
 game but I wish they were not that fragile.
  
  There also funny parts of the game. When bribing, the lines, actions, and facial expressions of 
 the cops were funny. The seem to bow down so much like they treat you as a master.
  
  There are alot of missions in the game but my favorite was the hitman missions. The use of stealth 
 killing tactics was fun.
  
  It's an action packed game and there are heartbreaking scenes. One thing I loved in this game is 
 that it can suck you in its story. You can really feel the game. It catches your emotions.
  
  The clothes were great. My favorite was the black pants, black coat, greay polo shirt, black 
 hat and eyeglasses. I enoyed customizing my character and I shaped the hair and face like it was 
 really me.
  
  The weapons were alright but my favorite was the bomb. Bombing was scary, if you can't run out 
 the building swiftly, you can get iced.
  
  I can't wait for The Godfather part 2 to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downward_sanity
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game by itself was entertaining. There are only a few problems I have with the game. One, 
 this game follows the movie, but very loosely. There are parts that are fine. For example, when 
 you tune up the kids that beat Bonasera's daughter. That worked out fine. But there are other parts 
 that just don't fit. EA had to change the way the movie went in order to incorporate your character. 
 Again, for example, when you are on the mission to whack Paulie. In the movie it clearly shows, 
 how he was killed. It's almost as if, everyone at EA never watched the movie, and decided to make 
 a game on it. The other problem I had with it was when you are being chased by a rival family or 
 the cops. Just when it looks like you escaped, they seem to have lightning quick cars that catch 
 up to you. As I said, if you haven't ever watched The Godfather, or haven't seen it in a long time, 
 then it's a good game. But I think it almost ruins the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ugikogaru
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I started playing the godfather 2 weeks ago. It was actually my friends and he didn't even open 
 it because he said it looked stupid. I only had halo 3 and assassins creed at the time so i said, 
 hey what the hell im so bored i guess i will try it.
  
  I stayed on this game for hours. It was actually really fun. Its just like being a rel mobster 
 in the movie lol :D
  
  One of the coolest things in the game is the fact that you can customize your mobster to look how 
 you want him to. Depending on how much cash you have and what your wearing is how much respect 
 people will have for you, and how much more of a bonus in respect you will get when you do certain 
 things like extorting, or killing other mobsters.
  The shooting is realistic, one shot to the head , and heart are lethal.
  You can upgrade your 
 weapons, extort businesses and take over rackets to make cash and earn respect. The more higher 
 your respect level, the more skill points you get. And achievements. Everybody likes those. You 
 get a few different weapons in the game. A pistol, a magnum, a snub nose, shotgun, tommy gun, bomb, 
 dynamite and many of blunt weapons. You can also pick stuff up and throw it at people. The system 
 for extorting businesses and getting information out of people is just so fun. Either wreck the 
 guys store up, kick his a$$ or threaten him with a gun. You can drive in this game like in grand 
 theft auto. You can also buy safe-houses and save your game there. There are also weapons there 
 that spawn alot depending on how nice the place is.
  
  There are many different gangs in this game. Like in the movie. IF you take over all their businesses 
 and destroy their warehouses lets say in little Italy. You own it. Your top priority should be 
 to become the don.
  
  The only flaws i have with this game are the graphics, and the fact that you can't hire more then 
 one guy with follow and help you at the same time. Besides that the games great. I recommend it 
 for someone who has little or alot of time. Theirs always something to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The godfather is an enjoyable game that even GTA fans and non fans alike will enjoy. I actually 
 personally believe that this game is more fun and better than any GTA game, ever. The godfather 
 starts with your character as a kid watching his father get killed by rival gang members. Then 
 the Don comes up and says that one day, you'll get your revenge. Then you get to create your character. 
 The character creation is pretty much solid and fleshed out. The clothing options aren't huge but 
 who really cares about having a huge amount of choice in clothing, honestly. Anyways, The game 
 takes you through several cities giving you lots to explore and do. The main objective of the game 
 is, not only do story missions, but to also take over rival family businesses, rackets, warehouses 
 and more to accomplish the rank of Don of NYC. Now there are a few problems and issues with the 
 game. First is the game's frame rate tends to suffer a lot but it never has locked up on me which 
 I guess is good. Second, the game's graphics are definitely not up to par with 360 technology so 
 that's a little on the disappointing side. Other than that, the games great and also has DLC to 
 expand the game further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobojoe92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather was a great movie, and the game is just as good. The graphics could have been better, 
 but it will provide tons of hours of fun. Its basically like GTA, you go around, hijacking cars, 
 killing whoever you want, and running away from cops. You can of course do missions (meet vinnie 
 at hte barber shop and whatever) . You can also extort shop owners and make them pay you money. 
 The possibilities are almost endless. You can customize your players hair, face, clothes. This 
 game never gets old, although some of the missions are annoying, so i just go around hijacking 
 cars and assassinating people. Tons of fun.
  
  
  Summary:
  
  Pros:
  -Fun
  -Go arounda nd do what you want
  
  Cons:
  -Bad graphics
  -Missions get redudant
  
  
 note: unlike halo 3, this game deserves an M rating. The say the F word multiple times, and there 
 is a lot of blood and intense violence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  the godfather has medium length story which is about 22 missions. after your done with the missions 
 dont think that your done with the just yet. you still have to become the don of nyc. which will 
 take a whole lot of time. the game lets you take over businesses and rackets. you also get to rob 
 banks which i think is pretty cool. you also have contract hits and favors. the hits require you 
 to kill people. there are certain ways to kill the people in the hits some of them will ask you 
 to beat the crap out of him with a bat or blow his brains out with a revolver. the favors are similar 
 to the hits but they dont require you to kill anyone your just helping the family out. the game 
 also has executions which i think are pretty cool there are 47 in total. you are also allowed to 
 buy safehouses. you are also told to take over warehouses and destroy rival familiy compounds. 
 there are 4 different familes in the game which are the cuneos, stracci, brazini and tatagglia. i 
 think i spelled tatagglia wrong but what ever. there is also a new expansoin pack out right now 
 that has new achievements and a new feature called corleone challenges its 250 points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kari_23
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out looking promising, but it falls short. Do not get me wrong this is a good 
 game, but it is nothing to boast about. Graphics and so on are ok, but again nothing stellar. The 
 storyline is good, but the problem with this is the actual story mode is shorter than Britney Spears' 
 first marriage. After that, there is nothing to do but take over the other mafia families, whack 
 some men in certain families, and drive around NY looking for missions. All this starts out fun 
 enough; however, after a while it is like watching paint dry. By the time I was taking over the 
 third family, I had a feeling of d&eacute; j&agrave; vu times two. The only difference was the color 
 of the jackets the men wore that I was fighting. So yes, the game becomes repetitive! Needless 
 to say, I decided becoming the Don of NYC was boring. I have since stopped playing the game, and 
 could care less about finishing it since I already beat the storyline mode. Another annoying feature 
 is that once you take over a family, and then go back and check out their compound the family that 
 you overtook suddenly appears to attack you. This happens every time! I mean come on I already 
 took out the family, and now I have these men cruising up in there little black car and out of 
 the bushes? I mean honestly, how stupid is that? The Godfather was a great concept, and had a good 
 storyline (while it lasted,) but there is also a ton of things that could be improved on this game. 
 My only hope is that if a sequel is made, the storyline will be longer, and less monotonous. If 
 you can over look these faults and a few small quarks then you will most likely find The Godfather 
 a decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulflyer13
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Well, I don't think I have to talk a lot about the content of the game...
  What I'm trying to say is that this game really does what it should, license games hardly even 
 try to invent new gameplay, but this game does (a little bit) .
  If you want to really do everything in the game, you'll be on for hours, but, the game rewards 
 you greatly for it, and you'll hardly ever get annoyed because you feel like you're doing the same 
 thing over and over again, like taking over all the rackets and shops.
  With the in game coversations, the game combines the different views with the camera with lots 
 of different sentences so you won't hear them too many times, like in lots of other games.
  So the game keeps being exciting over a long period, it's a very good one to play every now and 
 then, take over a shop or a trading center and go play another game again, the 360 version is moreover 
 an improved version of the pc one... there are more weapons, more cars, more execution styles and 
 shit I don't know more... expect over 35 hours of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather was a disappointment I have to admit. The graphics weren't as good as expected since 
 this was EA's second time around. The game however is fun since it lets you run around a living 
 NYC; extorting business owners, robbing banks and attacking other families. Many players may be 
 put off by the games difficulty, you must be cautious while extorting stores and attacking other 
 mobs; some wrong moves and you'll end up sleeping with the fishes. Make the right moves and choices 
 and you'll be on your way to becoming the don of New York. 
  The Godfather's selling point was mobface, which is a bummer since you can't really customize your 
 character to the extent that you can in Saints Row. The city doesn't feel like a city, there's 
 alleys and stuff but they seem to have blocked many places off from being explored. The graphics 
 are pretty dull and washed out as well. Pushing that aside, there are many places to rob extort 
 and rivals to kill. A neat feature is the ability to bribe the policemen and FBI so they would 
 ignore your crimes and even fight for you. 
  If you are a true Mafioso or someone looking for a challenge (or a fan of the Grand Theft Auto 
 games or the Godfather movies) this game is a must buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightfire_5
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  The Godfather video has to be one of my favorite games in my collection. I'm actually really biased 
 to this game since I am such a huge fan of the Godfather movies. In order to beat every aspect 
 of the game expect to play well over 100 hours, to get everything completed. Though time consuming 
 some may find it enjoyable and entertaining. If your a fan you will love it, if your not a fan 
 you may not enjoy it as much and really notice how the game doesn't really have the best next gen 
 graphics. But all in all it is a pretty solid game for what it is; especially with the venue for 
 designing your own character, and different classes of weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLR3175
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, looks like we got our self another gta rip off, but wait this one is pretty damn good. The godfather 
 game pits you as almost a supporting figure of parts of the movie. Like you will be the one who 
 drives the don to the hospital when he gets shot, or you will be the one to take care of a few other 
 things people ask you to do. The game play is very deep, with lots of things to keep you busy, like 
 prize fight, rep to get higher ranks in the family, taking out rival families and of course it would 
 not be a game like this with out extortion. Hey you can even pull hits on people and do people ''special''favors. The 
 game does not have any multiplayer but with great gameplay like this you really do not need it. The 
 only bad thing I can say about this game is the fact that the single player is over before you 
 know it, but atleast you can keep roaming around the city doing stuff for the family, see if you 
 do enough you will become the don of nyc, now how cool does that sound. Oh and sadly the environments 
 are very dull, I know this is set in older times but come on EA you should be able to make them 
 look a little better than this. Any way as you can see the pros highly out weigh the cons in this 
 game so if you like the godfather, or are just looking for a game that you can sink your teeth into 
 this is very much it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I am Italian and never cared for the Godfather movies. They were ok but just to boring at times. 
 So I rented this game going by review that overall the game was crappy. I guess they must have 
 played the wrong game.
  
  Godfather obviously takes place around the time of the Mafia when things were a little more crazy. 
 This is by far on the best Free Roam "GTA" games I have played, probably better then GTA I think. 
 
  
  The gameplay is complicated so I will not get into it to much. You are a gangster working your 
 way up the chain. Like any freeroam its the same ideas. As the game progress's you can buy new 
 guns and stuff to kill with. In the mean time you do missions and fight other gansters and their 
 bosses. Eventually trying to knock them off and take over a territory as your own. 
  
  This all ears you money and respect and various things and gets you new places to stay at. Money 
 lets you buy new safehouses (among things like guns) . Like any FREEROAM game you get cars by stealing 
 them, just make sure not to steal a gangster car. The one thing about this game is it is violent. 
 Sure you can beat people with your fists or bat. But this game has finishing moves. Hold certain 
 buttons and you will take your shotgun and put it to your enemies head and blow out their brains. 
 Or take a pistol and give a cop a shot in the chin and out the top off his head. There are a ton 
 of ending moves and regular moves in general to do and earn! None of this is gorey or anything.
 
  
  Control wise the game is no harder then any other GTA kinda game. 
  
  Graphics aren't that great but since the gameplay is good it doesn't matter. However the models 
 are better so I guess its a matter of what you prefer.
  
  Replay value is low. There is no way you would want to do this all again. HOWEVER.... there is 
 alot do. Tons of achievements. Tons of stuff to unlock from really cool guns to cool moves. You 
 can buy money and special weapons on Marketplace if you wish. I bought a gun from the beginning 
 and it didn't ruin the game that much. It never gets boring watching a car fall to pieces as you 
 rip it full of bullets.
  
  This game is definitely a buy. You'll spend at least 20 hours alone trying to get everything done 
 including the achievements. WAY MORE if you want to enjoy everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hon1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  The Godfather game is very fun. I love to play mafia games like this. I find it very addictive! 
 I have beat the game a few times before but I have never made it to don of NYC. I have not bought 
 it yet but I plan on buying it really soon for the PC. It is kinda like GTA but just a little diffrent. 
 It is set it the 40's-50's so you are gonna have stuff like... Tommy gun, 38. revolver, pistol, 
 time bomb, shotgun. Like I said I love to play games like this. I love to go in and make people 
 pay protection and stuff and take over rackets and play the story line. The story line is solid. 
 It has a great play and story too it. Buy this game or you're gonna be sleepin with the fish's 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderfist
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather series is truly one of the greatest movie concepts of all times. Well the fact that 
 it was made into a video games was really cool, because most of us would love to have been Michael 
 Corleone and take down those members of the other family who wanted to end the Corleones way of 
 conducting business. Godfather the game did the next best thing and made us work for the right 
 to be called Don. You start off the game with very little respect, but after killing a few rival 
 gangsters you are well on your way to becoming a made man. As far as this game goes for Game play, 
 the story line stays true to form, but with a few minor optional differences and it is a pretty 
 long game which satisfies your pocket as well as your boredom. The graphics are a lot to be desired 
 as far as for being an XBOX 360&deg; game. The music is pretty lame even though keeps with the 
 stereotypically Sicilian classic theme; it got a little annoying to me. There are plenty of opportunities 
 in this game to get an early start at raising your level which allows you to get away with more 
 good and evils that you may commit during the game. You can save dames in distress; hijack cars 
 and my favorite extort businesses. You gain skills through purchasing things like shooting precision, 
 fighting skills, speed, etc. You also have the option to upgrade your weapons and purchase better 
 clothes which also affects your image. The better you image or respect the more money you can extort 
 from shop owner, bakeries, restaurants, etc and the more crimes you can get away with. Having respect 
 and paying off cops and police chiefs helps in the fact that your enemies are also bound by the 
 same rules and the cops end up fighting for you if your heat is low. After being recognized by 
 the family you have the option of hiring a right hand man to fight along side you. The more respect 
 you have the better the help you can hire and the more expensive they become. There are other ways 
 to make thing work a little more in your favor but I guess if you really want to know what they 
 are you should go pick up a copy. Although it is not at all the best game I own it is one of my 
 favorites and I could not put it down when I first purchased it. Personally I will own this game 
 until they make a better version, or as long as I own an XBOX 360&deg; 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EarthThatWas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  As it cruises its way through the same veins of GTA or Saints Row, it would be easy to dismiss 
 the Godfather as simply just another sandbox style action game. And while it does bare more than 
 a few resemblances to its counter-parts, this title has enough clout to stand upon its own two 
 feet.
  
  Stuff You'll Probably Dig:
  
  Execution Styles: Seemingly discontent with the notion of the main character simply finishing his 
 foes off with a well placed shot to the head, the developers over at EA decided to include a finishers 
 mechanic to each of the games several melee weapons, firearms, and hand to hand combat maneuvers. 
 And the idea works well. You'll find an impressive number of methods to dispatch your would-be 
 assassins, from throwing them in front of cars to setting them on fire with burning wooden planks.
 
  
  Extortion, Bribery, and Bank-robbery: How can you go wrong? It seems that everyone in old New York 
 is capable of being corrupted, and those that won't answer to the almighty dollar will give in 
 to your demands via putting them through the plate glass of their storefront or brandishing a pistol 
 in their face. In trouble with the cops? If the heat isn't too high, you can pay off the boys in 
 blue to help you out in raids or just keep people off your back? Started a gang war? Just find 
 an FBI agent to pay off, and he'll keep the rival families too busy to worry about their qualms 
 with you.
  
  Achievements: The Godfather contains a solid blend of achievements to cater to the points-hungry 
 crowd. Ranging from easy to difficult, you won't find any that lean towards the impossible side 
 of the street, but you will find a few that will keep you busy for some time.
  
  The Weapons: Baseball bats, Tommy guns, Magnums, Dynamite and a host of others all wait for you 
 within this game. Most of them are great fun to use, though you will find a few of them collecting 
 dust as your arsenal gets more powerful. Though the upgrade system seems slightly unrealistic, 
 it doesn't diminish from the sum of the game, and actually makes the combat more entertaining as 
 the game progresses.
  
  The Setting: Even if EA had chosen to craft a game from films such as Dick Tracy or The Untouchables, 
 the backdrop for the story being told would have been just as fun to explore. From the period specific 
 clothing to the dated (and fun to drive) cars, this game does a decent job of pulling its audience 
 into the world placed before them. Furthermore, the world itself is fairly vast, with a good variety 
 of neighborhoods and businesses to keep you searching for more.
  
  The Story: For the most part, the Godfather's tale is handled with a great deal of care. Your role 
 as the main character is one that finds you placed behind the scenes. Its you who place the gun 
 for Michael to find behind the toilet, and it is you who helps place the severed head of a horse 
 in an unlucky man's bed. All in all, it does a reasonably good job of fleshing out the movie. At 
 least, that is, until.
  
  Stuff You Probably Won't:
  
  the ending: This one leaves you with a bad taste in your mouth. It's almost as if, when writing 
 the game, they went for the most obvious out they could think of.
  
  Dated Graphics: The Godfather shares a common thread with Gun, in that it received little to no 
 polish from its transition from last gen to current. This won't really diminish the fun you'll 
 have playing the game, but for those of you looking for over-the-top visuals, you won't find them 
 here. Bland textures, cloned enemies, and repetitious interiors will leave you wanting more.
  
  The Target System: Though not completely broken, the system does suffer from some issues. You 
 will find your character has a tendency to fix his aim on the target that is farthest from you, 
 rather than a more imminent threat. Things can get really tricky up close as well, with the precision 
 aim seeming to completely miss your intended target with consecutive shots. Think of firing a double 
 barrel, sawed off shotgun down a narrow hall at an enemy, and seeing the pellets simply make a 
 mark on the wall next to them. Get the picture? While not a constant problem, it does seem to cause 
 some unwarranted deaths.
  
  Stuff That's Just Bizarre:
  
  Many of the cops you bribe sound like Muppets.
  
  The Lowdown: For a sandbox style game, the 
 Godfather manages to present itself as something more than just another clone. From start to finish, 
 you'll find yourself entertained. Despite a flawed but not completely useless targeting system, 
 and an ending that will make fans of the movies want to shred their pin-stripe suits, the Godfather 
 manages to keep it together long enough for your time in Little Italy to be well spent. It by no 
 means redefines the genre, but it does add its own brand of fun to the mix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACK_ROSE_WAR
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  I had never seen the Godfather, but I still wanted to play the game, And I was instantly in love 
 with the story, game play, and the Idea of one day becoming The Don Of NY. It's easy to get the 
 hang of, with lots of weapons, upgrades, and a character you create and define with an RPG like 
 skill point allocation system, and levels. The fact that you are put in scenes from the movie makes 
 it that much cooler!
  
  I loved this game so much, I decided to go and see the Godfather....
  Yes, I finally watched 
 the Godfather...
  
  I guess that means even if you have not seen the Godfather, you can enjoy this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gman5150
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  i have been playing THE GODFATHER on the 360 for about 20 hours now and am finished with about 
 65% of the game so yes it's very long. The graphics at a 360 standpoint are mediocore but you'll 
 quickly see past that as the game is just so fun as you go around whacking people and extort businesses 
 and rackets to further the Corleones influence and wealth. The combat is very fun, with auto and 
 manual aiming systems. The shops and warehouses are only based upon about 7-8 different layous, 
 which will become repetitive quickly. Despite this games short comings it is uber fun and addicting 
 once you get into it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueyeboy97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
 good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
 good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
 good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
 good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
 good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b-radreg07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game, I couldn't stop. I just wanted to get to the top of the 
 chain and conquer everything I could see. The campaign in this game is quite good. You scoot around 
 the city and do a variety of missions and is fairly decent in length. There are literally oodles 
 of side missions to do which can keep you entertained for hours and hours.
  
  I have not actually completely completed the game. There is just too many shops to control and 
 I eventually got bored with doing the same monotonous thing over and over and over. With that said 
 though, it's a very solid gaming experience I would recommend to anyone.
  
  The only annoying thing I found was that no matter how fast your car is, the enemys is always faster. 
 It's like they have catch up mode on permanently which makes the car chases in this game quite 
 aggravating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Since I waited to get this game because of the 60$ price tag. I must say for 20 bucks used, this 
 game does more than just rock, it quakes!!!
  
  Graphics:
  
  Not what I am used to on the 360 but they were pretty nice, characters and interiors done very 
 well. The explosions and effects are VERY clean, crashing a car feels and sounds like crashing 
 steel into steel. Fluid animations I have to give the graphics a solid 8
  
  Sound:
  
  Sounds like Godfather to me! Loud gun shots, loud car crashes, nice voicing of thick east thuggism. 
 No complaints except... how many times can you hum the main godfather theme? 8
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Much like GTA but much much better melee combat, nothing like grabbing a fool 
 shaking him slaming him then the gut buster to the stomach followed by the ever faithful neckslide 
 gotta give it up, in no other game can you hold a man bring him to his knees only to drop him back 
 to the caps all over again... as you can see, I am having fun. 9
  
  Overall i am having a ton of fun, realizing that going to far can cause you to lose money and so 
 forth. I really like the way you can be a gangster in this game.. I mean really very authentic and 
 gamelike all at the same time.. Who Knew!!
  
  I am pleased to own this game, i am sure i will have more fun in the days to come! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Syll
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Itz the Godfather ... unlike the Scarface game where it takes place after the movie ontop of changing 
 the ending to it, the Godfather picks up right in the beginning of part one and follows between 
 scenes carrying the story awesomely ... if u kno the movie, u'll luv the game ... if u dont, the 
 game wont b as entertaining .... again! the graphics arent up to parr with the 360, so if ur gonna 
 play the game, follow the story and dont skp through the cut scenes ..... itz really amazing how 
 they followed the movie without giving away the game play and action ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kari_21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:16 am PT
Review:  The Godfather looked really good so I figured I would try it out, but it falls short of my expectations. 
 The game starts out great you get to create your own mafia man, join the family, and pretty much 
 have free range to do whatever you would like. The story mode is fun and intriguing; you are working 
 your way up the family, blah, blah, blah, and then BAM; before you realize it the story mode is 
 over??? No it cant be, I am sitting there staring at the TV screen saying this is it? Sadly it 
 is! The actual story mode is super short! Blink and you will miss it, then your left with contract 
 killings, taking over businesses, and wiping out the other mafia families until you become Don 
 of NYC. This starts out fun, you get to bust up any shop you want to, and take over the stores 
 from rival families and shoot up other mafia families, but it gets old pretty quickly. After I 
 had completely taken over two of the other mafia families I started to get bored. The game becomes 
 completely repetitive. You take over the families the same way, every family is the same except 
 for the color clothing they wear, their main locations, and supposedly their level of hardness. 
 However, the AI is not all the bright, the dialogue and actions become also repetitive, and probably 
 the biggest annoyance of all was the fact that once you take over a mafia families headquarters 
 you cant even enjoy it. EVERY single time you go to the headquarters of a mafia family that you 
 have taken over (and supposedly eliminated,) mafia members from that family magically appear in 
 there little black car to start a war over the place, I mean what the heck? Its like theyve been 
 hiding in the bushes waiting just for you to enter the place every time. If youve made it this 
 far I only have one more gripe, I promise! So, if you become this higher-ranking member of the 
 mafia right? Youre off fighting for your family, all the guts and glory youve earned a henchman 
 who is ready to fight with you. The problem is you only get one at a time! I mean the game is not 
 that hard, but the point is I am paying these guys to fight with me and my car can hold three other 
 men total, besides me. So I go walking in to shoot up a place that I know has eight or nine guys 
 there with one man behind me? I mean come on how real is that? This game would be great if it became 
 more realistic, less repetitive and most importantly had a longer story mode where you are sent 
 off on more missions! Maybe its just me, and I am being too critical. However, The Godfather seems 
 to lack the need of any real thought, and very little strategy to beat. Bottom line? This game 
 is good, it has a lot of potential, but its certainly not something that is going to challenge 
 your mind, skills, or leaving you craving a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  The godfather is one of the greatest and well developed films of all time. But the game wasnt as 
 great. The godfather the videgame is for the playstation2, wii, 360, and playstation3. On 360 and 
 playtion3, it is somewhat not as great as you will expect it to be. The graphics arent next generation 
 standards. Gameplay is mediocre. But you may forget about all this because some of the missions 
 are quite fun. The sound is great and the characters look good also. Another great thing is that 
 they use the REAL actors from the movie ( except al pacino)
  
  Pros: Excellent voice acting by the REAL cast. Graphics may be OK for the playstation 2, Character 
 creations are fun, no loading times, some missions are VERY hard but VERY fun. 
  
  
  Cons: Graphics are horrible for next generation consoles. Gameplay may get boring. hand to hand 
 combat isnt that fun and creative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhezekim
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  Compared to Saint's Row or GTA, this game ranks right up there, I like all the old school cars, 
 and loving being in the mob. My only compalint is that they could have come up with a more detailed 
 map and waypoint system, kind of like what Saint's Row does. I like how you can intimidate people 
 into selling you their business, the fighting and shooting mechanics of the controller are very 
 easy to use. There are plenty of safe houses for you to save your game progress. You have a lot 
 of missions to complete plus a lot of roaming little side missions that you can do on your own. 
 I really do enjoy playing this game, it's fun. I recommend this game to anyone who enjoys the GTA 
 type games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I put over 60 hours into this game because it ties its achievements in in a decent fashion. I thought 
 the visuals were actually decent for the ear this game was trying to convey but I must admit this 
 game froze up on me probably twice as much as all 360 games combined have froze up on me.
  Despite that, it loosely ties into the original Godfather story but unfortunately uses the cliche 
 'bad guy kills parents' storyline to kick things off.
  The controls work pretty well and at times when you start to forget this is an EA game you are 
 reminded of it by repetition, or game lock ups.
  I'm basically reviewing this game because I'm am really intrigued to see what it comes out to score 
 wise. Is it worth a play? Yes, but you can just tromp through the story mode. Is it worth chasing 
 the achievements? Probably not but it will annoy you enough to where you have to get them all. 
 Ironically this is one of the first games where I tie in achievement chasing, but besides the Godfather 
 story it doesn't have much going for it after a few hours and the new appeal has worn off.
  I do enjoy how the pedestrians can be unique sometimes and the variety in missions was barely passable, 
 but despite that I enjoyed the game. So this has been an odd review for me and probably does nothing 
 for a potential buyer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 31, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  The Godfather (the video game) is a GTA inspired sandbox type game that pits you in the mob era 
 and lets you play out the story in the movie. Like the movie, the game takes place in New York 
 City. The city itself is split into 5 areas: Little Italy, New Jersey, Brooklyn, Hells Kitchen, 
 and Midtown. Each of the said areas are controlled by a rival family, with your family the Corleones, 
 controlling Little Italy. The campaign of the game will lead you through the movies plot as this 
 kind of unnamed mobster. Youll be with many of the main characters as the events unfold from the 
 movie and be largely responsible for the bloodshed of the enemy families. To start with, The Godfather 
 has quite a unique control scheme for hand to hand combat. Using the L-trigger, you can lock onto 
 foes and throw punches and combos by moving the right analog stick. Moving it in different directions 
 at different times will allow for different combos. This control really works well with the game 
 and makes killing some of the enemies that much more up close and personal. You can also wield 
 melee weapons such as bats, tire irons, and golf clubs that use the same control scheme. Then to 
 add more style to the game, when an enemys health is low, you can tap the right bumper which will 
 allow you to put the enemy away for good with a brutal execution. These executions can be done 
 with melee weapons, bare hands, or any of the games firearms. Each weapon has two unique executions, 
 one when an enemy is on their knees another when the enemy is on their feet. Some of these executions 
 are on the order of Manhunts gruesome executions, which really add to the overall feel of the 
 game. It also makes you feel like a total badass mobster. As for the shooting mechanics, they control 
 much like the melee system does. Hold the L-trigger and youll lock on to a foe. One nice little 
 touch is that you can then move the right analog stick to move the courser around on the enemys 
 body, allowing for specific targeting of certain limbs. You can also hit the left bumper to enter 
 and freestyle type shooting where the aimer appears on screen and you can freely move it about, 
 but the auto aim tends to be much more effective when hordes of mobsters are chasing you. However, 
 the targeting system in the game can get downright frustrating. For the most part, it works fine. 
 However, when multiple enemies are shooting at you, things can get messy. You can switch targets 
 by gently letting up on the L-trigger and pushing it back down, but most of the time it will jump 
 to the wrong person a few time before finally landing on the person you want to shoot. Other times 
 it will choose to target mobsters off in the distance rather than the ones that are three feet 
 in front of you blasting at you with a shotgun. And its worth mentioning that the vehicle controls 
 are pretty standard and work fine. As far as the games presentation go, the graphics could have 
 definitely looked a lot better. Many of the interiors that you go into start looking familiar and 
 some of the back alleys are just plain ugly looking. However, the game does feature some pretty 
 impressive audio. Everything from the music to the voice acting is great. Im not quite sure if 
 they have the original talent or not in the game, but all the characters sound great and authentic. 
 The music is also good and I believe is the same music that appeared in the movie. The main story 
 consist of about 15 or so missions (dont quote me on that) which take place of the course of Godfather 
 I and II. (I think, Ive never seen the movies) . You get to create your mobster at the beginning 
 of the game and as you complete story missions, level up your mobster and rise through the ranks 
 in the family. The missions are pretty well diverse, ranging from killing people to bombing places 
 and the story is also great as well, though you dont get to go through 100% of the movies story, 
 really only the highlights. After you finish the story missions, there are quite the few favor 
 missions or hit missions. The favor missions are just little side missions that correspond to events 
 that happened in the main story. The hits missions are exactly what they sound like. What makes 
 the hit missions a bit more interesting is there is always a bonus condition that can be met which 
 will earn you a ton more Respect and cash. These bonus conditions will be like, Whack X with a 
 bat or Kill him with your bare hands. Nothing that requires that much more skill, but makes 
 it more fun and mob like. The Respect you earn from completing the missions is what allows you 
 to level up. Each time you level up, you can put a point into a few different categories such as 
 Shooting, fighting, speed, health, and so on. The money you earn throughout the game allows you 
 to purchase new clothes, weapon upgrades, and safe houses, which are locations that you can restock 
 on ammo and health at and save your game. They also get some of the cops off of your back. One 
 last important note is that while the main games story consists of these missions, one of the best 
 things to do is try and take over as many rival family owned businesses that you can. You can do 
 this by talking to the store owners. Some are more willing to pay for your protection than others 
 and need a little convincing. Overall, the game is surprisingly good. The game does an awesome 
 job at making you feel like an actual mobster. And while it may not be a technically perfect game, 
 the games feel really helps to overlook some of its flaws. It is definitely worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  It is so cool how they put your character into the story. Whether its planting the gun behind the 
 toilet for michael, to killing the heads of the five families. I would reccomend this game to any 
 godfather, gta, or scarface fan. It is a terrific game that i love so much. This is my favorite 
 game thats a movie based game. The graphics are outstanding, Vito looks so real, so does Sonny 
 and Clemenza. Michael doesn't look anything like he does, but his voice great. Everyone should 
 play this game that has a 360. No one should skip the chance to play this classic game. The game 
 is just as classical as the movie itself. I just hope that they made a sequel for the the 2nd movie. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, the Godfather was a huge letdown. The graphics are similar to what you would find 
 on last-gen consoles, and the game play is very boring and quite awkward at times. The plot, is 
 quite exciting at first, but it gradually gets boring because all the missions are quite similar 
 and basically are just a case of getting somewhere and killing someone. It doesn't really follow 
 the films plot enough, and it might have been a little better had it been tighter to what actually 
 happens in the classic film.
  
  Like I have said, the game play can be quite awkward. The camera is a bit tricky to get the hang 
 of and isn't as smooth and easy to handle as that on games like GTA. The shooting system is average. 
 Your standard lock-on targeting is featured, but you do have the option of then moving the cross 
 hairs and placing them on either the head, shoulders, or knees. This can be very frustrating as 
 it sometimes goes to the wrong part of the body that you want it, and it can be very hard to aim 
 exactly where you want to.
  
  There is a free roam element to this game, but it is kind of boring. You can only drive cars or 
 lorries, and there isn't many explorable interiors except from grocers or barbers. The range of 
 vehicles is limited. There is probably only about fifteen different rides in total, and it is very 
 hard to find something you haven't already driven. Overall, it is quite hard to find any real positives 
 for the game, as you will probably be more likely to notice annoying little faults or glitches 
 as you play. Only buy this game if you are a real Godfather fan, other wise rent it first, and 
 decide whether it is worth spending &pound;15 to &pound;20 on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  The Godfather: the Game is based on the 1972 cinematic masterpiece directed by Francis Ford Coppola, 
 which is based on the classic novel by Mario Puzo.
  
  The world of the film is convincingly recreated here, with cities and people taken straight from 
 its setting. Some of the cutscenes even feature the original actors (James Caan and Robert Duvall 
 reprise their roles as Sonny and Tom) . Most of the characters are well-done, but the developers 
 absolutely massacred the translation of Michael Corleone, as he looks and sounds nothing like young 
 Pacino.
  
  The core shooting and fighting action is lots of fun. You can choose from a wide assortment of 
 guns, including tommy guns, shotguns, and pistols -- all upgradeable. Melee combat is also endlessly 
 entertaining. Brutal execution style kills allow you to finish enemies with a variety of different 
 weapons, each with its own satisfying death animation.
  
  The driving action, however, is not fun at all. Almost all the cars handle horribly, and some of 
 them travel at seemingly 300 miles per hour. Enemy cars ram you more like homing missiles than 
 like automobiles. The driving action is utterly unrealistic, and has the effect of pulling you 
 out of the experience rather than enhancing it.
  
  The Godfather has further detractors. As a straight port, the 360 version looks pretty much like 
 an Xbox game. Also, there are some rare, but frustrating glitches in the game (for example, some 
 execution styles dont register even if youve done them correctly) .
  
  Finally, the games attempt to tie itself into the story of the film fails to succeed, as the narrative 
 is quite derivative compared to its inspiration. In some cases, EA even changed the events of the 
 film just to insert a playable portion (for example, Paulie escapes and runs out of the car instead 
 of being shot inside it so you can chase and gun him down) .
  
  I would also recommend that if you are interested in becoming Don of NYC, you should follow a game 
 guide as you play the game because at certain points, it will become very difficult or impossible 
 to achieve some of the percentage points necessary to attain the rank.
  
  In conclusion, The Godfather: The Game isn't an offer you cant refuse, but the core action is 
 fun enough that those who like the film/book or are interested in the franchise should give it 
 a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marineguy88
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  could have used a few tweaks but overall fantastic addicting game, keeps with the movie very well. 
 creative story line and cool little things like execution styles and the like. The whole principal 
 of the gangster' persona is neat and being a mobster enforcer hitman guy is cool. Who wouldnt want 
 to work for a don and run crazy in a town killing people and what not with reckless abandon. the 
 cars in it handle well and the ai isnt bad so it works pretty well and the bank robberies and things 
 like that are fluent. and overall i think this is a good game and has lots of replay value and 
 great gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icabog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Fun Factor: 8 - A very fun game to play with so many features that will make you wanna play till 
 the end. The Godfather has 5 basic guns the tommy gun, shotgun, magnum, snub nose and the pistol, 
 but the best part about it is all the weapons can be upgraded. It starts of at the normal design 
 at level 1 but you can upgrade it to level 3 making it a lot better gun and changing the look. 
 If you visit the xbox live market place you can get the level 4 upgrade. Once you take over the 
 entire city you're pretty much done because this game will get bored if you're just messing around. 
 Robbing banks and killing people will get tiring after a while but you will enjoy the game while 
 it lasts.
  
  Graphics: 7 - The graphics were good but I thought they could've put more time in the character 
 models and some of the building textures. Right here we just got our casual every day game graphics. 
 Sound: 9 - I thought all of the sound effects were very realistic making this a much more involving 
 gaming experience. The gunfire sounds very real along with the explosions and all of the voice 
 acting was excelent. Replay Value: 7.5 - Once you beat everything the game is pritty much over 
 but the thing is, the game wont be over for a while.
  
  Story: 9.5 - The game takes place in te 1930's and you work for one of the biggest mobs around, 
 the Corleons. In perticular most of your jobs come from people at a higher rank than you and if 
 the person is at a lower rank than you they will pay you in person. Non the less tho you will always 
 get your corleon tribute and the higher the rank the more cash. You will start at the bottom and 
 work your way up to being the biggest mobster out there. The side missions are deffinently worth 
 it too because the hits you get payed a lot of cash and i found to be almost as fun as the story 
 it's self. You will also be called in to do favores for other people which you will only earn a 
 little respect and well no money because it's a favor. Favors may be small but they wont be forgotten. 
 Now the overall conclusion the story is outstanding and will constantly stay alive with many twists 
 to it.
  
  Buy or rent: If you think you can beat it in a week go for it, but i must say i do recomend buying 
 it because the prices are dropping and it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkman418
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  The Godfather is an excelent GTA style game and deserves higher then a 7.9
  
  Gameplay: Controls- When I got this game the first thing that made me smile where the controls. 
 In the Godfather it is not simply press X to attack but to swing the Right stick. Hold it back 
 longer and your attack becomes a power attack. Hold down the left trigger and right trigger and 
 you hold on to your enemy. Hold on and take a couple swings at them and they will be down in no 
 time. To strangle you hold down the left stick and the right stick instead of just pressing Y. 
 The controls are half of the fun in this game.
  
  Story- It's the Godfather for crying out loud, of course the story is good. Although at times it 
 seems a bit fragmented it overall gives a good representation of the movie.
  
  Other- Character customazation is fun, with different hair cuts and suits your character has a 
 lot of possibilities.
  
  So I give gameplay a 9/10
  
  Graphics: Nothing to impressive here. Looks like a solid 360 game. Their are nice touches though 
 such as when you hit another car scrapes of metal go flying and when you hit a lamp (in a car) 
 you see the bulb go out and explode. When you shoot people blood comes out, it's what you would 
 expect.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  
  Sound: The sounds are very good in the godfather, the voice acting is wonderful, although their 
 is no radio or anything in the cars their usally isn't music playing. This is nice though as you 
 hear the noises of the city. What gives the sound the extra bump is the superb voice acting.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  Value: If you held out on the Godfather when it came out, you should get 
 it know (like I did) . For half the price this game give you the bang for your buck
  
  Value 10/10
  
  Reviewer's tilt: This game got ok reviews, Reviewer's tilt 8/10
  
  The Godfather 
 is an extradonary game and know for 30's dollars you would be dishonoring the family if you didn't 
 get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DjColombia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  There will be a day that I shall ask you a favor, consider this a gift to all that plays this game. LOL. 
 We all want the next level, the next big thing... This is the time. I bought the Godfather for 
 PS2 because of what i thought of the movies, excellence in picture. You got your bad guys, good 
 guys, crooks, corupted cops, murders, theifs and all of the rest of the scums in one game and get 
 this.. you can pick! When i bought El Padrino in 360, it just got better. The brand new content 
 with the creation of your very own gangster is unique to the bone. The graphics are at still to 
 the original version but is debtable to the different techniques of fighting your now allowed to 
 do. Expansion of the missions is something to die for and sound to the breaking of a shumk's jaw 
 is music to your ears. The Godfather for the 360 not only improved it opens eyes to the Next-Generation 
 gamers that want that little edge. The Gameplay has also advanced with your wireless control on 
 the tip of its top, what can match to it? Theres in joy in every single second you play the game 
 because there is no stopping. And for the haters; A tutti che attraversino questo gioco, romper&ograve; 
 le vostre barrette! Translate that, Capisca? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Well firstly Godfather is based on the movie. Well not ON the movie but a diffrent story.
  
  Your a kid and your dad gets WHACKED by some enemy mobsters. Your dad works for the GODFATHER 
 . Your left alone and the GODFATHER takes you in. you then create a character and head out to ICE 
 your enemies. Its a really good game but there are some faults. The grapphics could be better for 
 a 360 game and also the aiming and combat is a little bad. Also the enemy A. I is tough sometimes 
 but it is just right. Godfather is an all rounded SandboX game with slight faults but big results. 
 Its also 1/2 price don at EB Games.
  
  Wht are you waiting for. Grab a copy and go WHACK sombody KAPEESH By: Stonzreaper Gamertag: black 
 soulz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamepro345
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather, for the Xbox 360, is probably one of the best sandbox games on the 360 to date. 
 Its hard to compare this to GTA because this has nothing to do with GTA. What happens in the game 
 follows the storyline of the first movie. What I like about this is that it takes us to a different 
 time period, a time where most ( and probably all) of us could never be. Above all, if you are 
 a fan of the movies, this is definately the game for you. The graphics are well done, particuularly 
 during the cinematics. However at times the gameplay graphics can be a little choppy. That brings 
 us to our next point, the gameplay. The gameplay is great, and theres so much to do. Between hi-jacking 
 trucks carrying smuggled goods, and extorting buisnesses with some awesome extortion tactics, the 
 storyline follows the movie closely with some extra baggage, that sort of fills in what you see 
 in the film. The sound is excellent, and uses the original soundtrack from the movie, and theres 
 alot of little touches, such as the sound of your wheels bouncing up and down while going over 
 curbs, adds to the expirience. The Godfathe is a great game, especially if your a fan of the movie. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shifty_saint
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  Wow, its not your average game, it really gets you in the moment, and at some times, as can be 
 found with many games, like Ninja Gaiden, it gets a little irrriating, however looking past that 
 you have an excellent game!
  
  Build your own life, and pretty much empire with this game, starting with those shops on the high 
 street, to warhouses, which as you take you accumulate money and respect, which contributes to 
 points, also with in the family you go up ranks like, Soldier, and Capone, to the Don of New York 
 city. While your doing this your fighting rival familes, which take the form of different colours 
 and names. You must Bring them down and capture there 'home base', which is i found hard to be 
 honest.
  
  I suppose its GTA new york in the 30's, or 20's, but complete with characters from the great Godfather 
 films, and at some points your caught up, and are part of moments in the film, which gets even 
 better. From upgradable weapons, to that suit you crave for, this truely is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Hands down I am a massive fan of the Godfather films and when I heard a game was coming out I couldn't 
 wait. I originally bought this on PS2 and I loved every second of it but once I bought a 360 I 
 picked up a copy of this classic straight away. This game is a massive homage to the godfather. 
 It was very clever how they write you character into the film plot plus add all the extra story 
 lines in about how certain characters from the film met their demise. The gameplay is just another 
 sanbox GTA style game but the 1940s new york setting and the ability to extort business is amazing. 
 Plus the extra fearures on the 360 version are very useful. An example of this is the ability to 
 hire bodyguards to help you storm the warehouses and the compounds. On the PS2 version I fouind 
 these very difficult but with the help of a trusty sidekick and his tommy gun you can do this a 
 little bit easier.
  What does really make the game for me though is the godfather theme music played when you cmplete 
 missions and drive around. Really brings you into the godfather world. The only let down are the 
 graphics as the game is more of a port from previsou versions this does let it down slightly but 
 not too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 9, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard they were making a game based on 'The Godfather' film, I was VERY skeptical. 
 For those of you young people that have never seen the movie, I highly recommend checking it out. 
 It's one of the best movies of the 70's and is, arguably, the greatest mob movie of all time. But 
 never in all my times watching that great film had I said, I really think this would make a great 
 videogame!! . And with EA at the helm, I was expecting some crappy cash-in &amp; rip-off off Grand 
 Theft Auto. Well, I was right one one of those expectations. The Godfather plays A LOT like the 
 recent Grand Theft Auto games, but what sets it apart is it's source material.
  
  The addictive nature of trying to do everything to get all the achievements certainly comes into 
 play here. It's kind of like playing 'Lego Star Wars' for those of you who checked that out on 
 the 360. The more you do, the higher your respect meter goes and along the way you will collect 
 many achievements. This is one of those games that can really be helped by the use of achievements, 
 and I hope more games will find a way to use them properly.
  
  The graphics are obviously not up to par with a lot of other Xbox 360 games. This is a port of 
 a PS2/Xbox game, so I didn't expect to get fancy visuals. The games till looks nice in HD, but 
 you can tell it was made for 'current-gen' consoles. The musical theme from the movie is here in 
 all of it's glory and the voice acting is all excellent. The obvious missing piece here is Al Pacino, 
 who didn't lend either his likeness or his voice to the game. In some of the story scenes this 
 can really be jarring, but you get used to it after awhile.
  
  The game will last you for quite a while if you want to get all of those addictive achievements. 
 I have already put over forty hours into this sucker and while it can be very repetitive at times, 
 it's still fun. And there is some decent downloadable content available over Xbox Live, if you 
 so choose.
  
  I was really happy and surprised at how well this game turned out. I was planning on a disaster, 
 but what I ended up getting was a great 'sandbox' game that let me dive back into one of my favorite 
 movies. If you are a fan of the movies, this game is a must-have. And even if you are too young 
 to have seen the flicks (or just haven't bothered to watch them yet) , you will find a very good 
 game here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prssheehan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Its awesome, and fun to do whatever you want. You must get it, the graphics aren't great but they 
 get the job done to have fun. I wish it could be modern but it follows the movie, it would be fun 
 though, just imagine it if it were today. The intro before the game, it gets really annoying because 
 you cant skip it. Also they need to make it so you can play live. You can P. O the cops, its fun. 
 it doesn't take very long too learn either. It can get pretty violent, too violent. Like the blood 
 is all over the place just like gears of war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meaty24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 28, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Its just like GTA xcept its set bac in the days with the don and the families. it is aweosme how 
 u get to controll a guy that has to work his way up the family to be come the don, the missions 
 are awesome and are very much like the movie. if u've seen the movie then the game will be very 
 smimilar and much easier to get in to. also the game puts some awesomething into it that i havnt 
 seen in any other game. for example.... u can go to stores and beat the owner up untill a certain 
 point where he will pay u money for protection. that was one of my fav thing in the game.... just 
 beating up the owners and getting paied for it. this is one of my favorite game ever cause i could 
 just play it for hours and hours not getting bored. its an awesome game even tho its its kinda 
 old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  I apologize for the horrible movie pun, but it really is an offer you can't refuse. The Godfather: 
 The Game is an action/adventure game from EA Games. No media outputs that portray the Mafia or 
 criminals has had as big an impact as the Godfather. The game certainly does not fail to live up 
 to its expectations.
  
  The graphics are very good. The character models look fantastic. Vito Corleone looks like Marlon 
 Brando, Sonny looks like Jimmy Caan, and Tom looks like Robert Duvall. The only letdown of the 
 models, is the character of Michael. Origainally portrayed by Al Pacino, he refused to use his 
 face, and instead went with the Scarface game. Bad choice.
  
  The sound is astounding. You have Robert Duvall, James Caan, a little bit of Marlon Brando, and 
 Abe Vigoda all reprising their roles from the1972 film. The cars sound pretty good, as do the guns, 
 and the main character, youself, is voiced pretty well also.
  
  The gamplay allows you to extort, murder, rob, take over businesses, steal, hijack, and many other 
 things. The gameplay is definetly some of the best. It is very fun, and it never gets old.
  
  The Godfather: The Game, is a great game that should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yasso
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I really loved the PC game, Mafia, back in 2002. That was one of the reasons I felt like trying 
 the Xbox 360 version of The Godfather. Another reason is that a game that represents the classic 
 movie series of The Godfather should have lots of impressive elements from the movies, at least 
 an interesting story. However, I felt that this game was a total letdown considering the classic 
 movies that it represents. Almost every aspect of the game was a letdown: graphics, sound, gameplay, 
 and the storytelling. I even personally feel upset that EA was the company that developed that 
 game instead of a team like those developing Crysis and BioShock as of today's date. EA should've 
 stuck with publishing this game really; they're good at developing sports &amp; strategy games, 
 but I believe they really messed up with this one.
  
  To start with gameplay, lots of issues: lack of minimap customization (fix the north or rotate 
 it as Rockstar lets us do with GTA for years) ; 6 button pushes -- including waiting times and a few 
 seconds to spot the most recent save -- from DVD insertion to start of gameplay (whereas lots of 
 games today, like Oblivion, lets you start to play by simply pushing Continue) ; and to save your 
 game, there are also 6 button pushes with 3 waiting times, not to mention that you'll have to drive 
 to a safehouse in order to save; firing crosshair is inaccurate: causes a lot of misery &amp; waste 
 of time when trying to throw molotovs around corners in warehouses; AI is bad: racket/shop owner 
 once died when I planted a dynamite at the safe in his store although he was initially far from 
 the safe when I planted it, and NPCs stand at doorways and block my passage again causing a lot 
 of misery when I want to get out of the line of fire or escape a dynamite explosion, and mobs may 
 stand there doing nothing and looking at me as I go trigger-happy at them, and the icing of the 
 cake is that civilians sometimes stay in the line of fire as I and the hostiles keep firing at 
 each other... they wouldn't crouch, lay down, or run away; auto-targetting works on civilians even 
 when hostiles are present in my immediate vicinity... why on earth did the developers do that?? 
 Again this caused a lot of frustration when I was trying to auto-target 3 or 4 hostiles shooting 
 at me in the street with many pedestrians around; also police offers on foot shoot you without 
 a split second of hesitation in the presence of half a dozen of civilians in the line of fire; 
 NPC comments are often not in line with their body language: for example they would take the bribe 
 from you snatching it with confidence saying This arrangement better be worth it! and immediately 
 lower their heads and raise their arms defending themselves in fear, or they would say Have mercy! 
 in fear then immediately make a rude gesture at you; in order to trigger the move of entering a 
 vehicle, you have to be exactly near its door and facing it, not simply near enough to the vehicle 
 as the GTA series got us used to; and when you want to acquire rackets or warehouse peacefully 
 but you had to fight mobs from other families near the owner, there is no option to peacefully 
 Buyout or bribe the owner, and you can only Takeover the property by force, but you can Buyout 
 the property if you get out of it and drive far enough from the property then immediately drive 
 back to it and go talk to the owner again: developer should've given us 2 options instead as multiple 
 choices to either Takeover by force or Buyout peacefully. The bodyguard that you hire for a free 
 is lost when you quit the game even if you save... why?? Lack of Stay here / Follow me orders to 
 the bodyguards, instead of the almost useless Go home / Stay orders. Oh, and try one of those boxing 
 fights while your bodyguard is around: it is an absolute nightmare... I ended up inevitably killing 
 the bodyguard as he kept getting in the way of my punches. Then there was this illogical scene 
 of those rooms or compartments in warehouses with two sheets of glass and no windows or doors... makes 
 you wonder what the heck is that thing or cube used for. Well, one of them had a collectible that 
 you can get by breaking the glass, but from a storytelling perspective, what is that thing??
  
  Graphics: unimpressive when you consider a game like F. E. A. R that was shipped for the PC a 
 year earlier than The Godfather, and its Xbox 360 version shipped almost at the same time was The 
 Godfather.
  
  Sound: some music was memorable and enjoyable, yet with a touch of irrelevance to the action and 
 shooting going on; other pieces of music were acceptable and representative of that era; but overall 
 I still felt the music was a letdown, especially when I remembered the music of the PC game, Mafia. 
 Some voiceovers were really excellent, though.
  
  Storytelling: frustratingly disappointing. There were jumps from certain events to others that 
 made me go like, What the heck?? I just wondered how that happened and what led to it. The developer 
 didn't show us what led to certain events, neither by interactive storytelling as you act out the 
 scenes yourself, nor by cutscenes. For example, when you eventually become the Don of NYC, they 
 do not give any clue whatsoever what the heck happened to the previous Don, the son of the deceased 
 original godfather. Storytelling was really the most frustrating aspect of this game for me, not 
 only because I am a story junkie when it comes to games, but also because this game is like a re-make 
 of a true classic in the history of filmmaking. The least they could do was to tell the story properly. 
 I was very disappointed in EA, and today feel annoyed that they own the rights now, so we may never 
 see a proper sequel unfortunately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  great game you know what i mean tons of fun you know what i mean worth every penny you pay you 
 know what i mean great gameplay its a long game 20 to 40 hour of just playing missions you know 
 what i mean its not all that hard to catch on how to learn how to play this game you know what 
 i mean its a masterpiece its also based on one of the best movies of all times so if your a fans 
 of the movies you should try this game out give it a try sound is good in this game too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is well put together and makes one of the best expernces in movie to game concepts 
 so far. Much of the environment is fairly interesting and adds allot more to the atmosphere.
  
  STORY: Father beaten by the mob while you were young you decide to join the Corleone family 
 after a member contacts you, once youre older. You will buy out the cops and local FBI agents 
 and you will be sure to remember to get them on your side once your into the game always; because 
 they are a good to have on your side but even worse when their not. The cops and FBI are very powerful 
 and will crash and burn you to the ground if you don't respect their authority and are an enemy 
 you DON T want to be against you.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT: I personally found the Godfather and the Mobster type of free-roaming better then 
 the GTA formula (or new-age gansta type game style) . The way the Mobsters talk and do business 
 was so awesome I thought compared to the mufo yo gonna die now new age carp, you hear out of gangsta 
 games. Even though they were ruthless they certainly had more respect for one another, rather then 
 the idiots that gun down and talk ebonics in games now.
  
  PROS: Amazing story that follows the movies very smoothly, Giant city that will occupy allot of 
 your time while trying to take over another families territory by any means necessary, no loading 
 times.
  
  CONS: somewhat lower grade graphics then most 360 games, needs more side missions and fewer worries 
 with the cops.
  
  OVERALL: Imagine yourself the Don of New York and add a bunch of thugs that stand in your way. 
 Now do you want to be a sympathetic Don or a ruthless one? The Godfather pulls off just enough 
 leaps of greatness in its length to make it a worthwhile adventure one worth a rent or even a buy 
 if youre into the genre and movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  this game isnt better than the ps2 1 but it isnt better the graphics are a fraction better the 
 gameplay is a lot better though the sound is the same so the awesome part is the new mission, u 
 can hire police officers, and corleone member when ur a bigger rank than them. so overall this 
 game is very good but gets boring esspecially if u beat the one for ps2. if u beat the ps2 1 u 
 can get it but u wont be so suprised .d d jhd jks so pick this game up if like the movie. ff hdjfh 
 h j hjh g hg g h ghg h h h jh jh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarrem
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 13, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  If you like shooters, you will love The Godfather. After watching The Godfather on DVD, I wanted 
 to play the game. I was surprised how well the game represents a movie, its very realisticly the 
 same. The feeling of the 40's in this game is pretty incredible. The houses, cars, people, etc 
 make it seem like old times.
  
  This game does not take advantage of the Xbox 360 besides the noticable features like explosions, 
 marketplace, etc. If you have the game on PC, PS2, Xbox, etc, you will not notice a difference. 
 The car models are really stupid though to be honest, the windows aren't even see-through, I mean 
 come on, could they at least show a little bit of improvement on the Xbox 360. You won't have any 
 framerate problem, thats for sure.
  
  I was a little upset by the fact that it didn't improve over previous versions, but I still really 
 like the game. It will give you a lengthy storyline, main and side missions, and taking over businesses 
 is a blast. You will have a great time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flameboy_9999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game does one great job in taking all the good and key scnes from the movie and adapting them 
 well for the single player missions, I first saw Godfather 1 at my cabin and after that I was hooked 
 on everything about godfather from the way they talk to the way they hold thier guns I love it. 
 my friend brought over his wii one day along with the godfather blackhand edition, i loved we almost 
 beat the whole game in one sitting, it was great, but i didn't quite like the way the free shooting 
 was set up, a bit choppy, so i rented the godfather game for Xbox 360 and was completely hooked.
 
  
  All and all I recommend this game to anyone, but you have to see the movies to see what the movie 
 was really like after if you already haven't seen it. GET THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olli-lawson
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is one of my fave games on the 360. I once had the ps2 version but looking back at 
 it, it sucks compared to the updated 360 version. On the 360 you can have a crew member which helps 
 for taking over wharehouses and rackets. on gta you cant rob banks, take over rackets, become a 
 don of NYC, and loads more. The gameplay is brilliant and fun, The executions and briberies are 
 really wicked too. Overall the godfather is one of the best gta beaters. ive ran out of things 
 to say and need to write 100 words so i wrote that :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeybry
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf wtf 
 wtf wtf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtamaster2005
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is great fun. It's a little hard to learn the controls, the missions are fun. The graphics 
 could be better for the Next Gen system.. but there are pretty good. I love going into shops and 
 exploiting people!!! This game is somewhat similar to GTA... the map even copies GTA map.. LMAO
 
  
  I suggest that you get this game. Get this game today
  
  Well I have to fill the field GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS 
 GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS 
 GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS 
 GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS 
 GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS 
 GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS GAME GET THIS 
 GAME GET THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadameMoo
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  I personally enjoyed this game, but only because it took me more than a day to beat.
  Initially the game was really interesting, but as you climbed higher in the ranks, it began to 
 taper off.
  Finally, all there was left to do was extort every business, and considering theres so many, it 
 became redundant. I completely preferred this game to GTA (not the original GTA's on Playstation 
 :P) , personally that gang banger thug stuff does not appeal to me. The graphics could have been 
 way better done, but compared to the movie everything was pretty decent!
  
  So if you were a fan of the movies, this would be a good game to get for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon0987
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is good fun to play the graphics may not be great but there not too bad I'm glad i bought 
 this because it's a game that lasts a while and there is lots of extras. It is quite a difficult 
 game but you get better in time. I usually still have fun playing this game even though i have 
 completed it but it could still have a little more things to do when you complete it because when 
 you complete it there is not much left to do. Overall it is a good game to play but I suppose it 
 could last a little longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychofoo007
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  The godfather for the Xbox 360 is a very nice game. However it's hardest hit is that the graphics 
 are barely an improvemnt over the last gen consoles. However other than that it's pretty darn good.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  First thing you'll notice is that this game is very similar to GTA. However this game manages to 
 not ne a cheap knockoff. You play as whatever you name your character, and do help the corleone 
 family. You can extort businesses to pay for protection and get money. You cna drive around mindlessly 
 killing people and letting the police chase you. Or can do the story missions which move the story 
 along. A may not sound like a lot but it does take a while to do all this.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Why the graphics received such a minimal upgrade I don't know but they're not next gen. Not 
 to say they're really horrible. It looks like a top grade last gen game. Not much more to say. 
 However i do like how bits of the movie are incorporated into the game.
  
  Controls:
  
  The control scheme is basic. Left thumbstick to move r trigger to shoot ect. however the cool thing 
 is when your fist fighting you moves are contoled but the right thumbstick. Think of it like fight 
 night without as much detail. Sometimes the camera can be annoying but it's never really a problem.
 
  
  Overall: Recommended
  
  A recommend this game to anyone who liked the movies or just looking for a different type of GTA. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  A video game of The Godfather was always going to have a tough time pleasing everyone. Unfortunately, 
 it seems that EA thought that the name alone was enough and didn't seem to really make too much 
 effort.
  
  Whilst it's technically a sandbox game in the GTA style, there's really nothing to do except your 
 predesignated missions - extort businesses and perform hits and favours (both are normally just 
 hits though) . The city is dull and lifeless with about 5 different cars available and no scenery 
 whatsoever. The Empire State Building in the distance occasionally reminds you this is supposed 
 to be New York but it's really a very boring city and you'll have no desire whatsoever just to 
 explore - part of the point of these free-roaming games.
  
  As a result of this, basically 70% of your time will be spend extorting businesses, and whilst 
 at the beginning it can be fun trying to figure out what a particular persons weak spot is to get 
 a higher payout, if your respect gets high enough they'll almost never deny you anyway - so eventually 
 you're just walking into places and taking over without having to do any work whatsoever. More 
 often than not you'll go into the back and find the business is a front - just kill all the enemies 
 and buy out the boss.
  
  It seems as though they were making the effort for the first half of the game and then just stopped 
 bothering once you got about 3 quarters of the way through. For example ****SPOILER**** when Vito 
 dies, you don't get informed. Wouldn't that be the kind of thing you'd get a call about? At least 
 a cutscene? No, he just dies and your character never makes any mention of it. Sloppy storytelling 
 like that is just not acceptable.**END SPOILER**
  
  Micropayments rear their ugly head here too - you can't get the most powerful weapons or bodyguards 
 in the game without paying 100 points each for the privilage - and even then you have to use your 
 in-game money to buy them anyway! Total ripoff if you've already paid full retail price for what 
 is essentially just an XBox port - and not even a good XBox port. If San Andreas could be on the 
 original XBox, what's the excuse for this game looking so drab?
  
  The mission moneybags are totally impossible to find (and often impossible to get even when you 
 do) , the ending is boring and actually quite confusing in the continuity of the Godfather universe.... I 
 could go on.
  
  The good? Well, when you're doing a mission relating to the film there can be seriously intense 
 moments, especially the Baptism By Fire mission, but that's more to do with the fact that the film 
 is so good than anything else. Ultimately this is a game with way more flaws than positives but 
 if you can find it cheap (I paid &pound;10) then its good points can compensate for the amount 
 of problems it has. Still, a total letdown of a game - and probably not one you'll play through 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JFannn
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I am very ashamed of using that stupid line to draw you in. It's been used so many, and even 
 too many times. But anyway, the line is true. This game is a pretty damn good game. Its worth a 
 look, if not a buy. The godfather starts you out as a child. A child who watches their father get 
 killed by gangsters. You, as a child, try to run towards the gangsters killing your father, but 
 Don Corleone stops you. And says that your revenge will one day come. Well, your day has come, 
 and you have been inducted into the Corleone family. You start out as a little guy. You are pretty 
 much under everyone. You have to work your way up and up until you reach the top and basically 
 become the Don. The movie pretty much folds out in this game, and you would think thats a pretty 
 good thing. And it is, only they don't do it picture perfect. And little by little, you work your 
 way up. This is a pretty long game. This is based on the fact that you not only get to do all the 
 missions to become the Don, but you also get to free-roam the city, like a GTA game. This game 
 is a GTA clone, but with better missions. GTA missions get boring and repetitive, and this game 
 didnt get very repetitive. The free-roam is also great in the sence of running from the cops, and 
 doing various other things. Another thing introduced into The Godfather is being able to payoff 
 people. You can payoff the Police Chief, and when your in a war with another gang, the Cops will 
 help you for a short amount of time. You can also pay off cops if you really want to steal that 
 car you've had your eye on. The star system works in the same way it does in GTA, in the sence 
 of; do something bad, get a star. But kill a few cops or civilians, then you will get multiple 
 stars. On top of all this, in the story, if you kill enough of their gang members, you start a 
 Mob War. Now the only way to finish a Mob War is to either pay off a guy from the FBI to lower 
 your heat, or bomb one of their buildings to show them you dont mess around. Now if you die when 
 your in a Mob War, you loose the mob war, and that means when you get revived, one of your buildings 
 is bombed. You dont want one of your buildings to be bombed, because that means you lost a buisness, 
 meaning you loose money. One of the best parts of The Godfather is taking over buisnesses, over 
 and over. Some Owners will just give up, and some will go down with a fight. Some are intimidated 
 by you breaking there stuff, some are intimidated by you breaking their face. Its all in how you 
 work the person. And getting as much money as you can out of each and every one of them. Say you 
 get $50 from a guy, that means every week you get $50 more. Which really adds up. You can beat 
 people up, strangle people, shoot them with pistols, shotguns and Tommy Guns. And when you get 
 more money and more powerful, you can buy upgrades for your weapons. This is where you can get 
 guns such as: Shotgun Lvl. 3- Street Sweeper. The Street Sweeper is basically one of the Strongest 
 guns in the game. If you have that, and you go one on one with a guy, they go down. This game has 
 Actions missions, Driving Missions, Shooting Missions, Missions where you save someone, Missions 
 where you take out 10 guards to get out of a building, and the occasional Stealth Mission (which 
 really isnt needed in any sence) . Most missions are Driving Missions or Shooting Missions. The 
 Missions are reletively fun, and each one is somewhat unique. You dont get bored with these missions, 
 and you wont (or at least I didnt) feel like these missions are getting repetitive. Although, missions 
 where you have to chase someone, or keep up with someone, do become a nucence quite quickly because 
 they are quite challenging. You have to follow or chase this person, while other cars from other 
 families are trying to shoot you down, and destroy you. Another great addition in this game is 
 exocutions. If you have downed a person, hit them multiple times, or another circumstance, you 
 will have the chance to do this at some point. Sometimes you punch them, then break their neck, 
 and sometimes hit them with your gun, and shoot them in the head while their down. This adds a 
 nice effect to this game, which, while its a good game, needs some things going for it. The A. I. 
 in this game is pretty good. I mean, if you and Sonny walk into a bar filled with another family, 
 and they start shooting, or if you walk in and they're ready to shoot and you walk in shooting, 
 Sonny will do a pretty good job of killing people. And he doesnt stop shooting, or just stand there 
 at any time. Your his accomplise. Not the other way around. But you can hire men to come with you 
 on missions (this is a huge help near the end of the game) . They cost in-game money. Speaking of 
 in-game money, EA, when making the godfather, chose to do one of the stupidest and most dispicable 
 things you can do in the gaming industry. Pay money for an assasin. Pay money for a Level 4 gun. 
 Pay money for a nicer car. Pay REAL money for IN-GAME MONEY. What is going on EA? Are you not making 
 enough already? What kind of dolt is going to go and buy Microsoft points with his own money, just 
 so he can get fake money in some video game? Its just dumb. And I do not approve of EA doing this. 
 Its a cold-hearted thing to do. But it will make them money, and for that, they... still wont be 
 respected. This game, grahpics wise, looks good at all times. The grahpics are deffenitely not 
 supurb, or great, but they are good. The framerate holds up very well at all times, and there are 
 no load times in this very large, open-ended NYC and a little bit of New Jersey. There are bridges, 
 and tunnels, and while these are a cool little thing, some tunnels are a bit too long, and you 
 find yourself saying when will this end? . The whole 1940's atmosphere is very nice. Buildings 
 look nice, inside and out, and roads and cars look nice also. One thing that the Godfather should 
 improve on, and didnt in the PS3 and Wii versions, is putting more customisable things on our characters. 
 We cant change what we look like, we can change our apperance, but not what we look like. Add some 
 Xbox Live Vision, and more features and this Character creator will look a lot better on the list 
 of things the Godfather has to offer. All in all this is a great game. It handles great, and its 
 quite honostly, an incredible debut for Godfather games. I'm hoping they come out with more, I 
 dont know why they would, or what they would be about, but get rid of little things that are taking 
 away from the game now, and you could have a supurb game on your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGXBOX360
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 13, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  The Godfather video game tells the tale of a young man that you name, create, and customize as 
 he joins the famous Corleone family of New York to not only raise through the ranks &amp; become 
 a made man, but to seek vengance on the people who brutally murdered his father many years earlier.
 
  
  This game plays like GTA, and by this I mean it's an open ended game. You can traverse all over 
 a beautifully crafted (and large) New York &amp; New Jersey. You get to do side missions that are 
 covertly named Favors and Hits where you'll find yourself doing numerous amount of things like 
 driving someone somewhere to taking out a well armed &amp; protected caporegime from a different 
 family. On top of that you can go and take over rackets, extort businesses (so much fun.. you can 
 bash the owner's head into a cash register or shoot up his building) , bribe police, hire protection, 
 collect film reels which unlock parts of the movie, hijack cars, rob banks, buy safe houses &amp; 
 hotels, blow up 100 safes, participate in boxing matches, hijack racket drug trucks, bomb enemy 
 businesses, perform all executions, earn money as well as respect, and take down enemy warehouses 
 and compounds. On top of all these extras, you have to do the main storyline which takes you through 
 the entire Godfather 1 and beyond In addition to all of that good stuff, you can also buy clothes 
 and mess around with his hair, eye, and facial hair color. For clothes its mainly like suits and 
 stuff... things that people wore back in that time period. The customization is pretty deep, besides 
 what I mentioned already, you can choose how muscular or skinny he is, how big his jaw or eyebrows 
 jut out, lip size, skin tan, etc.
  
  You get a huge variety of weapons in The Godfather which include revolvers, shotguns, tommy guns, 
 bombs, handguns, molotov cocktails... they are all at your disposal and are able to be upgraded 
 via black market merchants scattered throughout New York, although you must buy these upgrades. 
 Furthermore, if you have access to the X-Box Live Marketplace then you can buy &amp; download even 
 STRONGER weapons for you to purchase within the game.
  
  It doesn't stop there. As you progress through the game you gain levels which, in turn, allow you 
 to upgrade your characters abilities. These include aiming &amp; precision, speed, strength, how 
 well you fist fight, how much ammo you can hold, and many more categories. Also, by going up levels 
 and upgrading yourself, you go up in rank which means you can hire better crew members/protection.
 
  
  Graphically speaking, I have to say EA did an excellent job creating New York and all of the characters 
 within the game. Each character looks like their real life counter part practically to the T.. 
 it was amazing to see the detail and effort put into the character model. New York looks amazing 
 as well, you can really see the difference in culture from back then to present day and its really 
 cool to see it. Marlon Brando looks AMAZING. Easily a 10.
  
  The music was spot on and really fit with the game, creating the perfect mood and atmosphere for 
 you to enjoy it. The sound effects are perfect, I've never heard or seen a more satisfying explosion 
 in a video game in my life. The voice acting is superb, sporting most if not all the original cast 
 reprising their roles.. amazing.
  
  But with all this good stuff, why didn't this game get a 10? Well the targetting system can be 
 tricky at times, meaning that you will wind up aiming at an enemy behind you instead of the one 
 standing right in front of you. Additionally, the game's difficulty is like a rubber band - one 
 minute its ridiculously easy, the next its super hard. The cops seem to come at you for almost 
 any reason, and the same goes for rival families. Finally, your radar and map are complete garbage 
 when it comes to pinpointing your objectives.. I can guarentee you'll drive or run right past it 
 maybe 3 or 4 times because the map doesn't indicate where it is very well. Also the ending was 
 strange because your character becomes the Don of NYC &amp; the Corleones... what happened the 
 Michael Corleone..???
  
  To sum it up, this game is guarenteed to give you atleast 30 hours of excellent gameplay that will 
 drag you deep into the mobster lifestyle. For casual gamers and die hard fans of the book/movies 
 alike, The Godfather is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is wonderful. I hear all the nay sayers who's biggest complaint is that it is another 
 copy of Grand Theft Auto. I say it has the same basic premise of GTA which is an amazing franchise 
 and so much fun. You love GTA you will love this game and what GTA lacks this game makes up for 
 in bunches. The missions in GTA are the only that makes it flow along. You can only get the army 
 after you so many times before you get bored (not really) anyways this game without doing missions 
 you can still run around cause havoc but actually get further along in the game. It encourages 
 you to do some damage while not doing missions. Go extort some business', hit some of the rival 
 families. Pure genius, I love it. The fighting system is awesome and GTA pales in comparison while 
 GTA's hand to hand combat is like those two robots in a ring the one wins when the others heads 
 pops up. In Godfather there are a variety of things you can do, jab, hard punch, headbutt, and 
 my personal favorite choke those rival families out. Who hasn't thought while playing GTA that 
 while driving around it would be great to be able to enter those shops and business' cause some 
 ruckus, guess what that is one of the main parts of the game. There are hundreds of shops you get 
 to enter and extort, Banging a guys head off the counter or register I am telling you never gets 
 old. Something that always bothered me about GTA was that you were playing with no idea of what 
 your main goal is and that your progress didn't really matter. In this game it is mapped out what 
 your ultimate goal is To be the DON of NY. As you progress through the Corleone Family your status 
 has perks getting you better crew members who are loyal to there word and will take the bullet 
 for you. I have to say it is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuu121
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  A good solid game providing good fun. Defintely feels and plays like a last gen port tho!! Graphics 
 are very poor by Xbox 360 standards. They are pretty much PS2 and Xbox graphics. Missions well paced 
 and good interplay with original movie storyline. The Marlon Brando impersonation is really very 
 good. Is not a bad game considering its from EA (no offence intended Greg Kasavin) but should have 
 been given a Next gen treatment graphically. But to be fair there isnt an EA game with good graphics 
 apart from Fight Night 3. Overall a solid fun game lacking heavily in the graphics department... I 
 wonder what it what have turned out like if another company made this game how it would have turned 
 out.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flow700
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 6, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  The sandbox format a la GTA Vice City lends itself well to the Godfather story line. It took me 
 a while to get back into the format but the story line does keep you playing and once you get in 
 character it's good fun to play.
  
  However, I can't help but feeling a little disappointed playing this on the Xbox 360. There is 
 nothing Next Gen about this game, apart from the fact that you can spend more of your hard earned 
 cash on XBL. Saying that, once I discovered that I need $250,000 for a nice weapon I started robbing 
 banks and moving up the ranks. It still has it's appeal and given that there are very few good 
 games out on the 360 I'll settle for this until Assassin's Creed, Forza 2, and Alan Wake come out 
 ... hopefully true Next Gen games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  The Godfather is Based on the 1972 Film By Paramount Pictures. While the godfather has many Plus's 
 It has Negatives to. Like the best Positives Are the Fighting System Were you can Grap an oppnent 
 and Punch Them, Hook Them, You can Execute them. You can also use bats with that type of control. 
 The Story Is you are Don Vito Corolone's Son In law, And when you were a Kid your Dad was in a 
 rival gang and his members turned on him so you marry Don Corolones Daughter And then POW your 
 In the Family ....... So all you have to do is gain respect And take over rival gangs familys. 
 So the God Father Is Great. But the negative is the Graphics Mostly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather For Xbox 360.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : Amazing In Depth Gameplay, 
 The Shooting And Fighting Are Very Good, The Sound Is Great, Leave The Gun Take The Cannoli Is 
 One Of The Best Lines Ever, The Executions Are Totally Awesome.
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : The Graphics Are A Let 
 Down, The Driving Could Have Been Better, The Story Line Should Have Been Longer.
  ===========================================================
  
  Welcome to the 30's NYC. Where 
 pulling the trigger is easier than taking sip of wine. The city is controlled by 5 families, corrupt 
 police officers, and opportunist detectives that come in between. New York City is shattered between 
 the Corleones, the Tattaglias, the Cuenos, the Barzinis and the Straccis. Originally a famous bestseller, 
 later a Hollywood motion picture and now, Electronic Arts has brought us this masterpiece to the 
 Xbox 360.
  
  The game starts in 1936, New York City. Don Vito Corleone is the god father of the Corleone family, 
 a mafia family from Cicely based in the Little Italy district. The underboss of the Corleone family 
 is assassinated in front of his son and his wife by an opposing family, and Don Vito was in the 
 scene. He calms the kid, and tells him that he has to be strong in order to take revenge when he 
 grows up, and so will it be.
  
  9 years later, the kid that was young grows, and now you get to choose how he looks. The character 
 customization is very creative and diverse, you can change your character looks in every possible 
 way. You can also choose your characters clothes; his vest, his shirt, his pants and his shoes, 
 and even his eyeglasses and his hat. You can also name your character. After you've done all this, 
 you are set to start rocking. Notice that every time you load the game, you will have the option 
 of changing your character's looks and clothes. Gameplay : Now here comes the most amazing aspect 
 of this game: the game play. Once you start controlling your character, you get introduced to the 
 unique fist fighting system, which involves a lot of karate and judo moves, as well as gang fight 
 moves and executions. The weapon and firing system is also easy controlled and creative. You can 
 easily aim freely using the Left Bumper , or make use of the automated aiming system by tapping 
 Left Trigger to alternate between targets. Other aspect of the game play is driving the cars. Like 
 GTA, stealing a car is your choice. And though all the cars are from the 30's-40's era, they are 
 still wonderful and as hot as any wheels can be. One let down though, this game does not feature 
 a bumper camera when driving the car, which was a disappointment for me, because bumper cameras 
 are my favorite when in involves driving a car. Anyway, getting used to the normal view won't take 
 a lot of time, and you will still enjoy driving around.
  
  There are several things you can do in this game, other than following the normal story. To guarantee 
 your family's influence and domination over the city, you will have to excoriate different businesses 
 around the town. This means, you have two options; either use negotiation, or blast full power 
 to scare the shop owners and force them to pay you tribute every month, in return to your family's 
 protection. This concept is also similar to the concept of interrogation this game offers; ask 
 the suspect, beat him sometime then ask him again to get the info pouring down like rain. The main 
 story line is very intriguing, and for those who read the book and watched the movie, it will be 
 even better. Personally, I neither read the book nor watched the movie, but I still enjoyed every 
 moment of this game, and specially its story line.
  
  The main objective includes all types of gang warfare, spawning from normal robberies and shootouts, 
 to planting explosives and executing assassination operations against your foes. There is a special 
 system of execution, by which you get bonuses for different types of executions, this includes 
 but not confined to: Head shots, kneecap execution, burning execution and throwing-off-the-roof 
 execution. Bribes and corruption also play its role in the family's version of NYC. Bribe police 
 officers to put some heat off your ass, bribe FBI agents to control the Federal Bureau and use 
 it to follow your rivals while keeping a blind eye on your family.
  
  As I said before, this game offers a vast selection of off-the-game side missions. You can rob 
 banks, raid shops, and force people under your submission and last but not least, you can always 
 ask one of the Corleone guys for a contact hit list. You will be asked to perform assassinations 
 against certain personnel's, with a money reward, and respect bonus of course. The side missions 
 in this game may be even more than the main missions. Remember, to be the Don of the Corleone family 
 and later the Don of New York City, side missions are your path, your path to glory.
  
  Graphics : This game's graphics are awesome but they could have been alot better. The character 
 facial expressions look intensely realistic and the general environment of the city is very real, 
 and gives you the feeling of being there.
  The game developers have made an amazing job in creating the 30's era New York City. In the horizon 
 you can see the Manhattan skyline, including the Empire State building which was built in the early 
 30's, you can take the Brooklyn Bridge going to Brooklyn and you can even reach New Jersey.
  
  The cut-scenes are perfectly crafted; with smooth textures and realistic facial features, the 
 cut scenes are guaranteed to give you a good gaming experience. Sounds : The soundtracks this game 
 offers are pretty limited, mainly; you will be hearing the main theme of the game when driving 
 around in a car, but when involved in a chase or a shootout with an enemy, the theme changes to 
 something more fast-paced. Generally, I think more soundtracks needed to be in the game, although 
 you might argue that any GTA-style soundtracks might put off the general atmosphere of the game. 
 The voice acting is pretty good. Apart from a few glitches here and there, the voice acting is 
 great and very compelling. The characters voices are very sharp and appropriate with how they look 
 and feel. It also takes a lot from the movie style.
  
  
  
  This game's story missions are not much; 19 missions in all. Though wonderful and full of hype 
 and action, still not much, and could be beaten easily in no time. But this game, as I said before, 
 has more to offer. The side quests are even as compelling and intriguing as the main story missions. 
 Playing the side quests would take more time, and becoming the Don of New York City is not an easy 
 task. First off, your way to glory and domination should be taking out your rivals. Use every mean 
 possible, starting from direct assassinations and bombings, up till using corrupt officers and 
 agents for your benefit. The more you finish the side quests, the more you accomplish game completion 
 percentage, which unlocks bonus video snaps directly from the movie. Always fun to watch Don Vito 
 Corleone taking care of things in his own special way. All in all, The Godfather is a game to remember. 
 A very wonderful game, full of action and hype. Fasted with moments for memory and appreciation. 
 A game that, in my opinion, can beat any of its rivals and comes superior to them. The short story 
 line was a let down indeed, but it was the price we have to pay for such an amazing game. After 
 all, the developers were limited by the movie. Let us all hope this game is not just finished about 
 that. Let us hope for a non-movie based sequel, where you conquer New York City once more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 18, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  The Godfather game has always been something that I have been curious about since its release. 
 I always wanted to buy it, but I never got around to it. Finally I bought and I checked it out. 
 I usually play the first level of a game and I get back to it later. I do this because I usually 
 have a lot of other things to take care of like school work. The thing with Godfather was that 
 I got addicted to it and I began to love it. It is a GTA style of game play, but the missions are 
 pretty fun and there are a lot of side missions as well. You are able to move up in rank in the 
 Corleone family and eventually become the don of NY. This game is great and brings hours of entertainment. 
 The only thing that I don't like about this game is the graphics. They look pretty ordinary and 
 does not display the 360s full potential. The great thing is it sticks true to the movie except 
 certain changes. One example is when Paulie is murdered, in the movie its a few shots in the back 
 of the head while clemenza takes a leak. In the video game, Paulie hears you loading your weapon, 
 and you have to chase him and eventually kill him. The cool thing is you are a part of the added 
 scenes that go along with the movie. In the beginning, Don Vito talks to the undertaker about how 
 his daughter was beaten by these two American boys. The Godfather's famous speech about principles 
 comes from this very scene. The only thing you hear about the American boys is that the job is 
 given to Clemenza and the boys shouldn't be killed. Just beaten up pretty badly. Overall I like 
 this game, and I reccomend it to anybody else that likes the GTA style of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick4141109
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  The Godfather is and excellent game due to it's interactivity with the city. Extorting buissness 
 and blowing up cars and buildings are great. You can download extra things from xbox live like 
 better crew members and such. The story is excellent and the characters sound just the movie. Even 
 if you have never seen The Godfather the movie the game still excites you. Stil the graphics are 
 alright and the difficulty is everywhere. You find going from walk in the park easy to I died already?? 
 The one thing that bugs me is the Unlimited ammo cheat. Sure we all love to unload tons of lead 
 into bad guys without having to find more. You only obtain this cheat after you become Don of New 
 York. When you get to that point there are no more mobsters to kill and shooting civilians and 
 cops starts to get old. I would put that cheat in when you reach Don. To sum it up The Godfather 
 is a great game but stil could improve on somthings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorttynaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  Let me just say first off, I've never seen any of the movies. I've heard great things about them, 
 and I OWN the box set, but I am told to watch all 3 of them back-to-back-to-back. I haven't had 
 a full day to set aside to watch movies all day, so I haven't watched them yet.. Anyway, on with 
 the review!!
  
  Ok, I bought this game a few months ago used for maybe $25-$30. It was just sitting in my game 
 drawer and I never felt the need to start another game. However, a few days ago, I had a buddy 
 come over and we decided to put it in. Started all the training missions (start of the game) and 
 I was like this is grand theft auto all over again . But only after maybe 45mins-hour, I found 
 myself getting sucked in! The whole extortion thing. For anyone who hasn't played this game, this 
 is probably the best part! There are businesses in which you go in there and talk to the owner 
 and try to get him/her to give the family a kickback each month in return for their safety . Sometimes 
 you can just bribe them with $$, and sometimes you have to start either roughing them up, destroying 
 their goods in the shop, or start roughing up the customers in the store. It's awesome! Each store 
 owner has their breaking point (sometimes it's hard to see where it is cause it doesn't stay up 
 there forever) . The closer you get to that breaking point, the more $$ they will give you each 
 payday . However if you go over the breaking point, they will not give you jack, and they'll start 
 fighting you. Just run away and go back. It will all start over again. The missions so far aren't 
 too difficult, but like any game, I'm sure it will get more difficult as it goes on. I have finally 
 reached the point to where I've finally started a mob war . The first time this happens, it's rather 
 difficult to overcome. You cant just flee. You have to do something about it. I got wacked, and 
 lost some of my businesses. Anyway...
  
  Another thing that makes this game addicting, is you get reputation points each time you complete 
 a mission, or extort a business. As you gain more reputation points, you gain attribute points. 
 You can build up your players health, fighting skills, shooting skills, street smarts, and I forget 
 the last one. Anyway, I can write forever about this game. It's outstanding!!! I would definitely 
 recommend this game to ANYONE who had ANY enjoyment in playing any of the GTA games, or anything 
 like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuthorLex54
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather for the Xbox 360 is a great game. Period. Gameplay: Although it does borrow a lot 
 from GTA, The Godfather is a great, addictive game that stays true to it's source material. The 
 game can at times be frustrating, but it's hard to put down the controller for this game. It'll 
 keep you wanting to play more.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good, nothing next-gen, but pretty good. However, the game does lack different 
 layouts for most of the buildings in the game. It can become repetitive to see the same place over 
 and over again.
  
  Sound: Great, feels like you watching the movie with the new subplot involved. Marlon Brando is 
 perfect.
  
  The Godfather: The Game is a great edition to the Xbox 360's library of games. Although it does 
 take away from the game with the whole new character storyline (You) , it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  I haven't seen the movies, so I cannot comment on whether it does the films justice or is faithful 
 to them in anyway. Though this game has inspired me to look into them.
  The game itself though, is a very fun game in its own right.
  
  Sure, it's a GTA clone. But 
 it's a good clone.
  And in someways better then GTA.
  
  Like the extortion system.
  Throughout the game you'll have to extort various buisnesses for profit.
  And this is just a 
 blast.
  The shop keepers are susceptible to different ways of extortion.
  Some you'll have to rough up a bit, punch them. Or throw them.
  Some you'll have to smash up 
 there store.
  Some you'll have to beat up or kill their customers.
  And this is just great.
  You do this and stop before his breaking point for maximum profit.
 
  But if the guy snaps, then you lost any profit.
  Not much can do except take em down before he takes you down.
  
  The story is interesting, 
 again I'm not sure how faithful it is to the movies, but it's good with enough twists and turns 
 to keep things fresh.
  
  Melee combat is pretty well done in this game, you use your right analogue for punches in a way 
 not too unlike Fight Night. It works like a charm.
  
  Getting to create your own character is a plus as well. Theres enough options there to make it 
 worth your while and buying new outfits, if only for the extra respect is good.
  
  Perhaps my only complaint is the way EA breaks the immersion by placing various blackmarket guys 
 around the place or henchmen for hire that you have to purchase with real money, before you can 
 use them in game. Talking to one of these folk opens up the xbox live market place screen with 
 the product in question displayed requesting your permission to get em.
  
  If I wanted them, I'd do so outside of game.
  Not in the middle of playing when I'm trying to 
 just PLAY.
  It kinda really kills the mood.
  
  But all in all, it's an easy to recommend game if your a fan of open-ended, city free roamers and 
 presumably, The Godfather. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Godfather was, as we all know, a great movie and more, but as far as the game goes it also excels 
 in many ways. First off the story of the game is just like the movie, missions from the movie, 
 scenes, and more. Secondly the game is cool because of all the aspects of it, leveling up in rank 
 (soldier, consiegliere, etc...) , driving cars which aren't that amazing but still quite realistic 
 for the time period, and all of the different guns u can use and upgrade several levels also. As 
 far as the graphics go, this game is mediocre at best, but the physics of the game such as cars 
 blowing up and bullets flying through the air are great. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 who loves mob movies, gta-like games, great storyline games, or all of the above. It's not cheap 
 and most people would say it's not worth it to buy a 360 game with regular xbox-like graphics, 
 but afterall i bought the game at a wholesale club for a cheap discount so how could i pass that 
 up
  
  Thanks for reading... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patman99
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  An excellent game that reels you in from the minute your hear the Godfather Waltz! GTA style helps 
 it a great deal, and as a huge fan of the series (not so much Godfather 3) I think its great how 
 your character is weaved into the story of Godfather I through side stories and having you take 
 the place of nameless characters in the movie. The game gives you plenty to do as there are more 
 than enough missions and side jobs to keep you going for a while. All in all, if you like the movie, 
 you'll love the game. If you are a fan of the GTA series, this can at least keep you somewhat occupied 
 until the new one comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valdarez
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is based on the movie of the same name and plays very much like Grand Theft Auto. 
 The storyline and voice acting is some of the best I have seen in awhile. Unfortunately, many of 
 the side tasks are repetitive and the gameplay suffers greatly due to inaccurate aiming with the 
 auto-focus. The auto-focus for some reason fails to pick up the appropriate target. There can be 
 a guy standing 5 feet from you, but many times it will lock onto the guy 2 rooms away. This leads 
 to many, many, many, and I mean a LOT of untimely deaths. The Gameplay isn't all bad though. For 
 example, it's really fun to walk up to a guy and grab him (L2 / RT - triggers) , and then strangle 
 him buy click down on the toggle buttons. It really gives you the feeling of strangling someone, 
 but in a fun way, not a sadistic one. ;)
  
  Another frustrating aspect of the game is the home base save. I mean, what's the purpose of forcing 
 a gamer to go back to a safe house in order to save? It certainly doesn't add to the story line? 
 In fact, it doesn't add anything at all other than a repetitive nonsensical time sink. Why not 
 let a player save anywhere they want to save? Our game time is limited already (alright, maybe 
 mine isn't...) .
  
  All in all the game is worth playing, but I suggest you just play straight through the storyline. 
 The storyline will keep you enthralled while you play and help you overcome the urge to toss the 
 game out every time you die needlessly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timdadog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  First of all, this game will be most enjoyble to the fan's of the godfather series. I mean from 
 the moment the game starts, you are taken back to that nostalgic feeling from the movies. The music 
 and feel couldn't have been done any better. If you've played any of the GTA (3 and up) series 
 then you won't have problems fitting into the settings. The graphics are pretty good, but could've 
 been better (compared to other xbox games) . Sometimes I feel like the game is too dark (or maybe 
 it's my television set) . It took me a while to get used to the games environment and gameplay. 
 But after a couple of hours, I was hooked. The sound is also well fitted. The character similarities 
 have been well designed. The game also features unlockble scenes from the 3 movies, so if you haven't 
 watched the movies yet (which i think you should) , you'll get a good taste of the hype. Some say 
 it's a clone of the GTA, but then again so is Saint's Row and Scarface. The Godfather is only there 
 to perfect the genre and it accomplishes it well. So don't hate, appreciate. Lata... TDawg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  The Good: Open New York City to explore, extorting business owners is fun, solid character creation 
 system, voice cast from the movies, very lengthy.
  
  The Bad: Graphics don't look too next gen, it's pretty much the same game as the Xbox version.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  When EA first unvailed that they were working on a videogame adaptation of The Godfather films, 
 everyone expected it to be garbage. Luckily, it isn't anywhere close to being garbage. The Godfather: 
 The Game is a solid GTA clone that sits well with fans of the film and features a wide open 1920s 
 New York to explore and conquer.
  
  You play as a no name kid who is trained by Don Vito himself to become a mobster for the Corleone 
 family. You start by making a custom mobster using the extensive character creation mode. After 
 that, it's time to whack some gangsters. Say Hello to my Little Friend! oh wait, that's Scarface...
 
  
  Anywho, all the classic gangster weapons of the 20s are here including the Tommy Gun, shotgun, 
 variety of pistols and Cocktails. Because the game is based on GTA, all the usual trappings of 
 that game are here to including a wide open New York City, jacking cars and runing over people 
 walking on the street. To stay alive, you have to bribe cops to look the other way, or just stay 
 out of trouble, but where's the fun in that? One of the best features in Godfather is the ability 
 to extort business owners and convince them to pay tribute to the Corleones. This can be as easy 
 as talking to a business owner, or as hard as giving him a black eye or torching his store. No 
 matter how you have to do it, it's a ton of fun. Business owners may ask you to preform a task 
 such as killing a druggy behind their store or taking out a noise tenent. These add more variety 
 to the gameplay of extortion. Overall, The Godfather is an excellent game worth playing for fans 
 of GTA or the films.
  
  Gameplay: GTA style action in a 1920s setting. What could be better?
  
  Graphics: Not quite 
 up to the standards on the 360, but they work.
  
  Sound: All star voice cast from the movies adds a lot to the game.
  
  Value: It's $60 new, 
 but you can find it a lot cheaper if you look around.
  
  Final Thoughts: It's an offer you can't refuse... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hex_1
Rating: 2.9
Date: Jan 9, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game sucked. for an Xbox game it was alright but on the 360 its awful. It is the same game. 
 The graphics are way below average The sound constantly insulted my ears, The game-play is horrendous, 
 and the story is very very short if one wanted to they could beat all the missions in about 6 hours. 
 There is very little difference between this game and the Xbox one. what did EA do for 7 months? 
 This game is barely worth the 10 bucks it cost me to rent it, and if you want to buy it wait a 
 bit and you'll be able to find it in a 2 for 1 bin at a local gas station. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather video game tells the tale of a young man that you name, create, and customize as 
 he joins the famous Corleone family of New York to not only raise through the ranks &amp; become 
 a made man, but to seek vengance on the people who brutally murdered his father many years earlier.
 
  
  This game plays like GTA, and by this I mean it's an open ended game. You can traverse all over 
 a beautifully crafted (and large) New York &amp; New Jersey. You get to do side missions that are 
 covertly named Favors and Hits where you'll find yourself doing numerous amount of things like 
 driving someone somewhere to taking out a well armed &amp; protected caporegime from a different 
 family. On top of that you can go and take over rackets, extort businesses (so much fun.. you can 
 bash the owner's head into a cash register or shoot up his building) , bribe police, hire protection, 
 collect film reels which unlock parts of the movie, hijack cars, rob banks, buy safe houses &amp; 
 hotels, blow up 100 safes, participate in boxing matches, hijack racket drug trucks, bomb enemy 
 businesses, perform all executions, earn money as well as respect, and take down enemy warehouses 
 and compounds. On top of all these extras, you have to do the main storyline which takes you through 
 the entire Godfather 1 and beyond In addition to all of that good stuff, you can also buy clothes 
 and mess around with his hair, eye, and facial hair color. For clothes its mainly like suits and 
 stuff... things that people wore back in that time period. The customization is pretty deep, besides 
 what I mentioned already, you can choose how muscular or skinny he is, how big his jaw or eyebrows 
 jut out, lip size, skin tan, etc.
  
  You get a huge variety of weapons in The Godfather which include revolvers, shotguns, tommy guns, 
 bombs, handguns, molotov cocktails... they are all at your disposal and are able to be upgraded 
 via black market merchants scattered throughout New York, although you must buy these upgrades. 
 Furthermore, if you have access to the X-Box Live Marketplace then you can buy &amp; download even 
 STRONGER weapons for you to purchase within the game.
  
  It doesn't stop there. As you progress through the game you gain levels which, in turn, allow you 
 to upgrade your characters abilities. These include aiming &amp; precision, speed, strength, how 
 well you fist fight, how much ammo you can hold, and many more categories. Also, by going up levels 
 and upgrading yourself, you go up in rank which means you can hire better crew members/protection.
 
  
  Graphically speaking, I have to say EA did an excellent job creating New York and all of the characters 
 within the game. Each character looks like their real life counter part practically to the T.. 
 it was amazing to see the detail and effort put into the character model. New York looks amazing 
 as well, you can really see the difference in culture from back then to present day and its really 
 cool to see it. Marlon Brando looks AMAZING. Easily a 10.
  
  The music was spot on and really fit with the game, creating the perfect mood and atmosphere for 
 you to enjoy it. The sound effects are perfect, I've never heard or seen a more satisfying explosion 
 in a video game in my life. The voice acting is superb, sporting most if not all the original cast 
 reprising their roles.. amazing.
  
  But with all this good stuff, why didn't this game get a 10? Well the targetting system can be 
 tricky at times, meaning that you will wind up aiming at an enemy behind you instead of the one 
 standing right in front of you. Additionally, the game's difficulty is like a rubber band - one 
 minute its ridiculously easy, the next its super hard. The cops seem to come at you for almost 
 any reason, and the same goes for rival families. Finally, your radar and map are complete garbage 
 when it comes to pinpointing your objectives.. I can guarentee you'll drive or run right past it 
 maybe 3 or 4 times because the map doesn't indicate where it is very well. Also the ending was 
 strange because your character becomes the Don of NYC &amp; the Corleones... what happened the 
 Michael Corleone..???
  
  To sum it up, this game is guarenteed to give you atleast 30 hours of excellent gameplay that will 
 drag you deep into the mobster lifestyle. For casual gamers and die hard fans of the book/movies 
 alike, The Godfather is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  The Gofather is a game completley surrronded and evolved round the classic movie... The Goftaher 
 and EA has tried it's very best to turn it into a great game for the Xbox 360.
  
  First thing you will notice about the game is the graphics, from the very first cut scene where 
 you see the explosions to Don Vito Corleone are impressive and later on it get's better and it 
 gets to ya!
  
  The storyline is basically centered roung your charachter trying to get into the family after witnessing 
 your father die in a cut-scene, you then create your own mob-charachter adding moles to facial 
 hair and from then on it turns into an all inspiring game!
  
  People have considered this as a GTA type of game well some could say yes because you get a ton 
 of missions and you steal cars and you do a whole lot of things!
  
  The main problem with the game istself especially on the X360 is..... it doesn't feel or look like 
 a next-gen game it still looks like the Xbox and PS2 version this really upset me and i was thinking 
 of getting the game on PS until i realise it was X360 so i bought it!
  
  So to conclude The Godfather is a great game no doubt about it but BUT if you are considering buying 
 it on the X360 please try to avoid it and buy it on the XBOX!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: workmane
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. The graphics are very good, just not bleeding edge. The gameplay is great, 
 better than the GTA games in my opinion. They designers did a great job if integrating the movie 
 storyline into a game while still keeping the open ended format of a GTA. You can stick to the 
 missions and move your way through the story, or spend time hijacking trucks, going on hits, doing 
 favors, extorting businesses, taking out rival families, there is all sorts of things to do in 
 this game.
  
  If you like a GTA type game, but appreciate a good storyline and good gameplay, this game is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KainsPYT
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Now, the gamer that I am is never the type to fall for a game like this. At first I thought The 
 Godfather would just be another GTA clone only based off a movie.
  
  Holy geez was I wrong!
  
  The effort and love they put into this game was enough to draw me 
 in but then there are those small details and just the way the gameplay flows that keeps you playing.
 
  
  Besides the fact of making your OWN avatar to play as a mobster, where as you play as this already 
 made character, theres also dressing and making a personality for your boy for what you do around 
 your terf.
  
  As for the games storyline... It's basically what someone would call a gary-stu fiction. If you 
 don't understand that, then good, because you don't wanna know.
  
  Yes there are some parts that scream GTA but when you look into the heart of this game you seem 
 to forget that.
  
  The graphics, I would like to thank EA for bringing this game to the Xbox360, I have not played 
 it on other systems but now that I see it on here I don't think I'd want to.
  
  And now for the downsides, loading time in the middle of a fight (and I mean loading your gun) 
 gives you a higher risk of dying then actually working the fight out and waiting behind a rock 
 for the gun fire to die.
  
  The car controls are annoying but take some getting use to, the most annoying thing about the cars 
 are the enemy car AI... not only the car but the enemy AI is just so jumpy, you really need to 
 keep on your toes with them and make sure that NONE of them are behind you before you pull out 
 your gun, you could be 2 blocks away and the moment you take out your gun? BAM! WAR! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The___OoofMich
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is really cool. it is way better thatn that game mafia. i like how u can rob banks, buy 
 out busineses, bribe cops, etc. it really gives me that classic mob feeling. the cars kinda suck 
 and sometime there is too much driving but the shooting is good also and so is the leveling up. 
 the cinematics are good and the ppl sound like the real characters from the movie., espeially don 
 vito. crack safing is cool. you can also customise your character and buy cool suits and make him 
 look like a gangster and you can customise stuff like his eyes body head and itgets detailed eith 
 facial, mole placements, scars lots of good customizing ya so im renting this game but u should 
 defiately but take my advice. word. bet. umm. ya this game is hot and sticky secksyness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkside3
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  The Godfather is a great movie, liked by all (Well nearly everyone.) but would it transport into 
 a game on par with the movie. Well the answer is basically no. Some reasons for this are that Electronic 
 Arts have not put the effort into making The Godfather and taking advantage of the Xbox 360s power 
 and features, but instead they didn't change it from the PS2 version, even when you look at the 
 graphics they are pretty much different to the other platforms. I feel that EA should concentrate 
 on making games for the next generation platforms and maybe concentrate on making the game for 
 a specific platform and harnessing all the power the can from it. I would not recommend The Godfather 
 for the Xbox 360 with a price tag of 50.00 as it is definantly not worth the money although I would 
 consider buying it once it lowers in price later on. Overall there is nothing really that special 
 about this game and wouldn't be the highest on my wishlist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pongley
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows that the PC Version of The Godfather sucked. Crappy graphics, mildly ok storyline 
 and Al pacino wasn't in it.
  So why has EA seemingly completely rebuilt The Godfather for the XBox 360? On a programming level 
 the PC and Xbox are almost identical and despite what EA's Research says there are more permenant 
 fans on PC than any consoles due to moddability of most games.
  I'm really fed up wth this favouritism for consoles that has infested the game development companies. 
 PC's are much more powerful than the Xbox360 but developers don't want toput in the effort to unlock 
 the awsome power of PC hardware.
  Suck it up EA. Make a good PC game for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has recieved alot of different reviews mostly good. To start, the storyline is an excellent 
 one sticking to the motion picture almost all the time. After the dramatic and emotional cutscene 
 you are emersed into the world of The Godfather in a player created character. It is a world based 
 on repect and honor in the Corleone family. Origional voice acting from all the origional cast 
 (except Michael which will be talked about later) aids in the beuty of this game. When you start 
 out Luca Brasi shows you the ropes and so it begins. There are 8 ranks in the family that you go 
 through including: Outsider status which you start out as,  
 and Don of NYC. Here is the game broken down into good bad catagories.
  
  Good-The player created character fits in so well that when you go to watch the movie you expect 
 ot see your character. It uses gameface2 technology to create a person perfect for you. The gameplay 
 is excellent. the graphics are good but don't show off the Xbox360. Sound is superb usng all the 
 origional actors except Michael. He commented that he did not want to have anything to do with 
 the game at all. Value is good to anyone who likes movies on the mafia and the motion picture.
 
  
  Bad-There are some minor glitches but nothing that really effects the graphics rating. Some missions 
 can get annoying but they end up to be fun.
  the strong language rating is because it is exactly like the movie in that respect. Some minor 
 suggestive theme also aid to the M rating. I recommend this game to someone 15 or 16 and older. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  While the graphics fall short of a lot of titles out on the 360, The Godfather makes up for that 
 with it's gameplay and story that follows the movie well! The voice acting is exceptional and adds 
 ambience. After you get used to it's control style, the game really becomes enjoyable! There's 
 a lot of things to do besides the main story as well. You can log a good 30 - 40 hours playing 
 the game once through. The weapons are a highlight to the game as well. The overall Sound in the 
 game is top notch on all fronts. If you were a fan of Mafia, I'd get the game! I still lean to 
 Mafia as a better experience but The Godfather is a close 2nd! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vw_Magnum
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  I don't know why most people ony give this game an 8 out of 10. It's clearly a lot better. After 
 all, there's a huge difference between eight and nine. Anyway, this game is great. It's one of 
 the most fun games I've ever played. Takin' over businesses - that's the best part of the game. 
 All the other missions and activities are also quite well done, except runnin' errands for people. 
 I don't know why but I just don't like 'em. Thankfully there ain't too many of them in the game. 
 You can also hire gang members witch works well. They can be of great help. Too bad they seem to 
 not be able to open doors from time to time. If you move to another room they cant get out of the 
 first one. Although, it always works out fine. If you move too far away from them, they mysteriously 
 pop out behind you. Does it bother me? No, pretty much because you don't get to see 'em appear 
 like some kinda ghost. Like I said, it's always behind you.
  
  The shooting is great. Same thing about the fighting, but it ain't as good as in Indiana Jones 
 and the Emperors Tomb. The different execution styles are pretty good, but only when they involve 
 fire arms. There's also way too hard to discover them all. There's about 40 different ways to execute 
 people but it feels like six or seven.
  
  Anyhow, back to the shooting. It's almost exactly the same as in EA: s recent James Bond games. 
 When it comes to driving you'll discover the same thing. It's all recycled from Bond. I think EA's 
 gettin' lazy. It doesn't really matter that they ripped off the shooting. It worked well in Bond 
 and same thing here. Although, too bad I can't say the same about the driving. It did it's job 
 pretty well in Bond because there weren't too many sharp turns on the roads. It this game, on the 
 other hand, It would be real great if the cars would handle corners a bit better. Still, it's pretty 
 ok to drive and it ain't near as bad as in True Crime.
  
  The graphics are good. There's a lot of people on the streets and the draw distance is great. Explosions 
 and fires look amazingly good. Almost like in real life, I swear. The city of New York got some 
 pretty good atmosphere. It's especially nice to walk the streets of Little Italy and New Jersey. 
 Although, you can tell it's not a real next gen-game. It gets kinda blurry from time to time.
 
  
  So anyway, don't bother about for these small cons. The Godfather is a great game. It takes about 
 50 hrs to complete and might be the best game on the 360... except for Oblivion of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  I thought I'd hate this game, I really did. I even found a post of mine saying that I had no earthly 
 desire to ever even see this game. But I rented it, and it really blew me away. You play as a character 
 of your own creation, with a character creation system like Tiger Woods. The gameplay is very similar 
 to modern Grand Theft Auto titles, and you start at the bottom of the family, and work your way 
 up through the family, all the while progressing through the story of the 3 movies (in a slightly 
 askewed version) .
  
  The game map is pretty damn big. My guess would be about 5+ square miles. It's a little smaller 
 than San Andreas, but definitely gets the job done, since the max speed on vehicles in the game 
 is 85mph! You get to go to 5 different areas around New York, each with their own controlling mod 
 family. Your goal is to take them out via taking over their businesses and ultimately their compounds. 
 This can be difficult seeing as how they get a little pissed when you kill their men, and will 
 start a mob war if you kill more than a dozen or so. While taking over businesses, you extort business 
 front owners into paying you protection money, blow up safes with dynamite, even blow up bank vaults 
 to rob them, use bombs and explode drug fronts, and a buttload more.
  
  The graphics in Godfather are rather appealing. The faces all look very realistic, easy to recognize 
 from the movies, and the world around you is well detailed. In addition to the top knotch voice 
 acting, the great original score from the movies, and the fact that there's pretty much no loading 
 what-so-ever, even when you go into buildings, makes for an outstandingly cinematic gaming experience. 
 Then you throw in the experience system. As a step up from the GTA games, in Godfather, you earn 
 respect points from just about everything you do in the world, and when you level up your respect, 
 not only are business owners more likely to lie down and give you their business, but you also 
 get to level up skills from fighting, shooting, health, speed, and street smarts. Leveling each 
 as you see fit is a great way to personalize your character.
  
  If you look at the boards, you'll see a lot of talk about glitches, either through the controls, 
 or just the way things run. This is true, the controls have their highs and lows, the fighting 
 system is EA style, with the right stick being the hit stick, it's a lot of fun to use, but some 
 of the other controls can use a bit of work, but nothing too frustrating. One thing that did bother 
 me was when I had the fastest car in the game and rival mob members or cops were chasing me, somehow 
 they could travel about 10 times as fast as me to catch up, and there also seemed to be no end 
 to them. It was very unrealistic, and heavily detracted from the individual parts of the story.
 
  
  Another part that many of us aren't much appreciative is the downloadable content. Those who did 
 buy the game are pissed to find find out that they have to shell out another $10 to buy the rest 
 of it! That's right. On the marketplace, they sell a number of things: several addition Favor missions, 
 the only way to get the most powerful weapons in the game (and you still have to spend a lot of 
 ingame money to get them, more than you'll probably have until the end of the game) , and get this, 
 you can actually buy in game money. Yeah, uber lame EA, no thanks! (although I am such a sucker, 
 I did buy it just to enhance the gaming experience :sad:)
  
  But, beyond that, it really was a great gaming experience, with tons of stuff to do. I completed 
 the game entirely in about 35 hours, while others spent upwards of about 100 hours on it. Either 
 way, you're going to get great life out of this game. I highly recommend atleast renting this game 
 if you're in any way a GTA or Godfather fan. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  Pros: Great voice acting, improved draw distance, updated graphics and performance, lots of missions 
 to do, exhorting businesses is fun
  
  Cons: Although the graphics are better than previous versions, they still arent up to 360 standards, 
 missions can get repetitive, reflections are a bit choppy
  
  The Godfather finally arrives on the Xbox 360, months after it's initial release on the PS2 and 
 Xbox. After such a long wait, 360 owners have a chance to get a copy, but is it worth spending 
 the extra $10 for this version? The decision may vary from person to person, but The Godfather 
 on the 360 delivers some significant improvements over its pre-gen counterparts.
  
  In the beginning, you are the son of a mobster who works for the Corleone family. Your father is 
 killed by a rival family, and leaves you wanting revenge. When you become older, an enforcer from 
 the Corleone family, Luca, is sent to find and recruit you by your mothers request. From there 
 on out, you work for the family and serve the Godfather.
  
  The visuals in The Godfather are only improved to a certain degree from previous versions. For 
 one, the draw distance is much farther, and there isnt a brown haze around every corner. Another 
 pro in this version is the improved textures; characters and buildings look more crisp and less 
 muddy.
  
  The textures and draw distance may have improved, but the character models themselves have not, 
 or very little. They still look rather smooth with a few small details on them. Main characters 
 look great, but everyone out on the street looks the same and isnt nearly as detailed as others. 
 There are some times where you can see inside of the character model if you talk to the right people 
 (ex. FBI Agent) , and other areas where a characters animation goes through clothing.... but not 
 like that.
  
  The world itself is basically the same as what has been seen on the PS2 and Xbox with a few improvements 
 in the textures, framerate, and amount of stuff going on in the environment. Buildings boast an 
 old NYC look, but all the surfaces seem flat; without much surface detail. Its not entirely noticeable 
 in most parts, but in some places you can tell that the wall, floor, or other surface could have 
 been upgraded to a greater extent, especially with the 360 hardware.
  
  The core gameplay has you doing the main story and working your way up through the ranks. The story 
 will last maybe around 20hrs, but theres still plenty to do. After completing the story, you will 
 have the option of exhorting all the businesses in NYC, doing hits, or favors; all of which relate 
 to the story and theme in some way.
  
  Although gameplay goes far beyond the story mode, it can get repetitive. There are only a select 
 few missions that will have you doing something other than shooting or driving. Once you master 
 how to do those, the rest of the games activity is a been there, done that scenario. Sound in 
 The Godfather is fantastic and is the games strongest point. All the voice acting is done by the 
 original cast from the movie, and is nothing short of stellar. The voice acting brings out the 
 mood and seriousness of the family business and gives all characters their own personality.
  
  Voice acting is only made better by the games awesome soundtrack. Music comes in at the right 
 time to highlight moments within the game and the mood of various places. Tracks are, for the most 
 part, from the movie itself. Other music provided is from or around the same time period that the 
 movie takes place in.
  
  You probably wont be playing through the Godfather more than once, but youll get well over 35hrs 
 of gameplay if you go through all the side quests and main story. There is the option of collecting 
 film reels that unlock clips of the actual film. Other than that, once youve played through the 
 game once, there isnt much to go back to; unless youd like to shoot a mobster or two.
  
  Out of all the versions of The Godfather, this is the one to get. The upgraded game performance 
 makes it worth the extra $10, but you may be disappointed by the games visuals. However, dont 
 let the visuals hold you back; this is one of the most immersive GTA-style games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dennis2845
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  The godafather. The.... Godfather..... Well lets see this game is below average. Lets start with 
 the good.
  Good - An Interesting Opening scene where a guy gets the Sh* shot out of him.
  The Gad - Krappy car mechanics, you cant even swerve around corners like in GTa, I always run into 
 the freakin garbage can Or freakin wall Or a freakin person... You cant turn.
  Also The shooting SUX! You have to shoot the KRAP out of the guy and sometimes hese impossible 
 to hit unless the game corects itself and makes you be able to hit him again.... Lame.
  The Story. Its nothing special, just mob stuff. Some scenes are taken from the movie.. But its 
 not the movie. Missions involve some incredibly difficult tasks that frustrate the shIEAZA out 
 of me. Side missions involve tasks like throwing bottles at a guy untill he accepts Don Corleone 
 as his guy he pays protection to.... WoW.
  The overall game looks cartoonie. Its not amazing 360 graphics or anything.
  The fighting is 
 really lame. Mainly becuse if you dont grab the guy so that he cant move around and beat the piss 
 out of him, well if you dont do that you get the piss beaten out of you. You must Cheap-ass-Move 
 to Win a fight.... De dee deee
  Overall Godfather is nothing to be excited about, and theres Movie stuff In there but Its done 
 with Lame sauce On Top. Dont even Rent this.. This... Krap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Anybody who know about the godfather most likely played this game. the way the story is mirrored 
 to the game is almost perfect. typically stuff in this game that won't awe anybody but all should 
 be satisfied.
  
  story - you are aldo a you man whose mom ask the don (vito corleone) to send him on the right path. 
 eventually going from an outsider you work your way up the ranks until finally you the Don and 
 its you play your cards right Don of New York.
  
  gameplay - Sandbox style gameplay, use your toughness and smarts to take control of other mob buisneses. 
 the more pressure you use on owners the more property you own. also go through the story and side 
 missions to gain respect. enough to just walk in and command it. the new 360 version lets you recruit 
 an associate to apply more presure to the city in NY.
  
  overall - you can only say much about the game. for me is wasn't a buy and the game does go fast.
 
  
  MUST RENT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinian
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  Yesterday I unlocked 100% of achievements in Godfather so I think that now I will be able to write 
 a reliable review.
  
  First thing goes first: The Gameplay. In Godfather the gameplay is really good. The controls are 
 intuitional the hand to hand fighting system is very easy to learn. The only difficulty which occurred 
 was how to choke people. But after 10 minutes on forum I found the solution. Next thing in gameplay 
 The missions: they are good written. After doing the task you will unlock movie clip from the original 
 movie which shows you wider aspects, reactions to your actions. The storyline of game is tightened 
 with the storyline of movie. Thanks to that we sometimes participate in storyline easter eggs:)
 
  
  The Graphics: It's clear that Godfather is crossgen game. The graphics in x360 version look much 
 the same as in PS2 version. Really nothing special. In addition New York City is very dark, the 
 streets are dirty. The worst part is that the whole city looks the same. There aren't many types 
 of buildings, cars. pedestrians. While driving from one end of the city to the second one I thought 
 that I was going circles.
  
  The Sound: The audio track is based on movie sounds. If you are a fan of the original Godfather 
 Trilogy then you will love audio track. The only drawback is that music is very quiet, the sound 
 effects are much louder. Value&amp; Reviewer's Tilt: Mostly I had a great time while playing this 
 game. But EA market policy sucks. First thing: in every port of this game (expect x360 version) 
 you have cheats for money. On x360 you are able to Godfather money on marketplace. It's a clear 
 rip off. Second Thing: There is an achievement for having repect on lvl 50. During tha whole game 
 you will gather circa about 6 mln respect points. Thanks to them you will be able to level up your 
 character from lvl 1 to 49. To go from lvl 49 to 50 you will need an additional 1 mln points. It's 
 time when you will have absolutely no side quests, rackets and business to take over. The hard 
 way of solving this problem is to steal racket trucks. You will have to steal 500 trucks. It takes 
 about 5-7 hours. The easy way is to buy on marketplace weapons on lvl.4 For purchasing every firearm 
 you will gain many respect points... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cultusatanas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  I like the God father movies, and I like this game alot. I like how it makes your character part 
 of the movie. The graphics I can overlook so long as the story is well written, which in the God 
 fathers case it is. The one gripe that I have is no in game load option. And after you save and 
 re load I lose my hench man. For the high level cronie the cost is 10,000 clams. Kinda sucks. Other 
 than that, the sound is great, the gameplay is great, I'd give it a solid 10 if not for the Load 
 problems, like I said I can overlook the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CrimsonDragon-
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather for the Xbox 360 is an awesome game. Everyone here should just about know the story 
 as it follows the movies very closely. Your job (basically) is to become the Don of NYC, but thats 
 a hefty goal. In order to get their you must do your fair share of killing, bribing, and stealing 
 from as man rival gangs (anyone actually) as possible.
  
  Starting off with the visuals and sound. The game has fairly decent visuals but nothing to far beyond 
 the current-gen. The 360 version does its fair share of adding the occasional new partical effect 
 but thats it. The sound is great and gives the game its Godfather feel.
  
  The gameplay is tight and responsive from every point. You use whats called Blackhand to deal damage 
 to your enimies. Its a key thing to learn Blackhand but really doesnt help you considering the enimies 
 carry guns and they dont care if you have a gun out or not. So the feature is really on the pointless 
 side.
  
  Their aren't many unlockables in the game besides movie clips. But the chances are that if you bought 
 the game you watched the movies. So the Godfather is a game that will leave fans satisfied but everone 
 else out in the cold. Capiche? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The driving is the same as every other game , except you can use cars as a way of attacking. 
 One of the many things you can do in this game is extort buisnesses. You can use cars to run over 
 the guards . The shooting is very stylistic. If your gun is not pointed at someone it will just 
 shoot the ground . You can switch between auto-aim and do it yourself with one button. The shooting 
 is very realistic and tons of fun. Also , you come to know the characters in the game. You do missions 
 for them , they have their own personalities - and you see them at local gatherings with other 
 characters that you know . Graphics - The characters and the lighting is very detailed . The only 
 problem is when your driving down big streets the buildings sort of disapear at a distance .
  
  Sound - The voice acting is as good as it gets , the guns all sound good . Value - There is 
 no multiplayer unfortunatly
  
  Good Tilt - Makes sense with the movie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I had just finished watching the Godfather movies in their entirety when I decided to pick up The 
 Godfather for the 360. I really didn't have any expectations for it because there really aren't 
 that many good movies-to-games and there are zero cinema masterpieces-to-games but I thought what 
 the hell.
  
  The first thing that caught my eye is the presentation, it's high quality and sticks to the Godfather 
 feel throughout the story. Unfortunately, this being a port from last gen systems, the graphics 
 take a big hit. It's not that everything is ugly because the character models are all pretty damn 
 accurate when it comes to depicting the actors, but the environment and textures just seem very 
 bland. Of course the graphics are better than what you would find on the PS2 or Xbox, but they 
 aren't on par with other 360 titles. The other thing I was dissappointed with were the very few 
 mannerisms characters used to interact with each other. I got through talking to The Godfather 
 and he stood there saluting me in a tough guy pose. Not exactly something you'd see in the movie.
 
  
  The story is what really shines in this game. Instead of making a totally new story that would 
 never live up to the original's, the Godfather places the player as a character that was in the 
 background to the Godfather 1, but still gives the sense of a critical role and a bit of a side 
 story just for your character. The game did a good job of putting the best parts of the movie into 
 the game but I feel did a slight injustice to the movie not to show Vito Corleone's death. If I 
 never watched the movie, I would be left wondering what happened to Vito and why was Michael suddenly 
 in charge. So it does miss some critical points but it's forgivable.
  
  The gameplay adds some things to keep it from falling into a straight GTA clone category and does 
 a decent job of staying varied. Extortions are fun, robbing banks (and robbing a series of banks 
 at once) is a pretty exciting little chore and the vendettas work pretty well. Other than that, 
 hit jobs, theft and destruction are pretty much the plans of the day. Another plus to this game 
 is the difficulty, gone are the days of GTA where you can just run into a place guns blazing. You 
 do that in Godfather and you'll find yourself in a doctor's office real quick. This combined with 
 leveling and stats added a little bit of strategy to the game.
  
  The thing I dislike the most would have to be the targeting system. Lock on systems for a game 
 with this many enemies is a terrible decision that leads to unnecessary deaths, and there is plenty 
 because this game is very unforgiving. The other shortcoming is that you have to actually want 
 to get arrested just to get arrested. I've been shot a lot by the cops but not once did I almost 
 become apprehended. The police usually keep their distance and try to take you down with gunshots 
 rather than risk their lives. And as usual, the devs skimp out on the friendly AI making the hired 
 help little more that bullet shields that sometimes kill people.
  
  The voice work spot on about 90% of the times. The only glaring mistake was with Michael's character 
 not sounding that much like Al Pacino. The sound effects were all pretty good, but another hit 
 goes to the soundtrack. Usually inside cars you're treated to the All Godfather Theme station where 
 they play all Godfather Theme, all the time. It's a beautiful song but after playing the game as 
 long as I have, I'm surprised I'm not humming it in my sleep.
  
  Overall it's a pretty good game that could have used a little more polish. While not the grest 
 movie-to-game, the Godfather does enough things right to make it above average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  The Godfather is one of the many movie-to-game games. And Wow! It's great. This game is one of the 
 best titles thats been ported to the 360 from different consloes! I've already said it and im not 
 even 1 quarter into the review now thats how you can tell this is a great game! In this version 
 of The Godfather you find yourself working for the Don's family (I would have put their last name 
 but I cant spell it that great) anyway, you meet up with different memebers of the family and doing 
 differnent jobs for each one. The game has it's fun objectives and it's sadly boring ones. This 
 is one of my highest scoring reviews yet and I think you guys can see why. The objectives are definitly 
 some of the most enjoyable moments of the game. The best activity in the game is taking over stores 
 and buying them out or finding rackets in the back doors or secret places in stores, you can make 
 the owners give up by simply crashing the store or destroying certain parts of the store sometimes 
 you can even smash their heads into the cash register or choke them till thjey get to the point 
 when they give in. Just make sure when you chking them that you don't kill them. If I had to describe 
 this game in a couple words it would easily be Challenging, but fun! because it is! Buy It if you 
 dont own it I recommend this title to all and not any other of the other consoles with this game 
 on ported on it will you have this much fun! And if youm ever saw the films and enjoyed them this 
 is the game for YOU!!! Thats why I give The Godfather for the Xbox 360 9.7 smashed up stores and 
 crying owners out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Wow. What a great deep game. I just got it yesterday and it is amazing. This game might not have 
 got as good as ratings as games like Saints Row or GTA. But wow it is good. I am very suprised. 
 This game isnt just what i though it was going to be a rip off of GTA where you play as an already 
 designated Godfather character. It is really cool that you can still play scenes for the mvoie 
 but play as your own character with your own story.. and you can also talk to very memorable characters 
 from the movie. Also the voice acting in this game is perfect... there isnt much of any music or 
 anything else but its very good voice acting... and unlike Saints Row or some GTAs your character 
 talks which is a good thing. All in all, this game is great... even if your not a fan of the movie. 
 Which Im not that great of a fan myself. But yeah if you dont like slow cars and old guns and some 
 okay graphics... then i still advise you to atleast rent it. and by the way it is a very quick 
 game if all your playing it for is to beat it and not explore.... oh and also one more little bad 
 thing about it is that you are kind of forced into one area alot because you are not allowed to 
 leave the mission's desiganted area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubalu0
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  I enjoy the game it is fun but controls leave something to be desired. Camera angles are funky. 
 I guess I am spoiled by the radio full of music with rockstar. Even though I know it was inappropriate 
 for the time period, I miss the music..... I like the immersion into the godfather story and the 
 way they seem to add you semi-seamlessly into the background. I can't wait for Bully and GTA4 but 
 in the mean time this is a good game for a good system.
  Sometimes it is harder than it needs to be though it is nice to see games that don't cater to everyone 
 wins the first time Philosophy. Some of these Carebear style games do not offer the challenge the 
 older games did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 15, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I admit, as much of a hater of fps's I am, I must be as big of an addict for these 'sandbox' games. 
 Do what you want, when you want, where you want... reap the goods, suffer the pain. I winced when 
 I first heard the Godfather was being made into a game. It was either going to be following the 
 movie exactly (which never turns out well) or something akin to that really bad Lord of the Rings 
 game where you play a group chasing the real heroes to help out. Both thoughts were frightening. 
 After seeing a few reviews though I dared to pick up the game and now, I am glad I did.
  You do play a 'minor' character who wasn't in the movies directly, but it does put you close enough 
 that you can see most of the action. And it does follow enough of the movie to give you the same 
 feel without directly reshooting the movie in cg format. Gameplay - if you have played one 'sandbox' 
 game, you have an idea of what it's about. Simple controls for driving, slightly more complicated 
 controls for moving, shooting and boxing. The game has plenty of depth and a lot of variety of 
 things for you to do. Additionally you can follow the main plotling directly or simply spend hours 
 extorting shopkeepers, waging mob wars and running over innocents with your classic cars.
  
  Graphics - there are some high points and some low points. The graphics aren't as sharp as 
 many 360 games, but they are pretty good. Some of the special effects like the fire are amazing. 
 And the city looks better the faster you go ;)
  
  Sound - The voice acting was top notch, I could almost hear the cotton balls in the mouth. The 
 music was decent background noise, and the sound effects were loud but authentic sounding.
  
  Value - if you like this style game, it's worth a pick up. You will likely be pleasantly suprised. 
 Over all a second tier 360 title, but towards the top of it.
  
  PARENTS - this game is not for children, remember it is your responsibility to control what your 
 children play... not the goverment censors 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 14, 2006 9:23 am PT
Review:  So I was walking through the 360 isle of my local Blockbuster, trying to find a game to keep me 
 occupied this weekend. I couldnt find anything I wanted to play because I either knew it sucked 
 or I already played/purchased it. And there Godfather was lying at the very bottom shelf. So I 
 picked it up and I really didnt even know it was released yet. So I thought what the hell. I went 
 home (game in hand) and logged onto Gamespot and noticed it got a 7.9. Well I started playing and 
 found myself highly enjoyed. The game does a fair job in putting you in the 1940's New York. I 
 was fairly suprised to see how interactive the game was. The cars were not nearly as easy to drive 
 then as they are now and it plays that way. this game does an excellent job of re-enacting the 
 Mafia wars in Early new York. Some of the cons ibn this game is the lack of carrying a health pick 
 up. Also the bad targeting system that doesnt really allow you to switch between bad guys. The 
 hand to hand combat is cool as the try to mimic Fight Night R3. This game is awesome and if you 
 havce never played the original xbox version and are in the mood for a good game to hold you off 
 for Splinter Cell and the huge arsenal in NOV. Than this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  The Good: Terrific Story that keeps you guessing, voice work by the original cast sounds great, 
 characters like Don Vito Corleone look fantastic, combat is fun and challenging, New York City 
 is big and livley,
  
  The Bad: Some AI issues, the graphics, while good when it comes to characters, aren't that impressive 
 when it comes to buildings and car models.
  
  The Godfather is a GTA style action adventure game made by EA games. Although it has some familiar 
 elements, it's a lot of fun to play and will keep you glued for months, or even years.
  
  You start off with the character you make yourself, and you have fallen into the wrong group of 
 guys. What happens is that Luca comes to help you, after your mother tells the Don to help you. 
 You learn the basics of combat and get the feel of the game.
  
  As you go on, the Corleones want you to extort businesses to get money to your family. Its pretty 
 fun to do and fun to toy around with the shopkeepers on how to get them to help the family out. 
 You also wil want to unlock new rackets as you extort the bussinesses that join you.
  
  Soon the story from the movie kicks in, the Don is shot by a thug who plans on destroying the Corleone 
 family. You must stop him, and do other things that involve the movie. If you've seen the movie, 
 you'll remember some parts of it while playing the game.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good when it comes to Characters like the Don and Sonny, but 
 when you look around the city, its not very touched up. Fire and explosions look great, but otherwise, 
 its unimpressive to look at.
  
  You can see if you've seen the film that the characters are voiced by the cast members. The Don 
 might not be, but you can't tell, because if the guy who IS plalying him sounds the same. Cars 
 sound good along with the gun sound effects.
  
  If you like these types of games, give this a try, if not, rent it and see how you like it. You 
 will enjoy this game all the way through the main plot, and wil after ward.
  
  During the game you must advance in rank, and by doing that is by doing hit contracts. Eventually 
 you must become Don, but thats at the end of the game. After that you rule the family, and i guess 
 that 'll be fun, i haven't gotten there myself yet.
  
  The game is surprisingly long. It might span up to 20-25 hours at the most. But you will want to 
 play again because its so fun to play. If you like GTA styled games, such as Saints Row or Driver: 
 Parrallel Lines, you will enjoy this game all the way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGDaddySmokes
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather isn't anything new if you've played games like GTA or Saints Row. Still like both 
 Gta and Saints, the game really
  does grow on you, the game is doubt fun. The gameplay mechanics aren't the best especially the 
 fighting mechanics. There is someting missing in the game one is the graphics i wanted to expect 
 better graphics for the at least the xbox version and especially the 360. But i was disappointed 
 again; really can't stand to see games on 360 looking horriible. Personally I think game developers 
 should learn how to make make games look and playing better on current and next gen consoles. Could 
 you please!!!! That would be rather nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Ok first things first I thought this game was going to improve on the x box 360 but however it 
 did indeed not improve I was wishing that it would. When I started playing this game I was excited 
 that this would have new elements of game play and a few more surprises and twists but it didnt 
 sure they added a few more missions and a few more stuff to it but its completely pointless because 
 it has no extreme value the game lacks good graphics too so the next time your in the electronics 
 store and you want to buy this game I advise you that its a waste ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PacMan4Life
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather was released nearly a year ago on the current gen consoles and was just recently 
 released for the Xbox 360. I had expected the game to be very different from last years version 
 graphically, but to my dismay only minor improvements were made. To make up for that, new ways 
 to earn respect have been added to enhance the game play and re-playability, as well as adding 
 extra missions. Also, a new feature added is a bruising effect which is a very nice touch. Take 
 too many punches to the face and you'll be black and blue. Of course you could bust up other peoples 
 faces as well. Just like the previous version, the sound in the Godfather is awesome. The guns 
 sound ferocious and realistic. I very much enjoyed last years Godfather game and the 360 version 
 is just as good. The only problem is the price. You can buy The Godfather for Xbox for $20 cheaper 
 and still play through the game with the same satisfaction. This game is definitely worth checking 
 out on either consoles version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Emissary
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is good, not revolutionary, but good. Godfather offers much of the same 
 old same old missions of its genre. I really enjoyed the cover system. It provides more depth to 
 the fire fights.
  
  Graphics: Sub-par. Even if this game was on xbox. The main characters look good. Everyone else 
 looks strait out of GTA3.
  
  Sound: I love the music of the film. The sound effects are good and the voice acting is top notch.
 
  
  Value: This is very large game (no Oblivion) with lots of activities to complete. I still wouldn't 
 buy it. If you finish your finished there isn't much re-playability.
  
  Tilt: Its the godfather. If you like the movie. You'll like the game.
  
  Verdict: NO BUY!! 
 GAMEFLY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dp909
Rating: 6.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Gameplay is pretty good, there are alot of different excusion style's to choose from and you even 
 get Respect points for all the different styles. It is also a lot of fun running all over the city 
 and shacking down shop owners or doing small favors for them.
  
  The storyline is one other very good aspect, they stay very true to the Godfather story but add 
 that little bit extra that gets you more into the game.
  
  The Crappy:
  The graphics are not very good, the 360 is able to produce much better graphics then EA made for 
 the Godfather. Most of the graphics look like that of the original xbox.
  
  The soundtrack could have also used some work. I think I heard that same godfather song about 2000 
 times, it gets a little manotineous.
  
  Very few movies that are turned into video games are good but this is one that comes close but 
 still falls short of a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolt21
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Ok first things first I thought this game was going to improve on the x box 360 but however it 
 did indeed not improve I was wishing that it would. When I started playing this game I was excited 
 that this would have new elements of game play and a few more surprises and twists but it didnt 
 sure they added a few more missions and a few more stuff to it but its completely pointless because 
 it has no extreme value the game lacks good graphics too so the next time your in the electronics 
 store and you want to buy this game I advise you that its a waste 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isoplus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  The Godfather is a fun game.
  It almost plays like pc game Mafia. It also has the same stylish 'I'm too cool to be running around' 
 feel to it.
  It closely follows the movie (almost) plots and gives a bit of twist.
  Gunfights are easy and can be pretty fun too. Music is also from the movie which is a good thing 
 I guess.
  Gun sounds are convincing with each type of gun producing different sounds.
  Graphic, however is somewhat disappointing. It's probably one of the ugliest game on x360 so far. 
 But graphics are'nt everything...
  This game actually grows on you if you give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pRiVaTeRyAn92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 28, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is a great game for the 360. What I don't understand is why it got a lower score 
 than the previous versions. It has better graphics, many things were added and you can even hire 
 a henchman. That doesn't make sense. The feature that most stands out is the ability to do anything, 
 anytime, or anywhere! You have every weapon available to you and can execute enemies in very satisfying 
 ways. A spoiler is coming up so look ahead. *Spoiler* One example for a finishing move would be 
 when you take a two-by-four on fire, and light the feet of some unsuspecting victim. That is definitely 
 one of my favorites. I also like how bombs actually do devastate a building like they would in 
 real life. THIS IS NOT A GTA-CLONE! This is in an entirely different time period, different city, 
 and execution moves. You can't just run out and flip up your tommy gun and blast away. You either 
 have to be stealthy with a garrote wire (another one of my favorites) or cover against a wall and 
 mow them down. This game is a must buy game for Godfather movie fans or just for people who like 
 to do anything they want. Be a good gangsta' and do good for the family! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankunc23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather should have been here a long time ago but for those of us who have been waiting for 
 a GTA type mafia game, it is finally here. You may find the old 1940's style a little out of date 
 at first but you will soon realize that it fits the game perfectly. The game has a great story 
 and excellent game play. The cut scenes are ones that you want to watch instead of just skipping 
 through them. The graphics on the 360 are amazing and everything flows well through the game. There 
 are multiple side missions and other things to do around the city besides the main missions. This 
 game is a must have for anyone looking to get away from stories such as GTA and Saints Row. I only 
 hope that more up to date mafia games are made, maybe the Sopranos???? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodfellajd
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I believe that The Godfather is a good game but it needs more work. I think that if another company 
 besides EA had control of this game it would have had a better chance. The gameplay is very fast 
 but the city is a lot slower than you. When driving it just seems not realistic. If anyone has 
 played the PC version of the game Mafia they would see how the Godfather should have played. That 
 game had all the mechanics right for a mafia game. The Godfather is good but they really needed 
 to adjust things to make everything run properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This is perhaps the most amazing game I have come to wait for in a long time. The patience really 
 paid off and now The Godfather is officially my all time favorite sandbox game. You see, this is 
 a serious game, there's no goofy taxi missions, no goofy parachuting and certaintly no goofy fetch 
 the ho's crap. No, The Godfather is a totally different world, a world that feels real, with realistic 
 mafia assignments and a very authentic atmosphere circa 1940's NYC. The style, flow and overall 
 ambience is what sets this game apart than any of the GTA's and all the wannabees. From the very 
 first intro, you are already in The Godfather's world, and what a world it is. People and star 
 cast interaction is suberb, with smart AI adjusting to what's around them and react according to 
 time developments, ect. Even the enemy AI could chop you down if you're not careful, they're tough 
 and intense. The missions themselves are straight out of the mafia text book, with various executions 
 that are so brutal, It'll make Saints Row's gang punks pee thier pants, wishing they were home 
 with mommy. There are also lots of side missions, not to just make money, but to earn respect and 
 move up the ranks until you become the Don of NY. The first missions are easy and it's basically 
 a tuturial so you can adjust to the controls and game world, but then it gets progressively difficult, 
 to a point that you have to rely on your fellow AI mafia companion to get through the missions 
 safely. But these assignments are fun and very enjoyable to play because it flows with The Godfather 
 movie. You see, you get to play key scenes from the movie and the scary part is, you actually think 
 you're in it. This is how immersive the world is. The clothing and facial customizations is really 
 great. You do the executions with style and class, just like real life mafia did back in the day. 
 Changing topics, the graphics has been criticized by unappreciated complainers who probably don't 
 even have a HDTV. I personally think the graphics look great, almost next gen. The lighting, better 
 textures and overall enhanced detail makes this a beautiful game. Flowing debris is one big example, 
 something Saints Row's perfect and clean ghetto world lacks. In summary and in my personal opinion, 
 unlike these websites urban ghetto taste for gang games, I believe The Godfather is the greatest 
 free roam genre type game ever. Is it based off GTA's idea of free roam, yes, is it like GTA... NO 
 it's not. Is it flawed? yes, just like all games. But despite minor things that I can mention but 
 won't, this game has alot to offer. It's long, it has depth, has a little rpg and most importantly 
 it has serious gameplay. The Godfather is one of most underrated games ever. This game was made 
 for mature gamers who can have alot of fun without relying on a grenade launcher. I would hope 
 for website reviewers to stop comparing these games to GTA and score fairly, not judging by thier 
 own personal feelings. GTA was made for kids in mind such as The Godfater was made for older gamers. 
 All in all this is one fantastic game that truly deserves a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 23, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  For those of you that bought the game 'Mafia' this will largely seem familiar. In fact this game 
 has essentially taken its story missions from 'Mafia' &amp; its side missions from 'GTA'. In no 
 way does this make it less enjoyable. For fans of the films/books it plays cleverly on the original 
 storylines whilst fitting your new character into the existing legacy. The characters all look 
 great &amp; they have got the faces &amp; voices of the films except for Michael Corleone (whats 
 up with that?) . The cutscenes are cinematic in every single way &amp; really are great but sometimes 
 when wondering through the city environments they can be visually lacking, otherwise the graphics 
 utilise the Xbox 360's power to its full potential. The progression of your character through the 
 game has been cleverly done &amp; the extra things you can do just by wondering about is quite 
 a nice touch, for example: extortion is a great way to play away the hours but so much more could 
 have been done with that idea. This game has no real originality but it does take things we have 
 seen before &amp; piece them together succesfully. I'm still not sure if this was worth &pound;50 
 but it is a must have for fans &amp; if you like 'Mafia' but felt it was slightly lacking then 
 this is a good game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrolator
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  The God Father is the only game besides Mercenaries that even almost compeats with GTA. First of 
 the story line is great, doesn't have the most missions in the world but more than the PS2 version. 
 The way they fit things along in the game go perfectly with what hppen in the the movie. The cars 
 at this time.... Ehhh is what makes this game a little less fun. Ask for weapons, im pretty sure 
 that their was more than five guns in the 1940's. If there wasn't they could have added a few that 
 didn't come along until the early fifty's. I were very pleased with the way they placed the pedatrains 
 in this game......... I haven't seen A person with the same name yet. The way you bribe the police 
 in this game I prefer to the police badges in GTA. Also on this X-box 360 version you can other 
 Corleones along with you, you can't in the PS2 version. Over all this game amazes me.
  
  Now, about things in this game I didn't car for to much I will say that I hate the some of third 
 level upgrades. In 1940-1950, there wasn't a automatic handgun, let alone thsat could hold 14 bullets, 
 so the assians pistol is historcly incorrect and ugly in my book. The streetsweeper is to strong 
 it's such a cheap weapon and carrying around that many shotgun shell in would weigh......... a 
 little over 60 L. B.'s you can't run around with that kind of weight in your pockets. They defaintly 
 didn't have pistol grip shotguns back then so this gu is A big make belive peice of trash. Ask 
 for the Dillinger........... this gun did excist but, you should of have been able to carry this 
 and the Tommy gun at the same time. The Tommy gun was much weaker and carries less bullets in the 
 game than it did in real life. The Drum Magazines held 100 rounds not 25 or 50. The Dillinger has 
 a clip and I don't know exactly how much it is supposed to carry but im sure it's not 75. THe way 
 you get a second level upgrade and the gun looks the same as in the first level sucked too. Now 
 I think your guy should of already been made. you can't make him look that much diffiren't than 
 he originaly looked any way. when standing next to some one like Sonny or Lucabrazi who have very 
 detailed faces. your charecter looks retarded. This is one of my favirote games but I am still 
 a little ticked with things EA. could have made better but slacked on so I give it a 9.9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattman012691
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun and has amazing potential. There are a few problems I have with it however. 
 For one, I really don't like the camera system, it doesn't work as well as some camera systems 
 of other games. Another thing I don't like is that you have to lock on to actually attack somebody. 
 But there are some good points. This game is very fun because it simulates a mob life pretty well 
 in my opinion. You have to extort businesses, bribe cops and sergeants, and do jobs for the don. 
 This is a fun game for parties too. It's great because you can do some jobs in many different ways 
 and it's fun to see how your friends will execute the mission. I recommend renting this game before 
 actually deciding to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing The Godfather, I was not amused with the poor graphics and multiple screen 
 clipping that I noticed in the beginning. But eventually I decided to put aside my negativity and 
 high standards that I have been set thanks to games like Oblivion and Saints Row. I just started 
 playing the game for its gameplay, and I was surprised at how happy I was. First off, the game 
 is GINORMOUS! There are plenty of things to do in this immensely huge city of New York. The gameplay 
 is GTA'ish and the controls are pretty simple to figure out. It also follows the movie quite well. 
 You play as a random errand boy that is not part of the movie, but don't let that thought let you 
 down, because you play out quite a bit, if not most of, the movie itself. You get to extort business, 
 pay off cops, do hits, steal cars, control rackets , and basically take control of New Yorks underground. 
 Its definitely a game that can be played for a while. Now like I always say, no game is perfect, 
 and while this game is very fun to play, there are plenty of flaws. For one, as I mentioned before, 
 the graphics are crap. They are pretty close to the worst graphics for the 360 so far. There is 
 pretty much no online play at all, except that you can upload your progress to see where you rank 
 with other people. WEE! It is a solid game with lots of replay value and plenty of missions to 
 keep you busy. Other than a few tweaks here and there, if you have the older version that released 
 for Xbox or PS2 a few months back, I would not recommend getting this game unless you just want 
 the achievement points and not the next-gen experience, because you won't get it here. If you have 
 not played this game yet, then get the 360 version for the best experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punkstiffyam
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 22, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. EA threw in just the right additions to make this game complete. I recommend 
 every fan of the Godfather to purchase this game and enjoy the hours of gameplay it provides. The 
 controls are extremely easy to pick up on and just plain fun. The addition of being able to hire 
 a crew to come along with you on missions is also a nice touch. Playing through the 3 new missions 
 they added in was also very fun, and enhanced the story. Also the graphics are a lot nicer this 
 time around not to mention the fact that they made the inside of shops look more realistic too. 
 There are multipe items to break and shoot inside of stores. There are also new cars to drive which 
 all seem to handle very well. Even if your not a big fan of the Godfather, this game is definately 
 worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PorkNBeans
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 22, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  This game is better than an 8 in my opinion and much of that has to do with the fact that this 
 game is damn fun, many games lack that fun factor this game brings to the table. If you haven't 
 heard of the Godfather then you have been living under a rock or your 10 years old or younger &amp; 
 I'd be willing to bet a vast majority of 10 year olds even know about the movie. The game is excellent, 
 the missions in the game run seemless with the movies story and gives you a nice perspective of 
 what would've been going on inbetween movie scenes. This game doesn't need stellar graphics and 
 it didn't need to be any different that the original version that was released months back, you 
 don't fix something that's not broke &amp; the graphics still look a bit better &amp; the game 
 loads much quicker so the $10 extra price tag is well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 21, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather for XBOX 360 is heads and tails better than the original for the XBOX and PS2. Besides 
 the graphical improvements which are good but still not overwhelmingly good to be able to compare 
 them to most other next gen games. The gameplay is addictive and immersing. Yes it the standard 
 GTA style fighting but with a better joy stick driven hand to hand combat. The Godfather lets you 
 play in the 1940's world of The Godfather series, which is a italian mafia drama that if you haven't 
 seen then I'm pretty sure you don't have a DVD player or cable. (That means no satelite either) 
 Equip yourselft with historic weapons like the Tommy Gun and then upgrade it to the dillinger. 
 There is also nothing quite as satisfying as the hats off execution where the player shoots the 
 enemy through the chin taking the hat off as well as.... you know... winning the battle of life and 
 death, or the equally satisfying move of throwing someone into a furnace or off a 3 story building. 
 The enviroment, or universe is perfect. It's GTA meets everyone's favorite 1970s movie with more 
 to do. The gameplay is what you would expect with more. The stroy is taken from the movie and added 
 to putting you in key situations from the first film. But the feature of extorting buisnesses and 
 taking over rackets is the best thing about this game. It gives you so much to do outside the story 
 and gives the game that much more of what game developers call it . The graphics are the main disappointment 
 in this game. The sometimes blocky objects and the clouded vehicle windows. They tend to get overlooked 
 most of the time so it doesn't hurt THAT much but it still would be nice to have transparent windows 
 and a little more touched up enviroments. This is also teh only game I have experienced lag in that 
 I wasn't playing online but when i restarted the console it went away and I never saw it again. 
 In the end it is a updated GTA set in The Godfather Universe, and its an unforgettable experience 
 of reliving the movies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaddyDeath
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Still new on it but it's still one of the most intrerresting stories ever told. Thankfully they 
 didn; t screw it up like they have done to so many other movies to games. I love it. It is a great 
 game but I am a little one sided because I have always loved everything about the Godfather. So 
 yeh I relly love this game. I playes it on original Xbox and I still loved it. Hey it rocks. You 
 really have to try it for yourself. Still new on it but it's still one of the most intrerresting 
 stories ever told. Thankfully they didn; t screw it up like they have done to so many other movies 
 to games. I love it. It is a great game but I am a little one sided because I have always loved 
 everything about the Godfather. So yeh I relly love this game. I playes it on original Xbox and 
 I still loved it. Hey it rocks. You really have to try it for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 20, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  When the game, The Godfather, on the 360 platform first launches, your jaw will drop. Marlon Brando, 
 as the younger Don Corleone, looks like Marlon Brando as the young Don Corleone.
  
  Sure, with a few notable exceptions, this is the same game that launched earlier in the year on 
 current-generation consoles, but on the 360, the game boasts improved graphics, additional levels, 
 some gameplay tweaks, and Xbox Live leaderboards and Achievement listings. You can unlock cinematic 
 moments from the films, key film trailers that not only bring the movie back to life but will remind 
 you just how amazing the games graphics are.
  
  About the only character that does not smartly resemble his movie counterpart is Tom Hagan (Robert 
 Duvall) . Must be something about his looks that were tough to emulate. As for the other principles, 
 you will be very impressed with the way they all look. (Al Pacinos Michael has been reworked entirely 
 simply because an agreement could not be reached to put his likeness and voice into this game. 
 If you are married to the film and want this to be entirely the movie experience that may be a 
 drawback.)
  
  For those wishing to know what this game is about, its relatively easy  think Grand Theft Auto 
 but inside the movie world of The Godfather. The game essentially takes place in New York between 
 1945 and 1955. The initial scene takes place earlier with an acquaintance of Don Corleone paying 
 his respects to the Don, reminding someone that they need to remember to be grateful to the Don, 
 and then getting blown away by machine guns in an alley. His young son sees the aftermath, and 
 is not only heartbroken, but rather angry. The Don shows up and comforts the boy, telling him that 
 his is not the time for revenge, but that the time will come.
  
  Fast forward to the wedding of Connie Corleone. Luca Brasi is outside the house while inside, the 
 mother of that once boy is pleading with the Don to look after her son. He has taken up with those 
 street thugs and is heading for trouble. The Don agrees and sends Brasi to find the kid. It is 
 at that point that Brasi (bearing the likeness of the movie actor Lenny Montana) takes the kid 
 (played by the gamer) under his wing  well, Ok, it is a short wing span. Luca is killed by Virgil 
 The Turk Sollozzo and you strike back violently, then have a driving mission to cross town  
 with the clock ticking  to a safe house.
  
  From that point on, the game takes up a mission-driven pacing with the opportunity to freelance 
 a little outside the missions.
  
  The character creation for this game is not overly deep. But you will be able to customize your 
 character later with new clothes and the like. One of the new elements will allow you, after you 
 level up and attain the rank of Enforcer, to have an underling trail you about  muscle that can 
 help out. But while the creation scene is good (not great) , what is great is the way the game makes 
 your character a part of the main plot moments in the film (based on Mario Puzos book, of course) . 
 Rather than be sitting watching the scenes unfold, the game exquisitely makes you feel that you 
 are a part of these scenes.
  
  The first few levels are basically a tutorial that instructs you on how to fight, how to level 
 your character and how to navigate this open world.
  
  The combat system has its bright moments and dim ones. You can melee rather well, but grabbing 
 an opponent and slamming him into a wall or other free-standing object will take practice (the 
 game provides it) . Still, the animations are very well done and before long you will be grabbing, 
 throwing some body and head punches and then tossing your opponent into an environmental object. 
 EA has thrown some new executable moves into the games combat system, to make melee a little more 
 realistic, challenging and entertaining. The targeting system for weapons also requires some work. 
 You can target specific areas of a body with respective damage. Shoot an enemy in the arm and you 
 will cause pain, but not death; aim lower, like the knees, and they will drop to the ground in 
 agony like a bag of concrete. The headshot has the result one would suspect  lots of blood and 
 bodies.
  
  Because the game is predicated on violence, you can expect to lose health, but the game does have 
 some powerups and drops that you can find as you move through the levels. Taking over businesses 
 is a big part of this game, so be prepared to exert the muscle you gather as you level. Some businesses 
 are merely fronts for other operations, and once you control the front, you gain passage to the 
 backside business as well. You can agree, coerce, threaten, cajole, or brutalize those folks into 
 working for you; with the upshot being that your reputation and power grows. There are about six 
 new missions, drawn from key points in the movies, in this game.
  
  The AI is smart, but not to the point where you will be pounding your head against the handiest 
 environmental object in your gaming space, or yanking out hair, but you may find yourself repeating 
 some areas to either improve your score, rating or time, or because you failed the primary objective.
 
  
  The sound is pure bliss as well, with few exceptions (see the Al Pacino reference earlier) . Special 
 effects are wonderful on the 360 platform and the game will not fail to impress.
  
  While the game is, generally, an upgrade from current-gen console releases, that does not make 
 it any less fun. If you own it on current systems, you may not want to invest in the next-gen game. 
 However, if you do own a 360 and dont have any other iteration of this title, then this is definitely 
 a solid and entertaining gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Crowing
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I love the Godfather movies and all, but I swore that I wouldn't be a fanboy-ish at all in this 
 review. Here are the cold hard facts.
  
  The graphics are pretty nice, but it's in the character's faces where they truly shine. There are 
 a few ugly civilians, and some jaggies on the cars, but the people art is just incredible.
  
  The gameplay is why I love this game so much. Grappling people and beating them to death with 
 uppercuts until they run out of saliva and blood to spit out is fun. As a matter of fact, all the 
 fist fighting is freakin fun. The gun play is also awesome, with a kind of half auto-aim and half 
 free-aim going, it never gets boring. It's so fun to peak around a corner and see the enemies arm 
 hangout out the hallway. BAM, you made them drop their weapon, and made them drop to their knees.
 
  
  The sound is quite alright. The gun sounds are awesome, and the packing sound of a fist into someone 
 nose sounds gorgeous. But one thing I really liked was the theme song played every now and then. 
 It really feels like it's putting you in the film.
  
  Though it is only a single player game, it'll keep you busy for hours. There are lots of stores 
 to extort and take-over, and lots of gangs to put out of commission.
  
  All in all, The Godfather is a truly great game, and GameSpot must be crazy for rating it lower 
 than an eight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nygiants1080
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is widely regarded as one of the greatest films of all time. So when Electronic Arts 
 announced that it was making a game based on the license, it made sense as a business venture, 
 but it also seemed like a risky move to adapt such a beloved and well-known story to a video game. 
 Luckily, that risk paid off. The Godfather is a satisfying, lengthy adventure, and more importantly, 
 it remains faithful to the classic film while managing to create a compelling story of its own. 
 
  
  The Godfather game has the GTA style of free-roam gameplay. The game has a great story line. You 
 first start off by seeing your father murdered when you were a child, then The Godfather himself 
 tells you to wait until your older to avenge your father. Then The Godfather tells one of his loyal 
 members to go found you so you can start to look for who killed your father. Before it goes to 
 him looking for you in The Godfather you make your own character; face, nose, ears, chin, cheeks, 
 clothes you name it The Godfather's costumization has it. You learn the basic of fighting which 
 use the black hand system which is using the right analog to fight by pressing up or down. You 
 can also grap enemys and slam them in walls, windows and throw them over ledges. Theres a ton of 
 things to do, you can talk to ANYONE on the street and you can go into a very good amount of buildings. 
 The map of the game is HUGE and there are lots of things to do. You start off as an unofficial 
 enforcer for the Corleone family, which means your job is to muscle merchants into paying you protection 
 money. You do this by simply walking into a store and talking to the owner. Usually the owners 
 won't simply give in, but you can intimidate them by smashing up their stores (or their faces) 
 until they start to see things your way. Once you take over a business, you get a payout each week, 
 and there are dozens of shops you can shake down all throughout the five areas of New York. Some 
 stores are fronts for illegal rackets, such as brothels, gambling dens, and illegitimate importing 
 operations, and you can buy out these rackets to further increase your weekly income. . You can 
 also get skill points, shoot guns, and much more. This game only has one flaw and thats the graphics 
 which could have been alot more touched up and polished. Overall the game is a must buy for anyone 
 who liked The Godfather, GTA, and video games =-P. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
