-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Godfather II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/thegodfatherii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You get to see some cool movie moments from a different perspective.
 Impressive and upgradable arsenal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Nothing about the game feels finished.
 Uninspired and repetitive gameplay.
 Crew members are unbelievably stupid.
 Poorly designed multiplayer modes and maps.
 Dated visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  7, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 619 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Adventure
Date: Apr 7, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even if it were finished, this movie-inspired action game wouldn't be deserving of its prestigious 
 license. 

  If  The Godfather II  had been a mediocre, mindless action flick, the game of the same name could 
 at least be considered faithful to its source material. As it is, though, Coppola's Mafia-themed 
 masterpiece has been reduced to an uninspired, repetitive open-world action game with out-of-context 
 movie quotes and a handful of recognizable characters sprinkled throughout its forgettable story. 
 To make matters worse, The Godfather II has clearly been released in an unfinished state and is 
 riddled with performance issues and bugs like they've been fired from a Tommy gun.  

        var shown = false; function syncRoadBlock (adTag) { if ( shown ) return; 

  You play as 
 Dominic, an important member of the Corleone family who somehow managed to make it through the 
 epic movie trilogy without ever wandering into camera shot despite apparently being involved in 
 a number of key scenes. As one of Michael Corleone's most trusted men, you've been groomed to head 
 up your own family, and after a brief introductory sequence set in Cuba, the game proper gets under 
 way in a diminutive New York where you're instructed to set about making a name for yourself. From 
 this point on, much of your time is spent seizing and attempting to retain control of businesses 
 run by rival families in order to make money and, ultimately, force said families to retreat into 
 their compounds where you can eliminate them entirely. Unfortunately, killing rival mafiosi and 
 intimidating business owners gets repetitive quickly and isn't much fun to begin with.  

  That's largely because the gunplay in The Godfather II is neither challenging nor satisfying. You 
 have an impressive arsenal at your disposal, and weapons like the Magnum and the shotgun really 
 feel like they pack a punch, but the enemies you're using them against rarely seem too interested 
 in self-preservation. Too many of them simply stand their ground or charge at you and, if they 
 somehow manage to get close before you put a couple of bullets in their heads, can easily be grabbed, 
 punched, strangled, or head-butted into the afterlife. With that said, the made men working for 
 rival families are geniuses compared to the clowns you get to recruit into your own family. They 
 have their uses, but even having them do something as simple as walk through a doorway ahead of 
 you or climb into one of the game's many slow but slippery cars with you can take some work. Predictably, 
 things don't get any better when they're put into combat situations or are asked to perform the 
 very specific tasks that they supposedly each specialize in, which include cracking safes, committing 
 arson, and kicking down doors.  

           The cake shop is a lie.      

  The problem isn't that they're unable to perform those tasks; it's that walking from A to B is 
 rarely straightforward for them. When they're not failing to get into cars with you or running 
 rings around one another at superhuman speeds, your guys can often be observed wandering off in 
 the wrong direction or just remaining stationary while appearing to ponder their next step. Doorways 
 are especially problematic, regardless of whether you're leading the way or are trying to send 
 your guys in ahead of you to soak up some enemy fire. When you're in front, it's not uncommon to 
 open a door, step into a room, and encounter the guys that were right behind you already standing 
 around waiting for you in there. Other times they prefer to enter through different doors while 
 running backward, or perhaps crash through a window for an entrance that really gets them noticed. 
 If you turn your back on them, though, they'll be warped instantly to your side, sometimes.  

 
  Initially you get to recruit only one of these laughable soldiers for your family, and you get 
 to choose between a demolitions expert and a medic. The former can create shortcuts through walls 
 and blow up buildings, but like most of the crew abilities, these can be used in only very specific 
 locations. The latter is arguably the most useful guy you'll ever meet, because if you or any other 
 crew member gets killed, he can bring you back to life with full health just by sticking a needle 
 in you. Ultimately, you can recruit up to seven made men for your family, and as they prove their 
 worth, you can spend money on attribute upgrades and better weapons for them and even promote them 
 so that they can specialize in more than one field. It behooves you to take the maximum allowed 
 three crew members with you on every mission that you accept and to every business that you make 
 a move on, because location layouts are generally so contrived and architecturally improbable that, 
 for example, the only way into a building with seemingly easily accessible doors might be to blow 
 a hole in a wall or to have your engineer cut a hole in a fence. Annoyingly, there's no consistent 
 rule set in the world of The Godfather II, so while some fences can be cut through in specific 
 locations, other, identical-looking fences, are impenetrable. Doors are another example; some can 
 be kicked down, some can be lock-picked, and others can't be opened even with dynamite. You can't 
 even predict which waist-high walls you'll be able to vault over until you get close enough to 
 try, which is incredibly frustrating if you're fleeing from the cops on foot.  

           Bulletproof vests and armored cars are among the more useful crime ring perks.      

 
  Businesses that you control after successfully negotiating all of the aforementioned problems 
 don't just earn you money; they can also unlock special perks for you if you claim every business 
 within a crime ring. Controlling both of New York's prostitution rackets will get you brass knuckles, 
 while three diamond smuggling operations in Florida will earn you and your crew bulletproof vests, 
 for example. These crime-ring bonuses add some small degree of strategy to the proceedings when 
 it comes to planning your next move, not least because rival families can benefit from the same 
 bonuses that you can, but none of the bonuses significantly impact the difficulty of subsequent 
 actions -- regardless of who has them. Rivals will often attempt to reclaim or bomb businesses that 
 you control, denying you your bonuses if they succeed, so it's important to hire guards to protect 
 them. The guards aren't always up to the job if a rival family decides to send soldiers and capos 
 along, but at the very least they'll buy you some time until you can send members of your own crew 
 there via the "Don's View" map screen or go and join the fight yourself.     

   

  Rival families can be eliminated only when they've lost control of all businesses and have retreated 
 to their fortress-like compounds. At this point, the compounds become unlocked so that you can 
 get into them and fight your way to wherever it is that you need to place a bomb. In theory, you 
 shouldn't attempt this kind of operation until you've weakened a family by assassinating a number 
 of its made men, but in practice, the only real difference between those guys and the regular guards 
 is that it takes more bullets to put them down. Interestingly, the only way to permanently kill 
 a made man other than to bomb his family's compound is to do so in a way that sends a specific 
 message to his family, and you can find out which message needs to be sent only by doing favors 
 for people you meet on the street. Remember how Vito Corleone was unable to turn down any request 
 from a friend on his daughter's wedding day in the first  Godfather  movie? Well, this is nothing 
 like that. Rather, you approach complete strangers and tell them they look like they need help, 
 at which point they tell you who or which building they want attacked. Do them the favor, and they'll 
 tell you where one of your enemies can be found and that he can only be killed with a Molotov, 
 with a shot between the eyes, with a fall from a great height, by being run over with a car, or 
 something similar. Not only is soliciting murder advice from random pedestrians totally absurd, 
 carrying out these contrived actions is more trouble than it's worth, so you'll probably end up 
 just bombing the compound every time.  

           The front door was locked.      

  Once you take down all five families, you're about done with the single-player portion of The Godfather 
 II. Multiplayer modes designed for up to 16 players include Team Deathmatch, Demolition Assault, 
 FireStarter, and Safecracker. You play as one of the members of your crew from the single-player 
 game, and as you earn honor points online, you can use them to upgrade your guys' weapon licenses 
 so that they're able to use more-powerful guns both online and off. Your choice of crew member 
 will likely be dictated by the game type that you're playing because, in case you hadn't guessed, 
 those last three modes favor players with demolition, arson, and safecracker skills, respectively. 
 Unfortunately, The Godfather II's multiplayer isn't much fun. Targeting enemies without the lock-on 
 feature feels too imprecise on consoles, completing objectives on the non-deathmatch modes doesn't 
 earn you as many points as just killing people, and most of the maps are too big for just 16 players. 

  One of the more interesting multiplayer features, regardless of the fact that it's functional rather 
 than fun, is the option for one player on each team to play as the don. As the don, you don't play 
 as a guy on the ground at all, but as a disembodied camera flying high above the map and able to 
 relay information to teammates about enemy locations and the like both with voice chat and by dropping 
 waypoint beacons. When your team captures strategic locations on the map, you can also reward them 
 with bulletproof vests and other perks, which is great for them but as boring as it sounds for 
 you. Worse still, you can only fly around freely at a fixed altitude, so although you have the 
 option to jump between players and key locations with a couple of button presses, your movement 
 still feels oddly restricted. It's possible to make money as the don by betting on the outcome 
 of games, but money's unlikely to be an issue once you near the end of the single-player game, 
 so it's hardly compelling.  

           See if you can guess which multiplayer mode this is.      

  Questionable design choices 
 aside, the problem with almost every aspect of The Godfather II is simply that it feels unfinished. 
 Dated visuals, voiced lines of dialogue that seemingly play at random and often inappropriate times, 
 dead bodies falling through scenery, a car hovering in the air about half a mile off the Cuban 
 coast, being able to snipe enemies through walls and doors that haven't popped into view yet, guards 
 who fail to recognize you as a threat when you walk into a federal building and crack a safe, cars 
 and pedestrians that appear and disappear long before they leave your range of vision, getting 
 stuck in an animation somewhere between a regular walk and a crouch after vaulting through a window -- these 
 are just some of the problems we encountered in the 13 hours or so that it took to play from start 
 to finish. Even looking past these anomalies, all you're going to find is repetitive, unsatisfying 
 gameplay in an illogical, inconsistent world. The Godfather II should have been an offer impossible 
 to refuse, but like Michael's brother Fredo, this one will break your heart.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Newpancakeman
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2009 8:41 am PT
Review:  A lot of people think about being a gangster could be good, especially the boys. The next episode 
 of the Godfather tries to make you feel like that, and in most of the ways they were successful. 
 The feeling of being a gangster is great, that you're the Don of the city and everyone afraids 
 of you. You can go to a store, kill the rival family's soldiers and take over the store. If you 
 want to control the whole city, you have to kill rival family members from your enemies' family 
 tree. If you have killed 3 or 4 of them, youan ttack the main building and estroy the family. And 
 that's it. Nothing else you could do in the city, not like in the GTA IV. The controlling of the 
 cars is the as in the Godfather I. Terrible. The graphic is not the best but bearable.
  All in all, if you like gangster games or you are a devotee of the Godfather trilogy, then you 
 shoul give it a try. In other cases, wait for the Mafia II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I bought this last week and put in over 20 hours and beat the game once, that will do me. It is 
 now trade-in fodder. Firstly I really enjoyed this game, it was fun but it has serious flaws, here 
 are some;
  
  a) Graphically a joke for a game out as new now.
  
  b) Horrendous driving, notably the turning circles of the cars.
  
  c) Awful level design coupled 
 with no jump button
  
  d) Inconsitant story/cutscenes not taken into account what I had actually done i. e A cutscene warning 
 me of the impending war with a rival family who I had just taken out completely (left me feeling 
 smug though)
  
  e) A locksmith who boasts of being able to get into anything whilst I am still hampered by unlockable 
 locked doors.
  
  f) Many stupid ideas such as Made Men having to be killed in a specific manner (though some effort 
 was put in trying to justify this as the correct way sends the message but dead is surely dead) . 
 On top of this you got tips on how to kill them by doing favours such as murder for Mr and Mrs 
 Joe Public, like they would know.
  
  Having said all that, which I stand by, the game was good fun and bottom line, that is why I play 
 computer games. So if you can put up with a technically marred game the Godfather 2 should provide 
 some laughs.
  
  The bomb experts ability to plant car bombs is best utililised if you stand in front of a moving 
 car so it stops, let him plant his bomb then move to one side and let the poor sap drive off. Hilarious!!!!!! 
 Also if he is with you after you have been released from the police station have him plant a bomb 
 on one of the police cars outside as you walk off with the camera pointing behind you, it feels 
 like revenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigpen4483
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:51 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game thinkin that itd be pretty mediocre. But, it was a notch up from mediocre! 
 true, there is alotta bugs but some bugs are actually pretty awesome haha for example, you can 
 have a 3-man crew. If you get into a car and don't feel like waitin for the crew to get it, then 
 you can just take off and theyll magically appear once you exit the car! I found that really helpful 
 because in GTA, you would fail a mission if you "abandon" your crew so you would become dependent 
 of the AI. speaking of GTA, G2 has an incredible story line. Better than GTA IV's which honestly 
 was not that good (cliche story and predictable as hell) . if you're wondering what to spend your 
 $60 on, this is a definite contender! (I need more characters to fit the minimum of 800 so I can 
 post this hahaha) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SandboxAddict
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 7:07 am PT
Review:  If you liked the first game, you will like this one too, so don't believe gamespot's review. 
 
  
  Pros:
  Highly addictive gameplay: in which you will want to own a line of business: for the money, and 
 for the perks. You will need the money to buy guards for your stores, fronts, and businesses, plus 
 to upgrade your men's abilities. In that sence it feels like a very good board game (and the Don's 
 view add's to that feeling) . It's great to be able to send made men to try to take over businesses, 
 or to take them with you yourself. In the latter, you'll be part of the action, and you'll really 
 feel powerfull with medics, bomber etc on your side. Plus the weapons feel truely powerfull.
  
  Nice maps, albeit small ones, and not graphically impressive. But you won't have to spend a 
 lot of time driving, which was a con in GTA IV. 
  
  Lot's of stuff to do: assassinations, beatings, burglary, bombings: not just to take over shops, 
 but also to get info, money and help from the law (e. g. some chiefs of police want you to do them 
 a favor of some kind, so he'll return a favor in the form of withdrawing police attention, whenever 
 you need it) .
  
  Interesting story. I felt like being part of the whole story arc.
  
  Cons: just the graphics really. They are incredibly outdated. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2009 12:04 am PT
Review:  Pros
  
  * Light strategy elements improve what would otherwise be a rehash of the first game.
  * Executions 
 are satisfying.
  
  
  Cons
  
  * I don't consider myself a graphics whore, but GFII's visuals do look somewhat dated.
  * Building 
 layouts are reused with very little change, making the taking over of businesses and rackets somewhat 
 dull after awhile.
  * Difficulty connecting and staying connected to online games
  * In comparison to the first game, the character creator is somewhat lacking.
  
  Before playing 
 the first Godfather game I knew nothing of the franchise.
  Heck even after playing the game I'd say my knowledge about it isn't so hot.
  But regardless 
 I enjoyed the first Godfather game.
  The lack of familiarity with the characters and events might've I don't know, perhaps ruined it 
 for me somewhat - but it was a good open world game and extorting businesses was fun.
  
  Godfather II for the most part builds upon what I enjoyed about the first game, but it also strips 
 away some other things too.
  
  For starters as in Godfather I you start the game by creating your character.
  Godfather I had 
 a large variety of different clothing you could by, large variety in hair styles, hell large variety 
 in customization in general.
  
  Godfather II, sadly, does not.
  Only three or four items in each clothing category, with perhaps one of them being any good.
 
  Character customization is limited to slight facial tweaking, body weight tweaks, a choice from 
 a very limited selection of hair styles. The glasses section in particular is disappointing.
  
  I was hoping to more or less remake my character from the first one.
  Awesome pinstripe suit. 
 Scar across his left eye. And reading glasses.
  The pinstripe suit in this game doesn't look so awesome. Theres no scars or other facial anomalies 
 to add. And the only set of appropriate glasses there look cardboardy, they all look cardboardy. 
 Perhaps my memory fails me but I remember the reading glasses from GFI to look well, like glasses. 
 Not cardboard cutouts. I expect that lack of quality in character props from a WWE character creator, 
 but after playing the first Godfather game I expected a certain amount of quality from the character 
 creation and it came up quite short.
  
  While the first game ended with you becoming the Don, that's pretty much where you start in this 
 game. With the position you get the Dons View. Which is pretty much a map of whatever city your 
 in, with it's various rackets and whatnot laid out. You can see how well they're guarded. How well 
 your own stuff is guarded. Hire additional guards, if necessary.
  Upgrade your families skills.
  
  Yeah, your family.
  During the coarse of the game you'll 
 recruit some folk to your fedora wearing posse.
  Four soldiers, two capos and an under boss.
  You can keep three guys on you and send the rest 
 out to take over and/or guard your stuff.
  All the characters have a specialty, such as Arsonist, Safe cracker or Engineer and they all have 
 abilities that make it easier for you to infiltrate the various businesses so you can extort them 
 and get a larger income.
  
  It generally pays to have a balanced team but usually theres more then one way to get in a building 
 and theres only a couple of times where you absolutely must have a specific specialist with you 
 to proceed.
  
  They also of course help you out in combat, which is satisfying enough.
  Theres a cover system, but few places I've found actually let you use it.
  Rather instead you're 
 often ducking behind low objects and you'll automatically pop up to shoot when you go to shoot. 
 It's perfectly effective. I didn't find myself wishing I could stick to every surface.
  
  The game uses a lock on system so I won't say theres a terrible lot of skill involved in the shooting 
 up of bad guys but it's still incredibly satisfying to do so.
  With each shot comes a significant amount of blood splatter.
  Not enough to put Mortal Kombat 
 to shame or anything, but still quite a surprising amount.
  Especially when you do execution moves, which speaking of Mortal Kombat - would be equivalent to 
 that games fatalities..
  
  For example with the Tommy Gun you can stick it in a dudes mouth and pull the trigger, sending 
 blood splattering everywhere. Theres quite a variety of ways in which to maim guys, all of which 
 I've found to be quite satisfying. Whether you have them on their knees and are kicking them in 
 the face or have a shotgun presses against their temple before pulling the trigger and turning 
 their heads to mush, it's all quite good.
  
  There are a few problems with the game though.
  
  It doesn't look so hot.
  I'd go as far 
 as saying that in many areas it doesn't even look as good as the first one: Citing the neat look 
 spectacles of #1 against the cardboard cutouts of #2 once again as being a pretty good example 
 of that. I don't think it's so bad that it's a major detriment but I've had people come in see 
 me playing it and ask if I were playing a game on the original Xbox. Yeah.. No. I'm not.
  Sure does look like it in spots though.
  
  Building layouts are a bit samey.
  You've taken 
 over one bar you've taken them all over, pretty much.
  Once again it isn't too detrimental to the experience. I enjoy the act of taking stuff over enough 
 that I can get over the fact I'm essentially taking over the same spots over and over again, but 
 a little variety would've been neat.
  
  I wish I could comment on the games multi player and online capabilities but I can't.
  At least 
 the most i can say about the online capabilities is that it doesn't seem to be online capable. 
 In the past week or so I've had it I think I've managed to try getting an online game going at 
 least once a day and EVERY TIME I've dropped out or the folk I've connected too have dropped out. 
 There were a couple of instances in which I couldn't even get to the online menu.
  Perhaps it's fixed now. Perhaps they'll fix it soon.
  But by that time I'll probably be done 
 with the game.
  
  If you enjoyed the first game I'd think you'll enjoy this one too.
  The light strategy elements at least mix things up for a bit.
  If you didn't enjoy the first 
 game then sometimes worse visuals, a shoddy online mode and a fancy map won't help you enjoy it 
 any more.
  
  Regardless of the flaws though I am still enjoying the game a great deal.
  Like I said, the flaws are there but I personally haven't found them to be too detrimental to the 
 experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danmaxwell
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Contains minor spoilers
  
  The actual gameplay on this game is ok but gets a little repetitive. Where this game totally falls 
 down is in the writing/game play logic. Since this game is based on such a great movie with an 
 excellent story, it is shameful to have such bad writing. Here are some examples of the bad writing/logic:
 
  
  The three "cities" you can visit are New York, Florida and Cuba. The last time I checked, Florida 
 was a state and Cuba was a country.
  
  You can do favors for corrupt politicians to collect favors that they can do for you, such as getting 
 the police off your tail or getting your guys out of the hospital quicker. That seems fine so far 
 but you can use those favors in any city. So you do a favor for the police chief in New York and 
 he can call off the police if you are being chased. Except you can use that favor in Cuba or Florida 
 as well as New York. How does that make sense?
  
  There is only one way to kill the made men and higher from the other families. The way to find 
 out how to kill them is to walk up to a total stranger on the street and do a favor for them. There 
 a multiple things wrong here.
  1. Why would they know what the secret way to kill a made man is?
  2. You can do a favor for 
 someone in one "city" and they will know the secret killing method for a guy in another "city".
 
  3. If you kill a made man in anything other than the required method, they recover and come back. 
 So a point blank shot gun blast to the head will kill one guy but all the rest of them will recover 
 and come back from that.
  4. Walking up to a total stranger and doing a favor for them that includes breaking the law seems 
 doesn't seem very prudent if you want to stay out of prison.
  5. Many of the favors are to either burglarize, vandalize, torch or blow up a shop. All of the 
 locations are the same locations you can take over. If you have already taken over the business 
 then you are damaging your own businesses or a business that you are being paid to protect. Shop 
 keeper: "Hey man, I paid you. Why are you destroying my shop?" Main Character: "Oh, it's OK. I'm 
 doing a favor for a person I have never met. Just keep paying me and everything will be OK." Shop 
 keeper: "Oh OK
  
  I'm sure I am forgetting other things that were just horribly thought out. It seems like the people 
 who worked on the game logic took a vacation and had their young kids do their job for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Old_Captaini
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Imagine playing a game of Monopoly where, instead of meekly paying rent to your opponent when you 
 land on Boardwalk, you can instead bash him in the teeth, take it over from him, and collect the 
 income for yourself. Instead of the right to build houses and hotels, controlling all locations 
 of a certain type earns you bonuses, like extra ammo or brass knuckles, That pretty much sums up 
 the premise of EA's Godfather 2. The overall goal of the game is to build a crew, wrest control 
 of various illicit businesses from your AI opponents, defend yourself from their counterattacks, 
 and work your way through the various story missions that parallel and at times intersect the plot 
 line of the movie. 
  
  In Godfather 2, EA has rolled out a game that attempts to differentiate itself from the GTA style 
 of game play, while maintaining some open world elements. They have certainly attained that goal, 
 for both the good and unfortunately, the bad. There are a lot of GREAT ideas in the design of this 
 game, but they are often overshadowed by bad implementation and bad presentation. It's hard to 
 give a purely numerical rating to this game because there are things I both love and hate about 
 it, hence my lengthy narrative that follows.
  
  The Good:
  
  "Don View"  In Godfather 2 EA added a strategy aspect to the proceedings. You now not only control 
 your character in third person and carry out missions by yourself, but in "Don View", but you influence 
 actions elsewhere by appropriating guards to rackets you control, sending crew members to bomb 
 or take over rival rackets, calling in "favors" you have earned, and targeting rival "made men" 
 for elimination. I thoroughly enjoy this aspect of the game. Those looking for a purely street 
 level, run, gun and drive like hell affair may be turned off by this, but I like it. I definitely 
 get the feel of being the "the Don" and pulling the strings of my "family affairs".
  
  Building a crew  I love that you can build a crew from various wise guys you find hanging out 
 at your compound or at your various rackets. You manage "employee development" through the Don 
 View. Here you can upgrade your or your crew's abilities, and weapons, and ahem."downsize" crew 
 members that aren't cutting it, and replace them with ones that have more advanced abilities.
 
  
  Strategic AI.  At first glance I was unimpressed with this, but as the game progressed I noticed 
 that the enemy AI's got much more aggressive with their attacks, making finding the right balance 
 between defending your holdings, expanding your enterprise, and working through the story missions 
 an entertainingly hair raising experience, especially before you have your crew fully staffed. 
 The only problem is that once you have fully staffed your crew, the AI doesn't seem to send enough 
 guys on attacks to be a real threat. As long as you have enough guards on site backed up by a mobile 
 reserve of some of your crew, being wiped out is almost impossible. It only becomes a little hairy 
 if the other gangs are hitting you on multiple fronts while you are attempting to take down an 
 enemy location with the help of crew members.
  
  Gunplay  Lots of guns, lots of explosives, lots of rival crew members to take down. The thrill 
 is somewhat diminished by mediocre character animations, but overall the gunplay is satisfying 
 if a bit on the easy side.
  
  Melee Combat - Just as in the last game, the mechanic behind beating the living crap out of a rival 
 is just as good as in the original game.
  
  The Mediocre
  
  Mission structure. I don't have any real problems with the story missions (other than the stry itself) , 
 they just seemed a little bit on the easy side. Favor missions were way too easy to the point of 
 being boring. On the flip side taking down rival businesses while defending your own is a lot of 
 fun, especially since there are a lot of different ways you can do it. I wish some of the made 
 man hit missions had some more variety. You always have to go a hangout after you find out where 
 it is through the favor system and wade through a horde of wise guys until you get to your target. 
 From a realism standpoint, you should have been provided two paths to get to the target. The frontal 
 assault as is presented in the game would be one, but in addition some kind of stealth mode where 
 you nail the guy somewhere where he least expects it. That would have been cool, especially with 
 some kind of risk/reward system for the approach you choose. Also, while you do need to have certain 
 specialists with you to accomplish some things or attain access to certain areas, I think this 
 aspect could have been more finely tuned, maybe with some side missions with stronger emphasis 
 on particular specialties, especially the safecracker and engineer.
  
  Favor System. I really like the idea behind the favor system, especially the part where you get 
 intel on locations of rival made men. I don't like how it was implemented. Walking up to random 
 strangers to do "favors" doesn't feel right. Seems like NPC's looking for favors should be waiting 
 for you at your compound or one of you businesses. I do like the way the favor system was set up 
 for corrupt officials and also how you can "bank" completed favors for later use
  
  NPC AI  I had heard really bad things about the NPC AI, but in reality, while there are some glitches, 
 I didn't see anything that was a total showstopper. Getting your crew to jump in the car resembles 
 a Chinese fire drill at times, but they do get in as long as you have enough seats in the car you 
 are driving. They don't always follow you through doors or get delayed but sometimes it's better 
 to send them through the door first anyway, and that always works. They do perform an adequate 
 job of covering your back and it is always better to have them along on assaults than not.
  
  Map Design. The maps in the game are "representations" of New York, Miami, and Havana, with 
 no attempt to represent the actual geography or real world places of interest in either city (though 
 I'm not sure about Havana since I've never been there) . As I traveled around these "cities" I couldn't 
 help the feeling that I was in some Potemkin Village or a foreign theme park trying to emulate 
 these locations rather than a living, breathing city. In contrast, the New York of the original 
 game and even the "Liberty City" of GTAIV felt more like New York than the New York represented 
 in Godfather 2.
  
  
  The Bad
  
  While the "Don View" map and interface is extremely well polished, graphics and animation in the 
 game world are subpar for a current generation release, period. I liken it to getting a beautifully 
 wrapped present but finding nothing inside but some dead fish. Textures on exterior walls are just 
 plain lousy and unfinished looking. Character animations, both player and NPC are stiff and not 
 at all life like. The car models are terrible looking. Texture pop is everywhere, and vehicles 
 sometime materialize out of thin air. All this would be forgivable on a PS2 or original XBox release, 
 but not for a current generation release. 
  
  I don't know if there was a technical reason they had to skimp on the graphics, such as memory 
 constraints or frame rate considerations, or if the developers just ran out of time to polish up 
 the graphics in order to make the April 7th release date. My bet is the latter, which is a shame. 
 I would have preferred they delay the release to sharpen up the graphic presentation. Some non- 
 gamer suit at EA probably decided the graphics were "good enough" and forced the release in order 
 the make the April 7th release date. The problem is that this isn't some generic gangster universe, 
 this is THE GODFATHER!! SHOW SOME RESPECT!! Getting the atmosphere right is absolutely essential 
 to create that sense of immersion into the Godfather universe. That's one of the things I felt 
 they did right on the first game. The universe in the first Godfather game definitely felt to me 
 like 1940's New York City. The cities in Godfather 2 just feel like generic urban landscapes without 
 much personality. The overall game atmosphere has more of a "Goodfellas" than a "Godfather" vibe.
 
  
  Driving mechanics are awkward. I can't even drive normally without getting into a wreck. It makes 
 it hard to keep a low profile when you want to. The problem seems to be that the turning radius 
 on some of the longer vehicles is greater than a lot of the corners and turns on the maps.
  
  Finding a parked car is sometimes problematic on some maps particularly at the airports. Jacking 
 a passing vehicle is always an option, but I find that somewhat inconsistent with being a Don. 
 The player should at least have the option of ordering one of the crew to jack the car instead. 
 Another thing that would have worked would have been to implement a system similar to that used 
 in "Scarface" where you could call for a car (from a phone booth of course not a cell phone)
 
  
  Historical Anachronisms. The Godfather 2 movie storyline takes place in the late 1950's. However 
 I noticed several things that were out of place for that time period. Pay phones are pedestal mounted 
 and not in phone booths. I noticed that a lot of the phones themselves had push button number pads, 
 not rotary dialers. Push button phones weren't generally available any earlier than the 1970's 
 as I recall. While I understand that the car models were meant to be generic, one of the models 
 looked identical to a Ford Mustang which didn't come out until 1967! In the Don View, the jets 
 sitting at the airport have their engines at the rear of the fuselage rather than on the wings. 
 That for sure is an innovation that didn't become common until later in history, let alone passenger 
 jets of any kind. For that matter there should have been a few turbo props sitting around just 
 to keep it real. Inside the game world the airports all have metal detectors and baggage screening 
 equipment which weren't introduced until years after the events in this game. To the reader these 
 criticisms may all seem a bit nitpicky, but again for a Godfather game to be true to the movie 
 universe, the game environment needs to be right! 
  
  Plot Gaffes. My comments here are general so as not to be a spoiler. In summary the game takes 
 some major liberties with the plot of the Godfather 2 movie story line. While I understand that 
 most of the events in the game are happening in parallel to the events in the movie, the points 
 at which the two storylines intersect should be consistent with the original movie, especially 
 a classic movie such as the Godfather 2. Most unfortunately the worst plot divergence from the 
 movie is at the beginning of the game. Some of the game plot line is ludicrous...... particularly 
 events in Cuba
  
  Nudity was way overdone, both in the context of the original movie and in general for the game 
 itself. Some would have been appropriate in certain areas of some of the various businesses, but 
 it's completely ludicrous to see nearly naked women walking around in an industrial setting.
  
  With a little more effort and polish this game could have been a classic to rival or even exceed 
 GTA IV. As it is however, it really is going to be up to the individual gamer if this game is a 
 rent, buy, or skip. Critical reviews are all over the place, so whether you will like this game 
 or not will depend on what you like to do. This is not a 5 out of 5 game as portrayed in Game pro 
 magazine nor is it 4.5 out of 10 as portrayed by Gamespot. All the flaws aside, I still found this 
 game to be entertaining and fun, mainly because of the "Don View" and the strategy element that 
 it introduces to the genre. However if the strategy element doesn't do it for you and you are looking 
 for a purely open world, drive, and shoot crime epic there are better choices out there.
  
  Note: I have not played Multi player yet, hence no reference to it here.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: texpsych67
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 12:23 am PT
Review:  If I put a game into my Xbox, and suddenly the theme from some horrible anime game started up and 
 then my xbox vomited forth the disc whilst angrily displaying the red ring of death, then yeah, 
 4.5 all the way,
  
  This game is actually fun for what it is. No, it doesn't follow the movie, and no I didn't care. 
 Really, if they make Godfather III will it have to follow that piece of garbage of a movie?
  
  I enjoy choking random people to death and threatening shop owners with violence. It's just 
 not something you get to do every day. And then, when you find someone you want in your crew that's 
 better than your present guy, you whack your own guy Mafia style.
  
  Whatever, it's repetitive at times, and sometimes you wonder, "Why did they bother with that feature 
 at all?" and you really find yourself wishing there was more drama involved with your crew, more 
 of an RPG feel, but hey, whatever. It works til UFC comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBaldwin
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  Godfather 2.. Made from the dark secretive halls of Electronic Arts studios.. For starters, I won't 
 tell you anything about the game that you probably don't know by now. Which concludes just my thoughts 
 and feelings about what I have experenced with this product instead. In retrospective, I really 
 didn't have much hope in the game from the get go due to my previous experences with many products 
 E. A. has produced in the past. I'll admit that I didn't get the option to play much of the orginal 
 GodFather. But I agree with the gamer reviews about the sour taste that certain title left in your 
 mouth after falling victum to its grasp. 
  
  Even through E. A. again dropped the ball with this movie themed video game I'll still have to say 
 that they did achieve what they sought by giving the gamer a few hours of entertainment and excitement 
 to keep playing until you found out how the main character's story ended. The plot of the game 
 was very short compared to others but I still had lots of fun using the sometimes oddly Ai controlled 
 companions to raid locations such as prositute crime rings and banks and such. The weapons were 
 always fun to use and I liked the all around old school mobster movie themed environments you got 
 to visit playing the game. 
  
  So to sum this game up in a nutshell, I have to say that it was a fairly decent weekend time killer. 
 It had enough qualities to hit the g-spot for awhile but suffered from the usual E. A. malifunctions 
 most of their not so popular titles usually suffer from.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:46 am PT
Review:  As a gamer I've seen many bad and good games in my time. This is the first game that I've played 
 that has been so bad, that I had to ensure that noone suffers a 60 dollar loss and a waste of time. 
 I. E. writing a review.
  
  
  1) (Don's view) 
  
  Fail?
  gives view over the entire 'world' of godfather and the size expands. This gives it sort of a strategy 
 point of view. The cool part is that this can be accessed at almost any given time. A gripe about 
 this is how some icons can overlap, therefore causing you to play "WHERE'S WAL- I mean Where's 
 the dot?" A minor inconvenience. Also WHY CAN'T I SKIP CUTSCENESE? IT'S THE AGE OF THE NEXT-GEN! 
 The radio sucks in the car. I'm not sure if it even tells you what channel you're listening to.
 
  
  2) (The gunplay and cover system) 
  
  EPIC FAIL here. I would like to know how my enemies survive about 15 bullets from a tommy gun. 
 Some even hit the head I'm pretty sure. The cover system blatantly tries to rip off some great 
 cover + shoot games. I. E. GTA 4 and GOW 1+2. The game tries to make up for it by having vehicles, 
 random objects, and various other items to be perfectly in tune with your crouching. This in turn 
 makes the setting and world not what it actually is supposed to look like. There is a severe lack 
 of variety in the world as well. As clones of people are noticeably there 80% of the time. I almost 
 threw up. The twilight zone has nothing on this.
  
  
  3) (The Physics) 
  
  Supreme Epic Fail here. 
  The Physics system could mean a variety of things. This totally ruined 
 whatever hope I had for the game. In this world, gravity and jumps are highly discouraged. As things 
 automatically pull you towards the ground like it was magnetically supposed to be attached to the 
 ground. The collision system almost made me go bonkers. Try climbing down a ladder when there is 
 already someone at the bottom. Next try adding an enemy fighting said character at the bottom. 
 I was stuck in the ladder for about 2-4 min. I almost went insane. When a game is about to make 
 you insane, that means it is a VERY bad game. Now for the linear pathing. Before I go into this, 
 I will have to remind you that you cannot and will not jump. Instead you will "vault" over predetermined 
 objects that are few in number. That said, you will find yourself zig-zagging until motion sickness 
 sets in. This means that instead of climbing over that 4 foot wall, you have to find a way around 
 it. Then you ask yourself, "Hey I'll just break that fence down instead!"... Yeah good luck with 
 that. Brittle walls that seem to be breakable by a 2000 lb truck completely repel the vehicle instead. 
 There are some hypocritical moments when you could charge your car through a linked metal fence 
 just fine. All of a sudden a similar wall not far away, has the power of superman and just completely 
 stops you in your tracks. Ok let's ask about the realism for the NPC's. The npc deaths are very 
 very predetermined. Scripted deaths that you will find yourself recognizing over and over. Sure 
 it's fun for the first few hours. But, then you realize it's very very similar to previous deaths. 
 For the next several hours. The ragdoll physics seem to go into rigor mortem (Body Stiffening after 
 death) right after they fall. Meaning it's not actually ragdoll physics. (Even goldeneye deaths 
 were better) That said, the physics between (A) a moving car and (B) a pedestrian is very bad. 
 The equation would be like, (A) + (B) = BAD. The slightest contact can send a person flying. I 
 could be going at a walking speed in my car. I hit a person and he goes twirling through the air 
 like a ballerina on hallucinogenic shrooms.
  
  4) (NPC + AI)
  
  Fail
  The NPC, the AI, and the Ugly. When thinking of a squad based game, you'd expect for your partners 
 in crime to be at least up to par on what you expect of them. This is very wrong. The most you 
 can hope out of the AI of your crewmates is to block you and your pathing and be meatshields while 
 you're the only one to have the abilty to shoot an enemy from 40 yards away. The click and go there 
 system is very flawed and the follow me system is very redundant and frustrating for movement. 
 Occasionally you will die from a surprise attack from an NPC that just happens to spawn behind 
 that wall where you can't see. Thus screwing you over and killing you. Occasionally, the NPC act 
 like chickens. They run around in circles or just completely run past you as if being chased by 
 Satan.
  
  5) Models, Textures, Voice Acting and Setting (The things that make the game pretty)
  
  Achievement 
 Unlocked 100GP: Ultra Mega Fail. Or if you're a PS3 owner, Triple Platinum Trophy Unlocked: Ultra 
 Mega Fail.
  
  Let's start off with the view. It is not impressive at all. Soon you'll come to realize the lack 
 of eyecandy and to make up for it you get boobies. I like boobies, but I would've loved for a better, 
 colorful, variable world. The world in itself acts more like a town rather than a city. NPC's, 
 traffic, and the like seems to be severly lacking. I already mentioned the clone thing before as 
 well. Let's just say if you yourself was placed in that world for an extended period of time, your 
 head would implode and a hole would tear through the fabric of reality. Textures are somewhat bland 
 and overrecycled to be used. EXTREME lack of variety vehicles. Voice acting was good for the most 
 part. However it just further justifies the clone comment. ALL of the pedestrians sound the same 
 regarding their specific genders and race. Hooray for Sterotypes! *cough*
  
  6) Controls
  
  WARNING: Brain may implode from ranting about controls alone.
  
  Already mentioned most 
 of the problems with the controls and how they are pretty frustrating. However I didn't mention 
 this about the combat portions just yet. Extortion is a big part of this game and shaking down 
 the store owners can be alot of fun. However, the problem with this is that it responds differently 
 than what you intended. Like you wanted to lean that guy against over the railing and instead you 
 slam him against the wall right next to it. Simply put the controls in parts mentioned in the above 
 posts will vex you the most.
  
  Story: Barely any story, no creativity, and no super appeal to fans of the movie.
  
  Bugs: 
 .... Let's just say that there are pretty fat bugs. I'm talking Beetles and Tarantulas
  
  Summary: It's not even a solid rent. Your brain will just melt.
  
  How to make this game better:
 
  1) Ask Rockstar for their RAGE AI and Physics Engine. This will fix all of your AI and Physics 
 problems.
  2) FINISH making the game and fine tune it more.
  3) Make a better game and focus only on one system!
  4) Kill all the bugs
  5) CO-OP mode. In 
 my head it sounds easy. You're the don and a friend can just join in anytime he wants and takes 
 control of one of your crew.
  6) Focus on why this game needs ALOT of work.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenny_2469
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 1:47 am PT
Review:  First things first, this game does not deserve anywhere near a 4.5... come on, seriously? Have you 
 played the game for more than 20 minutes? Sure this game is no GTA, but no one said it would be. 
 GTA has always been known as a great open world game and most likely always will be. The Godfather 
 II does a good, not absolutely great, but a good job at making a sequel to their first. The game 
 becomes highly addictive the second you start blowing the heads off of your rival families bodies 
 and taking over the properties. The game does a great job at drawing in the gamer and making them 
 feel as if they control everything from: which rival member you are going to mark for death, which 
 racket you feel like taking over and also allows you to budget your spending. Did GTA or even Saints 
 Row have any of that?..... lets check.... oh look, NO! Overall anybody who is a fan of the movies 
 should pick this game up, anyone who is skeptical about this game at least rent it and try it yourself; 
 if you feel it deserves a 4.5 or there abouts, go play something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercal
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the review on Gamespot I was a little hesitant to go out and get it. The first 
 game impressed me alot and the Godfather world seemed to fit a game that was essentially a GTA 
 clone. But to my surprise the game was alot of fun and had some added features that made it feel 
 like a true sequel to the first and not just an upgrade.
  
  Where I am standing Gamespot have made the mistake of judging the game based on the films and that 
 simply isn't fair. We all know that the films are (well the first two anyway) and to expect a game 
 to live up to the grandiose image of the films is simply expecting far too much. One must look 
 at it from the perspective of a stand alone game. Now that I have had my rant and my shake of the 
 head I can now actually feel comfortable with reviewing this game.
  
  I like this game the same way I liked Saints Row 2, it is just plain dumb fun. If you want a high 
 quality sand box game with a great story and all the bells and whistles then I suggest you play 
 GTA 4. On the other hand if you want a game where you can run down the street and basically attack 
 anyone or any building without any concievable benefit then this is just one of a handful of games 
 for you. But unlike Saints Row 2 this game does have a little more in the "nitty gritty" department 
 so you can feel like you are managing an army rather than just being a one man army yourself. 
 
  
  This comes from the concept of making men and letting them join your family, they can now follow 
 you into attacks on enemy fronts and compounds as well as defend your fronts along with guards 
 you can hire. Your available fronts are now not exclusive to New York but also in Florida and Cuba 
 to keep you jumping from city to city to protect your properties.
  
  The mechanics of the game are basically the same as Godfather 1 and pretty much any other sandbox 
 game you have played so as a result it isn't all that hard to play and things will go by pretty 
 fast if you don't put the controller down but there is alot of fun to be had along the way. So 
 if you are not big on buying gross amounts of games then rent this one and see if you can pass 
 t in a day. But if you like these types of games and must add one of these to your collection then 
 you could do much worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukekey
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2009 2:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  Your main aim in the game is to take over all of the shops and so on and then work your way up 
 to be the best family you will be beaten up shop owners until they give you some of there intakes 
 and killing rival families all this is good but it becomes very repetitive and it doesn't offer 
 much else the driving is annoying the cars are very heavy to drive which also ruin the gameplay 
 I like the shooting though auto aim is a plus for me so that sum the gameplay up 
  
  Graphics 
  Well the game is very beautiful and bright but the detail in the game seem very dole 
 in some areas i. e. gardens some of the streets as well the character models look very detailed 
 and good the graphics are nothing to good but there ok 
  
  Sound 
  The voice acting is very good in this game and the music is also a plus 
  
  Overall 
  Im 
 enjoying the game so far but its starting to become more repetitive and boring the game is good 
 but don't expect something amazing 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kagetilmig1992
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  The godfather 2 is a third person shooter game with a lot of good qualities. The good about this 
 game, is that its based of the number two film from the godfather series... i think. Your main 
 carechters name is Dominic and gets a job by Michael Corleone. He must build an empire by himself. 
 Meanwhile he can build up his own family tree. First he can hire soldiers, then promote two of 
 them, to Capos and then promote one of them to underboss. The history is fantastic because sometimes 
 the history chocking you.
  The graphics in this game is also very good, specially on the persons who are in this game. A thing 
 who chocked me, was that you could choose what you would say in the dialogs and thats cool. I must 
 say that this game is much better than the first one for Xbox 360. Some say that the crew members 
 are stupid, but I dont think so. They are listening to what you command and so on, so that is not 
 a problem for me. A new has also been added: The Don view. Its a 3D view all over the entire city: 
 NY, Florida, Cuba and so on. There you can watch out for crime rings and other thinks that happens 
 in the cities.
  
  Score: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamix22
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 9:55 am PT
Review:  The Godfather II is a sandbox action game from EA Redwood Shores, where you take up the role of 
 Dominic, a Corleone mafia Don, and start your own family in New York, later Florida and Cuba. Graphics 
 wise, the game looks OK. I would compare it to Saints Row 2, it looks about as good as that, which 
 means that it's not amazing, nor is it bad looking, just OK. The strategic element of the game 
 - Don's View works great. You get all the right information about targets, rackets, and families 
 that you could possibly need. The gameplay itself, however is very repetetive. Most of the time, 
 while not doing missions for your contacts, you'll be gathering up other families' rackets up your 
 sleeve. The shooting mechanics work fine, and the executions work and look nice. The Godfather 
 II is a buggy and glitchy game. When unable to get inside a car, your AI partners will start running 
 around like crazy, which is sometimes very amusing. However, at other times, especially when at 
 combat, some of them are very useful. Overall, The Godfather II offers a great mix of mild strategy 
 and sandbox fun, plus you can get more than 700 achievment points in about 10 hours, so why not 
 try it out?
  
  Pros
  
  Big sandbox world
  Fun gunplay and gory executions
  The Don's View and strategy elements
  
  Cons
  
  Repetetive gameplay
  Glitches and bugs
 
  Not the smartest AI 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bountou
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 11, 2009 10:09 pm PT
Review:  As a gamer I've seen many bad and good games in my time. This is the first game that I've played 
 that has been so bad, that I had to ensure that noone suffers a 60 dollar loss and a waste of time. 
 I. E. writing a review.
  
  
  1) (Don's view) 
  
  Fail?
  gives view over the entire 'world' of godfather and the size expands. This gives it sort of a strategy 
 point of view. The cool part is that this can be accessed at almost any given time. A gripe about 
 this is how some icons can overlap, therefore causing you to play "WHERE'S WAL- I mean Where's 
 the dot?" A minor inconvenience. Also WHY CAN'T I SKIP CUTSCENESE? IT'S THE AGE OF THE NEXT-GEN! 
 The radio sucks in the car. I'm not sure if it even tells you what channel you're listening to.
 
  
  2) (The gunplay and cover system) 
  
  EPIC FAIL here. I would like to know how my enemies survive about 15 bullets from a tommy gun. 
 Some even hit the head I'm pretty sure. The cover system blatantly tries to rip off some great 
 cover + shoot games. I. E. GTA 4 and GOW 1+2. The game tries to make up for it by having vehicles, 
 random objects, and various other items to be perfectly in tune with your crouching. This in turn 
 makes the setting and world not what it actually is supposed to look like. There is a severe lack 
 of variety in the world as well. As clones of people are noticeably there 80% of the time. I almost 
 threw up. The twilight zone has nothing on this.
  
  
  3) (The Physics) 
  
  Supreme Epic Fail here. 
  The Physics system could mean a variety of things. This totally ruined 
 whatever hope I had for the game. In this world, gravity and jumps are highly discouraged. As things 
 automatically pull you towards the ground like it was magnetically supposed to be attached to the 
 ground. The collision system almost made me go bonkers. Try climbing down a ladder when there is 
 already someone at the bottom. Next try adding an enemy fighting said character at the bottom. 
 I was stuck in the ladder for about 2-4 min. I almost went insane. When a game is about to make 
 you insane, that means it is a VERY bad game. Now for the linear pathing. Before I go into this, 
 I will have to remind you that you cannot and will not jump. Instead you will "vault" over predetermined 
 objects that are few in number. That said, you will find yourself zig-zagging until motion sickness 
 sets in. This means that instead of climbing over that 4 foot wall, you have to find a way around 
 it. Then you ask yourself, "Hey I'll just break that fence down instead!"... Yeah good luck with 
 that. Brittle walls that seem to be breakable by a 2000 lb truck completely repel the vehicle instead. 
 There are some hypocritical moments when you could charge your car through a linked metal fence 
 just fine. All of a sudden a similar wall not far away, has the power of superman and just completely 
 stops you in your tracks. Ok let's ask about the realism for the NPC's. The npc deaths are very 
 very predetermined. Scripted deaths that you will find yourself recognizing over and over. Sure 
 it's fun for the first few hours. But, then you realize it's very very similar to previous deaths. 
 For the next several hours. The ragdoll physics seem to go into rigor mortem (Body Stiffening after 
 death) right after they fall. Meaning it's not actually ragdoll physics. (Even goldeneye deaths 
 were better) That said, the physics between (A) a moving car and (B) a pedestrian is very bad. 
 The equation would be like, (A) + (B) = BAD. The slightest contact can send a person flying. I 
 could be going at a walking speed in my car. I hit a person and he goes twirling through the air 
 like a ballerina on hallucinogenic shrooms.
  
  4) (NPC + AI)
  
  Fail
  The NPC, the AI, and the Ugly. When thinking of a squad based game, you'd expect for your partners 
 in crime to be at least up to par on what you expect of them. This is very wrong. The most you 
 can hope out of the AI of your crewmates is to block you and your pathing and be meatshields while 
 you're the only one to have the abilty to shoot an enemy from 40 yards away. The click and go there 
 system is very flawed and the follow me system is very redundant and frustrating for movement. 
 Occasionally you will die from a surprise attack from an NPC that just happens to spawn behind 
 that wall where you can't see. Thus screwing you over and killing you. Occasionally, the NPC act 
 like chickens. They run around in circles or just completely run past you as if being chased by 
 Satan.
  
  5) Models, Textures, Voice Acting and Setting (The things that make the game pretty)
  
  Achievement 
 Unlocked 100GP: Ultra Mega Fail. Or if you're a PS3 owner, Triple Platinum Trophy Unlocked: Ultra 
 Mega Fail.
  
  Let's start off with the view. It is not impressive at all. Soon you'll come to realize the lack 
 of eyecandy and to make up for it you get boobies. I like boobies, but I would've loved for a better, 
 colorful, variable world. The world in itself acts more like a town rather than a city. NPC's, 
 traffic, and the like seems to be severly lacking. I already mentioned the clone thing before as 
 well. Let's just say if you yourself was placed in that world for an extended period of time, your 
 head would implode and a hole would tear through the fabric of reality. Textures are somewhat bland 
 and overrecycled to be used. EXTREME lack of variety vehicles. Voice acting was good for the most 
 part. However it just further justifies the clone comment. ALL of the pedestrians sound the same 
 regarding their specific genders and race. Hooray for Sterotypes! *cough*
  
  6) Controls
  
  WARNING: Brain may implode from ranting about controls alone.
  
  Already mentioned most 
 of the problems with the controls and how they are pretty frustrating. However I didn't mention 
 this about the combat portions just yet. Extortion is a big part of this game and shaking down 
 the store owners can be alot of fun. However, the problem with this is that it responds differently 
 than what you intended. Like you wanted to lean that guy against over the railing and instead you 
 slam him against the wall right next to it. Simply put the controls in parts mentioned in the above 
 posts will vex you the most.
  
  Story: Barely any story, no creativity, and no super appeal to fans of the movie.
  
  Bugs: 
 .... Let's just say that there are pretty fat bugs. I'm talking Beetles and Tarantulas
  
  Summary: It's not even a solid rent. Your brain will just melt.
  
  How to make this game better:
 
  1) Ask Rockstar for their RAGE AI and Physics Engine. This will fix all of your AI and Physics 
 problems.
  2) FINISH making the game and fine tune it more.
  3) Make a better game and focus only on one system!
  4) Kill all the bugs
  5) CO-OP mode. In 
 my head it sounds easy. You're the don and a friend can just join in anytime he wants and takes 
 control of one of your crew.
  6) Focus on why this game needs ALOT of work.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunterr17
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Godfather 2 is a very fun game. I like the don view the most about the game because you can preety 
 much do anything thing you want. If you want to send guards, manage guards, attack bases, bomb 
 buildings its all there. Alright targeting system and a few glitches, but the fun gameplay covers 
 it up. Never played the multiplayer but i might get to it some other time. Still having fun in 
 single player. I recommend any diehard godfather fans to pick this up or people who liked the first 
 one to go play it. On the other side some people might not like it if its there first time playing 
 one of the godfather games. Also i have no thought of why gamespot would give this game such a 
 low score. Don't believe them it actually is a great game. IF some of you people are so called 
 achievement whores, rent this game because it is a easy 1000g. I got 1000g in this game on the 
 2nd day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardrockstrat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  O. K.
  
  
  I have heard some ridiculous things said about this game. A prime example is Gamespots' rating 
 of 4.5 along with a compilation of the most rare glitches in the game. After playing for over 7 
 hours I still haven't seen one of the glitches shown in the review
  
  
  Pros - 
  
  Great Graphics - You have to like that cartoony look they're going for and achieved.
  
  Voice 
 Acting and Character rendition - The voice acting and facial expressions are superb as you can 
 see *semi-spoiler* Fredo's distress as Micheal tells you that you will become Don while shrugging 
 the role of taking care of a certain someone's mother to Fredo. One must realize that Al Pacino 
 did not sit down or allow his likeness to be used in either games, like Matt Damon and the Bourne 
 Conspiracy, so while it is not exactly Al Pacino it's A LOT less scarier than the first fame. Voice 
 acting shows a plethora of emtions from enraged as Dominic beats someone's skull in to cautious 
 as you interview some of your more meek family candidates.
  
  Don's View - A great concept that makes for the most exciting and fun menu I have ever seen leading 
 to a strong strategy element in the game
  
  Family - Finally after the crashing dissapointment of Godfather I (X360) 'crew' involving a generic 
 model that dissapeared everytime you saved, this main focus in the game is so well achieved and 
 versatile in customizable options you can go from Old School to Street Gang, Soc to Biker. 
  
  Driving - Cars are much faster than the original which some players took issue with and it 
 even includes your handy radio laden with 60s classics
  
  Plot - Dominic is woven into the story seemlessly and with much expertise
  
  Multiple Cities 
 - This gives you 3 different settings to tour, however NYC is very decieving as it only includes 
 the Bronx.
  
  Gunplay - Extremely fun.
  
  Realism - I felt that this game had much more realism than the original as you see your enemy family 
 and their members with its own hierarchy, etc. The original had millions of unknowns that guarded 
 every business. Now you have a feel that you're hireing whatever number off the street, so coming 
 from an explained source and these men being payed.
  
  Cons - 
  
  NYC - I felt a little let down when I looked at the map, expecting at least an enhanced Godfather 
 1 map. However, it is just the Bronx which proves to be even more fun after the initial heart break.
 
  
  Popping in - The biggest con as this happens somewhat frequently, however this does not outweigh 
 in any shape or form the list of pros above.
  
  Character Rendition - Hyman Roth's nose is abnormally large and goes a little too high up his forehead.
 
  
  (If you're younger) Violence and Nudity - There are extreme amounts of violence, blood, cursing, 
 and nudity. Every strip club is filled with topless- thong wearers and the extreme amounts of blood 
 will cover the floor. During the blood bath Dominic might shout "Don't F*** with me motherf***er!!!!!"
 
  
  
  Great game overall. BUY IT.
  
  
  I haven't really played the online so I can't say whether or not it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:38 am PT
Review:  i'm very sorry for GameSpot because gave 4.5 score to this great game !! 
  Of course every body has one idea but GameSpot idea is very spoof ! 
  I have some question that 
 GameSpot should answer me : Is this game spoofer than SaintsRow or WheelMan that you had gave more 
 score for this games ? 
  Leave it ... I am so sad for this game spot action ! Read my review : 
  In this days PC games 
 are increased but with worth story and game play and other ... So we need to a nice game and a 
 new game in today games. in fact, GODFATHER II is a new game with new story and new game play and 
 other new things and feature in this days! I think that GODFATHER II is very different with other 
 games ! Of course that every game has bad and good things but bad things of GODFATHER II is not 
 possible when you see many good features.
  
  The Good : 
  - In this game you can see a new story, you don't work for some body !! some body work for you 
 ! So you are boss. You can attack at some place and take them with you'r friends, Set guards to 
 defence of you'r place ! 
  You can manage you'r family, speak to some body that have some profession and set them to you'r 
 family ! 
  You can upgrade them, their skills, weapons and also clothes !! 
  you are free in a city and you can enjoy !! Go and steal a BANK in city and escape from polices 
 and get you'r home to take many !! Also you can do some action moves with you'r punch or weapons 
 ! and one of good feature is ROLL-PLAYING talk.
  let me short my talk ... If you like cruel games buy it now ! 
  
  The bad : 
  - Maybe one 
 of bad feature of this game is a low graphic, but its very good some times because you have a light 
 game and you can play it in 8400GS on high graphic ! Other bad feature is Car game plays, is not 
 as well as wheelman or GTA ! 
  Car models are not very much and maybe will be booring for you ! 
  
  Last Talk : 
  This game 
 is so nice but i don't know that why GameSpot gave it 4.5 poor !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felled
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 11, 2009 4:42 am PT
Review:  Again, EA screws a game that might be great. Nice work!
  Despite some new ideas, The game is very similar to the Godfather I. 
  Teammate might be a brilliant 
 concept, but the game is way too easy that you don`t even have to be accompanied during any fight. 
 and the story is short, horribly short. You can finish the game within 15 hours. That a good news 
 when you find you`re doing the same things over and over again after the first few hours.
  Ya, You go blast rival`s rackets, kill the guards, persuade the owners, again and again, then you 
 get bored quickly.
  Another new design is you could control business like a don but not a small mobster, that`s good 
 because rivals will not stopping attack your territory from time to time, and it`s really annoying 
 to take care everything by yourself . 
  I think that`s the biggest problem of this game. Missions are lack of challenge, and it makes me 
 angry because I did wait for this game from Feb of this year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3warr1or
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 10, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  This game could have made it into the "Epic" books, yet it doesn't just fall a mark short.. it 
 is TERRIBLE. 
  
  The graphics are as bad if not worse than Saints Row's, the gameplay is broken and the animations 
 are terrible. The pop-in and poor textures are unbearable.
  
  Graphics: 2.5/10. One of the worse next-gen games i've seen, beside Onechanbara.
  Gameplay: 6/10, 
 I quite liked the Don Control, and it was the only factor of the game along with Crime Rings (which 
 is arguably the same feature) that made me buy it.
  Fun Factor: 3/10. Again, the only thing that was fun was the Don Control, gameplay was terribly 
 broken and even Saints Row 2 is better.
  
  Replayability: 0/10. This game was absolutely boring I did not even finish it. That being said, 
 I am being pretty harsh, but after the release of GTA IV: The Lost and Damned, my expectations 
 for this game rocketed, but this game simply killed it. Any hype, any hope. EA fails once more.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWeeZy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 7:17 am PT
Review:  Godfather II is a great and exciting game. It is very fun. This time around you are the Don. It 
 is your job to make your own family and take down all the others. I know for a fact it is way better 
 than the first Godfather video game. Godfather II just has that certain swagger and style of a 
 real mobster. The graphics aren't great but they aren't bad either. The cut scenes are amazing 
 though. The Don view in this game is a fantastic new idea and feature. In Godfather II you will 
 be able to take over businesses not only in New York but also, Miami, Florida. Miami has a great 
 atmosphere for anything! Even so, you will still like to go back to New York for that old mob style 
 you will grow to miss. Over all, this game is just plain FUN and GREAT. DO NOT believe gamespot's 
 rating or review. Half of the sh*t they say is wrong with it, I have not even experienced. It has 
 never dawned on me that it feels unfinished. BUY this game or RENT, its worth a try!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knockmaulik
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:55 am PT
Review:  This time Godfather II has been turned to action strategy game instead of only action game and 
 gameplay is far better than Godfather I. Very good game to play. something new about gameplay than 
 last godfather. There are some bugs but can be easily forget against strong gameplay. It has very 
 good graphics. 3D map is simply awesome. There is existence of some errors with crew which are 
 easily visible. But that is not big issue. But this time they have turned to different cities and 
 game has unfinished story so you can expect Godfather III to come or may not depends on how success 
 it will be. It is worth playing once that is sure. As far as sequels go Godfather II is one of 
 the better examples of how to take a good idea and make it great. Go for it if you like to play 
 single player games. Thoroughly enjoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaMOi1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:44 am PT
Review:  First of all, I have know idea what game Gamespot reviewed, but I didnt encounter half of the problems 
 they mentioned, and i totally disagree with the score.
  First of all, I have know idea what game Gamespot reviewed, but I didnt encounter half of the problems 
 they mentioned, and i totally disagree with the score. 
  
  
  I really enjoyed Godfather 1 (the game) becuase of the extortion system and strategy elements. 
 Thats why i purchased this game. 
  
  At first you have to get used to the slower/sluggish response of the controls (different to the 
 first game) but once you do you start to find your feet. At first I wasnt convinced about this 
 game, there are things about the original that feel superior, the combat, the extortion system. 
 This is certainly a smaller, or shall we say more 'focused' game than the original. However when 
 you open up the game a bit more, and start to realise the plethora of options available to your 
 overall strategy, the game starts to win points for itself. 
  Once a city is taken over, say for New York, then, when you travel to Florida, your enemies there 
 will sometimes send men to attack your businesses in NY. Perhaps as a clever distraction? Who knows? 
 But, it does mean a flight back to the big apple to handle it yourself, or you can just send one 
 of your crew to take care of the defence.. Either way i was surprised that the city is still available 
 to travel back to, and it still '' in play '' as far as the game and your enemies are concerned. 
 
  
  
  Your crew is done well, most of the time they're responsive and will handle themselves, and do 
 what you tell them. It feels like your crew, as you've hand picked them from the many available 
 goons littered around the city, and upgraded them yourself (they are totally customisable - clothing, 
 weapons etc) . I must admit that i executed a couple of my crew to make way for someone with more 
 personality and better expertise. But nonetheless its a good mechanic that lends itself well to 
 you actually having some sort of emotional attatchment to these 'chosen men', as they were not 
 chosen for you by the game via some stage in the plot. 
  Your guys have a variety of different skills, that will give you strategical options. Want to to 
 a Bank Job? Why not have your engineer cut the power to the building? With no power to the alarm 
 system, you can roll in and rob the place, without fear of any cops showing up !! You will need 
 a safecracker aswell though!!! OR, wait until night and get a demolishions expert to blow a hole 
 in the wall straight into the vault for easy pickings! Any witnesses? Tell your bruiser to go 'persuade' 
 them to keep their mouth shut! Etc etc..... The choice is yours. 
  
  
  As i mentioned before the variety of options available to you for strategy in this game are impressive. 
 Want to create a diversion? Set fire to or bomb or even send a couple of your crew to attack a 
 business, then you go in with the rest of your crew to take over the business across the street. 
 Your enemies resources will be spread thin, and can only send so many reinforcements.. 
  The don view is your plan for stratgey, and its intriguing seeing actions performed here, take 
 on there realtime consequence in the game.. Say you send some guys in to attempt a take over, you 
 can then drive to the place to see your guys outside attacking it. Its quite satisfying. 
  
  The enemy AI is fine, they fall back, they take cover. Infact a couple of times it did impress; 
 when i sent my guys in to attack two goons killing one, the other seeing he was outgunned, retreated 
 into a guard house to defend it from my crew. He put up quite a fight, whilst i sat back an watched.
 
  The combat could be better, and was better in the first game. But its not bad. 
  You can still knee cap a guy with your shotgun and run up to him and do a grizzly excution move!! 
 What fun! 
  
  The graphics are acceptable, but nothing you would want to show off your 360 or PS3 with. Theres 
 nothing particularly wrong, there is some pop up, and some other glitches, but altogather the graphics 
 fine but not great. 
  
  Story? Well, i dont particularly play games for the story, i prefer to read a book or watch a movie. 
 A good story is a bonus sure, but you wont really find one here..... 
  
  
  
  - Conclusion - 
  
  On the whole I found the game immensly enjoyable. 
  
  So, heres the 
 rub. 
  
  The game is too easy..... Thats it. Pure and simple, everything else i can forgive. With the amount 
 of options you have for strategy, the game never really forces you to use many of them, when most 
 players with any skill will be able to quickly overwhlem the rival families. Most of time you can 
 just go in guns blazing and usually win!!! 
  
  If the game had been more diffilcult, or had a option of an 'HARD' mode, I would have given it 
 a much higher score. If the game were difficult enough to really force you to use all that strategy 
 on offer, then it would be well on its way to being 'GREAT' instead of 'GOOD'.... 
  
  I sincerely hope that DLC or a patch can be made available to remedy this. Maybe a downloadable 
 'Hard mode' ? 
  
  Because what this game does have sets it apart from other games in the genre, and offers a unique 
 blend of RTS and GTA style action. 
  
  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME IF YOU JUST WANT YOUR GTA FIX... You will be disappointed. This game is recommended 
 to people who like a little strategy with their action. To play the game like a straight action 
 game would be to miss the point and to have a rather dull experience. 
  Godfather 2 is the sum of all its parts, but its the games strategy elements that really stand 
 out and lend extra satisfaction to the action. 
  
  VERDICT: 7.5 ' its GOOD '
  
  VERDICT (if it was harder, or they bring out a 'hard mode setting' via DLC) then definately 8.5 
 - 9 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordrikardo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 11:45 pm PT
Review:  While a little disappointing The Godfather II is not as bad as they want to make it look:
  
  You start the game by making your character: Dominic, look as you want, there are enough customization 
 options to make him look like a funny skinny Chinese guy or a 40 year old mafioso-version of yourself 
 (Assuming you're not a 40 year old mafioso) . 
  
  Right after that, a cutscene taking place in Cuba introduces you to the game but the first thing 
 you notice is that the characters don't sound or look like the ones in the movie (obviously) but 
 while the voice acting or the modeling are not bad they could have been better. 
  
  After getting into the story the next thing you know is that you're escaping from Cuba with Michael 
 and Aldo (the character from the first game) , learning the basic movements and shooting everything 
 between you and the airport. Controls are not complicated and they feel just right, is easy to 
 get used to them BUT the lack of a jump button will get really noticeable later in the game.
  
  When you play the introductory missions and learn everything you need to know about the game 
 with some really informative cutscenes you will have that strange feeling of "been there, done 
 that" and while brutally executing members from other families you'll remember how repetitive the 
 first game was, but -at least for me- the rewards for having a crime ring and strategically defending 
 what the other families want back in the "Don's view" make a huge difference.
  
  During the game you'll have to deal with some minor glitches but nothing as bad as GameSpot's review 
 want to make it look, having to walk around most obstacles is a pain in the a... lower back and 
 finding the correct route in some big rackets is not too much fun but overall the game is good, 
 and above all FUN, even if there's nothing to do after the story ends, starting a new game is not 
 a bad idea.
  
  Now let's compare "Godfather II" review with other reviews:
  
  In Resident Evil 5 (8.5) your partner's (and the enemies) AI is just nonexistent, she will just 
 run at your side and die by running into the huge guy with a chainsaw but no one remembered to 
 mention that on the review.
  
  In wheelman (6.0) a game with bad graphics, poor scenarios, horrible voice acting and not even 
 half the depth of Godfather II, you can't jump either and on-foot gameplay is one of the worst 
 I've ever seen, all of these mentioned on the review but somehow it got a 6.0.
  
  You can compare the game with other 4.5 games like Pimp my Ride, Tenchu Z, Soldier of Fortune Payback 
 or Guilty Gear 2, games that maybe deserve less than a 7 and you wont find anything in common between 
 what make those bad and what "make" Godfather II bad (in the eyes of GameSpot's reviewers of course) .
 
  
  To conclude:
  
  This is not a '10' game but not a 4.5 either. Decent graphics, fun addicting gameplay, enough violence, 
 good storyline, good sounds, a lot of things to take care of, well designed scenarios, new features 
 like the Don's view and the crew management, and a lot of other small things will make you forget 
 about some minor glitches, the lack of a jump button and not so good AI that even if it's not the 
 best is not something to worry about. 
  
  For me and I suppose for the normal people too, waiting 3 seconds for your crew to run around your 
 car to get in is not something to worry about, they're not real remember? I don't think that is 
 such an important issue to spend a third of the video-review talking about it. 
  
  Looks like EA forgot to -move some strings- around GameSpot and that's why they're getting such 
 a low score, but "it's nothing personal, it's just business". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dubman8042
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I will admit, the game is not everything I thought it would be. However, if you are a fan of the 
 the original godfather like I am, then this game is right up your alley. It is obvious that there 
 are some flaws with the game and it does seem a bit rushed. For instance the jumping over small 
 walls is a bit inconsistent, and when you fall off a building (if you are able to) it is as though 
 he walks his way to the ground without batting an eyelash. BUT.... the improvements to the game 
 completely outweigh the negative aspects of this game, the additions of your own family is great 
 add. This gives you the ability to pick who you want and how that soldier looks. Also you can take 
 out other families' made men. The don view lets you easily manage your empire, and shows you your 
 enemies' fronts. This newest installment also gives you the option of three locations, as opposed 
 to just New York. 
  
  I say again, if you were a fan of the last one, this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaGhOsT187
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Well not much more to say, except this game really feels like a Nintendo 64 game , graphics seem 
 like they degraded from the first one~ Original gameboy style LOL..
  
  I really liked the first one... was expecting the same, BUt X 10.
  
  some how they even made 
 the driving really bad , at least in the first one you could fly across town in the cars , now 
 it feels like im in a rascal scooter.. i play all the sandbox games from saint to gta to yakuza....... 
 THis is a bad Vice city, vice city is so more BOmb then this thing. ill jam the game and finish 
 it ..... and the multiplayer is garbage also........ LOL game is really bad, atleast the controlled 
 game play. the scenes are just fine, 2009 and you cant jump...
  
  WHAT HAPPEN EA LOL.. well you snagged my 50 yen. cars look like something dora the explorer would 
 be rolling in , graphics are bad.... But its the mechanics that make the game BAD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 11:08 am PT
Review:  After playing the first Godfather game on Xbox when it first came out, and having a great time 
 and a lot of fun playing it. I couldn't wait to get my hands on the second one when I first heard 
 about it, but before I did Gamespot came out with there review on it. They gave it a pretty bad 
 score which I wasn't expecting one bit, but I still got the game anyway. I was really expecting 
 to be disappointed with it, but I wasn't it's really fun, not as good as the first one was but 
 it's still good in it's own rights.
  
  The story is a solid one, and one you'll enjoy going through. It's isn't as good like the first 
 one was but still good. And it isn't at all forgettable like some say it is, you'll just have to 
 go threw it your self and make your own judgment.
  
  The graphics yea they aren't as good as some people would want them to be, but they defiantly aren't 
 the worse that you'll ever see either. Personally I don't care about how good the graphics are 
 in a game, if you are then you might not like these.
  
  It's still fun to customize your character, just like you could in the first game, it's also kind 
 of realistic also. You can do many things when it comes to this so let loose and see what you can 
 do with it.
  
  You still have the open world where you can go crazy if you would like to, it's nothing like you 
 would find in GTAIV but still fun to go crazy sometimes. So grab you some guys to go with you and 
 create havoc on the city.
  
  If you liked playing the first Godfather game and really enjoyed it, then most likely you'll enjoy 
 this one also. Like I said the first one is better in my opinion but this one is good also, if 
 you don't know if you'll like this game then you should rent it. Because a lot of people are having 
 mixed opinions about it right now.
  
  Overall The Godfather II is great in it's own rights, still addictive and fun as the one before 
 it. But when it's all over you'll be left with the feeling that it could have been just a little 
 bit better than it actually was, but at the same time your glad you still experienced it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: P_R_E_Y
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 4:33 am PT
Review:  The original godfather was a mile stone in the movies gamming career. It had poor visuals, bad 
 driving mechanics, etc etc. But it didn't make it that bad of game. Gamespot gave it a 7.9 which 
 is actually no bad. When EZ decided they can change the game and make it something better they 
 went into it with every intention to make it best in the very small series. And I believe they 
 have done that. People will rate this with broken hearts because it didn't turn out perfect. Which 
 is a problem for today's gamming society; Games need to be perfect first time round. And I feel 
 with a patch here and there and a DLC this can be much better. True they probably should have delayed 
 the game to fix it up, but we are only human and in today's economic problems, getting a product 
 out to sell to make cash to survive, you can maybe give them a flesh wound for it, as appose to 
 hating them and shunning them.
  I wasn't going to review this game until I had completed it fully, but as I can see people are 
 beginning to give it a negative light (which by all means share your opinion) , I fear people who 
 are sceptical about the game could get put off by this before they can try it and possible like 
 it. Gamespot's review of 4.5 will probably draw people away before they even look behind the cover.
 
  Let's start with a big thing, Visuals. If you have read my Madworld review then you should know 
 that I HATE when people go against a game due to not so perfect graphics. They are not a necessity, 
 they do nothing but give a image to the game, EVERY game has their own style of graphics. Madworld 
 is black & white, but people liked it (including myself) , Okami was done in a Japanese art style 
 but people liked it, Geometry wars has. Well less than perfect graphics if not ones that you 
 can call graphics. But these games aren't viewed through graphics, so why should a game such as 
 this get that treatment? Anyway I need to review this.
  Indeed they aren't crisis standards, and they aren't sound. I have seen a guy walking round and 
 circles through a wall, before walking away. Yes it's weird and I actually had a laugh with it, 
 but it hasn't ruined the game for me. I have seen head and hair popping out thought the roof of 
 my car, and other graphic anomalies. But the key feature to take away from this review is, they 
 aren't perfect, that isn't a bad thing, weird things can and will probably happen. But have a laugh 
 with them and move on, they won't kill the game.
  Gameplay. Well I like it, to put it simply. But in a reviewer's eye, that isn't good enough so 
 here we go. Buttons are the same as the original, but if you haven't played the original then they 
 are easy to grasp. The gameplay is the same as the original, you go find a shop, do what is necessary 
 to own it, then walk away and wash rinse repeat. But that didn't make the old game bad, so why 
 say this now? The new aspects, such as favours etc, allow for a change from the normal routine 
 and give you something else to focus on for a while, apart from whither or not to you should take 
 over that gambling crime ring etc. Indeed these things will be repeated over and over again. But 
 I haven't once found the same favour to complete, and I like having to keep and eye out on my businesses 
 and ramboing the enemies. It's what the back story of the godfather probably is and that's the 
 only way the mafia got their shops, casinos etc on their side. There is nothing wrong with it, 
 much like the graphics. If they aren't perfect, wait for some DLC as there will probably be some. 
 Isn't today's technology great? You can fix so much, and break it all the same.
  Erm sound effects lets do that. To put it simply, guns sound like guns and the characters (bar 
 Michael to be honest) sound like they should be. They go well for this game ah I hate reviewing 
 sound; it's as pointless as graphics. They work; there aren't many problems with it, just live 
 with it.
  Swiftly moving on. Though I was trying to avoid this, story. There are some iconic parts from the 
 movie, and they start right from the beginning. Though there isn't that much to a solid plot, a 
 game that is a GTA with a godfather skin can be forgiven, at least by me. I know people are going 
 to disagree and say "But GTA had a story" well I know that but after the story? You had nothing 
 but a free roamer, the godfather is that after math with a story weaved through it, and there is 
 nothing wrong with that. It is very much like its little brother (the original game) , and people 
 love that, so don't change that now, even thought it's a been there done that.
  Right the special features. The obvious "Don's view" is a very well implemented piece of kit. It 
 allows a 3D aspect of the city and gives you an easy view of you're businesses, something the original 
 didn't quite give. The 3D part also allows you to see where things are perfectly, which roads are 
 raised and where they lead, they show where you can access, etc. It's great, a brilliant feature 
 that many games could have benefited from. 
  The family. Now this is something the original godfather really should have had. True it was very 
 movie based, but it's the biggest thing the mafia have and it is something that should not have 
 been missed out. The family aspect in this is down to the fact that your character has been given 
 permission to go and make his own family. This allows you to pick who you want with you at all 
 times. It allows you to boss people about, much like a don would. It gives you freedom to pick 
 you allies basically. You can keep tabs on everything you men are doing, wither they are crippled 
 in a hospital or in jail. In saying that it allows to send men to do things for you, like bomb 
 that place, attempt to take over that place etc. And with this it can take away that repetitive 
 edge the game could gain. As all you need to do is send people to do things for you will you continue 
 mowing down the people of New York or Florida. It is a handy tool to have and can be used to great 
 effect.
  Crime rings. This gives a purpose to taking businesses. They reward you for you effect with many 
 goodies. They are the topping to the cake, ah forget it. Right these are gained through collecting 
 the entire set of businesses, such as gambling, prostition, and adult entertainment. While holding 
 all of these you own a crime ring. In doing so you will be given a perk (so to speak) , such as 
 (taking the example given before and the rewards if holding all of them in the same order) increased 
 ammo capacity, brass knuckles and cheaper guards. These aren't all of the rings and rewards but 
 there is plenty to keep an eye on and to take hold of. It gives a different feel to the game and 
 allows you to think, making it a change from the usual routine. 
  Other flaws to this game are pathing issues. You're crew aren't retards, I have had no problem 
 with my merry band of men, but they really can't take the simplest of paths without a great deal 
 of strain. And things you could easily crawl through have been invisibly walled preventing you 
 from passing it. I was in a construction site trying to get to the main building, but it was surrounded 
 but all this building stuff I couldn't find the way into it. There were those concrete pipes lying 
 about and when crouching you could easily have went thought it but nope you can't. It's a minor 
 inconvenience and should not have been put in place.
  So to sum up this game. It is fine the way it is. Isn't perfect, but name me one thing that is. 
 With some patches and maybe a DLC to fix the lack of gangs (that people have been picking at) It 
 could be a great game. The best way to describe this game is, the mechanics are solid but aspects 
 are fixable. It does what the slogan says "act like a mobster, think like a Don".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GBPackersrule
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:04 am PT
Review:  I am going to put this right on the table. I LOVED The Godfather. I even have all three of the 
 movies. Hell, I even have a giant poster hanging on my wall right now. So in 2006, I obviously 
 bought The Godfather: The Game. I loved it. GTA style freedom, and brutal violence made it a favorite. 
 But here is the part that made it a winner. IT STUCK TO THE SOURCE MATERIAL!!!! I woke up at 9 
 AM on April 7th, 2009, to get to Gamestop early, so I could be the first guy I know to have the 
 Godfather II. (Hell, I pre-ordered it when they announced it.) So for EA to churn this garbage 
 out is just plain insulting. It is nothing like the first Godfather. The controls are not even 
 the same. Graphics are good, but could be better. But the Don's view.... oh my god... to call it 
 the WORST experience ever would be a compliment. I have played strategy games before (Blitzkrieg, 
 World in Conflict, etc.) so I was kind of stoked. It is terrible. The so called "guards" are totally 
 useless, and you business's get attacked every second. So in order to take back your joint, you 
 got to send out your crew members. Well, in theory this would work, but you get attacked so often, 
 that you can't send your 6-7 crew members out, when 10 of your places are being attacked. The game 
 does no justice to the movie, as it only makes references to the movie rarely. No mention to the 
 "kiss of death" or any of that. This may have just been GTA: The Miami RTS. I really wanted to 
 like this game. But I really can't think of anything good about this game. You may have noticed 
 that I said it was hard. Well, it is. You see, the strategy elements are so excruciatingly bad, 
 it will make you want to rip tufts of hair out of your head. Overall, even though I am an OBSESSIVE 
 Godfather fan, I am taking this garbage back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dontdewcriz
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 11:04 pm PT
Review:  It isn't so bad really, its just that the repetition kinda makes it. I dont like how you have to 
 choose your guys. I think there should have been more ways to do something with your businesses. 
 There's just too many things i would have done if i was in charge of it, but it was kinda bland 
 though. The 9.0 i give it is just to get the score up, people are crazy to give it a 4.5. I'd give 
 it more like a 7.2 honestly.
  Instead of putting 6 guys in your family, i would have opened it to like 10. Another thing, I wouldn't 
 have locked the ability to add members to your family. You should be able to pay more money for 
 more skills for all your family members. The gameplay is fun and addicting at first, but then you 
 feel rather subconscious and annoyed with the all the other families attacking your businesses. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jphurley82
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm not saying it's as good as GTA from a polish or story perspective. But when it comes to sandbox 
 mode, it feels like there is far more rhyme and reason behind what you are doing. That combined 
 with the backdrop is enough to keep me playing.
  
  The first one ate up far more of my time than GTA IV. If you enjoyed the first one, DEFINATELY 
 pick this one up.
  
  The 4.5 score was garbage. I don't understand how in the world the reviewer didn't see the high 
 points in this game. Sure some of it is contrived, but there are few video games in the world that 
 don't make some concessions for plot devices to keep the game flowing.
  
  C'mon gamespot...
  
  The gameplay, while repetitive, feels like it serves a purpose. Every 
 business you take over or family to annihilate leaves with you a feeling of progress and power.
 
  
  It will keep you playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beachdreamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  As far as the gamespot review goes i can understand if you break down every little aspect it might 
 deserve the poor rating. But if you enjoy this game for what it is you'll definitely get your moneys 
 worth. I love the create a character mode so as you can insert yourself in game or anyone you want. 
 Therefore adding replayability somewhat. All or most of the technical flaws were fixed with the 
 update that came out, or I just havent encountered them yet. The online playability makes for immense 
 replayability as you can involve friends an family. Being a myspacer, most of my friends and family 
 invite me to join the mobsters app. This game is basically that with great, not busted graphics, 
 and cool scenarios. If i have any advice its to make your own decision if you like this game or 
 not and rent it atleast. As far as im concerned you wont regret it but dont take my word for it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallenjedi1977
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to set this up to be clean cut.
  
  Pros:
  good graphics
  
  good use of liscense
  
  action parts are good and violent
  
  strategy parts add a nice 
 spin and make it easier to take care of business
  
  all of the options for mantaining and making your family are great (want to remove someone from 
 your family... wack em, upgrade them, make new made men and send them to defend your rachets etc)
 
  
  controls are spot on
  
  addictive
  
  i've never played a single game that makes you feel like your in the mob as this game does (i've 
 played every mobster game out there. yes even old pc ones)
  
  Cons:
  
  some pop-ups/draw issues
  
  characters do occassionally get stuck on corners
  
  could be 
 a tad bit easy to some people
  
  I absolutly loved this game from the second I started to play it (i loved the 1st one) it took 
 a couple of good things from the 1st game and jacked it up, gave it a tommy gun and free control 
 over what it is to be a Don. No other game comes close to that Mob feeling. It is what it is and 
 that's a game worthy of more than a 4.5. Unfortunitly a lot of people listen to reveiwers... give 
 it a shot chances are you'll have a bigger blast than you thought. I still can't put it down..."yes 
 dear, in a second" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAUEROK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 11:05 am PT
Review:  Godfather II is a satisfying game for those who love mafia/gang type video games. The visuals are 
 in my opinion not very dated, quite good actually. The game is addicting, however there are a few 
 bugs and some of the game does seem to feel as if it were not completed. Even though the game was 
 delayed by a month or two. The gameplay is similar to Godfather I with a few additions, new weapons, 
 more maps, a ability to have a crew. However there are many bugs such as at one point the attackers 
 from a rival gang would never appear. Overall, if you would like something to amuse you or satisfy 
 your need for a gang/mafia game. This is satisfactory, it is no GTA IV but it is good, it could 
 however have been much better. Electronic Arts should have spent more time on fixing bugs and maybe 
 making game play a bit more varying in difficulty. Other than that, it is a pretty solid and probably 
 forgettable game. If there will ever be a third installment, it should be from a different publisher/developer 
 due to EA's reputation of lackluster products. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parhar67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  this game is good there cannot be all saints row or all GTA's just look at the critics score or 
 even pop over to ign and read their review its a lot better and gives you more on the game. Remember 
 the gamespot score is just one person but the critics score at the top left of the page thats a 
 bunch of peoples score and there's not very many of them that score it the same as gamespot. If 
 you liked the first game you will like this one. so definitely rent it first if possible but if 
 you have no choice and have to buy it and liked the first one then you wont be dissapointed. This 
 game upgrades from the first adding new cars and gives you perks that you work for. You can take 
 over rackets add guards. Work your family tree and promote your own people in your own family. 
 Its a fresh feel to the GTA genre and i welcome it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saintleo200
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 5:47 am PT
Review:  This is the first review I have ever written and I am compelled to do so because Gamespot's review 
 did not do this game justice. I have always thought highly of Gamespots' reviews and have even 
 cancelled a pre-order or not bought a game based on their reviews. Lucky for me, I purchased this 
 game before Gamespot's review came out. Gamespot; I am highly disappointed with your review. Sure, 
 Godfather 2 is not the best looking game around but not all games can be Gears of War or Killzone 
 2 quality. Trust me readers, this game is fun. Taking over rackets and enemy compounds is addicting 
 and you will easily lose hours caught up in the gameplay. The story could have been better, but 
 if your a Godfather trilogy fan, you don't need a story because you already know it. There are 
 minor hiccups in gameplay, such as a mission objective disappearing, but a quick reload usually 
 corrects this and you don't need to do any backtracking thanks to a decent quicksave feature. I 
 have never said this before, but don't base your opinion of this game based on Gamespot's review. 
 There review would have prevented me from purchasing a decent game if I had read it first. Shame 
 on you Gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: day81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I like this game, I rented it from blockbuster today and it is quite fun. There are lots of things 
 you can do in this game, you can throw ppl off roofs, you can execute people in lots of different 
 ways, and you can even rob banks. There are 3 cities in the game and each one though is pretty 
 small in size. 
  The new strategy map is quite cool, you can send people to defend or attack certain areas without 
 having to go yourself. Although I wish they made a camera were you can watch how the fight happened 
 or something like that. The game does have multiplayer which is okay, but upgrading your henchman 
 through it isn't necessary. They are good enough to get you to the end right when you get them.
 
  Yes, the game is kind of generic with some bugs here and there but i never really had a problem 
 with any of them. The game is fun and pretty deep and not to mention it has online multiplayer. 
 I would say it deserves and 7.5 not a 4.5... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaldoboy14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 8:13 pm PT
Review:  4.5 is way too low for a good game like this. I know it's not GTA or Saint's Row, but that's the 
 thing, it's fresh. You have the family tree system where you can have henchmen and etc, and you 
 can upgrade them which is nice. Taking over rackets is pretty cool, when you get enough money, 
 getting tons of guards makes you feel badass. Gun upgrades are helpful and sweet. Storyline is 
 pretty nice, it's not Godfather worthy but it's cool. Strategy plays a cool role in this game, 
 having an engineer, demolition expert, arsonist, etc by your side to approach enemies in multiple 
 ways. It's a really fun and addicting game. Longer then most games coming out lately which is a 
 good thing. Honestly I know that if I beat the game, there won't be much else to do, but at least 
 you can free roam which should be fun. I mean other games lately last 7 hrs and nothing else to 
 do afterwards. Don't judge a game on reviews, especially gamespot's, 4.5 is ridiculous. Rent the 
 game and see if you like it because I really do, there's a lot of intresting things to do. Final 
 word in my opinion is, if you liked the first Godfather game, you will without a doubt probably 
 like this one too, if not more. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
