-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Incredible Hulk
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/theincrediblehulk/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Smashing New York City is fun.
 Makes you feel like you're Hulk.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missions are repetitive.
 Way too many graphical issues.
 Lifeless story with horrendous ending.
 Boss fights are far too limiting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.5, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 522 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Edge of Reality
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 5, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You won't like it when this simplistic, repetitive, and occasionally broken game makes you angry. 
 

  If there's one lesson to be learned from Sega's The Incredible Hulk movie-based game, it's that 
 Hulk is a big bully. When tasked with containing a radioactive outbreak that could potentially 
 eliminate all life within his city, he is just as likely to take a detour to destroy the Empire 
 State Building or bat pedestrians into the Hudson River. It's far more enticing to see how many 
 taxicabs you can blow up with one swing from a lamppost than to protect your pal Rick from a swarm 
 of angry robots. The Incredible Hulk is at its best when you unleash the full destructive power 
 of this terrifying giant to fulfill your own twisted desires. Ultimately, though, the repetition 
 of mission structures, severe graphical glitches, and game-halting bugs wrestle this 1,000-pound 
 monster to the ground. The sheer destructive joy of rampaging through New York is hard to ignore, 
 but it's even harder to ignore the problems plaguing your every step.  

  The lifeless story is told through either static screens displaying a tape recorder or poorly conceived 
 cutscenes in which every character looks like they were recently attacked by a hive of killer bees. 
 Your job is to save Manhattan, but who will save Manhattan from you as you inevitably cause far 
 more damage than you could ever hope to prevent? Edward Norton and other stars from the upcoming 
 Hulk movie lend their voices, but their lack of enthusiasm only further cements how boring this 
 tale of chemically created monsters truly is.  

           New York is engulfed in a hazy blue fog today.      

  The Incredible Hulk plays in 
 much the same way as Radical's The Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction, released three years 
 ago. You are set loose in a re-creation of New York City -- complete with landmarks from both real 
 life and the Marvel universe -- and you can choose exactly how you want to level this fine city youre 
 supposed to protect. You can turn any object you see lying around into a weapon of mass destruction, 
 or unleash an array of charge-based super moves by metabolizing your rage. Though there isn't a 
 lot of variety in either your combat moves or techniques to cause general chaos, being the biggest 
 jerk in all of New York provides simple, though brutal fun. The Incredible Hulk does a good job 
 of making you feel like a very angry monstrosity and, more importantly, it's quite satisfying to 
 imitate Hulk on a very bad day.  

  Aside from being a general nuisance, the most enjoyable element of Hulk is simply lumbering around 
 the city. You can walk casually down the sidewalk if you choose, but you're also given three Hulk-specific 
 maneuvers to make endlessly traveling from one neighborhood to another a joy. You can sprint down 
 streets, running over cars with impunity and taking corners like a cartoon armadillo. Or you can 
 bound from building to building. Here, you hold down A to charge up your jump while falling so 
 you can keep your massive frame in the air. Though jumping is great for long-distance travel, the 
 charge-up mechanic makes precision difficult. The last way to roam this world is by wall-climbing; 
 just thrust your meaty paws into buildings and hoist yourself to the top. This is slower than the 
 wall-run skill you had in Ultimate Destruction, but it does mirror the way Hulk chooses to climb 
 buildings in the comics.  

  While it is certainly fun to exist in this world, everything not directly related to jumping around 
 or causing devastating harm to the city either lacks imagination or feels unfinished. The multilayered 
 missions apply different names to the proceedings, but they all boil down to destroying or protecting 
 something important. Oftentimes, Hulk is little more than a giant bodyguard, forced to endure an 
 endless assault by helicopters and empty-headed soldiers while some puny human demands your protection. 
 A smattering of escort missions would have been fine to break up the flow of angry destruction, 
 but when half the tasks require you to risk life and limb to save some random person or object, 
 the game becomes tiresome.  

  The last three missions in Hulk each play out the same way, and they're in complete contrast to 
 the rest of the game. The fun of Hulk stems from the unrestrained freedom you have; from deciding 
 which mission to tackle to how you want to get there and, finally, what moves to use during said 
 mission, it's a blast utilizing your full repertoire to take down foes. But in these late battles, 
 you're matched up against opponents who can be harmed only by a handful of attacks. They aren't 
 particularly difficult, but it's tedious to have to perform the same few moves over and over again -- for 
 three straight battles! -- when the rest of your destructive tour had little to no restrictions. 

           Cars and people won't pop into view until you get much closer.      

  The graphics are startlingly incomplete. The character models outside of cutscenes are properly 
 detailed, but the city itself is overflowing with texture pop-in and severe draw-in. You can see 
 only a little way in front of you before buildings become hazy and dark blue. When you climb to 
 the top of the Chrysler Building, you are treated with a foggy view more reminiscent of a posteruption 
 Pompeii than modern-day New York City. This may be a clever homage to an unknown issue of  Hulk 
  in which he visited the eye doctor, but it makes for a suffocating video game. Even the lighting 
 effects suffer from draw-in. You can almost outrun the sun if you're quick enough. The wildly uneven 
 frame rate and obvious clipping issues complete the list of graphical travesties. And when the 
 action gets extremely hectic, Hulk is prone to crash. The game froze on us a number of times, when 
 the engine was overtaxed by a particularly aggressive bombardment of missiles.  

  It's never a good sign when the majority of a game's fun can be experienced within the first hour 
 of playtime. Though tearing through New York City like an angry bull makes for some satisfying 
 destruction, the overarching package is uneven and incomplete. The Incredible Hulk is a good idea 
 forced into a gameworld that simply cannot keep up with Hulk's aggressive nature. For comic book 
 completionists, there are plenty of unlockable comic book covers and playable Hulk variants. Everyone 
 else will find nothing more then a short afternoon of mindless fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  The Incredible Hulk, liked the movie, got the game cheap. How is it? It's passable. As far as videogames 
 based on movies go, I've played much worse, but also much better ones. The game doesn't follow 
 the movie at all, you get to fight Abomination at the end, and that's about it. But it's all about 
 the destruction right? And there's lots of it, so much in fact, it's often ridicilous. Stuff explodes, 
 even when you're not remotely close to them. 
  
  The openworld/sandbox stuff is a double edged sword. It's cool to fight hellicopters and large 
 foes in a huge destructible city. That almost goes without saying, but you soon grow tired of the 
 same environments. The buildings all look the same, and there should've been more variety. Because 
 you're litteraly just running around in the city, smashing stuff. I would've liked a change of 
 scenery, maybe entering buildings, laboratories and such. You're only spending time in a building 
 in the very beginning.
  
  The big question however is this: do you feel like the Hulk when you're playing the game? Actually, 
 yes and no. Yes, you can leap from building to building, over several feet long gaps. But the combos 
 feel pretty weak. (X) (X) (Y) (Y) That's the combo you'll pull off again and again... and again... and 
 again.
  
  Missions are repetitive. Boss fights range from cool to tedious. And the city is a fairly boring 
 place. However, as with many average moviebased videogames, it doesn't overstay it's welcome by 
 much. The first hour is quite fun, then you grow tired of it, taking a break. You return, it's 
 fun for a couple of more hours, then grow tired of it, and a few hours later it ends. It's nothing 
 memorable or anything, obviously. It's over quickly and you probably won't play it again, but you 
 will have some fun while it lasts. And... you get to play as Abomination if you finish the game. 
 Which is fun for a couple of minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Overview - The Hulk - Ultimate Destruction (UD) is the Hulk game in which any other Hulk game will 
 be compared to. This game tries to duplicate what UD accomplished but falls way short. More development 
 time and better Quality Control would've yielded a better product.
  
  Postive - The graphics are awesome and the city environment expansive ... that's it.
  
  Negative 
 - Crashes constantly, missions are repetitive, Boss fights are not challenging and the storyline 
 bland (stupid) . If you activated the highest response alarm in the game everything comes at you 
 (including iron man) this is rather awesome but when too much is going on the games freezes, sputters, 
 and even crashes at times. If this was anything like UD this would be the perfect environment of 
 create mayhem with every building being able to be destroyed but the unpredictable nature of the 
 game having a stroke squashes that. At times the framerate seems too slow. If you run the HULK 
 at full speed you can almost get to the point where the scenery is blurred as it is struggling 
 to keep up. Okay that's enough I think you get the picture.
  
  Overall - I sold this game almost immediately after I finished it on Ebay. I just didn't want to 
 touch it again. I gave this game a 6.5 (D+) and I think that was rather generous. I still have 
 UD in my collection and will never get rid of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. But you still should rent it first if your expecting something better 
 than "Ultimate Destruction" because if you expecting that then you wrong. It is not a bad game but 
 it still leave's room for improvement. Because it feels almost like" Ultimate Destruction" just 
 with better graphics, but it still has quite a few bugs and glitches in it. The game play is fun 
 just going around destroying everything as the hulk. But the story mode isnt so fun, it seems to 
 repetitive. But i enjoy just free roaming around the city destroying stuff so that keeps me pretty 
 entertained. But if you someone who likes a great story in a game then i dont think you will be 
 picking up "Incredible Hulk". But if you like just going around and tearing up stuff for no reason 
 at all then i suggest you rent this game it will have your attention for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egraham
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  It is just as the official reviewer describes it.
  
  Fun, almost visceral at first, then very repetitive and extremely boring.*Extremely Boring* Add 
 to that, a bad story line and forced cut scenes. Id like to end the review there, but it has to 
 be at least 800 characters long. This is actually a filler sentence, written later to increase 
 my character count. 
  
  I guess its worth mentioning that this game does include one interesting gameplay feature: Listening 
 to Voice Mail - where you get to stare at an answering machine, while listening to a very badly 
 acted voice mail. 
  
  Anyway, smashing stuff? Yes its fun to smash stuff. But it does get boring. There are some good 
 things, like scaling the sides of buildings in leaps and bounds. Charging up jumps in a string 
 is fun, especially going roof top to roof top.
  
  But the good is not enough to make up for the bad. And oh yeah, the graphics kind of suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgn1rountree
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 7, 2009 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Positive: The Hulk looks great up close, character models are decent (the humans in cut scenes) , 
 playing as the hulk is still fun, and now you can destroy any building in New York City.
  
  Negative: Well where do I begin? The controls are so busted and broken, it's not even funny! Too 
 many things go through buildings, people, cars, and even the Hulk himself. Sometimes if you throw 
 an object at the enemy, it either knocks them through a building and they disappear, or they just 
 disappear for no reason. You can't pick up an item or person, and climb up buildings like you could 
 in "Ultimate Destruction". Not being able to run and grab an object at the same time is stupid. 
 Fighting enemies is both boring and broken, the story and voice actors feel and sound rushed. Looking 
 at buildings from a distance are very blue and blurry. No multi-player, not being made by "Radical 
 Entertainment", hell I could go on all week.
  
  Bottom Line: DON'T BUY, RENT, OR EVEN PLAY THIS GAME!!!
  It's just that horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffmclark1973
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 22, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  There are quite a few accomplishments throught the game, which to say are not the 360 achievments... 
 so that was a little confusing at first, but it's open environment make for some interesting game-play, 
 It's very fun destroying the likes of some very famous Marvel buildings!! I would have love to 
 hear J. J. Jameson screaming at you as the Daily Bugle fell to the ground! I like the different 
 costume changes, and the controls are very easy, your health regenerates and you can upgrade to 
 some vey cool powers, I love the car boxing gloves!! I mean after all you are the most powerfull 
 entity on the planet!! The missions weather you choose to do them or not, (you sould, otherwise 
 I do see how the game can get very boring.) are just about the right difficulty, if you really 
 enjoy a hard to master game, this one is not for you, but on the otherhand if you just want to 
 have some fun by all means have at. My philosophy is to always rent first either way.. then you'll 
 know.. and who knows if you are that good you won't need to buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linksit
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  I liked it but it had so thing wrong with it I just like to smash everything in my way also the 
 Hulk looks really good better then the last one and the building so sweet to. I put up with the 
 bad things about the game and just have fun with it plus I get more achievements wich is cool. 
 I got the game cheap so i can't complain about it. I hope that the spiderman game comeing is better 
 then this. I love spiderman games and have beaten them all. The last hulk game had a lot of good 
 things about it too but no body gave it a chance.
  Movie games suck except spiderman games (the new ones)
  everybody knows that so why do we buy 
 them and then complain about it. I buy the movie games because I get to be in the movie if you will, 
 and the achievements.
  The hulk game neeeds so work and iam sick of xbox releasing game that any selfrecpecting programer 
 would never make. They do this stuff all the time look at Saints Row the game was really good but 
 the on line sucked same with Call of Duty 3 it takes forever to get a online game going. I just 
 sold the game. What Iam trying to say is that there are so many games out thee that suck the thing 
 is IF YOU LIKE IT then the is worth the buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-last-samuri
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, 
 boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, 
 boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, 
 boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, 
 boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, 
 boom, smash, crash, bang, smash, crash, bang, boom, smash, crash, bang, boom, few words can describe 
 this games addicting gameplay except for those four. thisis not all the game is based on there 
 are items you have to collect such as skyscraper tokens gamma canisters and rage canisters. doing 
 this and more will unlock new skins for the hulk. (ill give you a heads up here: if you have iron 
 man save data you get the hulkbuster iron man. if you have hulk save data you get hulkbuster iron 
 man on the iron man game) this gameplay may sound simple but really addicting.
  
  the graphics look pretty good for the hulk but some parts of the city look like crap. the destruction 
 sounds like what it should be voice acting is a little shaky and overall has great sound.
  
  its just fun topple over buildings (although they maybe a litle tough to knock down) and throw 
 people into cars and stores and if you like any of that stuff get the game. grand theft auto 4 
 has set the sandards for open world games and this certainly lives up to the standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacknbrew
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game but was let down in the end. I enjoyed the first quite a bit. The 
 graphics has afew issues that I wish that they would have taken care of first before release but 
 every game has it issues but it could be worse. It had mini game on how far you can hit someone 
 which I got addicted to quickly. This game was a let down when it came to the mini games. Yeah 
 it did have some cool alternate looks like Red Hulk but im sorry but game play comes first. Some 
 of the moves are fun to do but if you do too much damage then you get swarmed by people trying 
 to kill you. The more damage you do the more powerful people come. Think of it like GTA but if 
 you get too high of a warning level then I found the only way to escape would be to enter a mission 
 and then quit. I wouldnt recommend buying this game while its around the price range of $40-$60 
 but when it drops to around $30 or so then it might be worth it. If you have the extra cash then 
 fine but if there is another game that you may want then get that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernan17893
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Since the release of The Hulk: Ultimate Destruction superheroes games have been held in a higher 
 esteem than most movie based games. Ive always failed to understand the nature of movie based games, 
 I mean some I like but most are just not good at all. The Incredible Hulk sadly is one that is 
 just bad. The lame plot revolves around 4 power ranger looking guys control some kind of race and 
 its up too Hulk and Rick Jones to save New York. I wasnt really paying much attention to the narrative 
 because its bland. The missions are just the most repetitive style of missions Ive seen since assasins 
 creed (that one was better though) . The mission are pretty much Get to this spot and defend your 
 friend, and smash the building. Smashing stuff is suprisingly pretty fun though despite the crappy 
 effects and various glitches and frame rate problems. I shoudlnt keep writing because if youre 
 reading this you already understand what I am trying to say, so I will end it with one final sentence 
 regarding the game. So while strolling around New york I reached the famous landmark known as Central 
 Park, now while jumping I accidently fell in the water, of course Hulk wont swim he just jumps 
 out of the water, Im okay with that but once I reached the ground the hulk did the same movement! 
 This happened to me EVERY SINGLE TIME I went in any body of water ITS RIDICULOUS!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  I love the gameplan I have at the local video store when I get a game like this one. I can take 
 it right back and get something else to play. I played about two chapters in the game which was 
 about 1 chapters too many. First off the story is just too weak, go here, protect this, beat this 
 up. I was reminded of the Superman game that came out for 360 awhile back but I don't even think 
 the Hulk was as good as that. The camera would get funny at times and I couldn't see what I was 
 aiming for or what was in front of me. I also had this annoying habit of jumping off a building 
 by accident due to this and either fail a mission or waste a bunch of time trying to get back on 
 top to where I needed to accomplish something, I just didn't have much fun playing this and lost 
 interest after two chapters. Movie was not bad, at least I have those memories... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  You are on the perfect site for this game. This makes a fantastic rent. Running wild through the 
 streets of new york is fun for awhile. Once you have had your fill of smashing things you can work 
 towards achievements and bonus content. I wouldn't want to pay 60 bucks for this enjoyment so a 
 week with it is enough. Also this is actually a fun movie game. You don't find a lot of those! 
 Alright then. I was a big fan of the previous Hulk installment, Ultimate Destruction. This game 
 takes ultimate destruction at face value. The missions are more challenging, the complete world 
 environment is your playground, it's made to be a full out & on-going bash fest of fun & rage like 
 desire! Controls are easy, graphics are very nice indeed, story is solid .But you gotta love bringing 
 down a building or ripping a mass transit bus in half and using those 2 halfs to destroy things. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretcheese
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 15, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The Incredibly average Hulk. I say this because this Hulk game isn't much different than the recent 
 hulk game. It does have some pretty good graphics. It has a great storyline but almost exactly 
 the same game-play as Ultimate Destruction. One of my favorite things from the Hulk that was also 
 in the other one is the large group of enemies that attack you when you get your meter up. Something 
 new in The Incredible Hulk is the damage done to buildings. However, just like in the last one, 
 after you beat the game you just freely roam around, which could get boring after a while. There 
 are a few new characters in The Incredible Hulk, but not as many awesome moves in the last one. 
 It disappointed me that in the new Incredible Hulk they took away a certain move where the hulk 
 would smash the top of a bus and endlessly grind on it smashing into everything the got in his 
 path until the bus was finally destroyed. It was one of my favorite moves. Overall, this game was 
 fun, but I wouldn't recommend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: czapata
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is exactly like The Incredible Hulk Ultimate Destruction, only better graphics and destruction. 
 What you do in this game is either 1. You can do missions, or 2. You can HULK SMASH! your way through 
 the city by trashing buildings, cars, people, the army, or the enclave. The missions are good but 
 too much protecting special items and when you are fighting the enclave, one of their soldiers 
 tries to make off with it but it shouldn't be a problem getting it back. You can also do certain 
 achievements called "Feats" to unlock either special moves, other abilities, or unlock other characters 
 such as the Abomination. But the characters are more like skins so they have the same moves as 
 the Hulk.
  But there is one main problem I have with this game, and it is called freezing. This happens occasionally 
 but it happens when you are on missions or you are fighting the army in free roam. Hopefully they 
 get that fixed so we can smash more puny humans without occasional interruptions. I recommend this 
 game for at least a rent for those who are unsure about this game. But I recommend that you go 
 see the movie, which is 10x better than the game and the 2003 version. HULK SMASH!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  One thing I do enjoy in this game is free roaming. The story is the same as the movies. Banner 
 trys to get rid of the Hulk before the US government uses it for their own good. One thing everyone 
 can enjoy is being able to destroy anything that get's in your way, including buildings and landmarks. 
 Most of the time your just trying to destroy all the enemies except for the occasional guard missions. 
 Your faced with infantry, tanks, and robots as your enemy. The action is very fun except for becoming 
 repititive after a while. It's fun to destroy the building and everything but not fun enough to 
 buy. The graphics are suprisingly good (sometimes) . This is worth a rent to some but to other you 
 might just want something else. What can I say? It's just another good ol' movie game. Fans of 
 the Hulk will enjoy, others won't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The movie "The Incredible Hulk" was great, so I thought this would be a good movie-based game after 
 I learned it had a sandbox, open world version of New York to explore, like Spider-Man 3. I was 
 right to an extent, but the game loses itself after a while.
  Gameplay -- The gameplay in this game is very fun. After beating a brief factory level, you're able 
 to explore an open world version of Manhattan. You can crush anything in your path (buildings, 
 cars, trees, street lamps, people) , which is a lot of fun. You can pick up a random man off the 
 street, chuck him into a building, and he still gets up. You can pick up a street lamp and swing 
 it like a baseball bat. Punching the bottom of the Empire State Building around will bring the 
 whole structure down. You can travel the subways, but you can't actually explore them. Pressing 
 the "back" button will bring up a map of the city, where you'll find subways, mission icons, and 
 buildings. Destroying all labeled buildings will give you an easy 50-point achievement. After a 
 while army units will try to kill you. You can't go to the Statue of Liberty or Ellis Island. You 
 can't go inside buildings, either. By pressing the b button you can climb up buildings. You can 
 charge a jump by holding down x and releasing it, which is a good way to travel through the city. 
 The free-roaming gets boring after a while, and so does destorying everything. Combat consists 
 of x and y, like a button-masher. You can throw things at enemies (which are tanks, soldiers, giant 
 robots) . The combat does get boring after a while. Missions are usually destory Base A, go to Base 
 B, destroy it, go to Base C, and so on.
  Graphics -- Where the Incredible Hulk starts to lose it is in graphics. The hulk looks great up close. 
 The buildings and cars look good up close. Explosions look nice and destroyed buildings are fine. 
 The problem with the graphics are popups and bugs. When you're on top of a building, other buildings 
 either look blurry or appear as little more than blue blocks. When sprinting down streets, buildings, 
 cars, and other things pop up out of nowhere. Cut scenes look blurry, and the actors -- especially 
 Liv Tyler -- look nothing like their real selves. The frame rate is also terrible. Overall, the Incredible 
 Hulk's graphics are a mixed bag.
  Story -- The story is what really kills Hulk. It's hard to follow the story in the Incredible Hulk. 
 Most of it is told through phones, Bruce Baxter's voice recorder, or poorly made cut scenes. There's 
 a seperate storyline of the Enclaves, people in robotic suits that try to destroy the hulk. The 
 sound in the game is good, though the voice acting is terrible. Baxter's voice doesn't have any 
 enthusiasm and the rest of the cast isn't that well, either.
  Gameplay: 8.3/10 -- exploring/destroying Manhattan is fun and the combat isn't spectacular, since 
 the controls aren't that good, but is pretty good for a movie game.
  Graphics: 7.1/10 -- the hulk looks great, and up close, the graphics are good. There are far too 
 many popups and the frame rate is terrible. Buildings look like blue, blurry boxes from far away.
 
  Story: 5.2/10 -- it's hard to follow the story in this game, and the voice acting is terrible. Go 
 see the movie for the real story.
  Final Thoughts: If the story and graphics were a bit better, my score would be 8.5 and this game 
 would actually be great. There are a few good achievements in this game if you like those. Unless 
 you are a Hulk fan, this game is worth a rent or wait until the price is a bit lower. With a little 
 more effort to this game, "The Incredible Hulk" could've been something truly great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrachulaX
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  This is one of those moments when you see a missed opportunity, and it slaps you in the face. A 
 few years ago the game Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction was released, and it proved that superhero 
 games can still be a blast to play. Now, to tie in with the film, Sega has released a game that 
 hoped to copy that game's success. But this sadly isn't the case.
  
  The game (barely) follows the plot of the film. Bruce Banner (The Hulk, if you didn't know that 
 already) is on the run from the military, who hopes to use Banner's rage as a weapon for the U. S. 
 Army. The story in the game is told through loading screens and 5 second cutscenes. This is not 
 good storytelling. Its almost as if the developers assume that the player already knows what's 
 going on, and presents it in an "Oh, by the way, some **** just happened and now you gotta fight 
 some robots" kind of way. I know that the story isn't the biggest part of the game, but they at 
 least could have tried a little harder.
  
  Once you begin the game, you are immediately thrust into New York where the streets are littered 
 with mindless pedestrians and countless vehicles to throw about. The open world is kinda fun to 
 explore, until you realize that most of it is just cut-and-pasted together. Here is a rundown of 
 how the game flows: You'll run through the same patches of New York again and again to get to the 
 mission points. From there a cutscene of some missiles flying overhead are shown, and then you 
 are told to stop them from slamming into a building that holds some kind of important item that 
 you were unaware existed until now. 
  
  Luckily the game's combat holds up. Hulk can learn new combos from getting "experience" and a lot 
 these moves are actually pretty useful. The controls are pretty solid and the carnage is mostly 
 lag-free. There's also a lot of unlockabe content that even impressed a comic fan like me. One 
 especially silly unlockabe is a costume that makes Hulk look like The Juggernaut. 
  
  The cast of the film is present for the VO, but a lot of it sounds phoned in. The musical score 
 is nothing special but it fits, and the smashing and crushing sound effects are good as well. But 
 the game also suffers from one big problem: bugs. Pop up is pretty bad, especially from high altitudes. 
 Collision detection is also noticeably bad, but it doesn't ruin the gameplay.
  
  The Incredible Hulk is a decent rental if you desire to watch Hulk smash some bad guys (some from 
 the Hulk comics, which made me happy) , but you would probably be better off replaying Ultimate 
 Destruction. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehSysyphus
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  When I had first heard about The Incredible Hulk game being a sandbox style game I was excited 
 about the possibilities of a even better version of the recently released GTAIV. To my surprise 
 the game really lacks in a lot of key elements a decent at best game should have. The rendering 
 in the game sucks and the engine certainly can't handle what's going on a lot in the fast paced 
 smash all battles. The story is really lacking in any depth and gets redundant after the first 
 2 missions. Everything is basically the same with the same enemies most of the time. Boss battles 
 really lack in difficulty and are boring as ever. Edward Norton's voicing is bland and boring and 
 has no emotion in it. The whole audio diary thing is also kinda random and pointless at times. 
 You'd figure there would be some good information the movie left out that ties more into the comic 
 books but nothing he says is really that important. I've never played such an easy game before. 
 I can honestly say there is not one real challenge I've run into at all and for only one day I've 
 obviously covered a lot of the game already. Being able to run around and jump off buildings and 
 smash things is about the only fun thing to do in the game and to be perfectly honest if I wanted 
 to do that I'd just stick with GTAIV which is 100x better than this. For anyone reading this review 
 the game was made poorly and I wouldn't suggest even a little kid who doesn't look for these things 
 to even bother. Thank god the game came from Gamefly, too. I sure as hell wouldn't pay money for 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game does a great job letting you destroy things, including the buildings of New York. This 
 really helps you feel like you are the incredible Hulk, rampaging through the city. There is a 
 decent about of upgrades that the Hulk can get as you complete objectives in the game, abilities 
 like Increased Jump Distance, Improved Health, and all new abilities like Gama Regeneration, Ground 
 Slam, and Shockwave attacks.
  
  For the collectors there are a ton of things to do and find n the City. There are Comic Book Covers 
 to collect, 20+ landmark locations that you collect by destroying them, 100 Health and 100 Rage 
 Canisters. There are also 15 Jump Rings that are needed to get certain abilities. Also there are 
 many actions that you can perform that will unlock abilities as well, like destroying 100 cars, 
 destroying 10,000 items in the city, jumping 20+ Miles, Running 20+ miles, etc, etc All of this 
 adds to the feeling of improving Hulk's abilities.
  
  The enemies are OK, mostly guys with guns and armored cars. There are some powered armor suits 
 and helicopters. There are also 4 super villains that show up in the mid game, and they are fun 
 to fight. There are also 4 different sections of an evil group that is bent on world domination. 
 You will have the opportunity to destroy their facilities and troops that are a bit more interesting 
 than the military, with weapons like Concussion Rifles, bio plagues, and force fields. They get 
 harder as the game progresses.
  
  The story vaguely follows the movie storyline, but it feels un-finished. Like they started working 
 with Full Cut Scenes, and then ran out of time and switched over to static images with voice overs 
 without the CG Cut Scenes.
  
  While there are many things they did right, the game just feels unpolished and buggy. Crash bugs 
 and frequent visual glitches detract from the over all feeling that this is a good game. In the 
 end, what could have been a great game, just feels average.
  
  With that said, if you can pick up a cheep copy, it is easily worth $20 bucks... so wait to rent 
 it or pick it up in the bargain bins.
  
  Final Score: 6.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBaybulz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  This game has great graphics, great game play, and it makes you feel like the Hulk. I am a HUGE 
 Joe Fixit fan, I have action figures of him etc. I am so happy you can be him in the game. The 
 game is fun from running up walls to smashing every thing in site. If you don't buy this game you 
 have no taste in games at all. This is one of the best games in history, and is a must play game. 
 Don't even rent it first, just go to gamestop or ebgames and buy it. Go do it. NOW. The Baybulz 
 P. S Ultimate Destruction is not better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arsenal_IV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Your Bruce Banner..... check. Your The Hulk....... Check. Your running away from the U. S. Government....... Check. 
 For what? No I idea. Iron Man and Spider-Man didn't get treated that way. Its because hes Green 
 right? Anyways, If you haven't seen the movie yet. Please do. I'm going to try and leave out the 
 spoilers.
  In The Incredible Hulk game, you are in control of mean green war machine, The Hulk. Throughout 
 the game you come into contact with a lot of classic Hulk villians and allies. Samuel Stern (later 
 becomes "The Leader") , Leonard "Doc" Samson, The U-Foes, Bi-Beast, General "Thunderbolt" Ross, 
 etc. The point of the game is to smash. Smash everything in sight. I smashed so much I forgot I 
 was suppose to be hunting down Talbot (villian in the game) . As you go progress in the game you 
 unlock power-ups and Rage moves. Rage moves are nothing more then "Final Smashes". One heals you, 
 one makes you slam on the ground releasing a big wave of rocks and cars and whatever is in its 
 way at the target. There is the classic Thunderclap, releasing a shockwave around the Hulk. Mainly 
 for getting enemies to back off of you so you can think straight.
  The Boss battles are some of the coolest I have played in Movie Games. At least better then the 
 boring Spider-Man 3 Venom fight. Some of the boss battles will take you a minute or in my case 
 12 minutes to finally figure out the way to beat a boss without making it look like a boxing match 
 between Mike Tyson and Steve Hawkins with the Hulk on the recieving end. 
  My three favorite things about this game is of course the smashing of anything that even looks 
 at you funny (stupid buildings) . Second is all the mini games you get to play. Anything from Whack-A-Mole 
 and Darts to seeing how much you can smash within a time limit, its pretty sweet. Third, is the 
 skins you unlock. You get Movie Hulk, Classic Hulk (very green with purple pants) , Grey Hulk, Maestro (Future 
 Imperfect) , The Professor (not Xavier) , Iron Man in Hulk Buster Armor, the Xbox 360 exclusive Joe 
 Fixit, and the Game Stop Xbox 360 Exclusive Red Hulk.
  Don't look at the rating that people from GameSpot have put on the game stop you from at least 
 renting the game. I had and still to have a lot of fun with the game. The only real thing that 
 made me want to laugh and cry tears of WTF was when you jump into the water, it forces you out, 
 but when you land you are still in jumping animation and it spends you in all sorts of directions 
 until it releases its cold glitchy fingers off of you. Anyways, just check it out. You won't be 
 disappointed.
  
  -Arsenal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwooduhs
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  
  Did you know that there is a new Incredible Hulk movie out? Just in case you wondering know it's 
 not a coincidence that there's also a new Hulk game out. The Incredible hulk is a movie tie-in 
 game. It was not meant to be a revolutionary piece of art, it's meant to make bucket loads of cash 
 and there's no doubt that it will.
  
  The Incredible Hulk is set in a completely destructible version of New York City. You'll recognize 
 real life buildings like the Empire State building and even some buildings from the Marvel Universe 
 like Stark Tower. Oh, and yes you will be able to make them all crumble to the ground. Every object 
 you see on the streets can be picked up and used as a weapon against the bad guys or even innocent 
 citizens. This adds a slight bit of depth to the games shallow game play.
  
  The Incredible Hulk's missions are highly repetitive. Every mission basically the same, destroy, 
 destroy and destroy. After the first five missions you will have experienced everything the game 
 has to offer when it comes to game play. There is still some incentive to play through though, 
 the game has a system where you can earn upgrades by destroying things, how original of them. Lucky 
 for us though is that the upgrades can be quite cool. They can range from new even more destructive 
 moves to in-game secrets.
  
  The Hulk looks great in this game, everything else not so much. There's plenty of room to explore 
 in New York City it's just to bad that everything looks very familiar and quite ugly. For example 
 the billboards in the game are all fuzzy and hard to look at, not to mention there all shameless 
 plugs of other Sega franchises. Open World games have always had graphical problems but more recently 
 they've been improving, but with the Incredible Hulk it really does feel like one step forwards 
 and two steps back. The pop-in is terrible and the frame rate plays up a little too often. Not 
 to mention the game just completely froze multiple times during my play through. It's these things 
 that really make the game feel 'Cheap'.
  
  The story of the Incredible Hulk is split into two main storylines. The Hulk's dealings with the 
 Army, and his trying to fight off an alien like group called 'The Enclave' with newfound friend 
 Rick Jones. Both of these are very dull and very disjointed. You can skip all the cut scenes and 
 it wouldn't make a difference.
  
  The sound is very plain and just not well done. It seems very rushed. For example if I were to 
 throw a car into a building it would make the same sound as me throwing a small person into the 
 same building. Some of the movies voice actors reprised there respected roles in the game but that 
 doesn't make it any good. The dialogue is very poor quality and it stutters sometimes. 
  
  The Incredible Hulk is a game that was clearly rushed and only made to rake in the cash. At the 
 very most this game warrants a rent. The first hour or two of playing is surprisingly fun. But 
 once you get to the point where you realise that you've experienced all the game has to offer in 
 such a short time you just want to put it down.
  
  4/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChronosWolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  I was annoyed by the constant freezing of the game. It was the only downside I had. I wish i could 
 have done more. It was alot more entertaining then the spider man games and way better then the 
 previous hulk game.
  
  The best fun was destroying everything in existance. Sticking vehicles into buildings. Throwing 
 people around, beating the tar out of everyone and everything.
  
  It was also quite entertaining to destroy all the american monuments or whatever they called them. 
 Marvel HQ, chrysler building etc. You got tokens for destroying them. It was fun.
  
  If they can fix the freezing problem, I'd say this game would be a phenominal hit. We shall see 
 what happens. I look forward to more Marvel games made by this company. Maybe we need to see this 
 company make the spider-man series of games and xmen.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldboy36
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Yes the graphics are pretty bad, but Hulk looks good though. Quite a few glitches as well. But 
 its a fun little game that will keep you busy. If you are a hulk fan I'd pick it up just for the 
 skins (or when price drops) , otherwise just rent and have a blast for a week or two. If you played 
 HUD and expected this to be that with more options and better graphics; well welcome to the next 
 gen systems were you get half the game you got before with slightly better graphics. If other sequels 
 that have been released hadnt followed this formula then I would have rated it lower but almost 
 all the games that have come out for 360/ps3 that was around at the end of the ps2/xbox days just 
 havent carried over. Stuff is always missing, lots of stuff ala Oblivion, GTA4 and though it wasnt 
 a sequel Mass effect didnt hold a candle to ethier of the KOTORs' though this game does less than 
 those just mentioned I couldnt ingnore the pattern. Not to say these were bad games just not as 
 FULL as their last gen counterparts. So in this case its hard to hold Incredible hulk up to the 
 standards that most games this gen hasnt followed through on or were held up to. Destroying stuff 
 is fun, leaping buildings is fun, throwing enemies off the buildings beating them on the way down 
 and landing on them is fun, throwing cars into building and having them stick is really fun.. The 
 draw distance is horrible, pop ins and jaggies, freezes and I can see how this got such bad reviews 
 but to me the enjoyment outshined the bad programing. Barely though.... If you havent played HUD 
 then rent THIS see if you like it, if you do BUY HUD! If your tired of HUD or just interested in 
 skins and destroying NEW YORK CITY then pick this up when it goes on sale and have a blast!! Final 
 game verdict Broken but fun. Updated REALLY BROKEN I guess the Hulk fan in me got the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliSucks
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 12:09 am PT
Review:  Can we say Rampage revisited? Ha.... Yes definately Rampage is better than the Hulk in this game.... I 
 mean come on people, who ever is making these so called games needs to go back to school and learn 
 the reasoning behind making real arcade games and not copy from past games.... The hulk is awesome, 
 menacing and even kewl to play and bounce around for about 15 minutes, then it's time to turn it 
 off.... the game is not realistic enough.... Even the city is nothing like the real downtown New 
 York.... This game could have been made a whole hell of a lot better.... For one, take away the memory 
 of David Banner.... and give the guy who is helping him a real job.... not some lame ass who stands 
 there and jumps on the hulk's back, get real! The real hulk would have killed him..... The bottom 
 line is this game is not worth 60 bux, it's a waste of money and you'll get extremely bored real 
 fast..... I too thought this game would be better than it was.... Time to trade it in and get something 
 much better!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  PROS: Nice visuals, destruction, destruction, destruction
  
  CONS: Shallow gameplay, bored-to-death sounding voice acting, Boss Battles suck
  
  The Hulk 
 may have regained his trust on the big screen, but when it comes to his games, he still has some 
 ground to make. See, unlike his newly released movie, which was very well done and a huge improvement 
 over his previous debut; this was a step down. I say this cause The Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction 
 was a great entry, and this seems to borrow from it but it doesn't hold up as well. 
  
  THE GRAPHICS here are the best aspect of the game. The Hulk looks extremely detailed and looks 
 as intimidating as you would expect. NYC, however, could've looked better. 
  
  THE STORY here tries to follow the movie as well as is its own but falls completely flat. Simply 
 put; the story here sucks. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is shallow. You pull off the same moves everywhere you go. Add on to the fact that 
 all the missions feel almost identical and extremely repetitive. Simply put, they are pretty boring. 
 Now, the most fun you will have is when you begin the destruction of NYC. Leaping from one building 
 to another is fun everytime as well as climbing them. You can also lay waste to pretty much everything 
 within the city. Once you get too crazy, the Army will step in and fight back, but of course no 
 military can hold back The Hulk. Sadly though, this will be the most fun you have with the game. 
 And you can only do this for maybe an hour or two tops before it starts to wear thin.
  
  THE SOUND is off. The Hulk sound dead on, and the city sounds fine. But the voice acting is completely 
 lifeless. Take for example Edward Norton. He played Bruce Banner great in the movie, but in the 
 game, as lifeless as he sounded I could've sworn he was a zombie. 
  
  OVERALL The Incredible Hulk isn't too great. I would recommend a rental simply due to fact that 
 The Hulk looks great, and its fun to smash NYC for a little bit. But aside from this, I would pass 
 on purchasing the game. Go see the movie though, its pretty damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alljoemama92
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  the hulk is based off the movie which came out june 13. The game may not base itself to much off 
 the movie it still does a good job showing the main parts. Now the game may not be a masterpiece 
 its still pretty fun. Put it like this its hulk UD but with 360 graphics and less moves but i only 
 usse like 4 moves in UD so its ok. All the things you can destroy in this game is really nice and 
 when you destroy a building, with your bare hands really does make you feel like the hulk I really 
 like it when your just runing around and a u-foe guys comes and starts fighting you and make you 
 feal like a super hero and the fight with Bi-Beast and Abomination was pretty fun. now the bad 
 when you jump in the water it shots you back out the hulk starts bugin and flys all around I know 
 knew yorks water is bad but not that bad. other than that i dint see any bugs. I wish you chould 
 have had a fight with the rhino, madman, the leader or even Wendigobut owell.
  and i will end this review like this. The hulk is a great game and it can kill you weekend bordem 
 pretty well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maaly81
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, my one of my good friends reprimanded me over purchasing this title. I dont know. I 
 just wanted to buy a game out of a genre I really would not buy one in, "the movie to video game 
 genre". I was and am disappointed in this effort. Load screens take up a lot of gameplay time, 
 The missions suck, and the whole cut scene thing and animation is half assed (excuse my language) . 
 This is the first title I have bought for the 360 that I have regretted. I could have got this 
 mess used or rented it if I really wanted to, but I came up on some money, and just didint want 
 a game where I had to think a whole lot in. 
  
  The good thing about the game is that you get to smash up NYC and jump and leap and fall from the 
 sky and land with nothing getting damaged. Other than that, the people who made this game should 
 not be able to make any other game for the rest of their lives, ever!!!! forever!!!! and their 
 first born should be taken and sent to ITT Tech and forced to make games for developers who only 
 pay $1.50 and hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheJayDaddy
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the comics, this really let me down. Even thou you can go around letting loose your 
 anger on the town, which you can't help not too, the graphics have so many problems. From not being 
 able to see but so far in front of you, cars and people do not show until you almost right on them. 
 After an hour of causing chaos in the town, you start to take on the missions and realise how mind 
 numbing the game really is. From a story line that you just can not get into, to the voice over 
 that sounds like he was busy doing homework while he was talking. There is nothing to keep you 
 wanting more. Looks as if the game was rushed to the shelves and left a lot out. So.... if your 
 looking to just go around and destroy cars, buildings, pick people up and throw them around for 
 hours on end, this is your game. If your looking to have great gameplay and combat with a story 
 that keeps you wanting more, time to keep looking... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakotan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  I love the HULK and IronMan. Sega doesnt, and Marvel should have dug deep to see that they SUCK 
 at making Super hero games. Heck they realy got crapy on the DBZ game they made. They been going 
 down hill and I remember reading about a year ago themarvel made deal with Sega to make gamesfor 
 alot of their heroes and i knew this would happen. They need some onelike activision to do their 
 games. Someone that is great at it.
  
  I like the way the game looks and i get the total feel of ultimate destruction from this. Other 
 then that there is the repetativeness in the story. But not as bad as superman returns thank god 
 and dont even get me on that rant about EA and not being able to make superhero games other then 
 helpin to put out Freedom Force. 
  
  This is a new generation and this was a awsome movie and Marvel and Sega could have made a ton 
 of money if Sega would have spent more time on this game. I would love to see a fantastic HULK 
 game someday but for now this isnt, Its good for about 5 hours of fun then take it back to blockbuster 
 and get another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_1991
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  I actualy thought this game was gonna be better than iron-man. In the end this game turned out 
 to suck really bad. This game is exactly like Ultimate destruction except that it made almost no 
 improvements and it got rid of alot of the fun stuff in that game.
  The only improvements that they made with this game were the graphics on the hulk ( hulk looks 
 very detailed) and you get to destroy every building in New York ( Which gets boring after a while 
 and it's a bit ironic since you being the hero in the game is doing more damage than the bad guys) , 
 Now that's it, I mean that's the only improvements on the game. 
  Graphics on the city look horrible! Buildings looked like giant blue blocks from a long distance 
 ( Up until now ive never seen that problem in Grand theft auto or Spider-Man 3) Fighting was crap 
 since none of the cool combos in Ultimate destruction are in this game ( you can't even run on walls! 
 not even a little bit like hulk did in the movie, plus to my knowledge you can't toss a tank or 
 use a bus as skateboard) What was really stupid is that you could not pick up enemy vehicles like 
 an army humvee ( which is no heavier than the buses or trucks in this game) until you get a certain 
 upgrade.
  Story made little sense and was badly put together and the last fight between hulk and abomination 
 was pitiful, it wasn't epic like the one in ultimate destruction. After playing the game i could 
 tell the developers just rushed through the whole thing with out double checking. Finaly i give 
 this game a 6 out 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: General_Sponge
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was a joke. Once again a movie game fails us. It's so buggy and broken, it ruins most 
 of the nice visuals. The storyline is hardly existent and the missions are just the same bloody 
 thing over and over again. The boss battles are a joke. All of Hulk's moves are stripped down from 
 Ultimate Destruction and the ones he did keep look and feel like total crap. The only improvement 
 this game has over UD is that it has destructible buildings, which isn't really saying much because 
 even that looks pretty horrible. I did like the ability to play as the different types of Hulk 
 but that doesn't really add much to the game.
  
  If you really want to experience the Hulk in all of his green fury, I'd stick with Ultimate Destruction. 
 That game has everything that this one lacks. It's a darn shame too because the guys that created 
 UD are the ones that created this piece of crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artan234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Story-The boss battles are kindof hard, some missions are really hard mostly the collecting, i love 
 the humor Unlockables-well i am very happy that it's easier to gain skins, but sadly there isnt 
 enough skins, sure enough there pretty good
  Gamplay-it's fantastic destroying everything in your path no consideration for other peoples pain, mostly 
 beating up those robots they get you very angry, when fighting the police its almost like GTA more 
 and more come and they are alot harder you die almost after the helicopters come, well besides the 
 poilce the army is pretty tough, and the Abomanation it pretty good at fighting but as always the 
 green buff guy always wins.
  Graphics-most people think its hulk ultimate destruction, well it is but this time they pimped up 
 the graphics no more dark green hiulk or poorly graphiced cars buses and buldings, the best part 
 is they even pimped up our favorite villain The abomanation he seems more Abomany, just like it 
 was supposed to be, now what got me really wowed was the use of the graphics to make the characters 
 look just like them selves in real life and in the movie 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBurgerKing2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  1) It is a blast to run through the city and destroy stuff and pretty much everything in this game 
 is 2) There are a bunch of different combos you can do and as you progress through the game you 
 will get upgrades that will make you feel even more powerful including the thunder clap and the 
 infamous hulk smash.
  
  3) There are a bunch of different characters to choose from.
  
  4) There are side missions for you to do after you beat the game.
  
  5) Decent graphics.
 
  
  6) It uses ragdoll physics which makes everything more realistic and make everything you hit look 
 awesome when it ricochets off of buildings and stuff.
  
  Cons:
  1) It is a little buggy but i havent encountered any of the problems that gamespot has listed like 
 the game freezing and all of that but it does have an unstable frame rate.
  
  2) It sometimes feels repetitive but you will learn to love it.
  
  3) Some of the missions 
 get you frustrated but it isnt that hard and you will eventually pass them.
  
  4) The voice acting sucks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueguykisame
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  After the satisfaction of destroying New York, climbing tall buildings, and crushing landmarks 
 such as the Baxter building and the Stark Tower gets old, the game isnt very great. Of course, 
 it is difficult to make a fantastic movie game they could have done a little bit better. The graphics 
 on 360 were great, but cars and other items just pop up as you go, instead of coming from afar. 
 I discourage anyone from buying this game. It is only a renter. The game is only fun for a maximum 
 of 20 hours, a minimum of 1 hour. Ironman only tries to stop you in one mission, not just whenever, 
 like when you're going on your own little rampage. On the upside, it killed Ironman the game, which 
 was a dissaster. The bonus "hulks" are cool, Ironman hulkbuster was probably my second favorite 
 "hulk", as the incredible hulk was my favorite still. I was Dissapointed that every "hulk" has 
 the same moves and green glow to their attacks, and I was kindof hoping that Ironman wouldnt only 
 appear in a mission, but whenever your wanted level got high enough. I was also hoping to seee 
 him fly and shoot missles... oh-well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meatman_69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this Hulk game for three days now and have a good perspective on the game to 
 put some text to screen finally.
  
  First off, the game, in its shipping form is buggy as all hell. After playing many hours over several 
 sessions I found that the game froze on many occasions. This didn't really bother me at first as 
 I traipsed around New York having Hulk-style fun. However, when you are in a mission, 90% complete 
 an achievement which takes quite some time (ie. Destroy all buildings in a single neighborhood) , 
 or you lose all the canisters you have found since your last save, I was getting pissed. This is 
 my single biggest complaint about the game and should it be addressed by Sega, this would be a 
 mute point.
  
  The graphics and presentation in the game are good but suffer in certain areas. The Hulk and the 
 main in game characters/enemies are pretty detailed with nice textures which are X360 calibre. 
 However the textures and presentation of the city are a whole other matter. The city is repetitive 
 and really bland which is only exacerbated by the game engines inability to draw anything more 
 than 20 feet in front of you. You are sprinting around and trees, cars, lamp posts and the like 
 just pop onto the screen seconds before you are upon them. All that aside, I think these compromises 
 have been made to allow for the fully destructible sand box playing field and should be somewhat 
 overlooked. You can't have GTAIV class graphics for the city and then hope to destroy it at 30FPS. 
 
  
  The sounds are great. The Hulk has a great roar and the thudding bass of the game really gives 
 the action some oomph. You punch buildings and you feel it with a nice sound system.
  
  Having not seen the new movie as of yet, I cannot comment on how close the story is to that of 
 the movie. However, I can't imagine it is too close as we get little tidbits of story via lame 
 narrative over still images or in poorly conceived cut scenes. The story element is bad, plain 
 and simple. I can't express how lackluster the voice acting is. Edward Norton is so uninspiring 
 in his performance.
  
  The missions in the game are really repetitive and consist mainly of finding army bases (which 
 you destroy or find things in) , dealing with the Enclave or protecting someone or something from 
 either the army or Enclave. The escort/protection missions are lame, but the destroy missions are 
 fun albeit repetitive.
  
  On the X360 version of the game the achievements are well balanced between story based items and 
 Hulk having fun in New York. Fun achievements include climbing the five tallest buildings, destroying 
 all buildings in a neighborhood, killing enemies with an ice cream cone and more. I think this 
 aspect of the game is the best and most redeeming part. You are "forced" ;-) to run around and 
 climb, destroy and do all sorts of Hulk things and that is the best part of the game, just being 
 the Hulk doing Hulk things.
  
  Many have said that Hulk: UD is much better and yes, having played both, I can say it is. However 
 UD wasn't perfect either but did offer a little more with regards to Story, Combos/Moves/Upgrade 
 and diversity in environments. However, this Hulk offers better graphics (although not X360 caliber 
 most times) , a fully destructible environment and the same level of Hulk smashing fun. Both games 
 suffered from lame missions although this Hulk is a little less varied and suffers more.
  
  Summing this up is a little bitter sweet. I really hoped for more, but everything I know told me 
 I was hoping for too much. This game is a movie tie-in and that sole reason is why this game is 
 weak on so many fronts. Had the developers had more time, I think we would have seen more, but 
 Studios need mass marketing and tie-ins, so they effectively removed almost all possibilities of 
 this being an 8.5+ game. 
  
  In the end, the game is fun. Repetitive or not, being the Hulk and smashing things up, bounding 
 around the city, climbing buildings and destroying them is a guilty pleasure. You easily get past 
 the graphic elements and skip the story, just run and gun. If you are looking for a simple, not-to-deep 
 weekend killer, this is the perfect rental for simple, mind-numbing fun. Word to the wise, wait 
 for the patch Sega is reportedly working on. 
  
  This isn't worth the $59.99 they are asking, but would be worth every penny when it hits the bin 
 @ $19.95. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JmanZero
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  The Incredible Hulk was obviously rushed through development and testing because big graphical 
 issues become apparent within the first 5 minutes. The draw distance is so short scenery pops into 
 view only a few meters ahead. Grand Theft Auto 3 had longer draw distances than this game. Any 
 buildings that aren't actually rendered are blurred gray blocks in the background. You'll occasionally 
 jump to another spot randomly while you're in a fight, as if you were playing an extremely laggy 
 game online. Much of this could have been avoided, but this game was rushed in order to come out 
 in time for the movie. 
  
  The combat is fun for awhile, but it ends up being just another beat-em-up button masher. The boss 
 fights are often unfair, and make you use a single attack or force you to dodge attacks until they 
 become dizzy and sit there while you pummel them for a few seconds. 
  
  The most fun I had playing this game was destroying New York City. When you have more fun staying 
 away from the missions and mini-games, you know something is wrong.
  
  Stay away from this game; I rented this game for free and I still feel cheated. It's not worth 
 your time or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevesumpton86
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  the incredible hulk is so flawed that even the fact you can run amok in new york is boring the 
 draw distance is worse than the older but far superior the incredible hulk Ultimate Destruction 
 the way that moves are attained is boring i preferred buying them and also the action is so tepid 
 i could have fallen asleep. i have not seen the movie yet but i hope that this is not a grim precursor 
 of what i am going to see in the cinema because this was abysmal and i love the hulk but i cant 
 forgive this manure its awful.
  
  overall if you want to feel like the incredible hulk and destroy loads of vehicles and hurt puny 
 humans buy the incredible hulk ultimate destruction for xbox for 5-9 it is better value and is 
 backwards compatible with your xbox 360 and the hulk seems far more aggressive in the previous 
 game than he is in this one. sega for shame you wasted a great oportunity should have let sierra 
 do it instead then it would have been a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dancing-Bear
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Gamers have good reason to be completely jaded from recent "movie" games, but The Incredible Hulk 
 seemed to have a better chance due to its predecessor; Hulk: Ultimate Destruction. While This game 
 lacks many of UD's combination attacks and upgrades, it seems to capture the rage and power of 
 the Hulk all the same.
  
  The graphical advancements over UD are undeniable. The Hulk is a glistening monster and the multiple 
 skins to unlock seem to have some extra attitude behind them. The movie cut-scenes aren't very 
 impressive, but that's to be expected when trying to replicate Hollywood stars. The bosses in this 
 game are a major upgrade to UD and the missions also seem more thought-out and less repetitive.
 
  
  Destroying the massive buildings feels empowering, and clubbing enemies with cars is a real thrill. 
 This game separates itself from UD by incorporating combinations while holding various objects. 
 You really get the sense of fury when smashing tanks with stone maces and rock-shields.
  
  All in all, this game seems to immerse the player more than Ultimate Destruction, even if some 
 moves were left out. The sound effects are superb and the Hulk's immense strength is exhibited 
 well. People expecting complex move-lists and intricate story-lines probably don't know much about 
 the character in the first place. The Hulk smashes stuff and that's what you do in this game. Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GadsDad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Let me say from the beginning, I didn't finish the game. I'm not a professional reviewer, and I 
 don't feel obligated to finish a game I find un-inspiring.
  
  The graphics are not bad. Being familiar with Hulk: Ultimate Destruction, it's clear to see the 
 next-gen effort that went into the visuals, but in a brief period of time, the former was able 
 to excite me about being the Hulk, whereas the latter was a bit repetitious after the luster of 
 the graphics wore off.
  
  At times, I was a bit confused as to what the immediate goal was. There would be prompts to fight 
 the army, which seemingly re-spawn indefinitely, and with some APCs that can't be destroyed, then 
 during that fight I get prompts to fight one of the villain groups in the city, and still further, 
 I'd be told to knock a building down, and then be warned about too much destruction of the city.
 
  
  For fans of the Hulk, there's no missing the value of wanton destruction available here to the 
 Jade Giant, but for others needing a bit more purpose, The Incredible Hulk's latest showing may 
 be found wanting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hushlb
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:40 pm PT
Review:  While it is not a terrible game it has more bugs than one would expect for a full priced game. 
 I understand that there are development issues and that no game arrives in the marketplace bug 
 free, but when developers are rushing to meet a film schedule the bugs are 'always' more debilitating.
 
  
  There is fun to be had in this game if you are a huge Hulk fan. He's a fantastic comic character 
 and sometimes you get the feeling of being the Hulk by jumping around and smooshing things. What 
 you don't get the feeling of is his incredible strength.
  
  Whether or not Hulk UD was a better game doesn't matter, you have to look at this game on its own. 
 That being said there are very few moves available and so the Hulk's fists don't quite measure 
 up to what you'd expect from a character who is all muscle. 
  
  This really shows on boss fights where you would expect the fight to be a titanic struggle between 
 two brute forces. What ends up happening instead is you run up against a brute force that you can't 
 hit without very boring jump ground smash timing because they are immune to almost all your attacks. 
 This is the case with the generic Hulk Buster armor in the game that isn't even painted to match 
 Iron Man's armor. Also the case with the Abomination, The U-Foe's and Bi-Beast.
  
  Since the developers went cheap on the hand to hand combat you might expect them to have gone a 
 little further on weaponized combat. Well if you thought that, you thought wrong. There are even 
 fewer options for using your environment as a weapon.
  
  The various Hulk character models look great, they move like you would expect the Hulk to move. 
 Everything else is completely lackluster and I know this isn't entirely fair but after playing 
 through GTA IV I find The Hulk's rendition of NYC to be really boring.
  
  The only people that should buy this game are insanely dedicated Hulk fans. They will have fun 
 and be able to overlook the shortcomings of a glitchy game with repetitive combat and an all too 
 short story. Everyone else should rent this at best because you can finish it in a weekend, return 
 it and not feel like you missed anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdhegs
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Reading the forums I get a pretty clear picture that I missed out on an amazing game in Hulk: Ultimate 
 Destruction. Because that is all people can talk about, which makes sense considering the main 
 character. What I do know is that the Incredible Hulk is a really fun sandbox style comic book 
 game with a movie tie in. I will say, not having seen the movie yet, that this is one of the movie 
 game cliche exceptions ... this game is actually really good!
  
  I will say that when I initially loaded the game and was playing the first level I was pretty blown 
 away with the voice work and the way they incorporate the actors from the movie. But, after the 
 first level I started to feel a little disconnected from the story ... I knew what was going on 
 but I found myself spending more time just running around the incredibly detailed and beautifully 
 rendered city smashing things up and fighting the military and doing mini-games (which are quie 
 fun!) and playing the mission levels intermittently. I will point out that the in game graphics 
 are far superior to the cut scenes ... which look like they were made for the original XBOX. They 
 are very plain and grainy in comparison to the AMAZING character models and beautiful, albeit repetitive 
 city model. I found myself getting a little bored after and hour or so initially and ran into some 
 sound glitches that eventually locked up my system (a problem that has hit a few other from what 
 I read on the forums) so I shut it off to go to play something else feeling that the game was a 
 decent investment that I could see playing off and on for quite a while. Until I came back a few 
 hours later and haven't been able to put down the controller since. I am only taking time to write 
 this while I eat breakfast and I will go back for some more HULK-SMASH action. 
  
  What I have experienced is that once you begin to get more powerful the game really shines and 
 is a blast to play! The missions become more of a challenge but the reward is there and I am amazed 
 at how may unlockables there are to play for and how the game keeps track of your progress. The 
 game rewards you on top of your game score achievements and keeps you wanting to play on. So, what 
 I initially thought was a fun game turned out to be a great game.
  
  Some of the things I have noticed that are strange about this game are the people walking around 
 the city don't take notice of you absolutely demolishing their city until you are standing a bout 
 2 feet from them. Than they react to you in a ton of different ways, which I thought was cool. 
 There are also a MILLION taxi cabs in New York ... I guess I haven't been there in quite a while 
 but it seems like 8 out of 10 cars is a taxi! Hulk can use the subway ... which in game purposes 
 is cool, but creates a pretty messed up mental image of what it would be like if the Hulk were 
 to be riding the subway with the general population ... Understanding full well that the developers 
 want us to assume he is using the tunnels and not actually the train itself! finally the fact that 
 everything in the game falls at the slightest touch and yet it takes an amazing amount of pounding 
 by fist, power slams or vehicles to destroy an Army armored vehicle ... these are only a few of 
 the amusing events I have run into in my time playing. While some may bash this game for these 
 things saying they take away from the realism of the game, consider the fact that you are playing 
 as a big green man who can take and dish out incredible amounts of wanton destruction and yet can 
 still fit into his pants while being the Hulk and after! It all adds to the comic book nature of 
 living with a superhero I guess? 
  
  As I mentioned earlier, I have run across some glitches from sound, clipping, lock-up (only happened 
 the one time) and weird animation hiccups when I happen to fall into water ... and yes, I do know 
 that Hulk can't swim and should stay clear of water. These are fault that I believe could have 
 been fixed over time but do not deter from this being a very fun game to play. 
  
  As stated earlier, I am looking at this game with fresh eyes not having played Ultimate Destruction 
 and loving every minute of it! The best comparison I can make to it is Crackdown ... If you liked 
 Crackdown and wished you could destroy even more things, than you will love this game. The Incredible 
 Hulk does have flaws (I have yet to find a game without any) but they do not deter from having 
 a really fun HULK-SMASHING time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persia316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played ultimate destruction & loved it then pick this one up without thinking 
 about it. As for anyone who hasn't, The Incredible Hulk is an open world game that lets you play 
 as the big green dude himself. The story is solid & game play is good. My only problem is no matter 
 if you get the PS3 or 360 version, things just pop up. You walk a few feet & a tree or car will 
 appear instead of it just coming from a distance. Other than that the game is a little better than 
 ultimate destruction cause you learn skills by completing some tasks like destroying 10 cars or 
 climbing the tallest building. It's not a bad game & the combat is good but running around climbing 
 buildings & just causing a mess all over a pretty accurate New York City doesn't get old. I think 
 Hulk is one of the better movie based games & more fun than Iron Man for sure. If you can rent 
 it then do but if you're thinking about getting this game then do so cause I found it to be fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  the incredible hulk is a really good movie game. it has great combat and tons of enemies to fight. 
 this is an excellent game to play. its lots of fun. it has tons of action and is fast paced. there 
 is tons of super villains to fight in this game. the enemies are endless and pretty tough. the 
 game play is awesome, the graphics are good, the music is superb, and the replay value is really 
 good. this game is a blast to play. 
  i give it 7 out of 10 for the game play. good game play. 7 out of 10 for the graphics. good graphics. 
 the hulk looks awesome in this game and so does everything else. 8 out of 10 for the sound. the 
 music is great, the sound effects are sharp, and the voice acting is superb. 7 out of 10 for the 
 value and replay value. its fun to replay through this good game. 8 out of 10 for the tilt. the 
 controlls are quite good and it is easy to controll the hulk in this game. so overall i give this 
 good game a 7 out of 10. as i said its a good game to play. its worth the $59.99 that you would 
 pay for this good game. i've rented it and now i'm going to buy it. the game gets better and better 
 as you play through it. rent this game first to see if you like it and if you do then buy it. its 
 worth every penny. 
  on further playing this game i found it to be at times broken and incomplete. the game also freezes 
 every so often. this is a pain in the butt. the game is repetitive as you play through the game. 
 its no trouble to see that this is a movie game, as the graphics just pop up as you go throughout 
 the city. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
