-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Lord of the Rings, The Battle for Middle-earth II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/battleformiddleearth2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The single-player game lets you battle it out as good or evil in the world of Middle-earth.
 Rich multiplayer suite with five distinct modes geared for fast-paced and epic-paced games.
 Middle-earth comes alive thanks to beautiful graphics and top-notch audio.
 Controls are intuitive and easy to pick up.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frame rate struggles during big battles.
 Graphics get a bit muddled on a standard-definition display.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  7, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.0, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 3,711 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA LA
Genre: Real-Time Strategy
Date: Jul 5, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Battle for Middle-earth II proves that real-time strategy works on the Xbox 360. It's also a 
 pretty impressive game, as well. 

  At last, the Xbox 360 version of The Lord of the Rings, The Battle for Middle-earth II has arrived, 
 and we can see if EA's experiment to translate a PC real-time strategy game to a console is a success. 
 Real-time strategy has been done on the consoles before, of course, but previous efforts have produced 
 mixed results. However, since the power of the Xbox 360 is comparable to that of high-end PCs, 
 EA felt that the time was right to try again, especially since it has a license that  everyone 
  is familiar with in  The Lord of the Rings . So how does it play on the Xbox 360? The answer is 
 surprisingly well. Apart from the control scheme, the game is virtually indistinguishable from 
 the PC experience. As such, this is a pretty good introduction to real-time strategy for console 
 gamers, and a good way to discover the joys of building up huge armies and using them to crush 
 your opponents.  

          Real-time strategy arrives on the Xbox 360 in the form of The Battle for Middle-earth II. 
     

  The Battle for Middle-earth II gives you command of the forces of both good and evil as they war 
 for the lands of Middle-earth. Or, more appropriately, the northern part of Middle-earth. The game's 
 campaign covers all the stuff that was happening offscreen while Frodo was making his way to Mount 
 Doom and the rest of the Fellowship was busy elsewhere in Peter Jackson's famous movie trilogy. 
 The game can do this since it combines the movie license with the Tolkien estate license, which 
 means that EA could draw upon all of J. R. R. Tolkien's works in addition to the movies. This combination 
 could have been messy, but the results are a seamless blending of the two. You'll see armies of 
 dwarves and elves battle it out with the goblin hordes, and there are appearances by many characters 
 from the books, such as the Goblin King. At the same time, these new units fit in nicely with the 
 familiar armies of Mordor and the men from the movies.  

  The Xbox 360 version is a fairly straightforward translation of the PC game, though it does have 
 some curious omissions that are balanced out by some notable additions. For instance, the single-player 
 game consists of three modes. There's a good and an evil campaign, each of which has eight missions, 
 and then a skirmish mode that lets you set up a stand-alone battle on any map. This includes maps 
 from not only The Battle for Middle-earth II, but also for the first Battle for Middle-earth. Why 
 are there maps from the first game included? They were originally included in the PC version of 
 Battle for Middle-earth II to support the dynamic campaign, which lets you conquer all of Middle-earth 
 any way you want as any of the six factions in the game. However, that dynamic campaign is missing 
 altogether from the Xbox 360 version, and its absence is noted since it added a fair bit of replayability 
 to the PC version. Still, at least it's nice to have the maps, as you can battle it out in skirmish 
 on familiar settings, such as Helm's Deep and Minas Tirith.  

  Even without the dynamic campaign, the single-player component on the Xbox 360 version is pretty 
 good. The two campaigns take you throughout the northern parts of Middle-earth as you fight for 
 good or for evil. On the good side there are three factions, ranging from the sturdy dwarves, who 
 are excellent warriors; the slim elves, who are fantastic archers; and the Men of the West, which 
 combines Gondor and Rohan. On the evil side, there are the armies of Mordor, led by Sauron and 
 his Nazgul lieutenants; Isengard, commanded by the wizard Saruman; and the goblins, a faction of 
 goblins, trolls, giants, and spiderlings. It will be your job to take these factions into battle 
 across the whole of Middle-earth. For instance, you can fight as the elves defending the harbor 
 of the Grey Havens from attack in the good campaign, while the evil campaign might have you fighting 
 as the goblins trying to conquer the city. Other battles are unique to each campaign, and you may 
 have to retake the haunted Mirkwood, or sweep the Shire clean of those pesky hobbits (massacring 
 hobbits never felt so good, either) .  

          Command armies of orcs, goblins, elves, dwarves, and more for control of Middle-earth. 
     

  The campaign battles are nicely structured for newcomers to the real-time strategy genre, though 
 veteran gamers will find that they're not too tough. The artificial intelligence is fairly predictable, 
 and it's content to send wave after wave of units at you in a regular pattern, so this means you 
 have time to build up your economy and armies and research all the various upgrades on the tech 
 tree. These upgrades are particularly important in the game, since the difference between a newly 
 recruited battalion of soldiers and one that's been given upgrades, such as banner carriers, armor, 
 and enchanted weapons, is huge. There is a mix of conventional units that you can recruit, and 
 they have a sort of rock-paper-scissors relationship to one another. Swordsmen are good against 
 other swordsmen, but archers can pick the swordsmen apart. Archers are vulnerable to cavalry, but 
 cavalry can be blunted by pikemen. The key to winning is recognizing what the enemy is using against 
 you and building the counter to that.  

  While you're building up your army, you can also recruit hero units, which are notable characters 
 from the books and movies, such as Gimli the dwarf. These are super-units, each capable of dishing 
 out and taking large amounts of damage, while also having special powers and abilities themselves. 
 Then there are your special powers. As you gain experience through the game, you collect points 
 that can be used to purchase a variety of powers that you can use repeatedly, though there is a 
 recharge time associated with each one. The most basic powers can heal your units, or turn the 
 landscape into an elven wood, which boosts the forces of good while weakening the forces of evil. 
 The more-advanced powers can turn the tide of a stalemate, as you can summon earthquakes or a balrog, 
 the fiery demon seen in  The Fellowship of the Ring .     

   

  Whenever your army and heroes are ready, simply select them and send them off in the direction 
 of the enemy. You can micromanage control of each battalion if you want, or you can simply sit 
 back and let them do their work with the occasional adjustment on your behalf. This is a process 
 that you may have to repeat several times in each battle (and in some of the more drawn-out battles, 
 a lot of times) . When you win, it's off to the next battle in the campaign, and by the time you're 
 done, you'll have the hang of everything and you'll be ready for a tougher challenge: multilpayer. 

          The two campaigns, along with the skirmish mode, provide plenty of single-player gameplay. 
     

  Where the Xbox 360 version improves on the PC version is in multiplayer, as there are five modes 
 to play. There's the traditional skirmish mode, of course, which pits players in a free-for-all 
 battle of survival. These games can end early, with a quick rush by one side to crush the other, 
 or they can turn into siege slugfests as players attack and counterattack with huge armies. The 
 capture-the-flag, capture-and-hold, and resource race modes are best if you want a fast game that 
 doesn't drag on too long. The idea in these modes is that there's a victory condition that requires 
 players to take risks quickly and early, so there's no real chance to turtle up and create elaborate 
 bases and defenses. Finally, there's hero mode, which does away with the armies altogether and 
 leaves you with just the hero units battling against one another. The multiplayer modes are engaging 
 and cater to different play styles, so if you're looking for a quick game that's finished in 15 
 minutes or an epic game that can take upward of an hour, you'll be able to find one in multiplayer. 
 And considering that The Battle for Middle-earth II is the only real-time strategy game on the 
 Xbox 360, there's the potential for it to become a very popular game on Xbox Live.  

  The big question, of course, is how the control scheme holds up. For years, the criticism of real-time 
 strategy games on consoles has been that they're much easier to play with a PC's keyboard and mouse. 
 Well, conventional thinking can be thrown out the window, because The Battle for Middle-earth II 
 is pretty easy to play with the Xbox 360's gamepad. When you get down to it, all you need to use 
 to play the game are the two thumbsticks, the two triggers, and the A button. The thumbsticks control 
 the cursor and the camera, and you can swing the view around or zoom in and out (though, like with 
 many real-time strategy games, you can never zoom out far enough to get a really big view of the 
 battlefield) . The A button lets you select a unit, and if you move the context-sensitive cursor 
 over an enemy, it changes to an attack symbol, so all you need to do is hit A again to issue an 
 attack. Holding down the left trigger while hitting A selects all military units onscreen, which 
 makes it quickly give orders to your army. Meanwhile, the right trigger calls up the order menu. 
 If you want to construct a unit, just select a building, hold down the right trigger, call up the 
 build menu, and then select what you want to build. While the other buttons on the gamepad have 
 their uses and functions, you can get through the entire game knowing just those basic controls. 
 It's that easy.  

          Multiplayer will let you pit your strategic skills against other players on Xbox Live in 
 five different game modes.     

  On a high-definition screen, the visuals are pretty much identical to the PC version, which was 
 a good-looking game. In fact, the graphics actually benefit a bit from a cleaner look, since much 
 of the interface clutter required for the PC version has been removed. The environments are certainly 
 pretty, and you'll explore the lushness of the Shire, the frozen wastes of the Misty Mountains, 
 and the gloomy depths of the Mirkwood. Each faction has a unique look and feel to it, and you really 
 can appreciate the detail in some of the bigger units, such as the mountain giants or the Ents. 
 The downside is that frame rate issues that cropped up in the PC version are here as well, so things 
 slow down quite a bit during large battles. Meanwhile, the game is playable on a standard-definition 
 television, though the visuals turn into a muddled mess. The tiny units on the screen are hard 
 to distinguish from one another, and everything blends together unless you zoom in tight to the 
 screen. The audio is still top-notch, though. Actor Hugo Weaving lends his voice to Elrond in the 
 game, though you'll also hear Ian McKellen, Christopher Lee, and other familiar voices that were 
 featured in the original Battle for Middle-earth, as well. And the music is appropriately epic, 
 obviously inspired by the Academy Award-winning movie scores.  

  Put it all together and The Battle for Middle-earth II is a game that offers a lot for the strategy-inclined 
 Xbox 360 gamer. There's a considerable amount of replayability thanks to the single-player campaign, 
 skirmish, and multiplayer modes, a fact that is further aided by the points system. The game has 
 a fair amount of points and achievements that you can unlock (though for some strange reason you 
 can only earn 705 points overall) , so you may find yourself playing missions over again so you 
 can get the achievement. While the single-player game will appeal to fans of  The Lord of the Rings 
 , competitive players will undoubtedly be drawn to the cutthroat multiplayer mode, especially since 
 there's nothing quite like it on the Xbox 360. And, yes, the big surprise is that here's a real-time 
 strategy game that works on a console, and the world didn't come to an end.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (263 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 9:25 am PT
Review:  The best RTS and game on xbox 360 yet! This game will get you addicted! I've played hundreds of 
 hours of it and I'm still not bored. If you have Live you may be addicted for years as long as 
 people continue to play!
  
  Now there are 2 campaigns, EVIL and GOOD each have 8 missions and the levels are very intresting 
 and have objectives which differ from the ones beforehand which keeps the game intresting. Missions 
 will have you defending castles, attacking them, destroying well known Middle Earth locations and 
 forming massive armys to engage in EPIC battles. 
  
  There is also skirmish mode in which you can create your own battles and... really your own story, 
 this mode keeps you playing for hours and is always different.
  
  I once had an 10 (You can make save games at anytime) hour battle in skirmish mode, it started in 
 the weekend and ended 2 days later. I was Isengaurd and I was agaist the elves and dwarfs with 
 Gondors as my allies and my only allies.
  
  They where defeated at the same time I defeated the elves and thus begins an epic war with the 
 drawfs in which they built walls!! BUT I made them come down! 2 hours later and there is fires 
 all accross the battlefield taking down trees and destroying enemys buildings and mine as well. 
 The battlefield was marked for life with a scorched ground and trees that had burnt down.
  
  In the end it took tactics to end the drawfs reign in my land.
  
  
  This game is a true 
 RTS.... BUY IT!
  
  
  
  Overall:
  
  RTS: 10/10
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Voice acting: 10/10
  
  Life: 10/10
  
  Levels: 10/10
  
  Skirmish: 10/10
  
  RPG: 
 10/10
  
  10/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo_marlo13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Come join the battle for middle earth. if you are interested, this game will be for you. the campanion 
 is different than the acual movies but it still matches. in lotr bfme2 you can control new heroes 
 : Gloin, Glorfindel, King Thanduil, The Mouth of Sauron, Grima Wormtongue, Galadriel, Gorkil the 
 Goblin King, Sauron. you get to control the armies of Gobins, Men, Dwarves, Elves and more. Multiplayer 
 give you the opportunity to challenge random players or your friends. if you can not go online 
 than you can play skirnishes, and on skirmishes you can play with the original charachers for lotr 
 bfme (1) . This game has good graphics on some of the characters and the fields. game offers the 
 good side or the bad side. you can get awesome achievements even if you lose. will you save middle-earth 
 or destroy it? get the game to chose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogamesown
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a game that takes you into the LOTR world, this is the game for you. If 
 not controlling legolas, or the witchking, you are commanding armies of goblins and men. The multiplayer 
 offers a unique challenge against people and friends. However, the multiplayer should have a save 
 sequence, some games are a little to long. All game modes are fun, and you can destroy friends 
 to level up into a higher more strategic gameplay. If you do not have xbox live, you can have skirmishes, 
 which are AI verses you, you can have up to 3 AI, 4 players total. This game does not require alot 
 of play time, but it is hard. Even Campain on easy is a little challenging. But don't get frusterated, 
 because if you manage patience, you can get those sweet achievements, but if you really suck, play 
 xbox live and lose 10 matches in a row, it still is an achievement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolas95
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This, is actually the best RTS I've played. The campaign is nice, and fun to play with 8 levels 
 for both good and evil armies, which are 6 in total. Each of the armies have something good about 
 them.
  
  All the fractions (armies) are, said different. The Men of the West are about the even fraction, 
 powerful in all places. Elves are fast, swift do good damage, but are weak in health, their best 
 place is archery. Dwarves are tuff, damage giving fighters, but their slow, they have the best 
 catapults, and other forgery. Mordor is a cheap, army building race, who build their armies almost 
 faster than all the others, and the have the trolls. Isengard is alot like the men, about even 
 in all places. Goblins, are very fast, cheap and arguably the fraction.
  
  All armies have 1 or 2 (basic and/or elite) type of the following, Pikemen, Swordsmen, Archers, 
 Horsemen, canapults, some of the fractions have battering rams, and of coarse Heros. All have their 
 uses such as Pikemen will destroy Horsemen, or archers will pick off swordsmen. 
  
  Heros are a cool part of this game, all fractions have 3 to 7 of them, most seen in the movie Aragorn, 
 Legolas, the Witch King, Shelob, Gimli, etc. There are even some that appear in the book, such 
 as Gloin and Glorfindel, or some are exclusive to the game such as Gorkil or Drogoth. All the Heros 
 have 3 to 5 special powers, such as Lurtz has a Cripple Shot, which pins heros in place, or Gandalf 
 has wizard blast, which blows and usually kills all enemys in front of him.
  
  Building are in it just like all other RTS's such as a barracks or a farm (money producing structures)
 
  
  Powers to cast are in this that you buy with "power points" which you earn by having your armies 
 fight with opponents. Powers are different skills to cast, some are more points than others, cheap 
 ones such as heal (which heals your troops) or more expensive one such as rain of fire or earthquake.
 
  
  There's a lot in this game to enjoy, and like me you may be playing it for years. The controls 
 in this game are great, and easy to learn, they just feel right.
  Gameplay: 9.3
  Graphics: 9.0
  Sound: 8.8
  Overall: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle-Earth II on the Xbox360 was a bold try to bring real time 
 strategy games to consoles. Luckily this genre of games has seen lots of improvements in EA's titles 
 that came after this. 
  
  Story in Battle for Middle-Earth II is not interesting by any means. Game is set mainly in the 
 northern regions of Middle-Earth and you mainly play as Humans, Elves and Dwarves in Good campaign 
 while Evil campaign focuses on Goblins. Story unfolds as painting-like images and in-game cutscenes, 
 all of which are delivered by Hugo Weaving's voice as Elrond. Unfortunately that is not enough 
 to make this journey worth making in terms of its story.
  
  Graphics are detailed and atmosphere they help to create is truly Lord of the Rings. But what it 
 gains in detail it loses in frame rate: there's a constant slowing down in frame rate up to a point 
 that the game feels virtually unplayable and just annoying. Units are way too small and look too 
 much alike so it might be hard to tell what unit does what. It doesn't help much either that the 
 loading times are way too long and there are too many of them. Your experience is constantly interrupted 
 by a loading screen or just a freezed screen that loads.
  
  Music is the best part of Battle for Middle-Earth II. Orchestral tunes from the movie trilogy are 
 truly music to your ears and the sounds of battlefield are very life-like. On top of this the voice 
 acting is very well done and of course the most memorable is Elrond telling the main story. In 
 its audio department Battle for Middle-Earth II delivers in every front.
  
  Gameplay is real time strategy with a game pad. Controls are made simple, but at the same time 
 they are very clunky and slow. Luckily the enemy AI is not that aggressive so you usually have 
 enough time to make necessary adjustments before heading to battle.
  
  It would have been easier for a gameplay standpoint to put just two factions waging a war like 
 GDI and NOD in Command & Conquer series. Instead of that we now have six different factions, whose 
 units do basically the same thing, but have different appearance and different names. This means 
 that you as a player have to do multiple times the work you would have to do, if there were only 
 two factions waging this war. In my opinion it's just unnecessary complicated.
  
  Single player campaign is also quite short. The Good and Evil campaigns consist only eight missions 
 so there are 16 missions to complete in total. Luckily nowadays this game is not so expensive that 
 you would feel like you're not getting your money's worth.
  
  Battle for Middle-Earth II also contains a functional multiplayer component, where you can fight 
 against other human players. Problem is that these battles are very slow-paced and long. This means 
 that you very rarely get to play a match from start to finish before your opponent decides to leave.
 
  
  The Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle-Earth II opened the way for serious RTS games in consoles 
 and for that it's a title worthy to remember. Unfortunately its controls are so clunky and the 
 frame rate is so horrible that I only recommend it to a true Lords of the Rings fan, who doesn't 
 have a PC for gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarknessisMe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Okay first i cant afford a good computer so i play console rts games.2nd i love lord of the rings.3rd 
 i have played the first bfme. 
  
  Now ill rate each part and explain why.
  
  Sound:10
  Its the lord of the rings signature music with sword clashing. Perfect
  
  Graphics:9
 
  Great for an rts and it doesnt lag to much.
  
  Controls:8.5
  Good Adaption but could have been a little better
  
  Story:9
  A fictional story about a war 
 in the north
  
  Multiplayer:9
  Laggy in some games.
  
  Replability:9
  If you like rts and like lord of the rings and you can play smoothly with the control scheme then 
 yeah its replable.
  
  I could it revolutionary because it has paved the way for the many rts games comeing out now. It 
 has shown that its possible to make a rts on the console that works. A solid 9 in my opinion, but 
 its all in what you think and what you play. I hope this helped some people who couldnt decide what 
 to buy.
  
  Note: I couldnt think of the real rating system at this time so i made some up on the spot.
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: echuu9393
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  LOTR: Battle for mIddle earth is an rts that is based on the lord of the rings trilogy. In the 
 movies and books, it describes the struggle between men and the all powerful lord sauron of mordor 
 fighting over control. This game explains the war in the northern lands with dwarves, elves, and 
 goblins when all of this was happening. There are two campaigns, a good one and a bad one. In the 
 good one you play as the elves and later dwarves trying to get rid of saurons forces to the north. 
 In the bad campaign you play as mordor and the goblins trying to take over the northern lands. 
 The campaign's storyline wasn't taken into much consideration because its based on lord of the 
 rings already but aside of there being another war in the north there are no twists or turns in 
 the story and you're pretty much just commanding forces to kill the enemy. 
  Other than the campaign there are many key features that really make this a good rts. There are 
 6 factions. The men, elves, dwarves, isengard, mordor, and the goblins. Each faction has a different 
 way of plaing the game, so you'll find one that suits you. Each faction has normal swordsman and 
 archers that are used early in the game and then there are more elite units such as trolls or mirkwood 
 archers. There are also heros that go with each faction. These heros are hardcore units that are 
 based on characters from the lord of the rings series like aragorn or gimli. Each hero starts out 
 at level one then gets a new power every some levels. The max level for a hero is 10 and at ten 
 usually a hero gets a very powerful power such as the mouth of sauron gets an ability at level 
 10 to instantly kill a number of units or heros. Usually heros are expensive but they provide better 
 strategy towards the game by giving your army a leadership bonus. You also get major powers that 
 require a fortress to use but can be more deadly than hero powers. They are sepearted in a chart 
 that has low level powers then higher level powers and higher level powers so to get one of the 
 really good powers you must get lower level powers. To unlock powers you spend power points. You 
 get power points from killing enemy buildings and units. So the more people you kill the more powers 
 you get. One thing i find very cool about this game is that you can play skirmish mode which is 
 a singleplayer game that puts you against a bunch or one faction that is played by the computer. 
 It gives you a chance to play as other factions that you dont play as in the campaign like men 
 or isengard. It also lets you practice so youll be ready to face people online. Online there are4 
 different modes to play but people only play versus which is the normal game of just slaughtering 
 your enemies so the other game modes are useless in my opinion. Overall this game is highly inovative 
 with factions and the type of strategies you can use with them. I play this game very often, but 
 rts's are my favorite kinda of game but if you enjoy strategy games then this one is perfect for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  LOTR ME-II demonstrates an important point: RTS games can be played on a console. However, if having 
 the option, I would suggest to go for the PC version any time.
  
  The reason is simple... its easier to use a mouse and a keyboard to control all the action in the 
 multiple zones of the battle than a console controller.
  
  Still, the mechanics implemented by EA for the game, at least on the 360 version, which is the 
 one I have, is quite good... takes some time to get used to but at the end it works pretty well.
 
  
  Graphics are ok (if not astonishingly good) and the sound is also good enough. 
  
  An always very important aspect about a RTS game is the storyline and in this case that topic is 
 excellent... very compelling and interesting... and I'm an old fashioned Tolkien fan so...
  
  Bottom line:
  
  If you have a PC and you like to play on it, go for the PC version.
  
 
  If you want to go for it and play a RTS on your console, this is a good choice.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: With the first Lord of the rings: battle for middle earth in 2004 pretty much most of 
 the battles and adventures have allready been covered. The fight for Middle-earth is still the 
 focus of the campaigns, but the structure has been changed pretty dramatically from the first game.
 
  There are 16 campain missions on each the good side and the evil side, which are intresting enough 
 to keep you occupied. Also there are also 40 skirmish maps to play. Many of them provide very cool 
 settings to play in like Rivendell, Celduin, Erebor, and The Shire and most are constructed to 
 fit the fiction and progress the action and technology. What I liked about this second installment 
 was the ability to create heroes in this game. Depending on what side you on, you can customize 
 your character from the color to what abilities they have. There has been some gameplay changes 
 for Battle for Middle-earth II, now it has more of an old school feel to it. Bases can now be built 
 free-form instead of the set base size with a number of build plots like in the first game. Now, 
 since walls can be built and buildings placed anywhere, changes were made to what can be constructed 
 and how resources are collected. Walls become a huge strategy for certain races (though they're 
 usually very expensive to construct) . There are also some new races to play such as the elves, 
 Drawfs and the goblins.
  
  Graphics: The graphics have been improved, especially for the xbox 360 version it just seem to 
 be enhanced by the system. Everything is well detailed and has great camra angels. 
  
  sound: Well the sound is great in this game. It uses some of the music from the movie which is 
 nice and the voice acting sounds great aswell along with the sound effects such as the arrow shots 
 and stuch.
  
  Value: All in all this is a good sequal which is rare these days. What i disliked about this xbox 
 360 version was the control, I much prefer RTS game with a keyboard and mouse. I also did not like 
 the cookie cutter type thing this game EA gave us. lastly I did not liked during the campaine it 
 was much like risk and when you lost a area and got it back again you had to re-build everything. 
 All in all this was a good game which I enjoyed. I give this game 8.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simsfreak14
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  This is actually a good game. I got it for 5 bucks off a friend and played it for the first time 
 and I got addicted to it. It's Basically like "Age of Empires" but set in the Lord of the Rings.
 
  \\\\\\\\
  PROS
  \\\\\\\\\\
  
  1. Lord of the Rings theme make this RTS great!
  2. Great Controls on the 360 make this game enjoyable!
  3. Many forces to command.
  4. Heroes 
 is an excellent addition to combat.
  5. A lot of detail in the buildings and characters.
  6. Great campaign. 
  7. 2 sides of campaign's you can do, Good or Evil which gives a long story.
 
  
  \\\\\\\\
  CONS
  \\\\\\\\\\\\
  
  1. Maps aren't that big
  2. There could be more variety of maps.
  3. More buildings and more troops would be great in 
 the next one.
  4. Game skips everyone know and then if you have too much action going on.
  
  Overall this game is great. A great addition to anyone 360 collection!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexmurray
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the rings battle for middle earth 2 is the sequel to the award winning LOTR BFME. I cant 
 say that the console one is worse then the PC version, the flaws in both level them out to a 8.5. 
 Unlike the first version of the game you can build on any plot of open land not just on build points, 
 also the main reson to purchase the game is the 3 new factions, the dwaves the seriously overpowed 
 fraction, the elves and the goblins. 
  
  A major complant about the game is that mulitplayer is only 2 Vs. 2 unlike the computer versions 
 4 Vs. 4. But this is made up by lag free gameplay. Another dissapointing factor is the create a 
 hero mode from the second, insted you get EA's pre made heroes. And It may seem like after that 
 it deserves a 5, and with EA's servers that shut down occasionly.
  
  But this a truly epic game and a must have for RTS fans
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game when it first came out and im still playing it. this one is a must have for 
 any gameing collection especially if you like these warcraft style of games. this game never gets 
 old and the story line is fun and keeps you on the edge of your seats wanting more. you can play 
 both as the hero or the villian and both offering their own unique storylines that dont get old. 
 if thats not enough for you then you will definitly enjoy the online multiplayer andif you dont 
 have your online capability then you can play against the computer and set the difficulty to your 
 taste anywhere from crushing the a. i. to having it be damn near impossible. also this game offers 
 solid graphics to go along with the gameplay offering endless loads of killing and battle good 
 and evil fun. if you thought tetris was addicting then you obviously havent played this yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaver16
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  I was a really big fan of, LOTR: BFME 1, then when the 2nd one came out, i was really hooked on 
 it. The fact that its on the xbox 360 makes it even better than ever, much smoother detail, more 
 detail on the characters, plus play good, or play evil, makes it more fun. I have not beaten it 
 yet, cause well, i didnt actually know this game was out untill i found it at gamestop, i thought 
 it came out in 07, not 06, anyways, The controls where so easy, even better than P. C controls. 
 i havent played evil campaign, cause im still playing good campaign, if you really liked the first 
 LOTR: BFME 1, then you will love the 2nd one, it even has awesome awesome online play, just get 
 the game dont rent or borrow, its a must buy if you like, RTS/MMO, must buy for any LOTR's fan!!! 
 this has been another review from vaver16, cya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Mulder
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 9, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. The thing i had the most fun with is unlocking all of the things the 
 game had to offer. I would think, "O i hope they have such and such from the movie in the game." 
 and every time the game delivers. If you have a favorite LOTR character or beast from the game 
 you better believe you can control it and all of its powers. Im probably a little bias because 
 i love LOTR so much but even so i felt like there was very little to complain about. The graphics 
 are solid. The game control is good, maybe a little flawed in some places but not bad. I think 
 the characters were well done as well, they all had unique abilities that made them unique in the 
 movie. While it is no Starcraft, this game delivers with impressively expansive landscape and all 
 around fun game play. This game is a treat for any LOTR fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 100starz
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 4, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Its a fair game! This game has pretty cinematic battles and the campaign follows the war the Dwarves 
 and Elves fought, the one overshadowed by that which man fought. 
  But lets face it! This game is brought to its knees by the PC version! In the 360 version, they 
 screamed "SCRUYU!" to the awesome Create-A-Hero feature. They replaced it by letting all heroes 
 recruitable by all factions. Once you stop laughing at the confused Gondorian captain who serves 
 Mordor (And vice-versa) , the euphoria is replaced by burning hot rage. WHY CAN WE NOT CREATE OUR 
 OWN HEROES???!?!!!?!
  Figures...
  Did i forget to mention that they took out war of the ring? (DANG!)
  However, they made an excellent 
 job with the controls! I haven't experienced any problems with them!
  
  The graphics are very nice for an RTS of this type. However, the FPS rate is AMAZINGLY low! It 
 can lag ALLOT!
  
  Overall, this game should be rented first.
  
  HMMM -_-
  
  Time for my pie! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooman72
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 20, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Don't buy it at least not for the 360 if you want it buy it for the pc its much better. Firstly 
 its really bad to control where as on the pc its simple with the mouse. secondly the story is rubbish 
 there isn't any big battles like helms deep like there was on the first one. They have some new 
 units and factions which is nice my favorite has to be the goblins. Also there is new hero's which 
 you have to unlock but most of them you have to get online so you can't if you don't have live 
 also on the pc version you can create the hero's yourself which is much better. The graphics are 
 okay on it but there not great. the best bit about it is the online since there is a few modes 
 to play but its not all good because since there are lots of troops on screen the game sometimes 
 slows down, also you may play with people who use a glitch to get more units so then it goes really 
 slow.
  
  If your thinking of buying it get it for the pc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theLBJ23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Good game to buy if you are into RTS or a fan of the LOTR series. The game has a very easy learning 
 curve. Missions are short but some are very fun and replayable. This game lets you create your 
 own armies, lets you build your own resources (which i really enjoyed because i didnt like harvesting) This 
 game just set the standards for other RTS games foor the Xbox 360. Although some frame rate issues 
 you would expect it from an RTS game that lets you control hundreds of units on the screen at once. 
 It is definitely not the best RTS out there but it sure is in my top ten games overall. (Strategy 
 Fan) I really liked how they put the music and acting into the game to give it a more epic feel 
 just like the movies. You should go get this game in stores or rent it if you arent sure, but i 
 would recommend buying it because it isn't too expensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord0thief
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  "Ride, ride for ruin, and the world's ending!" 
  Ah, Tolkien's great classic has returned again, in yet, another RTS, which happens to be the sequel 
 to The Battle for Middle Earth. Hence, this game is named, The Battle for Middle Earth 2. And what 
 a surprise! EA has managed to bring the strategy genre to the console! Particularly the Xbox360. 
 Personally, bringing the strategy genre to the consoles, was not such a great idea. The big screen, 
 eh, fun at first, but becomes tiresome to navigate your eyes across it when you're looking for 
 a simple unit. Easy controls? Not so much, having to press the Right trigger button along with 
 50 other controls to get 3 units of archers to move into a building... Not so fun at first, but 
 of course, the game will grow on you and surprisingly can be somewhat fun for a little bit. Listed 
 above, are the game's most distinguishing qualities, which are not very good ones. 
  
  Then again, The Battle For Middle Earth 2 does have its perks. The multiplayer is quite fun, when 
 you're bashing "Minas Tirith" to the ground with a bunch of hairy trolls and giant elephants. While 
 your opponent 10 miles away is crying over the loss of his great castle in an online battle, just 
 thinking about that made me want to play the multiplayer even more. The graphics are quite nice 
 for a game that came all the way from the PC. The story line is what really makes this game though. 
 It's definitely not the best we've ever seen from EA adaptations of Tolkien, but it really opens 
 up a whole new world to the player. Most people didn't know from the movie that the shire gets 
 attacked by evil green goblins until this game showed them. Altogether, what makes this game fairly 
 acceptable is the multiplayer, the graphics, and the Great Storyline.
  
  The game overall isn't the best that EA has come up with, and it's definitely not worth your buy 
 unless you're a big Tolkien fan, or you just want 15 hours of fun for 60 bucks... Which in my opinion 
 isn't a very good deal. And not to mention, this game is also on the PC, which is actually much 
 better and cheaper, if you're really motivated to buy this game get on the computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don0van
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  If you loved age of empires games 
  then you will love this too
  This is like it in everyway but even better insted of just men you use to kil you can have dragons, 
 Trolls, elves, dwrafs, and many many more kinds of creatures
  and just as in agoe of empires you can have heros from the movie like the witch king even sauran,
 
  the great you grow and the more pople you kill you get points in to buyign magic spells such as 
 summon giant hawks, rain of fire, dragons, men, tom bombadil (not sure how to spell name) , powers 
 in to seeing in ur eniemes base, and the best of all bolorges which makes the game veryy funnn.
 
  In this game you upgrade ur house different from age of empires insted of all upgrading at once 
 you upgrade the when you want by buying new parts within them whihc can lead to giveing you powers 
 and better things to defend your city.
  If all your buildings get destroyed then you lose so allways you want to protect them.
  There 
 is a good and a evil story mod which are both pretty long soo ull see from both points of view 
 what happens which is very fun.
  When you get acievements you can unlock different heros which you can use in muiltiplayer.
  In 
 muiltiplayer you can have up to 4 people also can have every man for them selve teams like 2vs 
 2 or 3vs 1 yes 3 vs 1 seems really unfair right well they make maps to make it fair like helms 
 deep which the 1 person startes in a huge palace and starts with more suplies then everyone else 
 so he can build up faster. So it is all fair. Also you can pick between different kinds or people 
 u wanna be online like goblins ,elevs ,human and so on which can give people many different ways 
 in winning or losing. 
  This is a very fun filled game the difficulty depends on what you pick for story and if you have 
 ever played a online game it all depends on the person you are playing in how hard it might be.
 
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sharvie
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle-Earth 2 was the first of its kind in the Real-time strategy 
 genre for the Xbox 360. Since then, developers have used the game as a basis to further expand 
 the RTS genre onto the Xbox 360.
  
  The Battle for Middle-Earth games have been a huge success on PC with thousands of Lord of the 
 Rings fans able to play as their favourite armies and take to the battlefield in huge battles. 
 Now EA have released the game for 360 owners, hoping to further expand the game's popularity.
 
  
  One of people's main concerns over the game was how the control scheme would pan out in the game 
 and overall - it does a pretty good job. EA have come up with a relatively simple way of using 
 the thumbsticks to control the cursor and camera. With the A button you can select a unit, and 
 order an attack on a unit by moving the cursor over the enemy and hitting A. Holding down Left 
 trigger (LT) and hitting A will select all military units on the screen. By holding down the Right 
 trigger (RT) you bring up a small order menu where you can build units if you have selected a building, 
 for example. The controls are rather intuitive and are something more console RTS games are now 
 using.
  
  Battle for Middle-Earth allows you to play as both the good and evil side in a singleplayer campaign 
 that takes place while Frodo and The Fellowship are on their perilous journey to Mordor. The story 
 is well told and you will encounter some noticeable characters that were left out of the film in 
 the game. In the good campaign you will predominantly play as the Elves, Men of the West and Dwarves; 
 and an evil campaign which you will play as Goblins, Orks and Uruk-Hai.
  
  To add to the singleplayer experience, the game has a Skirmish mode that allows you to play the 
 AI on various maps, ranging from Minas Tirith to the mysterious Mirkwood forest. In this mode, 
 you can select any race to play as: Men, Elves, Dwarves, Goblins, Orks or the Uruk-Hai. Each faction 
 has their own strengths and weaknesses, for example Elves have superb archers, whereas Dwarves 
 are slow moving but can pack a punch. No matter who you select to play as, you can select what 
 enemy to play (I can't count the amount of times I relived the scene from Minas Tirith from the 
 movie) . You can also select if you want any allies and what difficultly the enemy will play as. 
 Skirmish mode is a nice little add-on and can at least provide some replay value to the game.
 
  
  There are also some obvious, yet subtle, tactical elements to the gameplay. Cavalry can easy wipe 
 out a band of archers, whereas Uruk-Hai pikeman will clean up any cavalry charge up ahead. Combined 
 with the tactical element to the game, an impressive power ability is featured. As you play through 
 a game, you rack up experience points for killing enemies, and more. With these points you can 
 purchase special powers like healing allied units, and more expensive ones like summoning a ferocious 
 dragon to fight for your side. Certain powers are associated with each faction though, so there 
 is no ability for Elves to summon the Balrog. You also have the ability to summon heroes to lead 
 your soldiers in battle. The heroes at the top of the list, like Gandalf, cost a lot of resources 
 but if looked after, they can dish out a whole load of hurt to an enemy army.
  
  Multiplayer in the game can be an enjoyable experience with modes to cater for everyone's taste. 
 There is the typical skirmish mode which is a free-for-all battle against other opponents with 
 the victor being whoever survives. There is also capture-the-flag, capture-and-hold, and a resource 
 race that can be finished in pretty quick time. Finally, there is Hero mode where a both players 
 are given a hero and you have to fight it out until a player's hero dies. The multiplayer is a 
 lot of fun to play, even with friends, and even now it doesn't take long to get into a decent game.
 
  
  The visuals of the game are also well worth noting. The game's variable environments look excellent 
 and are very well designed. Units also look fairly detailed and their character models look just 
 how you would expect them too. Each faction also has their own unique look. Elves have a more natural 
 and elegant look with trees incorporated into their buildings, whereas Orks have a more degraded 
 appearance with flimsy, dirty structures. However the game suffers from an almost unbearable frame 
 rate collapse during large scale battles which is quite a disappointment. The audio is also great. 
 Some actors from the films provide voice acting for their roles to give the game a more endorsed 
 feel. The music is also quality, which you would expect due to the films having such beautiful 
 musical scores.
  
  Despite some technical hitches with the game, it still offers a full package of things to do from 
 the singleplayer campaign, skirmish, and online mode. Any fans of Lord of the Rings would enjoy 
 the game's loyalty to the books and a story that is lesser known to people will certainly give 
 you some enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardcoregamerXX
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has excellent gameplay but does get very boring after awhile. Also, there is a huge problem 
 with building huge armies; it gets extremely, and I mean extremely, LAGGY.
  
  The graphics are surprisingly good. Yeah, their good but not worth it unless you have 1080i. 
 
  
  Definitely worth buying if you like Lord of the Rings alot, but I'm not the biggest fan. I'm also 
 not the biggest fan of real time strategy games. If you are obsessed with Aragorn, Legolas, and 
 Gimli then this game is definitely worth thirty bucks. Oh yeah, and don't forget Gandalf the gay. 
 (whoa sorry, typo, I mean gray.)
  
  The online multiplayer is not cool because of the extreme lag. Plus, not many people play this 
 game so it's hard to find a match.
  
  Overall, worth it if you're a Lord of the Rings nerd.
  
  Thanks for reading this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbrain120
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  My friend has this game and sure you know I used to go over to his house just to play but eventually 
 it just got tiring. I don't know if this game is on xbox live but if it is that is what you need 
 to make this game an instant classic. Computer modes are boring all you do is make hundreds of 
 guys and leave them to do yuor dirty work. I hate games that don't put you right in the action, 
 I mean if would have been amazing to make all your guys then put you in the game controlling one 
 of the heroes. I recoomend this game as a rented game than bought game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aleperez75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  This is a very well develop game. I enjoy playing it but to be honest I prefer hundreds of times 
 to play strategy on PC. I gave it a chance to see how it works. Off course I bought it use because 
 I didn't know how good it was going to be.
  
  At the beginning I was confusing using different buttons combination. Since the graphics are not 
 that sharp it was confusing. Once I got a grip of the system the game became more a more fun. 
 
  
  The human game interface, I insist, is a lot better on computers for this kind of game. So although 
 I enjoyed this game in Xbox I think that I'm not going to buy another strategy game on Xbox again, 
 including Halo Wars
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackouthc
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Lord Of The Rings: Battle For Middle Earth is a RTS game featuring some things that only modern 
 RTSs are starting to show. First of all units come out as squads of men. Which provides a much 
 more realistic war. It also features powers. Powers are earnt by beating enemy troops and the higher 
 powers must be unlocked by first getting the lower powers. Powers can provide serious help in a 
 tight situation. Then we have the not so old addition of heroes. Heroes give your troops combat 
 bonuses and are mostly excellent fighters. This game has one major flaw that got me angry. There 
 is almost no people playing on live. I have to wait sometimes up to 20 mins to get a match. But 
 the campaign has a excellent storyline featuring the dwarfs, elves, men, orcs and sarumans forces. 
 Graphics are exceptionally good and so is the sound. Great game and worth giving a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacarue224
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best tactical games I have ever played. It is a lot better than the first 
 one, which was okay, it was so-so. This game is also fun because you are the master. It also isn't 
 to hard once you get the hang of it. Of course, at first it's a little boring but it gets better 
 as you continue. Rent it First just to make sure though.=] I did not put rent it first because 
 i do not think thoughs words describe it best. Just think of it as a big game of Stratego. if you 
 have ever played that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fable_fan88
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Game is great! i would recommend it to anyone that likes the strategy games. I Thought that it 
 would suck so i rented it and played it and LOVED it. so i bought it! :-) thats how good it was. 
 everyone that plays online are really good, so if u think ur going to get the game and go straight 
 to the online play ur crazy. u need to beat the good and evil campaign first the a couple of skirmish 
 games. the only thing i don't like is that the computers are very hard, and that you can't have 
 2 players ( ( same Xbox) on team against computers or for online game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  lord of the ring's battle for middle earth is an awsome game it take's the rts gameplay from the 
 pc version and translate's in a near perfect way. the one thing holding in a big way is the framerate 
 though not such a big problem on a 1080i screen it is still a problem. the framerate dip's the 
 most in the game's big battle's of wich there are plenty. the game's two 8 mission campaign's will 
 take most player's around 8 hour's or so to complete (that's eight hour's a piece) there pretty 
 basic for an rts gsme but what keep's them from being boring is of course the lord of the ring's 
 story character's and scenery. the graphic's look nice though unit's get muddled and bluty on basic 
 display's. but if you have a 1080i tv then the graphic's look nice and crisp. the gamplay is quite 
 amazing it's an easy game to learn in about an hour or so you will have all the knowledge to succeed. 
 save for the framrate the gamplay is flawless. the sound also play's a big roll in making this 
 game deep and enjoyable it has all of the song's and more from the movie's. the game'svalue does 
 take a hit if you don't have online ( mainly a gold xbox live membership) then your getting only 
 half the game. but by noe the game's price has gone down and you should be able to pick it up for 
 around $29.99 ( i payed full price) so if your looking for a great 360 game then you have to play 
 lord of the ring's battle for middle earth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The most important new feature is the 'build anywhere' style. Players cannot build on uneven terrain 
 or in trees. Players start with builders and can use them to create any structure they can afford. 
 This allows more freedom and faster troop production. Some veterans of the original game dislike 
 the new feature since it removes one of the unique features that the series had. Making the whole 
 game simpler and close to other games (like Command and Conquer: Generals) .
  
  The Citadel that was the center of a base in the first game has been removed, and replaced with 
 a fortress. The fortress is much more powerful than the citadel, as it can be upgraded with many 
 defenses, including up to 6 catapults, arrow towers, walls, and faction-exclusive upgrades (like 
 mines for Isengard) that can branch off it. Still the fortress serves the same functions as the 
 citadel, which is training heroes. However, the walls of the fortress cannot have troops sitting 
 on top of them. While this was considered in production, it was decided they were too bulky.
  
  Resource gathering has been changed as well. Originally, all resource gathering structures 
 would generate an amount depending on their level. Now they are more influenced by the terrain 
 surrounding them (although they can still gain levels) . To prevent players from creating large 
 amounts of resource buildings, for the resources as well as command points, any resource generator 
 too close to another will receive a substantial loss to income. Generators grant an initial 50 
 command points, as well as 25 more for each level, totaling a possible 100 command points.
  
  Most of the units come in a battalion (for good factions) or horde (evil faction) . Only bigger 
 units don't do this. Almost all units may be upgraded, some upgrades need to be purchased by the 
 player, while others only require the unit to increase a level or two. This upgrade system is a 
 simpler version of the original game's unit upgrade system, where the player had to research it 
 first and buy it for his units.
  
  Plot
  
  The campaign is divided into two parts, Good Campaign, and Evil Campaign, as further described 
 below. Instead of the world-map overview as given in the last game, the player goes through eight 
 missions that are rather short and easy to complete. This was considered a downgrade from the last 
 game, but the War of the Ring mode was a replacement for the former campaign.
  
  Setting
  
  Unlike its predecessor, the game is set mainly in the northern regions of Middle-earth, and 
 focuses on the events on the war there. Factions include the Elves, Dwarves, Men of the West (Gondor 
 and Rohan combined) and the Goblins, along with Mordor and Isengard. For the Good campaign, the 
 story starts in Rivendell where the Goblins from the Misty Mountains are poised to attack, while 
 the Fellowship of the Ring journey south. For the Evil campaign, it begins with the siege of L&oacute; rien 
 from Mordor's stronghold of Dol Guldur.
  
  The story highlights some of the events of the novel which may be unfamiliar to audiences of the 
 New Line films. As Electronic Arts had acquired a license from Tolkien Enterprises as well as one 
 for the films, they used the battles in the north as the focal point, which are only briefly hinted 
 at in the Extended Edition of The Return of the King DVD, and noted in the Appendices of the novel.
 
  
  In the novel, it is explained that while the front of the war that the members of the Fellowship 
 of the Ring are experiencing (which is directly depicted by the films) is the primary one, it is 
 in fact a war fought on many fronts across Middle-earth.
  
  However, the game and its version of the war in the north should not be seen an accurate record 
 of what Tolkien actually wrote, since many liberties have been taken.
  
  Locations
  
  The Battle for Middle-earth II has over forty different locations in Skirmish mode, including: 
 * Caradhras (the Redhorn Pass) * Ettenmoors * Mirkwood * The Shire * Fangorn Forest * Dunland * 
 The Black Gate
  
  The game also boasts a few fortress maps, allowing the player to command or siege a fortress. (Although 
 these are best played multiplayer as the AI rarely cooperates) . * Minas Tirith * Helm's Deep * 
 Isengard * Minas Morgul * Dol Guldur * Mithlond * Erebor * Rivendell
  
  War of the Ring Mode
  
  The War of the Ring mode was not unlike the Campaign from the previous 
 game, but with major changes that benefit gameplay. You choose one of the six races and battle 
 throughout Middle-earth, capturing domains controlled by your enemy until you or your enemy controls 
 the entirety of Middle-earth. You can garrison troops in territories you control, making it so 
 that if your enemy attacks, you have soldiers there to defend. Once attacked or when you are attacking 
 an enemy, you can choose to either simulate it, and let the computer determine the outcome, or 
 fight it out while actually commanding your units, playing just like the normal skirmishes in the 
 game. It should be noted that you will more than likely lose more units simulating when attacking 
 than if you simply fought it out RTS style.
  
  Collector's Edition
  
  Here we can see the heroes of the game, minus Tom Bombadil, who is summoned using Evenstar points, 
 and Eowyn - near the bottom right Galadriel can be seen - the most powerful character there. She 
 can destroy a whole unit with one swipe. Gandalf is also using his lightning sword; he is aiming 
 it at a Haradrim building, used to build Haradrim soldiers and soldiers of Rhun. The enemy's encampment 
 has been destroyed. NOTE: This is the collectors edition screenshot. The battle scene/map is of 
 Osgiliath. This is in skirmish mode - NOT in storyline.
  Here we can see the heroes of the game, minus Tom Bombadil, who is summoned using Evenstar points, 
 and Eowyn - near the bottom right Galadriel can be seen - the most powerful character there. She 
 can destroy a whole unit with one swipe. Gandalf is also using his lightning sword; he is aiming 
 it at a Haradrim building, used to build Haradrim soldiers and soldiers of Rhun. The enemy's encampment 
 has been destroyed. NOTE: This is the collectors edition screenshot. The battle scene/map is of 
 Osgiliath. This is in skirmish mode - NOT in storyline.
  
  Besides the normal edition of The Battle for Middle-earth II, Electronic Arts released a Collector's 
 Edition of the game exclusively for the PC-version. This edition has five additional maps, including 
 Weathertop and Argonath, new monster skins and models, slightly changed special effects and in 
 multiplayer games the Create-A-Hero gets a star on top to identify Collectors Edition gamers during 
 on-line play or Skirmish. It also contains a bonus DVD with e. g. Making-Of Videos, an Artwork-Viewer, 
 the game music or the complete ingame videos.
  
  People however, found the slogan advertising the Collectors Edition, Control the Dragon , somewhat 
 misleading, because it implied only Collectors Edition owners could control the in-game Dragon. 
 But in reality, the Collectors Edition owners only gained several more skins and a different model 
 for the Dragon. Xbox owners can also control the Dragon Many people though, did not make a giant 
 issue out of this controversy, seeing as in some countries the Collectors Edition shipped for 
 the same price as the normal game edition and the Collectors Edition was regarded as a good buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr-sheep
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  This game suffers from a massive frame rate problem but if you can get past all of that it is still 
 a great game. The gameplay is actually quite smooth considering the face that it's an RTS on a 
 console. Most people would think the controls would be horrid but EA invented a really cool system 
 which involves using jsut the right trigger. It doesn't impede your progress at all haha. The campaign 
 is long but sometimes it's jsut a bit too repetetive but if you want to get the achievements it 
 isn't too bad to go through. It's fun while it lasts.
  
  The multiplayer is downright lame though... People jsut keep picking the imbalanced faction and 
 killing all the noobs. The community is pretty much dead too.
  
  The graphics are quite good though for an RTS. But, it's just too much for the 360 to handle. It 
 wasn't optimized properly i guess so the frame rate dropped alot.
  
  Overall I think you should get C&amp; C TW instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buying1999
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  LOTR is a shining example of what can be done in the genre' on a console with careful planning 
 and the right control scheme. There have been many RTS games published for consoles through the 
 years but none of them were able to really break through the market like LOTR. The reason for this 
 is that the control scheme of RTS games on a console is hard to get right. You don't have the convience 
 of a keyboard and mouse to help the play command his resources and various other units effectively. 
 That is until now. EA has done a great job with the play command interface and will probably be 
 copied and expanded upon in future competitor RTS games. With a very intuitive method of control 
 layout for the gamepad this game really opens up the world of RTS games to players that may have 
 never had the chance to get into this kind of game before.
  
  The graphics are great. With shadowing, great lighting, great textures, and literally entire armies 
 on the battle field all at once. Granted the framerate takes a small hit when there' s really heavy 
 action on the screen. All that activity and bling do come at a cost. But by no means does this 
 interefere with the ability to play and enjoy EA's interation or Tolkien's classic world of The 
 Lord of the Rings.
  
  Audio is good too. With great voice overs, ambient sound effects, the sound of swords, the sound 
 of catapults, and various other weapons, and people LOTR uses sound to help immerse you into the 
 game and make you feel like you're really fighting on the side of good or evil.
  
  Replay value is high for this game as it has many achievements and great online play. With many 
 different game modes for online play you'll be enjoying this game for months after you conquer 
 the single play good and evil campaigns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  LOTR : BFME II is a good game, but the chopiness, stuttering and slow framerates just may drive 
 you mad. It is obviously just too much rendering for the 360.... or maybe it was just ported over 
 poorly? Who knows? All I know is LOTR BFME II not only has the longest title of any game in recent 
 history, but it also has the poorest framerate of any next-gen title i've played so far.
  
  All that aside, it is a very well-made game. The voices are perfect, the battle sounds are pretty 
 good, and the graphics (background scenery, character models, buildings) look great. Just don't 
 forget that once the big battles start brewing, the gameplay bogs down ALOT.
  
  However, unless you are the utmost, perfectionist-freak about choppiness and framerates, DONT AVOID 
 THIS GAME. The overall quality shines through and urges you forward to beat the next level, and 
 the next, and so on. It is that good. Online play is solid too, and seems to have somewhat better 
 framerate overall... but then again, I haven't personally played any enormous army vs. enormous 
 army battles yet.
  
  If you're wondering about the control scheme, it's awkward, especially at first, so give yourself 
 AT LEAST 3 levels to get used to it... and since the levels can take an hour or longer to complete, 
 that translates to roughly 6 hours of exposure before you get good n' quick with the 360 controller 
 instead of the RTS favorite, mouse and keyboard.
  
  Overall, a great game and should not be avoided despite it's graphical slowness ( at times ) , because 
 it really captures that LOTR feel to a T . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggomaster10
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  i had originally had both of bfmes on the pc i loved the multiplayer on that and how big of an 
 army u can control. as soon as it was released i was eager to get it i got it i was amazed how 
 many multiplayer modes there were and how different and complex there each are i started to play 
 it for hours on end it was the best rts i ever played on any game console or computer ever! basicly 
 its amazing u can create ur own heros and fully customizable their outfit the powers their weapons 
 everything. the chat was an alright system and it had a very solid framerate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  If you dont play RTS then rent it fist, cuz has a bit complex gameplay. it is good playable on 
 console, but a RTS is always better on PC.
  
  Pros:
  - Great RTS game.... and on console!
  - Good graphics.
  - Good units-variability
  - Good Sound
 
  - is always playable on 360, even with the sceen full of elements.
  - You can really feel the middle earth battles.
  
  Bad:
  - Bad map control
  - kinda-Slow 
 gameplay.
  - Only make units and send em 2 battle, no really strategy, some units own another, keep balance 
 n u got it. that makes the game in someway repetitive
  
  is good if u like this genre
  ill say it again
  rent it 1st... i love RTS&acute; but... up 2 urself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3572525
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must-buy!
  I'm not quiet sure how to explain it I mean this game is one of the best RTS games that I have 
 ever played before. This game has amazing graphics. The scenery is great. The units details are great 
 and the gameplay is smooth and fun!
  This game has no problems that I can see so if you are a fan of Lord of The Rings what-so-ever 
 then this is a must-buy!
  This game is even great for those who hate Lord of The Rings. This game is a must-buy for anybody 
 who enjoys RTS games!
  I believe that this game is worth every penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papas_slave
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  I saw my friend playing this one day and thought how dumb, then i played and i didn't let go of 
 the controller. It was addicting to the point where i lost track of time and realized it was already 
 bed time. The graphics may not have it all on it, but the game play and thought of your next attack 
 almost feels like you're really giving orders. The online 4 player mode with the different armies 
 to choose is really good. Though my game did break a month ago I'm willing to go buy this game 
 again. I recommend buying or renting this game even if you aren't a Real-time-strategy kind of 
 gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffydudeman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I love these kind of games and i love lord of the rings could it be any better? also has very good 
 graphics and game play. i love this game. if you love the lord of the rings and real time strategy 
 games then this is the game for you. very time consuming it is awesome. i showed my friend this 
 game and he hasn't stopped playing it yet. if i could i would give this game to every one who has 
 an xbox 360 because it is worth the money. the game play just blows me away i dont know what else 
 to say but i will say this play this game it is really fun and worth it because it is a awesome 
 game to play because it is fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osuc89
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Storymode is ok but get boaring quick and skirmish isnt bad either for low experienced players. 
 But for those who want a challenge every time online ranked or unranked 2 or 4 players is the best 
 way to go. the minor problem with online play is that you sometimes get stuck in matches and have 
 to sign out. besides that the gameplay is amazing the controls are designed well even tho they 
 may take a bit to master. the graphics are ok for this type of game . The hero aspect is also very 
 well developed . powers also give the game an exciting twist. overall its one of my all time favorite 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klusps
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  For the past years many developers try to put a RTS game on the console but fails. Well from the 
 devopers of EA LA, they have constructed the first sucessful real time strategy game for a console. 
 This isn't any cheap RTS like Goblin Commander or anything, this is actually a real RTS where you 
 build building, have resources, and train units from buildings. In The Lord of the Rings Battle 
 for middle 2, you take part in the war in the north of Middle Earth while Frodo is taking the One 
 Ring into Mordor and Gandalf is defending Minas Tirith. This game focuses many things by J. R. R 
 Tolkiens book, but still has the style of Peter Jackson's LOTR movies. Sense is has things from 
 J. R. R Tolkien's book you can expect dragons and other creatures which weren't in the movie. There 
 are 3 new races, Goblins, Elves, and Dwarves. If you haven't played the last game the other races 
 are Human (which are combined with Gondor and Rohan unlike the previous game) , Isengard, and Mordor. 
 Each race has special sets of units, powers, and building to make each race balance. There are 
 two campaign in this game good and evil campaign. The first thing you're probably wondering is, 
 how a RTS would work on a console because there is no mouse and keyboard. Well all you need in 
 this game is the 2 thumbsticks, the A button, and the right trigger. The controls really works 
 for the 360 controller and is easy to learn. There is a icon stuck in the middle of the screen 
 which is basicly your mouse for controlling your troops and selecting buildings. The left thumb 
 stick is use for moving the camera and the right thumbstick is for turning the camera or zooming 
 in our out. The A button is is for selecting your troops. You can do all sorts of button commands 
 with the A button like double tapping it which selects all troops or holding the left trigger (which 
 highlights every unit in screen) and pressing A to select them all. The right trigger pulls out 
 the menu in which you choose which unit to build or which building to build. The rest of the buttons 
 are use to just make things easier, like pressing the X button will automaticly take your screen 
 to the highlighted unit or building you selected last. If you played the last game but not this 
 one there is many new features to be looking forward to. First thing is the new races which I mention 
 earlier. The other feature is the ability to build your own wall structure, which you can build 
 anyway to want around your base. The more your stretch the structure of the wall you're going to 
 build the more money it takes. In the PC version there is a create your own hero mode but it is 
 not in the 360 version for some stranger reason. The gameplay overall is solid. It feels really 
 like a normal RTS where you would normaly play on a computer. Selecting troops and building is 
 easy, and commanding them is even easier. The presentation is done really nicely. The paintings 
 in the cutscene resembles many things from Tolkien's novel. The graphic in this game is pretty 
 good. You see can many good details on the troops and the enviroment is really nice. The water 
 effect and reflection is done nicely. You can see hundreds of troops on the screen at once but 
 some times when there is too much things happening at once the framerate can struggle a little 
 but overall it is fine. The sound in this game is perfect compare to the movies. There is really 
 good soundtracks pulled out from the movie through the game. The voice of the character is done 
 by the actor of movies and sounds great. The units such as trolls, Ents, Nazgul, and other creatures 
 sounds the same as it is in the movie. The enviroment is done really nicely with eagles churping 
 on the shores or the snow breeze in the Misty Mountains. The value is pretty good. There is multiplayer 
 for anybody who is done with the campaign which include normal deathmatch, capture the flag, king 
 of the hill, and other modes. The 360 version got a little more mode then the PC version. You can 
 play the multiplayer only in online to up to 4 players. There are many new maps and some old ones 
 from the previous game like Minas Tirith and Helm's Deep. For those who don't have Xbox Live you 
 can play skirmish mode. You can play on all of the maps and you play against bots. You can custimize 
 the setting like which map to play in, which race you/bots should be, which team they're on, and 
 the level of difficulty. Besides the online multiplayer and skirmish mode there are many achievements 
 and heroes to unlock throughout the campaign which is a reason to go back on the campaign. The 
 heroes can be use in multiplayer or skirmish mode. Compared to the PC the PC version is better 
 because you can easily command with the key board and mouse, but controls are still fine. The only 
 reason you should get the 360 version then the PC version is if you don't have a high end PC. But 
 overall the quality of this game is worth purchasing and I recommend this game to any RTS fan or 
 LOTR fans. This is a birth of a new generation of RTS on a console!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bozotheclown99
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 19, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is just sweet. You can do pretty much anything you want in this huge world. You can be 
 six different fractions with there own different techniques, upgrades, and men. The game has a 
 very in dept campaign which is pretty fun to play. What hooks you on this game is the online play 
 there are five different games that you can play with up two four opponents. Versus is my favorite 
 because this is where you can show your true skill and this is where you will learn tactics and 
 strategy of the game. Overall this is just an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabose420
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  
  BFME 2 does what most say can not be done, be a good RTS on a console. The game pad doesnt exactly 
 help as a keyboard and mouse can give you more precise control over your troops with hotkeys and 
 easer selection of your troops, but BFME does its best to conpisate and does it pretty well.
  
  to select a group of units just simply press A on them, then A on the area you want them to 
 go and B to deselect them. the use of the Left and Right triggers and buttons allows you to select 
 all units on the screen, all units of a certain class on screen, add more units to selected, selecting 
 all units everywhere, and selecting all units of that type everywhere. you can also assign selected 
 groups of units to a group # to select that group more easily. the use of the right trigger also 
 opens up commands to be used, like selecting heroes, powers, and your builders more easily in the 
 fray of battle, and inside your base.
  
  pressing the X button while selecting a unit allows you to go to that units position, making it 
 easy to find a builder or hero or quickly return to your selected units in a battle while checking 
 out other areas.
  
  Controls aside, the game is the same as its PC counterpart (to my knowledge anyway) there are 3 
 more factions added to the original game, but Rohan is not seen in this game. one reason is that 
 the story takes place in the wars in the northern lands of Middle Earth, where im geussing Rohan 
 was never in them. The new factions are the Elves, Dwarfs, and Goblins. the Elves play simillar 
 to Gondor with better archers. Dwarfs are all infintry and have a good economy. Goblins are like 
 Mordor, as their infantry are even weaker than Mordors though, but are alowed upgrades and can 
 scale the walls of enemys defences.
  
  also, this time around you dont need to be looking for camps or settlements to build resources 
 or buildings. your now able to build your buildings anywhere on the map, like other RTS's. this 
 changes the gameplay a bit as you cant just sit back at your base and wait for resouces, you'll 
 have to move out to expand your resouse gathering as a resouce building needs room from mountains 
 and other resorce buildings to gather. you'll also need the buildings to expand you command limit.
 
  
  they also add a new type of building, the fortress. this is the center of your base, where you 
 can build defensive structures around it, add wall hubs to expand walls from, and create builders 
 and heroes from. you'll also need it to use powers, so taking your enemys fortress is pretty vital 
 to taking your enemy out, as its very expensive to replace as well.
  
  multiplayer has a real add-on though on the 360. the new mode king of the hill is only playable 
 online on the 360. it requires players to play a bit differetnly than skimish modes. theres also 
 a capture and hold mode, basicly like territories on halo, and resouce gathering too. online the 
 game really shines as its really fun to take your tactics online and use the voice support. i geuss 
 the only thing the 360 has over the PC ;]
  
  SOUND/GRAPHICS
  
  the graphics in SD are decent, but HD is very much preferable, as your able to see the charge time 
 of your powers thats barely seen in SD. the character models detail is also greatly enhanced so 
 you can tell which unit is which when not zoomed in all the way. the game also comes with a great 
 score from the movies and voice acting from the actors for their characters as well, though not 
 heard as much in this game as the first. the allerts you get are pretty helpful as they alert me 
 to attacks and when an enemy is seen, but does get quite annoying when your low on resources as 
 it continually tells you this fror a while.
  
  OVERALL
  
  a great game for any RTS fan with a 360. the controls are great for a console and you can control 
 your troops pretty easily, though i must admit if you have the choice, PC is better as online is 
 free and more fluid controls, since no one plays king of the hill as ive seen so far, and better 
 if you dont have friends that have it as well. but if you got the friends, HD TV, and a bad computer 
 but love RTS, this is a great game to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpshoot1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 28, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  i think this game the best its fun it makes you think its a good game the one problem is how long 
 the games last of minimum 1.30 hours game if they dont rush the longest game i had was 5.00 hours 
 long no joke ask some one called gamer tag: custom josh please cheack my web site out at www.1evilsharpshoot. piczo. com 
 my web site got all you need to know about xbox live and the games so i would buy the game i bought 
 it from game station for &pound;23.00 on a special deal send me a friend request and i will have 
 game against you TIP: I think the dwarfs are the best team on it if your connection isnt great 
 dont go big maps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shonen151
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Adapted well from the PC version. May take like a couple of minutes to get used to but 
 then it will be cake.
  
  Graphics- Well done graphics, clone armies of course but very few games have fixed that. Seeing 
 a Nazgul rider coming creeps out any army.
  
  Sound- Beatufuly done, hear every sword clang to the arrows being knocked and send flying through 
 the air. Hearhing the Nazgul, heck make soldiers run.
  
  Value- Very good and fun worth the money paid for and really enjoyable with good online play.
 
  
  Reviewers tilt- I had fun with this game and after playing C&amp; C demo I know I'm ready for that 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Osiris_Godlike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 24, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  M m m. Now that's a massive battle. It been many years for seeing so big numbers on a strtegy game 
 with a population limit. That's i'm talking about. Yeah baby. Many upgrades, different units, great 
 buildings and a nice storyline. If you had seeing Lord Of The Rings, you will love it for sure. 
 I saw all the trilogy and is fantastic. Now, that is the finish. Good job EA.
  
  M m m. Now that's a massive battle. It been many years for seeing so big numbers on a strtegy game 
 with a population limit. That's i'm talking about. Yeah baby. Many upgrades, different units, great 
 buildings and a nice storyline. If you had seeing Lord Of The Rings, you will love it for sure. 
 I saw all the trilogy and is fantastic. Now, that is the finish. Good job EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clone_545
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game!
  
  There is a learning curve to get over and it plays nothing like the last game. If you have never 
 played RTS games before then this one might give you a hard time. However if you put enough time 
 into the multiplayer you will soon be handling your armies, powers, heros and resources like a 
 pro! There is alot of depth in the game as there are 6 factions that are very similar but play 
 very differently. The game is alot more balanced then BFME 1, which is a nice change. The game 
 also includes all of the maps from BFME 1 (Helms Deep, Minas Tirith) for multiplayer purposes. 
 This game isnt as fast paced as say C&amp; C, but it is easily the best console RTS game ever. The 
 game also comes with 5 different multiplayer game types (although most people just play verses 
 and KoTH) .
  
  The only drawback is that the War of the Ring mode was taken out and the control scheme will put 
 off RTS vetrans due to lack of micromanageability. The game is playable and plays fine, but you 
 dont have the precision controls of a mouse and keyboard (playing with the controler is like playing 
 with the mouse and like 2 hotkeys) . The control scheme doesnt mar the playablility of the game, 
 it just doent allow you to become tournament level good.
  
  So far I have had a blast with this game and I recommend it if you like RTS game or LOTR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codlum5
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  This Is The best game that i literaly have played. Think of It, RTS+LOTR=a very good game. Oh, 
 and heres a tip for ya. If ur playing as Isengard, Build a Uruk Pit. Make it lv.3, (make sure u 
 have lots of Resources and Command Points) Make about 10-15 Beserkers. Make a Lv.3 Mumikil Pen. 
 Make 2 Mumikil with it. Build a Tavern (If Not already) and get the Fire Arrows Upgrade. Then upgrade 
 both Your Mumikils with Fire Arrows. Get All The Tavern Upgrades. Then Build an Orc Pit and make 
 about 5 Orc Warriors And Archers each ( Or Use the Corsairs of Umbar and their Archers, your choice) 
 Upgrade your Groups Of Units. Recruit Lurtz and Saruman (If u can) . Then Attack ur Opponents Base. 
 If Ur Guys Die, repeat and u shall win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonyrules36
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  I don't recommend buying rent it its not worth the buy. This game won't let you take your time building 
 your armies or upgrades. When you start playing two minutes later o no! here comes 5 battalions 
 of enemies attacking you (depending on the level of difficulty) . Also if you take to long to attack 
 it will be hell to destroy the enemy. The AI isn't perfect either in some levels with walls when 
 you put your archers up on them don't expect them to stay there when the enemy comes the archers 
 get off the walls and get themselves killed. The lagging could get annoying to. But other than these 
 problems the game is pretty fun for some people it might take alittle while to get used to.
  The controls are easy to use because you have your whole army bookmarked and you could take control 
 of whole bunch of battalions. You won't be disappointedwith the upgrades (though you might get mad 
 when you pay alot of money to upgrade a building to the highest level and then the enemy destroying 
 it) . Now the missions if your a patient person you could beat the game easily (on easy) if you try 
 it on hard good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  Who doesn't like LOTR. It is the most famous movie in the USA. Why you ask? The armies are cool, 
 combat isnt difficult to learn, heroes are awsome, graphics are great, and the maps are beautiful. 
 No one gripes about noobs online and everyone plays for fun. No one whines because they lose or 
 one of their armies dies. The powers make the game move along a lot quicker than it seems and it 
 turns the tide in your favor most of the time. If not, your not using them correctly. The one ring 
 heroes may be very different, but they assure 75% victory for your army. (especially Sauron) .
 
  The story line could have been a little better, but other wise the game is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  lotr 2 does it's job well. admittedly i have zero experience with the rts genre and it certainly 
 takes some getting used to, but the interface is relatively easy, and the feeling of immersion 
 within the world is optimal.
  
  the command key is awfully confusing at first but does eventually become somewhat 2nd nature. the 
 battles are huge, tho i have to exch xplay's grief. the camera does not pan out far enough to see 
 everything that's going on. that is a problem and continues to be everytime i sit down to play.
 
  
  the alternate stories of lands not covered in the trilogy is fun too as it really gives you a more 
 expansive view of what middle earth was and was trying to convey. the enemies and special attacks 
 really bring the battles together in an epic fashion. all said and done it's good, just not great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ameglino
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 27, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  As much I enjoy the whole Lord of the Ring Expirence. I've came to terms that I'm not much of a 
 strategic war player. But don't get me wrong this game had impressed me alot which any Command 
 and Conquer player would enjoy.
  
  The game gives you a great feeling of summoning a huge army for you to command. Where you can be 
 the elves, the dawrves, or the humans to fight the good fight. Or you can be the Hords of goblins 
 and trolls and lay waste to everything.
  
  I found the camera function was difficult to controll which made my eyes to spin a lot.
  
  
 Once you beaten the campaign mode. There isn't alot of replay value afterward except for the skermish 
 mode. But that began to dull my senses.
  
  In my opioin, I reconmed that you should rent this game before buying if you really are interested 
 in this type of gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  For a while I was debating whether or not I would purchase this game since I haven't played an 
 RTS in a long time and even longer on a console. The last one I attempted was Goblin Commander 
 on the Xbox and while that was fun, it wasn't great. Also, since I don't play on XBL my experience 
 is from the single player campaigns on Hard difficulty and attempting to get every offline achievement 
 I can.
  
  First off, I totally concur with gamespots review. The game is wonderfully easy to play using a 
 controller and the developers really did a great job in mapping out the process. Basically by using 
 menus that you can access from the right trigger you can easily assign tasks to your army. Or by 
 holding down the A button with units selected, you can determine the size of their formation where 
 ever you want and adjust the angle they face and how wide they are. For me, learning to use the 
 controller setup was a breeze and I'm one that cut my teeth on RTS games on the PC so I was expecting 
 a faulty console design kind of like Starcraft 64. Thankfully it wasn't.
  
  The one thing that is missing, or I just never found out how to do it, is the ability to click 
 on the mini map to move to a selected section. You could click the Y button to respond to actions 
 that immediately are happening but I found that I kept missing the window to respond and so I would 
 have to look on the mini map and navigate my view to that location or find the unit from the menu 
 and then choose them and click X to move to them instantly. Something that allows us to jump into 
 and out of the mini map would have been great.
  
  Honestly, as far as the story goes I could give a toot. Anyone thats watched the movies or read 
 the books knows how the story ends. Its nice that they moved this into the northern lands during 
 the time of the fellowship and it also allowed them to take some license with things that are not 
 completely detailed in J. R. R. Tolkiens books or letters. The addition of the evil campaign was 
 also a blast as seeing Sauron or the Balrog on screen rampaging was wonderful.
  
  Which brings me to my next issue. The use of heroes in a game. The last PC RTS I played was Warcraft 
 3 which used a hero system too. I was not that fond of heroes from what I recall and that mood 
 didn't change in BfME2. It was fun to use them, but some were so powerful that it felt completely 
 unbalanced at times.
  
  I enjoyed the sounds of battle and the voice acting was great. Every little detail was added from 
 arrows flying, buildings grinding and the sound of medal on medal during battles were very well 
 done.
  
  As far as the visuals and game play... Im hesitant to say its great but I don't want to call it 
 just OK. There were a lot of details that were added to the visuals and it was the small touches 
 that were memorable. Upgraded armor shined on the units, fire arrows actually had little flames 
 on the tips of the arrow heads and the structures were designed really well. I wished the camera 
 angle could go out farther so that you could see more on the screen, but given the performance 
 hit my 360 took when there was a large battle with lots of troops, Im glad they didn't.
  
  Now as far as the performance of this game, I have to say that through most of the game it handled 
 just fine, until you had a lot of units on the screen (easily half of the battles you fight in 
 the campaign mode) or if you wanted to save or load a game. Saving and loading was excruciatingly 
 slow. I didn't time it and I don't want to over exagerrate how long I waited, but I know that saving 
 and loading must have easily been a 2 minutes ordeal no matter what was going on in the game. And 
 if you were starting a new game it took just as long to load. I did have a couple of problems with 
 some save games that wouldn't load and froze my system (I had to delete them from the dashboard) 
 and the only warning I had was the ring in the middle of the screen would freeze.
  
  Now I know some that really enjoy their RTS's on PC will completely find this game unplayable, 
 but I feel that would mostly be due to bias as the ease of use was simple, but probably more responzive 
 on the PC. I really enjoyed the game, but not enough to recommend one purchase it without playing 
 it first. Seriously. The problems I listed I know will drive some people to think why the heck 
 did they even bother with this title. I just hope that anyone that enjoys RTS games will be able 
 to appreciate what this game has done for the genre on console systems now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amroe333
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Over the years, there have been many different ventures to port RTSs over to consoles, with little 
 success. Battle for Middle Earth II (BMEII) is one of the few that has successfully made the transition 
 onto a console. Not only has it made the transition, but also it does it surprisingly well.
  BMEII follows the war to the north, a vicious war that pitted the dwarves and elves against the 
 goblins and mordor. The game offers two different campaigns (the good and the evil) . Each campaign 
 follows the same general storyline of the war, just with different outcomes. The campaigns offer 
 some of the same levels for each side as well as several ones that are unique for each campaign. 
 For instance, both campaigns feature a fight to control Rivendale, while only the evil campaign 
 offers the destruction of the Shire. The campaigns both have around eight different levels to play.
 
  The game play of the series is surprisingly well done. Each one of the six races has a completely 
 different set of buildings and races. Everything that can be built or bought is paid be the single 
 currency known as resource. Resource is acquired through building special resource producing structures. 
 These structures also raise the command limit, which is the number of units that you can control. 
 The six races play in different ways. For instance, the goblins are best used for applying constant 
 pressure to the enemy starting early in the game, while the elves really show their true colors 
 with a strong army in the end of the game. While the single player is fun, the multiplayer is just 
 as good. Along with the standard king of the hill, and deathmatch modes, the game also features 
 unique heroes battles and capture and hold matches. This extra type, along with a large amount 
 of maps, helps to keep the action flowing. Graphically, BMEII is amazing. With the ability to be 
 broadcast in 1080i, the battles look absolutely stunning. The field of view will be filled with 
 burning buildings and shining arrows. The weapons and armor of upgraded units will glow. Forests 
 will glint, and rocks will look charred and decrepit. Popular to contrary belief, the frame rate 
 of the game isnt affected too much. Sure, it might slow down a little bit when the large-scale 
 battles take place, but it isnt enough to actually hinder the gameplay. The sounds of the game 
 are really very well done. The various units will say different lines and the music is exceptional. 
 The arrows will make a swishing noise as they fly through the air and buildings under construction 
 will have the sounds of earth being moved. All in all, BMEII is an excellent game that everyone 
 should look into. You dont have to be a fan of RTS or LOTR games to appreciate this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 16, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  'Battle for Middle Earth II' is an interesting and very enjoyable game, however there are some 
 slight problems that prevent it from being a classic. The graphics are not up to the 360's standards. 
 The gameplay can get a bit muddled at times and the frame rate does slow down during battles, the 
 sound on the other hand is top notch. The campaign is lengthy and very exciting, you are given 
 the choice to play on the good or evil campaigns (both great though) .
  
  Unfortunately, due to the rocky gameplay and average graphics 'Battle for Middle Earth II' is just 
 a decent attempt at trying to create the battles of Middle Earth for you to command which ever 
 way you want, but that alone makes it worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSOROCKS555
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- This game is the first RTS to hit the home console. It starts a trend that may release 
 countless more. The concept may be a hard one to grasp as first but it pays off. You would think 
 at first that how good could it be? Well it's a great game! They could have done better but o well. 
 You can chose from 6 teams so choice is great. I give it a 8.
  
  Graphics- Not much to say on the graphics, standard game graphics. I gave iit a basic 9.
  
 
  Sound- Lord of the Rings Music so good but weird. For instance you will have this giant army and 
 sent it out to attack. So when they get their and all these arrows flying and stuff you will hear 
 this peaceful music in the backround...... really random.
  
  Value- What can i say great value.
  
  Tilt- I'm a big Lord of the Rings fan so i gotta give 
 them their props.
  
  Good game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoticAtwa
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I havn't beaten or played through all of the campaigns on Battle for Middle Earth 2 but the amount 
 of levels i've played into hasn't impressed me a whole lot. I've found alot of it to be basic RTS 
 gameplay with Lord of the Rings genre. I also found the controls for the 360 on this game to be 
 particularly frustrating in the sense of using all of the heroes abilities while managing who to 
 attack or where to move your armies. I often find myself focusing on moving them or having them 
 all attack and using the general spells. I found gameplay to be easier and more organized on the 
 PC because of the ability to hot key smaller groups of people such as ranged on F1 then close range 
 on F2, giving a large advantage over what i've experienced to be a all or nothing tactic on the 
 360. I also felt as though the PC version offered more control over general spells and hero abilites 
 through hot keys. Rather than left bumper and scroll through. In conclusion I found Battle for 
 Middle Earth 2 to be mildly entertaining due to the fact there was nothing new to the RTS genre 
 in the game and the controls are a bit iffy in comparison to the PC version which offers more control. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  As most gamers know, real-time strategy games have always been one of those genres that PC gamers 
 can say that they owned. And it's not like developers haven't tried on previous consoles to try 
 and make it work. There is just no replacing the mouse and keyboard combination that makes this 
 genre of game so much easier to play. And while EA has made a game that takes some great strides 
 to making this genre playable on the consoles, Lord Of The Rings: Battle For Middle Earth II  
 is nowhere near as good as the best PC real-time strategy games. That's not to say this isn't a 
 great game that I hope future developers take and build upon for more upcoming RTS titles.
  
  If EA knows how to do one thing, it's milk the hell out of the Lord Of The Rings license. After 
 the future MMORPG comes out, we will have a Lord Of The Rings game that pretty much covers every 
 genre that it could. Thankfully, most of these games are pretty good. The storyline of this game 
 tells the story of what happens in the northern part of middle earth while the Fellowship is busy 
 on their quest. The bulk of the storyline revolves around the elves and dwarves battling evil and 
 visa versa. I thought it was a real nice touch to let the player play as the evil side, as well 
 as the usual 'good' side. I can't even begin to tell you how fun it was to destroy the shire with 
 a huge army of goblins. Even if it made me feel just 'wrong' while I was doing it.
  
  From a gameplay standpoint, this is typical real-time strategy. If you have ever played a game 
 like this on your PC, then you should know what to expect here. You start off as one of three races 
 on each side, build your base, recruit units, research upgrades, etc., etc. I have always loved 
 this kind of game so this type of gameplay was a plus for me. The problem is that there isn't much 
 difference between the races. And it's not necessarily the races themselves. It's more a problem 
 with the controls.
  
  You see, EA has done an admirable job making this game as playable as it is with a standard console 
 gamepad. You basically control everything with the two thumbsticks, two triggers and the 'A' button. 
 It's a very handy way to play and it is fun. The problem is when you try to micro-manage your units 
 or do something that takes the precision of a mouse to accomplish, the game gets frustrating. So 
 every battle turns into a race to build up the biggest &amp; most powerful army you can and then 
 mad-rush the enemy in some Braveheart-style battle. Of course, that is obviously fun for it's own 
 reasons. Problems occur when you are attempting to use a more strategic approach. Even the most 
 simple thing in a PC RTS is made much more complex because of the controls.
  
  The problem with the controls is not as much EA's fault as it's just impossible to replicate the 
 precision of a mouse/keyboard combo on the consoles. Thankfully, the game is still really fun and 
 you get used to the controls after playing through the tutorial missions (which are a must-play 
 if you want to learn everything quickly) . What it essentially comes down to is you will have to 
 give up some strategic elements for the fun of playing this game on your Xbox 360. It's still a 
 blast to build up a huge base and rush your opponent with hundreds of units while dropping spells 
 on them. Any game where you can summon in a Balrog to battle along side you is a good game in my 
 book.
  
  The storyline that goes along with the single-player game is pretty good, but nowhere near as good 
 as the movies. You will come across many of the same characters from the films as well as the books. 
 Each side has three different races that you end up using during the single-player campaign. On 
 the side of good you have the Elves, Dwarves, and Men. On the evil side you have the Goblins, Orcs, 
 and Sauron's army. I found that playing as the different races was fun, but it definately could 
 have been better. The elves are way overpowered, especially when you have purchased their upgraded 
 arrows. The other five races really don't play that much differently from each other and that is 
 disappointing.
  
  Of course, along with your normal units you can recruit heroes to fight by your side. During the 
 single-player campaign, many of the heroes automatically join you at some point. This is where 
 playing as the evil side is much more enjoyable. It was very cool to play as Sauron, the Nazguls, 
 The Witch King, Balrog, The Goblin King, and summoned dragons. I guess all of this is just a matter 
 of taste depending on the player, but I found playing as the badguys was more fulfilling.
  
  The single-player game will keep you busy for awhile if you want to play both sides and complete 
 the whole campaign. Multiplayer wasn't as fun as I thought it would be. The siege units are WAY 
 too powerful and since most of your structures can be destroyed with just a few hits, this makes 
 it extremely frustrating trying to keep your base built. There are several different modes to get 
 into, though, so if playing over Xbox Live is your thing, then this will also keep you playing 
 for awhile. For some reason, EA decided to only make about 700 achievement points available. They 
 are split about half-and-half between the single and multi-player games.
  
  My biggest problem with the game comes from the visuals. The game is certainly not terrible looking, 
 but it doesn't look next-gen either. I am aware that this game would look WAY better on a monitor 
 and does look way better in HD. But like the controls, the nature of the RTS genre makes this a 
 tough game to play on a normal TV. The main problem with the graphics, however, is the massive 
 amounts of slowdown. In times of large battles (which is most of the game) , the framerate PLUMMETS 
 to an almost unplayable state. It's so bad in some places that I am shocked EA let this game out 
 the door in this condition. Then there are the load-times. While there aren't any load screens 
 during the gameplay, I have never seen a game take so long just to load the 'Save Menu' screen. 
 It literally takes a couple minutes just to save your game, which is obivously ridiculous.
  
  One of the best parts about this game is the sound. The music is outstanding and so is the 
 voice acting. You will hear some familiar voices while playing (Ian McKellen &amp; Christopher 
 Lee, for example) , and listening to what your units blurt out is hilarious sometimes. Like I said 
 before, if you actually play through both of the single-player campaigns and get into the Xbox 
 Live gameplay, you will have a long game here. There is also a skirmish mode that you can play 
 against the computer, as well as over Xbox Live. So even though the story mode isn't the longest, 
 there is a lot of game here if you want it.
  
  I really wasn't expecting much when I booted this game up. I had read mixed reviews for this game 
 and I am a huge fan of the RTS genre, so I was thinking that this wasn't going to work. To my surprise, 
 EA has made a game that I hope other developers take as a cue to get more RTS games onto the consoles. 
 If you are a fan of the genre, you should definately at least give this game a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyro88Gamer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Console RTS games are notorious for being terrible PC RTS ports. Specifically the control schemes 
 have failed to the point that console developers seemed to have given up completely. Finally though 
 a gem has emerged and it's LOTR: Middle-earth II. Initially navigating the map is frustrating, 
 since rotating the map leads to an off axis scrolling effect. An example of this is that I needed 
 to send my battle units to the left side of the map, but since I rotated the screen, when I pushed 
 the control stick left, it scrolled down and to the right instead. Once you understand how to avoid 
 this hitch though, you are rewarded with an extremely immerse experience. EA has overall figured 
 out a solution to console RTS control problems, which will carry over C&amp; C3. Visually the game 
 is solid, yet I wish that character models for each unit would randomly generate a slightly different 
 look for each character (ex: perhaps each dwarf in a group of axe throwers could look a bit different) . 
 Gameplay wise campaigns varied and were always amusing. Each level offers suprise attacks or aid, 
 which changes strategies in battle. One downside compared to PC games is that instead of well timed 
 attacks like PC RTS games, usually just sending a diverse and large group all together in battle 
 will win the fights. I found that I actually enjoyed playing in the good campaign over the evil 
 campaign. Overall, I highly recommend this game to anyone that doesn't play PC RTS titles too often 
 and has been waiting for a great console RTS. Flat out, this game should get more recognition on 
 the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calltheherd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  i picked up this game, and wasn't expecting a ton. I was in for a suprise.
  It's unit graphics are terrible to say the best, while the scenery are not bad.
  Sound is also 
 quite nice, probably better if you have a HDTV.
  
  Gameplay
  
  For a Console RTS, LOTR is quite nice. it only suffers from MAJOR FRAMERATE issues for about 30 
 mins, then it evens out. The menus are slightly difficult to navigate, but the gameplay is where 
 it shines. It has pretty much everyone ever in any LOTR book/movie, with the exception of gothmog 
 (whom only hardcore people will notice) .
  
  i Think anyone should at least rent this first, and if you like it, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie8912
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 13, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a lot of fun, but still, it has annoying flaws. The screen slows down when you summon some 
 more soldiers, so thats a negative, but the graphics are decent. I enjoy playing the scrimage modes. 
 I haven't tried online yet, but I hear it is decent. So far this game hasn't been able to pull 
 me away from Lost Planet, or Call of Duty 2 yet, but it is growing on me slowly. I was expecting 
 so much from this game, but I guess when I have LP gears, and Cod2 in the house, it's hard to really 
 get into BFME2. Still worth picking up, but it had so much potential 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Legendkiller_
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  this is simply the best lord of this rings game made and maybe the best strategy made but this 
 definitely is the best strategy game out for xbox 360 up to now. you can decide whether to battle 
 for the one rings destruction on good campaign, or battle to win the ring back and command all 
 of middle earth with bad campaign. also on skirmish you decide what army you are from elves to isengard. And 
 if you have xbox live or internet even better!! because this game is unbelievable fun online teaming 
 up or fighting other people online. I wouldnt recommend this to people who either dont like strategy 
 or dont like lord of the rings, but if you do BUY THIS GAME!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpowerfull
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  I got the PC version before the 360 version and if you have a choice, go for the PC version. RTS 
 games should never have been introduced to consoles. The controls are prob just annoying for me 
 because I'm used to the PC version, but they are still hard to use. If you want to select multiple 
 groups of units, instead of using the classic 'drag box', you have a paintbrush that you roll over 
 the soldiers that you wan't to select. My PC graphics card is good but not great (Radeon X1900 
 Pro) and I can run everything on just below max graphics without lag ever. The 360 version however 
 has all the graphics on what looks like maximum PC graphics that are actually amped up higher. 
 I do not know, however, why they would do this when the 360 can't handle it. Gamespot's review 
 said that during larger battles, the 360 version has framerate issues. Well from the PC version 
 I knew that a large battle, is about 7 screens filled with dragons and elves and men and orcs etc. 
 Even then I have no framerate issues. On the 360 however, the game has framerate issues during 
 the tutorial. THE TUTORIAL! The tutorial map is maybe 1/4 of a normal map with next to no enemies 
 and the game is choppy as crap. Super dissapointed. The graphics, aslso, aren't even that great. 
 The shados of trees for example are these pixel-ated monsters that are ugly as hell. Online is 
 good, but there sould be an option to turn down the graphics.
  
  EDIT: And I know that having a higher resolution (ie 1080p) will reduce performance, but I played 
 on a non-high def 27 tv, and I plugged the cables in so it was in black and white. It's pretty 
 bad when it lags hard with 27 480i no colour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9: The gameplay on LOTR batttle for middle earth is like your typical RTS game. You build 
 your army you build your buildings, then you go destroy the oppoent. It works well for the most 
 part and is really good fun. The LOTR conventions in the weapons, people, and armor are really 
 well done. The gameplay still can get repetative, and even though you have to be really smart to 
 beat your oppoent, it still fells kind of like the same thing over and over. Still the campaign 
 is nice and Xbox Live is lots of fun to. Graphics 7: The graphics on this game are pretty bad for 
 next gen graphics, but compared to graphics on systems like PS2 and Xbox the graphics are pretty 
 good. Sound 9: This game also has excellent sound. The sounds that your people make, the smash 
 of weapons destorying buildngs, and the classic LOTR music in it are also well implemented. The 
 people in the game's voices are also pretty well done. Value 9: Since the game has a good campaign 
 and an evil campaign which can take you somewhere between 30-40 hours to finish them both, and 
 great head to head on Xbox-Live also makes the game certaitnly worth the forty bucks you spend 
 on it. Tilt 9: This game captures the feel of a battle of LOTR really well, and all the stuff in 
 it like enemies, heros, and the buidlings all make it really neat. Overall 8.7/10 This game not 
 only is a must play for fans of RTS but also certaitnly the best LOTR game yet. From the challenging 
 battles, to the amazing sound, LOTR battle for Middle Earth is a rock solid RTS and should be experienced 
 by fans of LOTR or RTS alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360player
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  This game has all the action of LOTR, without the 3 hours of other stuff. This game is pretty easy 
 when you get used to it. But if you've played other RTS games, you'll be able to jump right in. 
 It's a lot like other games with a LOTR twist. You also have a garrison of powers to use to help 
 you on the battlefield. One of the best things about this is playing it online. Although you will 
 usually be playing someone way better than you and uses better tactical skill, it's still really 
 fun. Battles can be hours long, so be prepared! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakka792
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  The battle for middle earth greatly describes this game, for there are massive battles and all 
 of them are about being the one to control middle earth.
  
  GAMEPLAY~
  Lotr BFME2 is mainly about building a massive army out of the six fractions [Men of the  
 and Goblins] , getting good upgrades, getting the best powers then launching an all out massive 
 attack with your army. Whether you rush out with a quick attack battle finnish, or wait for the 
 enemy to attack then launch a counter-attack, its all up to you. I give the gameplay a 9.7/10
  
  GRAPHICS~
  BFME2 isnt all great with the graphics, but still has good graphics. When having 
 lost of soldiers fighting on the battle ground, the game slows down a bit. I give the graphics 8/10
 
  
  SOUND~
  BFME2 has epic music that make you wanna go rampaging on in battle. Some music makes you wanna stop 
 the war. I give the sound 10/10
  
  VALUE~
  BFME2 is a bit too much money, but its worth every cent. But the game will last heaps long and you 
 will spend hundreds of hours playing. I give the value 10/10
  
  So in the end all i can say is get this game!!! Its a must for xbox 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redon8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  The game play good but the graphics are pretty good but not the best Like gears of war and the 
 new rainbow six game. Whats good about the game though is that it has constent changes in the battle 
 field like when it looks like your about to win, boom there goes like half of your army thanks 
 to a summoned dragon or bolrog. But the game does have its ba times though. For instences sometimes 
 you may see arows curving and following your units or you may get lagged out of the game or lose 
 tottal connection to host andevery one else sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmato
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 15, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  It is not a realistic strategy game but beats the hell out of them.
  
  The gameplay is very good but sometimes hard to manuever a large amountof troops in a big battle. 
 The zoom in feature makes you expirience the fight up close but the graphics vary.
  
  Itsmatchthe movies and books better than other games and shows many of characters unknown to the 
 movies has well as heroes if you are a LOTR fan you be stuck to the screen forever.
  
  The sound is amazing and is very REALISTIC.
  
  For me the skirmish mode is way better than 
 the campaign because you do watever you want and it features every map possibly known that are 
 not shown in the campaign.
  
  If you are a strategy fan or LOTR you should check out this if not BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  This game works, and that is about all I can say good about it. That and it does a good jo placing 
 you in the LOTR universe. The games problems are numerous. The gameplay is just go flat out stale 
 after not many hours of play. It can basicall only boil down to one type of strategy and then doing 
 the same thing every time, so then it boils down to luck jusst about. The game has some moments 
 graphically, but if you look at the shadows they look choppy. Really takes away any visual quality 
 it could have had. Blizzard needs to start making a game like this, and Halo Wars also looks like 
 it could be promising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Tree
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  For a RTS on a console the gameplay works very well. The graphics up close up on character models 
 are not great but farther out their good. Also the enviroments are amazing as well as the structures. 
 The sound as on any LOTR is fantastic. There are a limited amount of races to play as and a limited 
 amount of soldiers to command but you can have hundreds. And its easy to keep track of so many 
 units. The heroes are the best soldiers of course and the coolest. Expecially the Witch King. A 
 good feature on heroes is being able to mount or dismount if you have a horse or creature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kujel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I heard the first one and the PC version of this one were pretty good 
 and that this version had a new control scheme that would be better then any RTS controls on a 
 console before. Well they didn't lie, it has very fluid controls and I didn't take that long to 
 get the hang of them. I'll admit it was a little strange at first because I had never used any 
 system like it before but I found it worked and well. I never really found myself stumbling over 
 the controls, more it was just my memory failing me: which button or to do something. The simple 
 but effective resource system worked very well with a console but I woudn't be surprised if it 
 could work with a few resources. The camera was the best feature as it was way easier to control 
 then I ever found on PC. I would say the gameplay was nothing revolutionary but it didn't lack 
 anything either, it was solid and I couldn't find any chinks in its armor. The graphics were very 
 crisp and had a lot of little details, there was one point in the game when I had reached my command 
 limit but was able to use the light towers to recieve renforcements which put my way over the limit 
 and when my entire army was moving on the screen (not while off screen though) my 360 slowed down 
 a little and it got a little chopy. That was not really surpising see as I had almost double the 
 max units your allowed in any game mode. The story was alright but my favorite level was the one 
 in which the goblins attacked the shire (but I failed to get all the bonus objectives) . I would 
 it wasn't the best game story I have ever seen but it was no where as bad as the worst (combat 
 2 for Xbox 1 ranks pretty high on the bad story list for example) . I payed about $85 canadian and 
 even though I only got maybe 15 hours out of it I feel it was worth it, this game proved an RTS 
 can work just fine on a console and becasue of it we are seeing Halo Wars and Command &amp; Conquor 
 3: Tiberium Wars for the 360 (I'm sure more will come in time) . Sometimes it's not just about how 
 much time you get from it or how much fun it was to play itself but what it does for the genre 
 or indusry. I would recomend this game to anyone just becasue it is a real acomplishment and should 
 be experanced by anyone who likes consoles or RTSs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I traded in a few games to buy this... as i do like the films but this type of gaming is new to 
 me and when i first played this properly after the demo. i just really enjoyed it the single player 
 was nice unlocking new heroes and acheivments. and i really do like the online as you can do different 
 types of battles with the different armys. i am however very impressed how they have converted 
 this of the pc the controls really are that simple and it has a tutorial if you do struggle one 
 improvment could be you that you would be able to make custom heroes but that is not a let down... 
 not long after completing single player and playing a lot online i started to just get bored and 
 started to find it very repetive as i was just doing the same old... This game is good for a few 
 weeks but not a lot you can do when finished and does eventually get boring.. overall nice graphics 
 and gameplay just gets boring after some time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndlessGame
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  LotR: BfME II works extraordinarily well on the Xbox 360, much better than I had originally anticipated. 
 Compared to the original game, this one is a great improvement. Aside from gaining cool value 
 from just being based on Lord of the Rings, it is a well-built game. Problems: There are some problems 
 with frame-rate when a large of units appear on the screen at the same time, or during large building 
 collapses. This is easily overlooked most of the time. There is some time-delay near the start 
 of games when selecting units, especially the first few builders. The A button doesnt always select 
 the unit at that time, instead deciding to sit and do nothing. This can be very frustrating but 
 the console usually gets over it before any battles start.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is very good. It manages to keep a good storyline in tact while 
 still orchestrating very large battles on the screen. There is enjoyment from any aspect of a battle, 
 from zooming out to watch the entire melee of combat ensue, or zooming all the way in to watch 
 a few soldiers duke it out.
  
  It expands on the main storyline of Lord of the Rings very well, while managing to stay away from 
 the primary war in Middle Earth. I think we can expect a lot of Lord of the Rings games with this 
 style in the future as the movies story has gotten so many successful games out of it.
  
  I was greatly disappointed by the omission of the War of the Ring mode in the Xbox 360 version. 
 In the original game, the fighting for territories of Middle Earth that gave resources, command 
 points, etc. was one of the most entertaining parts of the game. For that reason, I do recommend 
 the PC version of this game as the War of the Ring adds greatly to replay value.
  
  I would have liked for the one player mode to be a bit longer. While each mission is well-designed 
 and thought out, with only eight missions per faction, the game doesnt take long to complete.
 
  
  Graphics: Like most RTSs if you zoom all the way in to the individual units, you see how the skin 
 on each unit is actually very simple. But when viewing battles from a distance, which is essential 
 to tactical play, the game looks very realistic. The way buildings fall apart and catapults launch 
 is very well portrayed, despite the frame-rate problem.
  
  Sound: As usual with Lord of the Rings games, there is epic music playing in the background of 
 almost every scene. Reminiscent of the movies and previous games, the soundtrack keeps to the LotR 
 magic.
  
  Replay Value: This game does have some replay value, even if it is only to watch hundreds of little 
 monsters slaughter each other across a battlefield. The method of unlocking heroes for usage in 
 skirmish mode is good in concept, but the heroes themselves werent as impressive as the traditional 
 characters that are already available. Without the War of the Ring mode this game loses a significant 
 amount of replay value, but is still very entertaining the first time through.
  
  Overall: Few problems that affect gameplay exist, so they dont make much of an impact. The main 
 thing that lowers my score for this game, as I continue to reinstate, is the removal of the War 
 of the Ring. Its a solid game, and works surprisingly well as a console RTS. If youre a Lord 
 of the Rings fan, its a must have. If youre looking for a good console RTS, give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emb3r
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  There hasnt been a whole lot of Console RTS games. really the only other one I can think of is 
 Starcraft 64 (which was also good) . many console RTS didnt work so well. always have gamer picked 
 pc over console for RTS games. Battle for middle earth 2 works extremely well on a console.
  
  Gameplay- Gameplay in lord of the rings is Awesome. you are able to choose 1 of 6 armies. Men 
 of the west, Dwarves, elves, Isenguard, Mordor, and goblins. each having special abilities and 
 units. the single player consists of you doing missions such as destroy a fortress or take over 
 a dock. Its alright, multiplayer is definitely the best portion of this game. on Xbox live you 
 can have up to 4 people battling it out for control of middle earth! the most popular game type 
 is versus. which is just battling either free for all or teams. many people play this game. so 
 dont be discouraged from buying it if your afraid no one plays it. here is the controller scheme.
 
  
  A is select
  X is move to the unit or building you have selected
  B is to deselect unit for structure.
  Y is to move to the place under attack.
  
  The control 
 sticks are for moving around the map.
  Left click will bring you to you fortress
  Left on d pad will select your entire army.
  when you are clicking on a structure and/or units 
 you can access there options by holding the right trigger.
  
  so if you want to build units you would select the barracks and hold the right trigger. then using 
 the d pad you would select the unit to train.
  
  Graphics. The graphics are good for an RTS. Real time strategies dont usual have the greatest 
 graphics because armies and levels can be big so they dont want better graphics slowing it down. 
 but they are pretty good.
  
  Sound- the sound is good from swords to arrows. the music is from the movies so you will probably 
 recognize some of it.
  
  value- worth it. I bought it for $30 and its nothing but fun
  
  Final thoughts- Lord of the rings Battle for Middle Earth Proves that RTS game are fun on consoles 
 and can work on consoles.
  
  Gamertag- Ember Element. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  The Good: Stunning visuals, more simplistic controls than PC version, easy to learn and get into, 
 not very much middle-management.
  
  The Bad: Control scheme is hard to learn, can get old after a while, is a little glitchy at times.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Game publishers and developers have tried to port real time stratagy games to consoles before, 
 but none of them have been successful. From RollerCoaster Tycoon for Xbox, to the dreadful StarCraft 
 64, RTS games seemed to be doomed on consoles forever. Not so, in fact, RTS games have a bright 
 future on the new current gen line-up of consoles. The first good RTS on a console was Kingdom 
 Under Fire: The Crusaders, now EA re-enters the ring with Lord of the Rings: The Battle For Middle 
 Earth II for the Xbox 360. First off, let me say that this was a very enjoyable RTS to begin with. 
 It features a storyline occuring during the first movie of the LOTR Trilogy, so it's a realistic 
 storyline, and it allows you to play as either the elves or the evil forces of Suron. The biggest 
 thing that worries gamers about an RTS on a console is the control scheme. The controls for BFMEII 
 are quite well done and more simplistic than it's PC counterpart. The only trouble is, console 
 gamers may not find them simplistic. RTS games usually feature complex control schemes because 
 you have a ton of things to do as the hovering being above your little army. Battle for Middle 
 Earth II has tons of cool units, who fit well into the LOTR Universe, as well as some actual movie 
 characters such as Arwin and Elrond to command as hero units. There is magic, city building and 
 tons of enjoyable fighting. The visuals are also very nice on the Xbox 360. Overall, this is an 
 RTS that can revive a struggling genre on consoles to come.
  
  Gameplay: It's solid RTS gameplay in the Lord of the Rings Universe, with a control scheme that 
 works on a controller.
  
  Graphics: Great, it really does look good...
  
  Sound: With voice over work by Ian McKellen and Christopher Lee, how can it not be good.
  
 
  Value: It's coming down in price, so get it while it's hot!
  
  Final Thoughts: My precious... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 099877655433211
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is great. the heroes are a little much though.  
 afnasdfp oasdfoapsd gfio fadfh lask; jf askl; dj faslkj dfl; ask dfl; asjk fl; ask dfj; aslkdf aslkfj 
 ;alskfj asl; flaskj fl; sk fl; askdfj asl; kdfj ;asldfkjweip asofj paof o fjpaeiofh apiojgf apirgh 
 paiou poh rgfpoaivn a [iojdap odf a [ofnma [pdfogava opdgfm aodfjg anmof jiodfij gdfl oadkjfnmiojmnv 
 zoiamf aoimva dfopaiv aoidfj apfojka alifja; voajkdf poauifjpasdoijas; lkd f; asdkjf apok oasdi; a 
 zl; kdjf aoje ;lkd apiasd; ;sd fowji ajk apoijdf ao l l l l l l flasjkr ps soekjs a; lskdjf w;; l 
 sldkfj; a sll slijef aa; sdkjf w; lkw sofijs [okem sosm ;aslmoweim 'sldfj'; w ;lojker; w; kl; s slkej 
 slowkjf sioedl fkm sldkjrlw soidjcvlknm sdlfjowlsdlk cosio ojasdf; klnsoseirtj l sdlijhslor o9j 
 lsafrn; osjfos osiemfo . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battlefront23
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  To be simple this game is awesome. It branches out on a previously thought untoachable RTS genre 
 on regular consoles and makes it shockingly fun. Now dont listen to the idiot who had the 4. something 
 on his review. He's probibally stupid and should never touch a 360 or this game. Its immensly simple 
 all you have to do is analogues to move your cursor or to change the motion of the camera. Click 
 on the unit you want then press the shoulder buttons and then it goes into his commands screen. 
 May sound hard but its not! Also if you own the original BFME it wont take long to get used to 
 this. Oh yeah by the way Men of the West rule! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shame-usBlackley
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing out of the way: Real-time strategy games can be done successfully on a console, 
 and Middle-earth proves it. Past attempts to make a controller bring the intricate precision and 
 near-limitless hotkey functions of the mouse and keyboard combo have run the gamut from barely 
 acceptable to flat awful. Without a doubt, Middle-earth is the best attempt yet at making an intuitive 
 control scheme for an RTS game on a console, which makes it even more of a tragedy that the game 
 attached to it is so poorly coded. Put simply, the 360 port of Middle-earth II is a trainwreck.
 
  
  It's not the source material that hurts Middle-earth. In fact, it's one of the reasons you may 
 play this abomination longer than you really should. The Lord of the Rings universe is perfect 
 for this type of game. Large-scale battles like Minas Tirith and Pelennor sound perfect for a strategy 
 game, and they are. Unfortunately, you won't be playing in any of the famous battles from the films, 
 as Middle-earth II serves as sort of a Here's what was happening elsewhere scenario. Most of the 
 characters and events in this game are either obscure references from the novels, or completely 
 fictional altogether. For those scenarios, you need to pick up the original game, which, for some 
 odd reason, wasn't included along with Middle-earth II's hefty next-gen asking price. But that's 
 only the half of it - this game also shipped with missing levels that were complete at the time 
 it shipped, but witheld due to EA's new business model of charging for downloadable content. The 
 only way to get these levels without paying for them was to preorder the game at EB/Gamestop, but 
 even that was a mess, as most stores never received the vouchers to download the levels. But make 
 no mistake, it wasn't beauty that killed this beast, but the framerate. What really hurts the game 
 is how poorly it's been handled on the visual and mechanical side. For starters, Middle-earth II 
 has the ugliest shadows seen since the 16-bit era ended. Jaggy, shimmering, lego-sized pixels copulate 
 on the ground amd form bastard offspring that are supposed to pass as shadows, which is completely 
 unacceptable given the hardware this game is running on and the modest visuals. Even worse, the 
 framerate is simply atrocious; there are times when it will dip down into the single digits, sometimes 
 inexplicably. It's not like the character models and environs are overflowing with textures, either. 
 RTS games usually aren't visual beasts to begin with, but Middle-earth II's visuals could best 
 be described as utilitarian. The character models look clean, and there are certainly a ton of 
 them on-screen at times, but that doesn't excuse this broken game's framerate, as Kameo and Dead 
 Rising have shown that it's possible to use the 360 hardware to draw hundreds of enemies (much 
 more detailed enemies, I might add) on-screen without the massive framerate problems this game 
 has. The framerate in this game gets so bad that there are literally times where button presses 
 don't register. It's just completely unacceptable to call this a next-generation game when looking 
 at it from a technical standpoint. It's also worth noting that the camera in Middle-earth II is 
 way too constrained. You'll often find yourself frustrated that you can't pull it back farther 
 to get a decent assessment of how the battle is going. The developers tried to correct this by 
 adding a bite-sized map to the upper-right of the screen, which shows a red blip to indicate where 
 a battle is raging, but there are times when you'll have three or four blips going off at once, 
 and you'll lose troops simply because you can't get there fast enough to see what's happening.
 
  
  As a game, Middle-earth is a pretty fun. Watching hundreds of orcs, goblins, trolls and the like 
 battle with the forces of good is spectacular when the game runs smooth. There's also a Hero system 
 built into the game, and while these characters have special moves, they're far too easily lost 
 in the shuffle and usually die before being put to proper use. Even so, it's pretty col seeing 
 Shelob charge into a battalion of troops and poisoning them with her stinger. There's a wide assortment 
 of buidings, which aid in the manufacturing of better implements of war. Harvesting resources is 
 also a fundamental part of the game, as it's impossible to build a suitable army without first 
 having a good many resource farms in place to fund them.
  
  The game's controls are definitely its best feature, and they're the only reason the score isn't 
 several points lower. Everything has been simplified as much as possible, and hotkey commands have 
 been implemented onto a scaling Palantir menu at the lower left-side of the screen. From here, 
 you can order your troops to do just about anything, but you can also assign orders to individual 
 units or battalions as well by highlighting them and assigning them their own hotkey from the palantir 
 menu. Even though it's possible to assign orders individually, you'll probably find yourself building 
 as big of a well-rounded army as possible and simply ordering them to attack in force. Battles 
 in Middle-earth II usually come down to who was able to get the bigger army assembled first, but 
 that's a flaw in most games of this type. Still, the controls for Middle-earth II have raised the 
 bar as far what can be expected from an RTS game on a console, which is no small feat.
  
  The audio in the game is pretty decent as well, featuring samples of Howard Shore's fantastic score 
 from the films. There's also plenty of realistic clanking, clashing, hollering, bellowing, splintering 
 and what have you. Hearing the shriek of a Nazgul or the pounding drum of a cave troll is sure 
 to bring chills to fans of the movies. In short, this sounds just like the movies, which is nothing 
 but good.
  
  The online play is good, not great. Most of the inherent problems of the offline game are compounded 
 in the online mode, but at least the mode types are varied and interesting. There's a hero vs. 
 hero mode, which sounds better than it is, but there's also a sublime King of the Hill mode, which 
 plays just like it sounds. The most disappointing aspect of the online mode is that it's simply 
 too hard to find another person playing the game, which isn't all that surprising given the quality 
 of the port.
  
  But in the end, decent sound and the innovative control scheme aren't enough to save the day. It's 
 just too bad that EA opted to ship this game as it did, because this really could've been something 
 special. Instead of being the RTS equivalent of Halo, which proved that first-person games could 
 be done, and done well on consoles, Middle-earth proves it, but does so in a game that isn't very 
 fun to play due to technical problems. The spectre is also raised as far as value goes - if you 
 have a PC capable of running this game, you'd be far better off buying both the original and this 
 sequel for about ten dollars less than what they're asking for this miserable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimi_man
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings The Battle for Middle-earth II, is a fantastic game. Great RTS action, sweet 
 single player, and lovely multiplayer. When i first heard of this coming out on the 360, i thought 
 imediate failure, but after interviews, videos and a demo, i change my mind completely. My impressions 
 of this game below
  
  The gameplay for BFME II, is very good. Since this is the seconed time ive played an actual RTS 
 game, i loved it. Everything really evolves around the A button, A to select, A to choose power, 
 move ect, double tap A and you select everyone on screen, and Hold A to get formation view up. 
 And when you do select a hero or battlion, you press A on the enemy again, and they begin fighting. 
 And while your fighting, it depends on what type of troops it is if you want to win, like say if 
 Gondor soldiers are fighting Gondor Tower Guard, the Gondor Soldiers will win, but if its cavalry 
 fighting Gondor Soldiers, the Gondor Soldiers will loose, its goes around you see. Spearmen kills 
 cavalry, cavalry kills archers, archers kill soldiers (unless in close combat) and soldiers kill 
 spearmen/other soldiers. Then again heros come, and can kill everything. So yeah, the gameplay 
 in BFME II, is great. There is naval ships, and boat wars, but there not the much used, and not 
 that good either. The graphics in the game are a nice touch, but the charector models dont look 
 all the great close up (only when there ontop of the walls in Helms Deep and Minas Tirith, so it 
 doesnt really matter) but look great from a distance. Especially when there fighting, it is epic. 
 The water on the other hand, looks amazing. Everything reflects of it, the sun shines in it, and 
 just looks great. Explostions, special effects and animations are fantastic. The fighting animations, 
 running, standing still and 'ready' animations are fantastic, its like watching real men running 
 around fighting, but all they had to do was make more fighting animations. Ocasionly you'll see 
 soldiers doing the same hits, and isnt all that great. But overall, it 'is; great.
  
  The sound in BFME II is downright fantatstic. All of the songs from the movies are here, and the 
 voice overs are sweet. All the cast from the movies are here and lend the voices in hand, and Gandalf, 
 would have to be my favourite. It is so cool when you winning a war and the well known LoTR soundtrack 
 jumps in and makes it all, epic. And with all these amazing effects, it tops it off with a 10
 
  
  The value in this game is big, two campaignes, Evil and Good ones, Skirmish and a well done multiplayer 
 service. It may be annoying when EA servers go down, but doesnt happens for me that often. The 
 capmaign usually lasts a few days (if you try and get achievments like Servent of the Secret Fire 
 where no heros die through out the campaign) but it is worth it if you dont have XBL, becouse theres 
 a skirmish mode where you can just fight AI bots. Theres alot to this game, factions, maps, heroes 
 ect. It really is worth it. But then again, if you dislike RTS and not a big LoTR fan, you might 
 not get into this game.
  
  Overall, i think it is a very good game, should be given a chance by all. Look out for Jimmy171, 
 i'll be playing this one for a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiebasi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This review is all about the multiplayer since ive played almost every rts online.... the balance 
 issues with units and heroes is oustanding! 1 hero can thwart an entire army with one move... what 
 is the skill involved with this? I guess you can say killing random mobs and gaining exp to then 
 kill an army makes sense but I still feel 1 unit should not be able to kill 100 units... that would 
 make it an rpg right??? i dont even want to play this game with heroes anymore .. it requires no 
 microing whatsoever and there is no strategy behind this... such a dissappointment! i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hcsif
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game. I guess its because i set myself up for it compairing it to War 
 craft 3 and stuff. I have always been a fan of these kind of games but this game just didnt do 
 it for me. I am not sure why but there was some laggyness if thats even a word to this game that 
 made it slow at times. The game is very repetitive and thats one of the main reasons why i didnt 
 care for the game that much. I beat the game and played it alittle bit onine. Its nice that you 
 can be both the good guys and the bad guys in this game which can make it fun while taking over 
 middle earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeeRye
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  The world of Middle Earth has been recreated well. Lots of maps -- some of which are very situational, 
 such as the battle of Helms Deep, which is a lot of fun. Excellent sound, the characters shouting 
 battle cries sound excellent. Certiainly puts you into the battle.
  
  The Bad:
  Terrible framerate issues, not just in multiplayer but in any game, espeically when a lot of characters 
 are on-screen. AI is horrible, and your own characters don't always listen to what you tell them. 
 Controls are for the most part very easy, but accessing pre-set groups takes time.
  
  I'm not an expert on RTS games. I've played Starcraft, Age of Empires, etc., and typically get 
 my army -- and my ego -- handed to me on a silver platter. But I've still played my share of them. 
 This game is certainly good -- there are a lot of things for it that work -- but at the same time, 
 with everything that works, there's something else that's broken, which makes it only okay.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are only mediocre. The cutscenes are unimpressive, 
 as the characters are somewhat blocky and undetailed. The in-game graphics aren't great, either. 
 I understand that there are a lot of characters onscreen, and to make them very detailed would 
 be a processing nightmare. But at least with the cutscenes they could have done more.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  To go along with that, there are problems with unit limits and lag. You have a 
 relatively low limit as to how many characters you can have in your army, but if you know what 
 you're doing, you can go over that limit whenever you want to. At the most, you can have 1000 units 
 (not really -- you create battallions, and each battallion is worth so many command points, so a 
 battallion of 20 cavalry is 60 command points) . But say you're at your limit, and you go and get 
 a bunch of your men killed (but still have at least one person in each battallion) , you can withdraw 
 and start healing your troops. Over time, dead men in a battallion come back, but if you created 
 more battallions before they come back, those dead men will still come back, plus you'll have the 
 new ones you've created. You could end up with 1500 or so men, still having that 1000 unit limit, 
 which gives quite the unfair advantage.
  
  When you've got any large amount of men onscreen, the game really starts to lag. Not all of your 
 inputs go through, which becomes terribly annoying. Giant battles take awhile, as the game really 
 grinds down to a halt. I don't necessarily find that to be a terrible inconvenience, since it gives 
 you a little time to think, but still, it can be terribly annoying for most people.
  
  The AI is not very good. They continue to send waves at you, no matter what. They never send a 
 huge army, only a few battallions at a time. As long as you're able to create a few defenses quickly, 
 they're really not that hard to beat. They're also incredibly stupid at times. I played a game 
 where I was allied with one AI-controlled army (on Brutal difficulty) , versus two armies that were 
 only of Hard difficulty, and they kept on immediately killing my ally, no matter what. I'd send 
 in troops to help my ally, but it was almost as if 'he' refused to defend his base, as I'd have 
 to fight off every wave sent at him.
  
  I really like the Helm's Deep map, as you get to play as offense or defense on that one. Again, 
 the AI is ridiculously stupid. Despite the fact that there's only one entrance to the keep, they 
 never seem to be able to find it -- they walk right up to the wall, then seem to realize they can't 
 do anything there, then turn, go to the ramp, and walk up to the gate. Meanwhile all my archers 
 have decimated their army. They're not smart enough to send three or four siege units directly 
 at the gate and hold their army back until the gate is broken through, or to send archers to take 
 out my archers. If they're in the defensive role of protecting Helm's Deep, they literally do nothing. 
 They leave the gate open, and make no effort at playing situationally.
  
  I played the final 'Good-Side' mission, and quite literally I had one siege unit destroy a huge 
 part of their army. There are obviously some triggers that the AI units have to wait on before 
 they act, and if you haven't hit those triggers yet, they will do absolutely nothing. So instead 
 of running down to meet their army with what few units I had left, I had one siege man just shoot 
 stones down on them from a ledge higher up, and they stood there taking it. Things like that will 
 drive you crazy, as they shouldn't happen.
  
  Also, your own units don't always listen to you, and can be very frustrating at times. I would 
 want to lead a charge of my cavalry out from Helm's Deep, so I'd open the gate, and immediately 
 ALL of my units would start running to go through the gate. You can stop the ones you want to leave 
 behind by putting them in a defensive stance, but then they quite literally won't attack ANYBODY. 
 Especially when it comes to telling them to stand at a certain point on a wall, half the time they 
 don't listen to you, and run wherever they want. It's usually only an annoyance, but there have 
 been battles where the opponent broke the gate down because I was wrestling with my army to get 
 them to, well, NOT be stupid.
  
  The controls aren't bad -- in fact I think they're very intuitive, and for the most part they work 
 rather well. The one thing I wish was a little easier was how you assign men to a group. With a 
 keyboard it's much easier, obviously -- just assign them to a number, and access them with that number. 
 On a controller it's not as easy, but I wish they made it better. As it is, to access a group of 
 men you've pre-assigned, you have to hold the right trigger, press the down button on the directional 
 pad, and then scroll through until you find the group you want. It doesn't sound like it takes 
 that long, but remember that typically you're going to want to access those groups while in a big 
 battle, and that's when input lag starts to become a big problem. It's very common to have to try 
 a couple of times because of it, which makes a big difference.
  
  You can't set individual strategies with your characters, either. Knowing how pikemen beat cavalry, 
 swordsmen beat pikemen, etc., it would be nice if you could specify with your battallions whether 
 or not they engage the enemy based on what classification they are. I guess that would make it 
 too easy, but then again, with the way the input lag and accessing of groups goes, it's very difficult 
 to NOT have them run into the wrong enemy.
  
  But then there's the good side. One of the ways this game captures the world of Middle Earth is 
 by giving you special powers you can unlock as the battle goes on. The powers are specific to whatever 
 race you're playing as, so in the final powers for men you can summon the Oathbreakers, or whatnot. 
 Those powers can quite literally turn the tide of a battle, and can be incredibly frustrating when 
 your opponent uses them. The AI never seems to use them well, but real human opponents can be nasty 
 with them.
  
  You also have Hero units you can use, specific to each race. I've never cared a whole lot for Hero 
 units in other games, but I like them a lot in this one. Maybe it's just because we already know 
 these characters, but I don't think that's it. They have quite a few abilities; they're very powerful. 
 If you know what you're doing with them, they can be extremely helpful. Some of them give your 
 men HUGE experience and attack bonuses, and whatnot. Again, it helps to recreate the Middle Earth 
 world.
  
  The game also doesn't focus too much on resource gathering, which is nice. There aren't a whole 
 lot of upgrades you can purchase for your men, and you can 'mine' quite literally anywhere. The 
 exception is you can't put two farms next to each other, you have to space them out or their efficiency 
 goes way down. But it's not like other games where if you run out of resources you're screwed. 
 It seems it's geared much more toward fighting, wihch makes it feel haphazard at times, but a lot 
 of fun.
  
  I will say cavalry is a lot of fun to use. When they charge at a battallion and knock most of the 
 characters over, it's very satisfying. If you know what you're doing with them they can be extremely 
 deadly.
  
  Sound:
  
  This is where the game really shines. There isn't a complaint you can make about the sound. All 
 of the original actors lend their voices for their characters, and even though they don't have 
 a whole lot to say, they say it well (although it will drive you crazy hearing them say Our resources 
 run low , or Our base is under attack! as you're in the middle of defending it) . Just annoying, 
 but not really a complaint) . The music is top-notch, and played subtly. When the fighting starts 
 to pick up, so does the music. Hearing Lady Eowyn shouting I will NOT stay at the camp, I will 
 fight!! , or Aragorn calling battle cries, really puts you into the game. It makes you like the 
 Hero characters that much more.
  
  Other Points:
  
  Some of the story missions are fun, but there aren't that many of them, and they're really not 
 all that difficult to win. One complaint I do have is that you can't play this game over a LAN. 
 Either it's single player, or it's Xbox Live. I brought my Xbox over a friend's house to play him 
 before, and I was more than a little put out that we couldn't play that way. There are also other 
 small complaints I have. In a skirmish, you can't have the computer (or yourself, for that matter) 
 be a random race, you have to choose it. The games also aren't extremely customizable; there's 
 not much variety to them. Overall:
  
  For possibly the first time, the Lord of the Rings world has been re-created well. Never before 
 have I really felt like I was in the world again, but EA really did an excellent job recapturing 
 Middle Earth. Any character you can think of, from Aragorn to Frodo to, well, whoever, is in this 
 game, and you actually feel like they've truly been recaptured. The games you play in this are 
 well-suited to be quick, rush your opponent types, or long, defend your base types, and both are 
 just as fun. It almost feels like the game is slightly unstable, though -- that there are too many 
 things that aren't refined. The AI is terrible (and sometimes flat-out doesn't even play) . The 
 difficulty isn't nearly what it could be. And yet, I still find myself liking this game quite a 
 bit. It's not for everybody, but it's certainly worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReyMysterio619A
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 11, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  I would not suggest thing game as i have bought it and i am very disappointed in the controls but 
 the graphics are awesome. I would encourage you to buy this game on the pc instead of on the Xbox 
 360.
  
  It is also pretty much impossible to talk to your teammates because they either don't have a microphone 
 or they are just being gay and not using so you cant comunicate with each other unlike on the computer 
 version where you can use text to plan your streagys and plan of attack.
  
  I personally think this game is not worth the effort in playing on the Xbox 360 but its probally 
 one of the best games on PC. Just shows that you should never but games likes Battle for Middle 
 Earth for Consoles like the Xbox 360 other than the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigshot_Drum
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 3, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun with this game becuase it was really fun to be able to create and command the 
 creatures from Middle Earth. One thing that needs to be said right off the bat is that once you 
 get a few hundred units within a single screen of each other, the game starts to jerk and do the 
 super slow frame by frame thing. OTHER THAN THAT however the game offers fun ways to explore a 
 RTS on the 360 and had a really good idea for the controller layout, very intuitive. Having the 
 ability to level up certain creatures and have special powers given to you by battle points was 
 very cool too. The environments were very well drawn, except when you zoom in all the way on the 
 characters. The appeared VERY blocky and highly pixelated. Overall this game was very fun to play 
 and having the option of 3 different difficulties was nice as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P3RN
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 2, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  There is not much differn't comparied to the pc version so i will keep it short by saying firstly, IT 
 FEELS WRIGHT ON the xbox 360 and looks cooler with hacking and slashing and bashing madness at 
 the end of your thumbs. if you like stratagie and lord of the rings this is a must buy as any owner 
 can tell you there arn't really any dissapointments apart from the annoying orcs and trolls but 
 from the momment you buy this game all you want to do is put a million v million on make your very 
 own battle battle so i will end by saying let the battle for middle earth begin! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4seal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 30, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok, im going to make this fast. Controls are good. Single player is ok, not a realy big deal. It 
 keeps you busy when theres no one to play with. The only problem I have is the online, it sucks. 
 You cannot invite your friend to a ranked match. But if you time it right, and have your friend 
 make a room and as soon as he makes it, you join, you might get into his game. If you do, get ready 
 to wait. People will join and leave join and leave for a long time. Beucase they are all trying 
 to get matched up with there friends and they cant. Then everyone stops joining, why? because someone 
 made a new lobby. Now everyone will end up joining that one if they want to or not. So now you 
 must repete the whole thing and make a lobby again. I palyed this game for a wile, and I found 
 out that you wil spend most of your time searching for games and not playing them. Also, there 
 is no lock for 1,000 resources for ranked games. So now alot of people play at 4,000. Thats realy 
 sucks becuase then most of the time they will use realy cheap tactics and make the game not fun 
 at all. Also alot of the people are over powerd. Men of the west can arrow volly at lvl 1. Unlike 
 the pc game that has it set to lvl 2. Also the game will lagg with lots of people on the screen, 
 so it makes it unplayable. Trust me, spend your money some place else. This game is not good and 
 will be dead soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckham32
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 30, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  Battle for Middle Earth II is an impressing RTS game. I would of never imagined that LOTR would 
 be present in a RTS game. If your a LOTR fan this is a must get!
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is quite good. The controls are a hard to learn on the first 
 few battles, but after that you&acute; ll become into a pro.
  The game has all the important stuff from the movie and a few characters from the books.
  
 
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are awesome. All the maps of the game are highly detailed.
 
  
  Sound: REALISTIC, REALISTIC, REALISTIC. The sound is awesome: from the voices of the heroes to 
 every sword clashing sound. Very good.
  
  So in conclusion, by far the best LOTR game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Obliviongeek9
Rating: 4.2
Date: Sep 29, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  The LOrd of the rings: Battle for middle earth is not a very good game and doesnt live up the hype 
 that was given post-release date. Though it seems alright when you first play it, on the 3rd or 
 4th level it kind of lost the main story and i quickly realized that it wasnt a very satisfying 
 game. I think that the 3rd person way of playing lord of the rings was better. Instead of focusing 
 on the gameplay, which by the way was good, they should have focused more on making it with the 
 levels being like the lord of the rings movie. Some of the levels had nothing to do with the main 
 plot of the lord of the rings. Overall Return of the king had better gameplay and was funner. Not 
 to be comparing the 2, because they are tottaly different experiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: santo4600
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 26, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Definitally a good RTS game on all aspects and well incorperated into a console. The only complain 
 I have, (this might just be the copy i got, one glitch in the game who knows) any way the only 
 complaint i have is if you put it on medium or hard enemy units will randomly spawn around thier 
 base. Now what I mean by that is that they dont build them, they dont come out of buildings in 
 a line then form up like they are supposed to and like every other unit does. But i was attacking 
 thier (the enemy is AI= Computer) and there were NO other buildings left except thier fortress 
 and 2 enemy foot soldier units spawned, then an enemy archer unit spawned right behind my troops 
 attacking the fortress. NO they did not come out of the fog on the map they all came, stood there 
 for probably about 5 seconds looking at my guys, then started attacking. now i dont know if this 
 is a MAJOR lag from when they had a unit building base or what so i asked my friend about it and 
 he said he saw the same thing in a different way. he sent in one of thoes corrupt man guys (he 
 has PC version) and turned him invisible. he says he saw them randomly appear also, lag a little 
 then move. he was wondering how the enemy was winning so badly and he said this was probly why, 
 becuase they randomly spawn without being built and all that. Now im not saying the computer cheats, 
 well yes i am actually, but it only seems like they do it on medium and hard difficulty so who 
 knows. its very frusterating. besides that a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_anvil
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  i only bought this game because no other new games that interested me were available at the time, 
 however i do still play once or twice a week with my mate. Its good to play 2 vs 2, me and my friend 
 against 2 other guys, you can chat and work together to make an awesome army! i would describe 
 this game a sfun but not next generation! The garphics are ok but nothing special, the gameplay 
 is good but awkward sometimes. To be honest no game of this genre iv ever played has been upto 
 the level of the age old classic Total Anhiallation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leo924
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 20, 2006 9:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the best strategy game i've ever played!!! The gameplay is excellent and good visuals too. 
 I barely touched the campaign, but the skirmish was the best. Maybe next time they could add a 
 multiplayer skirmish that would be good. I wish i could of done Xbox live, but i didn't have it 
 at the time. i really recommend this game to anyone who is in to strategy games. So just to have 
 100 words i am going to continue. My favorite on skirmish was the one ring mode!! golem was really 
 fast which was a good challenge. Sauron and galadrial are all right there not that great but i 
 think sauron is better!! Also give it some time, it only takes at the most a half hour to learn 
 the basics, and thats the most i did . I figured the rest out by myself. So try this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  2005's Lord of the Rings: Battle For Middle-earth II was a decent real-time strategy game chronicling 
 the battles that you didn't see in Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings trilogy. War spread throughout 
 all of Middle-earth, especially in the lands of the north. Elves and dwarves, two races that haven't 
 trusted each other in countless years, ally themselves against Sauron's armies of monsters. Big 
 fights all around! Awesome.
  
  The game didn't reinvent the wheel, but entertained PC gamers with smooth gameplay, good graphics 
 and captured some of the excitement from the movies. Shortly after BFME2 was released, EA announced 
 to the world that they were going to reinvent the wheel by bringing this RTS to the Xbox 360. There 
 have been real-time strategy games for the current generation consoles, but they have always been 
 stripped down, clunky experiences. Without a mouse and keyboard, these games were awkward to play 
 and the genre continued to be a mainstay in PC gaming. EA ensured us that the next-generation consoles 
 had the processing power and would be able to deliver the goods. The control scheme was what had 
 everybody wondering.
  
  I'm happy to report that EA did achieve what they intended. The control scheme does work. It's 
 not perfect, but once you get the hang of it, it performs rather nicely. The interface is set up 
 as a virtual Palantir (the black orb that Pippin swipes in Return of the King that Sauron sees 
 through) . Okay, for you purists out there, we understand that the Palantir wouldn't really be used 
 for these purposes, but chill out - it's just a game, you dorkus. By using the right trigger you 
 open the Palantir to select the menu you need. Then you use the D-Pad to manage your Heroes, summon 
 your builders, adjust your special powers and to set bookmarks to specific units. It's a bit awkward 
 at first, but once you get the hang of it, it's quick and easy to access the info you need.
  
  Controlling units also takes some practice, but again, it's manageable. Unit selection is all 
 based on button combinations using the A button. Hold down the left trigger and tap A and you'll 
 select all the units on the screen, tap A twice and you'll select your entire army. Hold down the 
 left bumper and tap A and you can add units to your selection (like holding down shift when playing 
 on a PC) . If you hold down the right bumper and tap A you'll select all of a unit type on the screen, 
 and a double tap of A will select all of a unit type in your whole army. Again, it's a bit weird 
 at first, but after the first mission I got the hang of it.
  
  My only complaint is that it's tough to get granular and pick out single units. I found myself 
 just selecting my entire army half the time to vanquish one rock-hurling giant, where a select 
 team of archers and cavalry could have taken the big guy out. Not the biggest problem in the world, 
 but still, EA's innovation is a giant leap for the genre. I'm sure EA will continue to improve 
 this control scheme and I wouldn't be surprised if other publishers and developers start to ape 
 it as well.
  
  There were a few times where the action hiccupped when the screen was jam-packed with fighting 
 armies, but as a whole, Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle-earth II played smoothly and looked 
 great in HD. Those of you without HD may find some of the text of the mission briefings tough to 
 read. It's not that big of a problem, but will remind you that you really need to get that new 
 TV you've been jonesing for.
  
  In the end, Electronic Arts has done a fine job with the Xbox 360 version of this game. I admit, 
 I was skeptical about the controls. Thankfully, EA has proved that an RTS can be pulled off for 
 a console system. I still prefer the PC for this genre, but The Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle-earth 
 II is a promising start of what could be a revelation for the industry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wainio1212
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  This is my first experience with a RTS, and I have to say that I have really taken to it. I am 
 a big Tolkien fan to begin with, so it is a natural for me to have checked out this game. Building 
 the fortresses, structures, etc. seemed like a lot of work at first, but after a while, I really 
 got into it and have enjoyed this game immensely. The rendering of the different parts of Middle 
 Earth are wonderful, and the two single player campaigns are fun and have a solid storyline. I 
 am sure those of you who are veteran RTS players would have a good time with this and even a better 
 time if you are Tolkien enthusiasts. I am excited to try other RTS-type games now, after having 
 played this one. Definitely one to check out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honk_sm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This is awesome! I am so happy that they got a Real Time Strategy game right for a console. We 
 have been waiting so long for this. I really can't tell you just how good this game is. If you're 
 an RTS fan, you'll love it. If you're a Lord of the Rings fan, you'll love it. If you're an XBox 
 360 fan, you'll love it.
  
  Gameplay is great it is immersive, and wastes hours and hours of your time, and you don't even 
 care. It just keeps going.
  
  The graphics are good, for an RTS, but not for the 360. I am not going to rate the graphics low 
 however, because they have little choice I think.
  
  Online is really well done, but this is one game where I've noticed that there is often little 
 to no talking online. It's kind of odd for xbox live.
  
  Buy this game, join a Gamespot tournament like me.... get your butt handed to you. You won't care, 
 you'll be having too much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deregas
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  BFME 2 is obviously the sequel to the PC game BFME. It shares much of the same gameplay while adding 
 alot of new things and changing problems with the original. The fact that it is on the 360 means 
 that there is no mouse-keyboard that is seen as the neccesity for RTS games. BFME 2 controls are 
 well thought out and once you get into the game you'll find it considerably easy.
  
  The graphics while nice by RTS standards are a bit of a let down in that some of the unit models 
 and textures are very blurry, it doesn't really show the full potential of the 360. But they are 
 still nice to look at and one must take into mind that it is a port.
  
  The campaign system has been toned down removing the Total War style strategy map in favor of a 
 mission by mission system. I personally found the strategy map enjoyable giving a sense of where 
 the battles of Middle Earth take place and was a bit disappointed by its absence.
  
  Overall BFME 2 is a solid console RTS and something that future developers should look at before 
 making RTS games for consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake40000
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 8, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  the biggest problem with this game is the lack of options and how the made it kinda risksquad base 
 game. over all im not impressed to me it seemed like the rushed the main game play and made it 
 lack choice for regular troops and for levels. there biggest failure was that they tried to make 
 it a mix game which in the end ruined its general game design.
  
  Although how the did the squad and large amounts of troops was good the quality of battle play 
 was lacking general substance. for strategy the almost was non it was almost like a hack and slash 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtJamesPerez
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings is not my kind of game, at first i really didn't like it, and i thought it was 
 the most stupid game ever, BUT HELL WAS I WRONG !! LOTR 2 is perhaps my game of the year this year, 
 The graphics are great, the sound is awesome, i loved this game and im not even a fan of tatic 
 games ! The story mode is fun, you get to choose between good and evil and play through 16 total 
 fun levels, the online.... WOW.... amazing, play up to 4 players on live, just don't get paired 
 up with the n00b. My final thought on this game is gotta buy it, very fun but the controls take 
 time to learn, so what are you waiting around reading my review... GO GET IT !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Before I even Bought my xbox 360 I knew I wanted this game Becuase its a change of pace from all 
 the ww2 shooters and racing games for the 360. I was pestimistic about the game after i bought 
 it and hoped it would be as good as I thought. I was so surprised after I played it for a while 
 and discovered all the great things about this unique game.
  
  The Good: The tutorial is one of the best ive experineced on any game because it goes at just the 
 right pace and doesnt push u to far into unfamillier territory. The Multiplayer surprised me the 
 most and once i played my first match I was very pleased with how fastpaced the battle was and 
 the different stratagies to defeat your ememy u had to take. Another strong point of this game is 
 the fact u have so many army's each with there own cool things and units at your fingertips. The 
 graphics and sound surprised me a lot to, I sawe the screens and I was doubtfull of the graphics 
 but I was amazed at how detailed everything was.
  
  The Bad: Lots of balancing issues when it comes to the army's and there strenghts. Most notably 
 the elves being far to good with those damn silverthorn arrows. Some glitching on the screen sometimes 
 affects crucial moments during the game.
  
  Overall: Battle for middle earth 2 proves that RTS works for the 360 and that RTS for consoles is 
 here to stay. A must buy for any 360 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetrider69er
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  this game is greatbut it needs more of a expansive battle because you have only like 3 or 4 big 
 things (trolls) and squads of goblins in dosent give you alot of room to move i think they should 
 put in a heavy cap and a squad cap because in the movies and the book the forces of dark control 
 millones of orks compared to the humans i also think half the problem is that they get borring 
 because theres no units to choose from so you just building for the sake of it and there is like 
 no ablitys i would play it more but it gets boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paddles136
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Why are movie games always mediocre? This is a standard RTS. The biggest complaint is the camera. 
 If you zoom out enough to get a good look at the "epic" battles you cannot tell one unit from the 
 other, and if you zoom in to get the full effect of the graphics then you only have a few characters 
 on screen and you loose the ability to command the battle. There really isn't any way to tell this 
 is the Lord of the Rings. It could be any RTS set in a wilderness. Resources are not terribly important 
 the only thing that limits you is how many troops you can field and the time it takes to make the 
 units. All you do is make all your units run at the bad guys (or good guys) until they are all 
 gone, then do it again. The sounds are very well done and probably the best part of the game, which 
 i think is sad. You can unlock great heroes, but I didn't feel the game was worth playing that 
 long to unlock anything. If you like RTS then stick with the PC if you are a die hard LOTR then 
 you will probably like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngflyflashyG
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  This really reminded me of the old days of Mario and such. I REALLY loved this game, but it was 
 just two short. I REALLY loved this game (emphasis) . Unfortunately, I smashed both the evil mode 
 and the good mode within a week. I also spent uncountable hours tweaking around in skirmish. X-box 
 Live never got boring because most of the time there were different people with different strategies. 
 The really cool part was playing as all the different factions and devising strategies to go with 
 each level. As I generally got better I began to increase the difficulty but even that got easy. 
 Then I started trying two vs one vs one. Eventually, I was playing three vs one on the hard difficulty 
 with low amounts of money, in some of the worst areas on the levels and still crushing my opponent. 
 All in all an awesome game. Definitely has bridged the gap between real time strategies and next-gen 
 consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIWhosNextIx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  RTS is a genre usually associated with computers, but when the Lord of the Rings brought it to 
 the Xbox 360, I jumped on it. The screenshots got me first, the huge battles of Middle Earth, played 
 however you want to. But after I bought the game, I was even more excited. The game brings what 
 the movies didn't show into your living room, and alot of what it did. The single player gets kind 
 of old but playing as good or evil keeps it interesting. The game shines the most online. Play 
 with 3 other people and try to dominate maps from the books and movies. Strategize and try to come 
 out on top. This game is addicting and a whole lot of fun, even those who don't usually play RTS 
 or who are fans of the Lord of the RIngs series should enjoy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evian
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I say surprising as for a RTS It really does work well on a console, i think it beats all the age 
 of empires 3 hands down, not on the graphics but on the range of things that happen, eg. i never 
 had to worry about my troops being grabbed by a dragon and thrown into the air or a watcher being 
 summoned killing all my swordsmen. The different races are all unique whereas in age of empires 
 3 it was all a bit samey. The campaigns are enjoyable and really tough on the higher difficulty 
 settings, but the real fun is to be had on x-box live, and you feel so good and accomplished when 
 you completely tear the enemy apart and DESTROY THEM! And you'll have your favourite race because 
 they are so well done, the elves archers are very destructive with the silverthorne arrows upgrade 
 but I prefer the humans archers because they have a longrange attack which means you can attack 
 any section on the map that you can see and is very useful. You are also awarded special attacks 
 with points you earn by fighting, and some of the top attacks are devastating, and when you combine 
 them with strong heroes, you can be unstopable especially if you have your special hero when in 
 possesion of 'the one ring' being galadriel or sauron depending on your race. You will only spend 
 20 - 40 hours online if you have x-box live though. A great game all round, you won't be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick_sellars16
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 12:06 pm PT
Review:  New to the series, the Lord of the Rings takes a different direction when releasing this game. 
 This is the first real RTS game of its type on the 360 and its overall not a bad game. The graphics 
 are good; considering how much time, effort and money has to go into making over 2000 individual 
 soldiers act real and independent. The battles are okay considering only the front units fight 
 but other things make up for that such as the great real time physics and the variety of different 
 types of units and building you can get. This game is quite unique and will give its games hours 
 of non-stop fun but after a while the game gets repetitive and boring. After about 20 - 30 hours 
 of gameplay you lose your passion and motivation to play the game. The campaigns are disappointing 
 for the fact that they leave the better part of all the movies storyline out and introduce an entire 
 new storyline that occurwhile the real battles are being fought ( helms deep, etc ... ) . The 
 game designers do a good job with the type that they had selected. The the real bummer about this 
 game is that you don't get to play as humans ( except on skirmish and xbox live) . I can't believe 
 they left them out of the campaigns entirely and you end up fighting with the annoying dwarves 
 and the elves, goblins and orcs. overall this gam was a bit of a disappointment but i is still 
 quite fun. I recommend this game to any xbox 360 gamer as it still gives a great game experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_J_123
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  Im going to get the downside to the game out of the way now because i really like this game. Te 
 only downside to this game is the lack of A. I. on skirmishes, and if you are not a fan of lotr 
 or strategy games it might not apeal to you, now on with the reveiw. The best 360 game ive played 
 to date. Each race you play as (Men, Elves, Dwarfs, Goblins, Orks of mordor, orac hai of isengard) 
 have their own unique feel and playing style. e. g. goblins and orks have weak but cheap infantry 
 but make up for it with heroes and powers e. g. the witch king for orks and the summoning balrog 
 power. The elves, on the other hand, have strong archers, and the men strong infantry. The entire 
 game links in with j. r. r Tolkens books realy well. But the strongest part is the multiplayer, after 
 working your way through the campaigns and played in player vs computer skirmishes you can take 
 on other human players. the campain is relativley easy compared to online play, dont get me wrong 
 it is fun but dificult untill you get use to it. playing in places like helms deep and minus tirith 
 is a really good laugh. All in all though a great game definatly worth 40 quid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nleon1977
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I mean, really. Who would have thunkl it???? A good real time strategy on a console? Ummmm, yes. 
 This game will surprise you on the XBOX 360. Although, I have to admit it. I was fortunate enough 
 to play both the console and the PC version of the game and it is better on the PC. But if you 
 don't want your computer to have to do the work to run this game, it's an excellent buy for the 
 360. It has all the classic RTS elements you love like soldiers, calvary, archers, weapons and 
 heros. Even Treebeard. (WOO HOO... Treebeard) The online play is a blast. In fact, I'm just now 
 getting into the story mode because I was hooked on the online mode for so long. Bottom line, LOTR 
 Battle for Middle Earth is an excellent RTS for the PC and the Console. Just pick you poison and 
 have a ball. (or a ring... ha ha) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theprays
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The multiplayer is fun. Having your massive army go and destroy your friends city is the most fun 
 I have ever had in a game. THe single player is boring because it is linear. You cant choose who 
 you want to be. So if you don't have XBL then you most likely shouldn't be reading my review. There 
 is always the skirmish mode, which has the dumbest AI when it comes to attacking Helms Deep, they 
 dont even attempt to climb the walls or anything. They suck at defending to. All they do is build 
 heroes. but anyway this game is awsome even if you suck at it. BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge Command and Conquer fan and thought I would give this game a try on the 360 after seeing 
 it had many good reviews. I was kinda dissapointed with the look and feel of the game. The controls 
 were done correctly for a console but still didnt feel natural at all for me. The graphics were 
 mehhhh.... xboxish. I ended up playing this game for about 5 hours and then sold it on ebay because 
 it didnt hook me at all. The only thing I could think about was "why I bought it." I think I would 
 have written a better review if I would have bought this game for the PC. I just now know that 
 these types of games dont run very well on any console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuft
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 28, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  this for me is one of the classics on the xbox 360, everything from the control systen right down 
 to graphics and gameplay. the surprise for me was the control system, i knew it had been custom 
 designed for the 360 but i remained sceptical, this however did not change my mind when i went 
 to purchase it and i'm glad it didnt.
  
  The graphics while a little blocky are still easily recognisable and do look good except in a close 
 up veiw, the maps are large and varied and accuretly depict the various locations throughout middle 
 earth.
  
  the sound is what you'd expect as it has mostly come from the films with the voice acting for all 
 of the characters fairly close and the orchaestral scores.
  
  Gameplay is of the highest caliber the control system is easy to use select a building, hold the 
 right trigger and you hae the build menu this also works for activating a units power. the dpad 
 wors to select any groups you have created and also to auto select your heroes.
  
  overall this game is worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumitalianguy11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 25, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  The game is really something new on consoles in case you didn't know. The reason is the game's 
 genre (strategy) is traditional a PC game because of how the control scheme with the mouse and 
 keyboard. In the 360's case the control scheme is not to bad at all and is really easy to get used 
 to once you get the hang of it. Plus there are two tutorials for controls which help out a lot. 
 Let's just say when you are playing it definitely doesn't get in the way. Single player is fun. 
 There are two campaigns evil and good which are really fun which allow you to unlock heroes, which 
 are people who you can "recruit" when you are playing to help out against the other team. Just 
 to name a few, Saruman, Gandalf, Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, and even Sauron through a special setup. 
 The best about this game in my opinion is multiplayer on xbox live. The matches are really intense 
 but fun to especially with some friends. It's really easy to get sucked into a 4 hour game and 
 still want to play another. There are different setups to like 2v2, 1v1, 2v1, and 3v1 at like famous 
 maps like Helms Deep. The only bad thing is that sometimes there are framerate issues when things 
 get going crazy and next-gen crazy at that, and sometimes online for me at least you get stuck 
 in a "finding match" screen where you can here the lobby ur in and talk to the people in there 
 but ur screen is still messed up. Then you have to go back to the dashboard or wait really long 
 for it to change lobbys. Final word though the game is really enjoyable if you let it be and is 
 at least worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spykiller
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  It's quite easy for one RTS game for those who play AOE. The graphics are spectacular because it's 
 very hard to make Tolkien's novels into game. The most interesting thing in the game it's you can 
 have a BIG Army with 1k troops. The campaign is too short but each lvl its amazing. The creators 
 of this game must be proud of it. I hope they do more games RTS of Lotr. The battlefields and the 
 heroes are the best , when i'm using Sauron i know i will win he's damn tall. For me evil campaign 
 its more worth to play than good campaign. Playing one ring mode on Skirmish in Minas Tirith is 
 total destruction its more easy with the heroes but in the end the battlefield is full of capatults 
 fire's , siege towers destroyed and Minas Tirith burning you like to say : The Era of Humans has 
 ended.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  The movies were great, and it's great that you aren't stuck following a linear route in each mission, 
 but the game needs work. One constant problem is choppiness as more and more creatures gather on 
 the screen. Another problem is that as you zoom in, the scrolling increases dramatically.
  
  The game controls can be a tad difficult to grasp, so watch carefully during the tutorials. 
 After that, you tend to built tons of creatures and throw them at the opponent. There isn't enough 
 on field unit control like in the computer's Total War series. The game has on-screen text that 
 shows before you create the unit, what type units it's good against. Then it has the bonus of being 
 able to assign units of your choice to certain groups.
  
  Unfortunately, it becomes a bit difficult to tell which creatures are which (at least for the humanoids) 
 when the camera is zoomed all the way out, so you lose time zooming on the opponent's, then on 
 yours to see which should attack which. As for the groups, it's great to plot ahead of time, but 
 you can't select a group fast enough during battle and everything just falls apart. It's hard to 
 get your units to leave the units they're fighting against to influence the battle.
  
  The graphics are ok, but need work.
  
  The one saving factor is the LOTR tie-in. It's great 
 to go through the game and eventually get to use super units like Sauron, King Dane, and the Goblin 
 King. The game also has great sound to it, including movie battle sounds and voices. Overall, it's 
 a decent attempt at a real time strategy game for the 360, but unless you're a die hard LOTR fan, 
 you may want to save your money for the compter RTS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbuckey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of RTS games since Warcraft II on the PC, the problem is I've never been very good 
 at them. I do fine in single player "skirmishes" and in most campaign modes, but online I get my 
 butt kicked every time. It never really appealed to me to have a "rush" strategy... I wanted the 
 game to last longer and be most interesting. I wanted to get my units upgraded and some of the 
 more powerful and better units out in the game. For some reason BFME seems to fit right into my 
 comfort zone.
  
  First of all the single player campaign is awesome. It slowly eases you into the game with simple 
 commands at first and timing them just right. You won't feel rushed as you learn the controls in 
 the first couple of "missions". EA took it one step further and gave us Good and Evil campaign 
 modes to play. If you prefer good or evil you can get started quickly and easily.
  
  One thing that intrigued me was the control scheme on this game. The developers couldn't stop talking 
 about how easy it would be to play. I wasn't sure how they would pull this off, since it's pretty 
 tough to emulate a mouse on a PC, but they did it perfectly. Basically you use the "A" button as 
 your "click" and you get a cursor to position on the map. If you're over a building and hit "A" 
 you select the building. Then if you pull the right-trigger you get something like a context menu 
 where you can select upgrades, build units, etc. If your cursor is over a unit the right trigger 
 will bring up a menu with the options available to that unit such as upgrades. Selecting a unit 
 and then moving the curosor somewhere else and "clicking" with the "A" button will move that unit 
 there. If you "click" on an enemy unit they will attack. Having nothing selected and pulling the 
 right trigger will bring up a kind of "global" menu where you can purchase and select powers, see 
 your unit groups (or "bookmarks" as they're called in BFME) , etc. While hovering over a unit holding 
 the left or right bumper will either select all of your units of that type or all of the units 
 on the screen presently (respectively) .
  
  The graphics are pretty good, but I don't have an HDTV so I can't really say. They look fine to 
 me on my standard def. TV.
  
  There is one thing that takes away from this game. The framerate problems that can sometimes occur 
 when playing either single player or multiplayer. At times it's non-existent, but much of the time 
 it's very noticeable. In one single player campaign it was so slow it was excruciating. I've played 
 a lot of multiplayer and thankfully lag is not really an issue and the framerate issues seem to 
 be less noticeable.
  
  Overall this game is an abosolute must for RTS fans and definitely at least a rental for everyone 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qbkiller94
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  The game opens with a birds eye view of various battles occuring around Middle Earth. Men fighting 
 with Orcs, Elves firing bows at Trolls and Nazgul's atop Fellbeasts preying on unsuspecting Dwarves. 
 In one fell swoop you are transported into the center of epic adventures and battles to be played 
 out all across Middle Earth.
  
  The folks an EA did an excellent job setting the stage for a addictively fun strategy game that 
 will keep you entertained for hours on end.
  
  You have six armies to chose from in the game and each has its own strengths and weaknesses. Dwarves 
 are sturdy fighters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _OKO_
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 23, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  Battle For Middle Earth II is the sequel to the successful game Lord Of The Rings Battle For Middle 
 Earth. Battle For Middle Earth II however differentiates from the first game, because your playing 
 really behind the scenes of the Movie. You're playing the quests and campaigns which were happening 
 while Frodo, Sam and Gollum were heading for Mt Doom, while Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas were at 
 Helms Deep. But it certainly doesn't mean it isn't fun, no far from it. Infact, you are given a 
 whole new array of Heroes to play as, Gloin a Dwarf Leader, Glorfindel the Elves most prestigious, 
 Warrior, and as the play the Campaign and unlock Achievements you get more Heroes, and the more 
 you do, the greater you recieve. Now, the Single Player is very addictive indeed. You can play, 
 as before in the last game, Good or Evil campaigns, both last roughly the same time in Gameplay, 
 they both are very entertaining, and if you want, very challenging. There are 8 Levels in total 
 for both Good and Evil, and will test out your Strategical, Noggin'. Multiplayer, hasn't been too 
 nice to me. Due to the countless numbers of 'Rushers' in Versus or Ranked matches, the countless 
 number of Flamers, but that's just my experience. I've only managed to play possibly 5 or 6 games 
 online without going insane. There are plenty of different Gameplay Modes, Versus, Capture and 
 Hold, King Of The Hill, Hero vs Hero, all of them are entertaining. And another positive is that 
 the Graphics and Sound are INCREDIBLE. I have a Hi Definition Television, so maybe it might change 
 for Standard Def, but for me, the visual and hearing experience of the game are brilliant. One 
 slight downside I have to mention, is the Frame Rate issue in big battles. It's as slow and niggly 
 as hell. It certainly has left me with tears in my eyes before, but - you will get over it eventually. 
 So to wrap it up really. Positives - + Brilliant Singleplayer + Awesome Visual and Hearing + Addictive 
 Negatives - - Online Community - Frame Rate Issues - Visual on a Standard Def Tv (?) So if your 
 an RTS Fan, and you happen to like Lord Of The Rings, this game is for you. _OKO_'s Rating : 8.7 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game__Raider
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Well lets start out by saying that this game is a greta start for RTS's on consoles. There are 
 very few flaws in this game. LOTR BFME 2 is every bit of good as its predesecor and steps it up 
 a notch in every way. The story line allows you to save middle earth as the dwarves and elves or 
 destroy it as the goblins and mordor. This is not the movies story, but the smaller less known 
 battles in some of the books. If you choose the role of the good people then you start off in rivendell 
 defending it from a goblin invasion where eventually on the last level your task is to destroy 
 Dol Guldur and free Middle Earth from the goblins. If you take the role on as goblins you try to 
 settle a grudge with the shire and their hobbits, and eventually join up with mordor and try and 
 destroy Rivendell. There are many different heroes to unlock for online and skirmish play. The tutorials 
 are imperitive that you take them or you are screwed when you start playing. Sometimes when there 
 are big armies on screen in one place ther ewill be partial framerate issues. The skrimishes are 
 very easy yet frustratung. The computer only builds a couple of battalions at a time and sends 
 them at you, but they never build up a huge army and attack or wait. The One Ring mode in this 
 game is hard yet rewarding when you find and kill gollum. Your obljective is to use some stealth 
 discovering device to find gollum, kill him, and take the ring to your fortress. If you are a good 
 army you can summon Galadriel the Queen of the Elves. If you are an evil army then you can summon 
 Sauron the Lord of the Rings. Dont take these summons lighttly. They take a chunk out of your resources 
 (wich are the things that you use to buy armeis and upgrades) . About 10,000 to be exact but they 
 are worth every penny of it. Since I forgot to tell you about resources I'll start now. Each army 
 has their own specific resource building to make. The men make famrs, elves mallorn trees, dwarves 
 mine shafts, isengard furnaces, mordor slaughter houses, and goblins tunnels. These each have a 
 perecnt bar in the middle that tells you what area is better for building them. Obviously the higher 
 the percent is better. Ok now about the battles, Your fortress is your main building, you can make 
 buliders there wich are imperitive to winning, you can upgrade your fortress wich will do various 
 things to keep you in the battle longer. You cna also make heroes such as Aragorn, Gandalf, Shelob, Witch 
 King etc. they all have special powers they can use to help you win. Other bulidings such as battle 
 towers are very important to have sometimes so you can prtect your fort. You also need barrakcs (which 
 are other names for different armies) to make units. The online play is terrific and the only problem 
 is the occasional framerate issues. It is really fun to choose different armies and play verse 
 your friends and other people. It is addicting and I stil can't stop (lol) !!!!! Well now that this 
 review is practically over please send me comments about how this review was and feel free to recommend 
 it (lol) , and if it is helpful to any of you please let me know ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nibor_23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  Your salvation has come in this excellent RTS LOTR: BFME II. This game really puts you, the gamer 
 in control of your destiny. 
  
  Single player:- This game has a lot of offer those who are looking for a challenge. The good campaign 
 can be quite challenging for the more experienced players, while still giving those who are new 
 to console RTS games, breathing space to get to know the ropes without being overwhelmed. 
  
  There is great variation in the units abilities, and upgrades can mean the difference between 
 victory and defeat. The evil campaign can be slightly disappointing as the challenges seem to climax 
 too early in the game, leaving the gamer with a 'drawn out' feeling, although this is evened out 
 when looking at the abundance of mulitplayer options.
  
  Multiplayer: - Granted I haven't played much over XL but from what I have heard, this is the games 
 real jewel. With many different modes to choose from (King Of the Hill is great to play and watch!) , 
 there is endless enjoyment for those who love LOTR and/or RTS games. 
  
  On the downside, when dealing with troops en-mass, there can be a bit of 'lag' that can be a little 
 off putting. 
  
  Overall, this is a great RTS that you will get value for money and endless hours of entertainment 
 from. Great job!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VooDoo1144
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  I have a freind on live that pretty much begged me to get this game... he would go on and on about 
 how good it is and how, even though I am still a hardcore PC RTS guy that I would love it.
  
  Well lets just say that the PC still handles RTS much better than the consoles ever will... but 
 besides that, I am very happy to say that this game is pretty good on the console.
  
  The graphics are pretty weak but I understand that... the maps look great though, I love the water 
 effects and the small little details in the buildings.
  
  The single player is pretty stupid when you play live... it only really benefits you to play it 
 because you get achievments and unlockables and such.... the skirmish offers some good practice 
 and allows you to get to know the whole game as opposed to the little by little of the single player.
 
  
  The sound is spot on... love the voices and the little nods to the books.
  
  The multiplay is where it can be good or really bad....
  
  The good lies in a game where you 
 play army against army and don't use many of the stupid Uber powers... where you really only use 
 troops and such.
  
  The bad is where you notice that you can get a whole army wiped out by one power and there is nothing 
 you can do about it... where someone destroys your wall with lightning and you lost a important 
 defence with no chance to stop the attack... or someone gets the ring and destroys entire bases 
 with sauron... yeah I know I sound like I am whining... but think about it... other games balance 
 all the races and power... this game just seems to allow for the player to push a button and win 
 the game.
  
  that is where my buyers regret kicks in... when I find that I am not having fun with the game because 
 I like to play with my army rather than my powers menu.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Commandofreak92
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Battle for Middle Earth going to console I was very sceptical. RTS's generally 
 need a mouse and keyboard to work. But despite doubt I bought the game and was very surprised that 
 the control scheme was intuitive, effective and very simple. Its pretty much based on 3 main buttons 
 and is very easy to pick up. The graphics are very much like the PC on the highest settings. They 
 are pretty for an RTS and definitely are visually pleasing. The building animations are very amusing 
 and add a lot to the looks. As this game is LOTR the soundtrack is wonderful and the other sounds 
 are good also. The online system is very fun as well with many options and game variants. The non-versus 
 games are much more fun than you would imagine. My only real complaint about this game is the slight 
 framerate drops when the action gets to large. Other than that the game runs well and the achievements 
 are hard but fun. Overall I would say apart from the framerate this game is very well rounded and 
 definitely worth at least a demo download. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alamo313
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Finally... Finally a game which delivers real time strategy to the console and although anyone 
 coming to this game should not expect the same level of control that would be found on the PC what 
 they can expect is a solid even if imperfect, simple control system that smoothly offline and reasonably 
 well on Xbox live.
  
  In the single player mode there are two campaigns, one follows the good armies of the Dwarves and 
 the Elves the other follows the evil powers of Mordor and the moria goblins. Both campaigns are 
 enjoyable and give a reasonable amount of guidance, that matched with three difficulty settings; 
 easy, normal and hard mean that this game should find a place among gamers of all different abilities. 
 The game doesn't follow the events of the films but thier are the usual heroes of the films and 
 the books as well as many units which we have not seen in the films yet give each race its own 
 advantages in certain areas.
  
  The single player campaign is not the longest ever and can probably be completed by most in a week 
 but the achievements and different campaign difficulties could keep people coming back. The real 
 attraction here however is the skirmish modes, in single play this is a simple attempt to eliminate 
 your foe's final fortress and final baracks or unit creating building and this again provides you 
 with 3 difficulties of play and on the harder difficulties this can become a really entertaining 
 offline challenge. But the real attraction here lies in the online skirmishes: king of the hill 
 a versus mode, a resources race and heroes mode are all available with the versus bieng the same 
 as that in the offline skirmish mode.
  
  There are a wide selection of maps and up to four player games with any combinations of teams, 
 1 vs 1 vs 2, or 3 vs 1 or 2 vs 2 or free for all. The levels have interesting designs that lead 
 to a number of offensive options and defensive problems and the balance of the armies means that 
 each game is evenly balanced and the differences of the armies mean that each game will be different. 
 The dwarves tend to be a defensively stronger race which can be hard to crush with strong attacking 
 artillery, however they are a slow army lacking cavalry. Wheras the goblins have near to no defenses 
 but can create massive armies of weak goblins quickly and have strong units such as the giant and 
 cave troll at their disposal. Different armies will be preffered by different people and often 
 when playing with someone else on your team odd combinations can lead to interesting results.
 
  
  The men (Gondor and Rohan) and the forces of Isengard are both not playable in single player mode 
 but appear in the skirmishes and online. There are however two complaints outside of the campaign 
 and they are a lack of options regarding these skirmishes or multiplayer modes, for example I would 
 like to change the concentration of computer controlled enemies in a map (goblins in randomly strewn 
 goblin caves for example) or perhaps add a time limit on versus mode, maybe even prohibit the use 
 of particular armies or units to add an extra element in private matches. However the only real 
 options available are which map and which army you choose. The other complaint is that the only 
 games that one can rely on are thos played with friends, people often quit early making you feel 
 like you've wasted a lot of time, which you have, building up an army or defenses for nothing...
 
  
  Finally in the multiplayer one will find a lot of interesting maps, built to have 3 on 1 such as 
 the one based around Minas tirith, yet giving the defending player a massive advantage (in fact 
 it is here where one wishes for more customizing options, for example a time limit so that the 
 defender only needs to defend for a particular time or giving the defender a chance to exceed the 
 troop cap (Which I have not mentioned before but reaches a maximum of 1000 on matches with the 
 best of connections) . Instead what can ruin this type of game is the defender having to come out 
 of his base to cruch each enemy in order to win.
  
  The sound on the game is really as good as it needs to be with good sound effects that are simple 
 but make it all the better, our troops will call out when selected and it's just little things 
 like that which stop this from bieng a game that could have potentially no sound. Graphically the 
 game is decent from far away but when zooming in on a unit one can see extremely pixelated shodows 
 and troops that don't look very sharp but this doesn't pose a problem at all in my opinion as overall 
 on the big scale of things the environment and map look very good as well as the buildings. The 
 controls are simple and easy to use and learn but on the micro management scale of things it can 
 be harder to use than a pc (no surprise thier) but the control system is good and eventually you 
 won't really realise it it just feels very natural.
  
  Try renting this game and see if it's for you, check out the multiplayer as this adds to the games 
 value, if you're not interested in the multiplayer or the single player skirmish mode a couple 
 of rentals should give you all you need from this game unless you're a massive LOTR fan.
  
  8.6/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krapowa
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 18, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  we all know that rts games dont work on videogame consoles but this one works on consoles and if 
 you spend some time learning the controls you will eventually get used to them. but some of us [like 
 me] take a while and when i say a while i mean never get used to not using a mouse. its hard. graphics 
 wise this game exels the way the waer ripples as you send a fleet of ships to destroy some city. the 
 frame rate is very good also as i never expierienced any slow down in the game. the campaigns will 
 keep at you at the game for a while and some of the missions are very impressive [dol guldur] let 
 alone the skirmishes which let you widley experiment with diffrent armies so its safe to say that 
 this game has some replay value. live is pretty good also but a lot of people either dont know how 
 to play the game or will leave early. i met a guy who didnt know how to make units. ea have also 
 introduced some new levels along with the last game and on xbox live more levels will be available 
 for download. all in all a great game but if you are like me get the pc version instead 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhys1elliott
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 17, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  They said it couldn't be done. But, this is actually a good RTS on a console! It takes place in 
 Middle-Earth of the Lord of the Rings franchise as you can tell by the name. It lets you control 
 memorable creatures like Spiderlings, Orcs, Goblins, Elves and heros from the seires, such as characters 
 like Gimli, Legolas, Aaragorn, Sauron, Saruman and even Tom Bombadil (gasp and creatures Shelob, 
 fel-beasts and Nazgual. You can also use cool powers like summoning floods, which is really good 
 touch.
  
  The single player is pretty much standard RTS stuff. There are two campaigns, an evil and a good, 
 8 levels in each. You are given a bunch of major objectives like ''destroy the Elven fortresses' 
 but you also have the choice to complete bounus objectives like ''slay the Goblin King''. For each 
 level that you complete all objectives and bounus objectives you get a few gamerpoints. The game 
 also has all the epic LOTR music, which is great!
  
  The single player lasts about 10-15 hours if played properly. But, the online is where all the 
 fun's at. There are various modes such as all the normal RTS multiplayer modes like verses, these 
 are all really fun and imaginative. 
  There's also a new hero verses hero mode, where you and a friend battle online against eachother 
 using only heroes. Which is great.
  
  There are however a few drawbacks the major one is the graphics. The game is almost unplayable 
 on a standard TV, but looks decent on a HD TV, which is a pity really they could have done so much 
 better with the graphics.
  Another problem is that when the screen is full of enemies the game is so laggy it looks like a 
 slideshow. Also a very very minor drawback is that there is only a total of 705 gamerpoints other 
 than the normal 1000. Also, some of the voice acting is a bit lame.
  
  This game combines awesome gameplay with some interesting ideas, but with some pretty un-next-gen 
 graphics. Good for fans of RTS', fans of LOTR and beginners alike. It's a revolution for console 
 RTS'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosajunior21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  I think this game was good. It had a few problems of course but over all it was fun. The fun was 
 great at first but slowly it dulls down but not all at once and i can still pull it out every couple 
 of weeks to play with it. If you are a xbox 360 fan this is a MUST play. and also u have to play 
 it if you enjoyed the computer version of the first one. This game is a definite break through 
 for real time! Im looking forward to more games like this and even hopefully additions to this 
 great series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_hate_rangers
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Loads of people say that RTS games aren't meant for consoles and for the most part i totally agree (Age 
 of Empires: Age of Kings for PS 2 is a good example) however Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle-Earth 
 2 is a great game with alot to offer. It may not match up to the PC version where you can create 
 your own heros but it still has alot to offer, for example there is two campaigns, one Good Campaign 
 and one Evil Campaign which are both 8 levels long.
  
  There are 6 factions to play ing the Skirmish mode, Men of the West which is basically Gondor and 
 Rohan, theres Elves and Dwarves to play and for the evil side there is Isengard, Mordor and Moria (Goblins) . 
 Each faction has their own heros for example Gandalf, the mighty Witch King on a fellbeast and 
 Lord Elrond plus many more, each hero also has special powers. Speaking of powers you can also 
 purchase powers to use agaisnt your enemy like summon your Hobbit Allies and even summon the awesome 
 Balrog of Morgoth. 
  
  Overall Battle for Middle -- Earth 2 is a must buy for all RTS fans who own a 360 and EA have done 
 a superb job of fuffiling an almost impossible task of creating a RTS game suitable for the 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nexus_2002
Rating: 2.9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game and i send it back to EA, becouse the framerate drops to 3 fps in battles, poor 
 quality game. asked some people and they had the same problems.
  
  game itself is a good game, but the quality sucks.
  it's a lot like command and conquer generals, 
 red alert, age of empires, but it has some good things.
  
  shadows look terrible btw, guess they had to mess some things up so they could save some system 
 resourses
  ------
  
  i bought this game and i send it back to EA, becouse the framerate drops to 3 fps in battles, poor 
 quality game. asked some people and they had the same problems.
  
  game itself is a good game, but the quality sucks.
  it's a lot like command and conquer generals, 
 red alert, age of empires, but it has some good things.
  
  shadows look terrible btw, guess they had to mess some things up so they could save some system 
 resourses 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 12:28 am PT
Review:  LOTR BFME2 For XBOX 360.
  
  This RTS game is the second in it's series. Developed by Electronic Arts, this game is based in 
 the Lord of the Ring's universe which is wildly popular from books/movies. In case you didn't know, 
 RTS stands for Real Time Strategy. This genre has you building bases and constructing armies to 
 defeat an opposing army on a wide-open battlefield.
  
  Gameplay : The controls are a bit awkward at first, but after awhile (10-15 minutes) of getting 
 a solid feel for the controls you'll be doing fine. 
  
  The game is very fun to play (you'll enjoy it more if your into the LOTR books/movies) , it requires 
 thought before engaging an enemy or where your going to build your base. The game has you start 
 off with building a fortress which is like your HQ for your army, from there you can build barracks, 
 stables, battle towers, resource gathering outposts, etc.. After building a base, it's your job 
 to create an army consisting of warriors, archers, lancers, and many more. 
  
  You get to play as many races in the game (good and evil) , so each army has a different feel to 
 them. Another important quality of a game is how fun it actually is. I'm happy to say that LOTR: BFME 
 II is one of the funnest games I have ever played. It will definitely keep you entertained for 
 years. It is also easy to learn so you don't need to be an RTS vet to play this game. The game 
 of course includes a single player mode but the real fun is online. There are several different 
 types of online play including capture the flag. Add to this team matches and over 40 maps to choose 
 from and you've got yourself a solid title.
  
  This game has 2 separate campaigns, a good side campaign (Races: An alliance of elves, dwarf's, 
 and men) and a bad side campaign (Races: An alliance of orcs, trolls, and goblins) . Each campaign 
 has 8 missions, so the total single-player campaign is 16 missions long. This game also has another 
 mode of game-play called "Skirmish" mode which pits you against 1 or more A. I. controlled opponents.
 
  
  Graphics : This game is actually a port of it's PC counterpart, no effort was made to revamp the 
 graphics. But this was a very nice looking PC game to begin with, the graphics aren't eye-popping 
 by any means but they do have that next-gen feel to them. The buildings you can construct are detailed 
 structures (EX: The barracks have soldiers practicing fighting moves around it.) Environments have 
 a lot of variety, some missions have you fighting in the icy mountains while others have you at 
 a beautiful elven city during a clear sunny day.
  
  Sound : If you've seen the LOTR movies, then you know just how well the music is. If you haven't 
 then you'll be treating to an excellent musical score. During battles you can hear the clashes 
 of swords, archers launching their arrows across the battlefield, and the sound of fire-breathing 
 dragons roasting your troops.
  
  It took me around 15 hours to complete both campaigns. I would say that it would take the average 
 gamer around 15-20 hours to beat it.
  
  At the end of each level your presented with your statistics on how you did, you can try to improve 
 your playing each time. 
  
  There's also achievements that you get for completing a level with all bonus objectives completed 
 in the mission.
  
  If your a fan of RTS games, then this is a MUST buy, not because it's your only choice on 360 but 
 because it's one really fun game. If your new to this genre then I would suggest you rent it first 
 before shelling out $110 buckmatics.
  
  Yo. Don Vito Forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconCA
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, there's nothing new about this strategy game. Same tried and true dynamics and gameplay. 
 Personally, I'm sick of it because I simply cannot build as fast as a true strategy gamer. People 
 who suck at games tend to not like them, but I'll attempt to be non-bias.
  
  XBOX 360 controls are pretty smooth and work as well as a mouse and keyboard, perhaps with more 
 comfort, but there's nothing like being able to drag and draw a box outlining your units with a 
 mouse cursor.
  
  Units don't listen, but do they ever? There is yet to be a perfect strategy game where the units 
 do exactly what you tell them to, EVERY TIME. 
  
  Story telling could have been better, a bit dragging. I find myself falling asleep before the game 
 starts. Also, load screen is BORING. If you're going to make me sit there and load, put more than 
 the rotating ring! Let me have a CLUE of how much has loaded so far. Some text tips, inside info 
 on the oh so intriguing world of Middle Earth, something, ANYTHING.
  
  Overall, addicting as any strategy game, a good rent.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwgober92
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for a while online with my 360 but to tell you the truth it got old fast. I 
 was building up a huge city and crushing the other guys with no problem, i dont know if it was 
 because my skill was high or because everyone else i played just sucked. I have alot of exp with 
 warcraft and games like that, which also helped make me alot better.....
  
  I usually play with the elves and to tell you the truth they arent that good at all. They dont 
 have awsome orcs that can destroy buildings in a single hit or awsome castles that are almost invincible. 
 They are just basic little characterd, and even still, i won almost every game i played online. 
 
  
  I guess this game is fun if you like repetitve stuff, but its not much for me, because im more 
 for change on everything i do. You may also like this game if your just a huge fan of LOTR or just 
 need a little something to do every now and then.
  
  All in all i think that this game is respectable, but doesnt have the essence of a perfet game. 
 If you could play as more races, had more monster choices, and had better people online (which 
 really isnt their fault) then it could be a perfect game. But since its not, ill have to give it 
 an 8.6.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinco360
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Real Time Strategy games have long been a favorite of mine, and I'm happy to say that the union 
 between this genre and consoles works quite well! As an avid player of PC RTS games, it was a hard 
 pill to swallow when I saw this game was release on the Xbox 360. But after playing it for awhile, 
 I have to say that I'm impressed with how they were able to incorporate one of the most complex 
 genres on PC to a console. Now, I'm not just another 360 fanboy writing a review trying to sway 
 people towards the 360, I really and honestly believe this game has potential.
  
  Graphics: I'll be honest, they're not the best graphics in an RTS game. The shadowing is choppier 
 than a chef salad. But despite some obvious flaws, the appeal of this game should be enough to 
 keep people interested. There are apparent lag issues when controlled a large unit, but that's 
 to be expected on any game. While the graphics aren't top-notch, I definately think they're note-worthy.
 
  
  Sound: One of the best soundtracks I've heard in an RTS in quite some time. As should be expected, 
 the game's soundtrack is completely derived from The Lord of the Rings movies. The voice-overs 
 are solid and the sound effects are as good as it gets in this sort of game. When controlling a 
 small unit, you'll hear a small echo of foot steps. And while controlling a large number of units, 
 you can hear the earth tremble beneath you.
  
  Gameplay: Standard RTS game with some much needed features thrown in. The single player campaign 
 is very addictive. You get to play either the good or evil campaigns, which for me was a nice change 
 of pace. The controls are easy to access, basic point, drag and click movements. I never really 
 got into the multiplayer part of this game, but it's nice to know that it's there incase I ever 
 decide to challenge someone over the internet. The RTS games I'm used to never really offered online 
 multiplayer, so this is a hard concept to grasp for me.
  
  Overall, this is truly a solid RTS. Kudos to EA on their first attempt at an RTS game on the consoles. 
 While I can see why this game may not appeal to the hardcore RTS players out there, this is a definate 
 rent for anyone interested in a change of pace in gaming. This is a great first RTS title, and 
 the fact that it's on a console is just an added bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vektron11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  It is quite impressive to think that RTS games have really never worked on a console because EA 
 did such an amazing job of creating this unique but effective gameplay. I have played the PC version 
 and mastered it long before the Xbox 360 version came out, but I can honestly say the 360 version 
 plays better than my PC rendition. Ironically, it's all because of the gameplay. I have beaten 
 the game, played countless matches on Xbox Live and I have never once experience a fault that limited 
 my control with the gamepad. Since that is the major barrier that blockades most people from buying 
 it, EA will now destroy any apprehension of playing an RTS with a gamepad. Other than gameplay, 
 everything else falls into place. The graphics are good, but they look quite pathetic on a normal 
 TV. If you have an HDTV, that is where you'll really be benefitting. Your men look detailed and 
 it really enhances the experience tremendously. Sound is self explainitory: It's Lord of The Rings 
 man, what do you think? Value is great: It's the only RTS on the 360, plays excellent, replay value 
 is high especially if you have Xbox Live, and it looks good with an HDTV. Only shortcoming is the 
 59.99 price tag. PC game is cheaper, so it should have been 49.99 also because it's a port and 
 not a new creation. Enjoy
  Vektron 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwgamer
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  The game as a whole is a fun game, but the only problem I see is it's just to easy. The campaigns 
 aren't long enough and really all you have to do is build up your army and have them bombard all 
 the buildings and ignore your enemies. So, there really isn't any tactical skill required to win 
 the game what so ever. It would have been better if you really had to be smart about the placement 
 of your troops. For example, placing your bowmen on top of a hill would increase there damage to 
 the enemy or boost your defensive stand. But unfortanitly there isn't any of that. It's just build 
 your army and see them duke it out and may the last man standing win. That isn't to say that the 
 game isn't fun. Yes the campaign mode is to simple and short, but the real fun is duking it out 
 online. That is the real jem in is this game. Playing the online game can be addictive indeed. 
 So, if you like these types of games I would recommend it just for the online play, but as far 
 as the campaign mode... it's a so so game with nice sound and graphics. Oh yeah, if your a LOTR 
 fan and you like games I would be wasting my breath to tell you to go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayboy06
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 11, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  lord of the rings battle for middle earth 2 is an amazing game with the graphics and the amount 
 of replay value in it. the only 1 problem with the game is the slow down in framerate but its not 
 to bad this is the best game ive played on the 360 so far i just love it the game has 2 huge campains 
 and if you get bored go on skirmish or go online and enter in tournaments. i honestly think this 
 is the best game out for the 360 and the amount of units aloud on 1 screen is amazing. also there 
 is choice of a few armys which hav certain abilitys and different powers and different heroes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathKing81
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay of this game isn't that good, but as a WSVG excepted Warcraft III : Frozen Throne 
 player, I have to say, the graphics on this game is the main reason I play it. I see they wanted 
 to try something a little diffrent instead of mining/gathering resouces, but money over time buildings 
 that also add to you command point limit is kinda strange. The command point limit is annoying, 
 becuase I always have to build furnaces (yes, im morodor) . And when i have a little got and a big 
 command point, I have to spend 300g on a thing that gives me 30g every 5 seconds. Thats the main 
 flaw, but some heros are overpowered, flying units are overpowered, and so are fire drakes. So, 
 I reccomend this game to any newbie RTS player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluespike000
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The basic premise of a RTS is a build up a large base, build up a large army and smash the living 
 crap out of your enemy, BFME2 does a great job at capturing the jist of it all. The power system 
 adds some intreasting moments. But when it comes to the hero system I find it lacking to many games 
 have I seen people hero rush and just play to win and not for fun. I recomend this game only if 
 you have some cool friend to play it with, otherwise you need to adapt to the rushing system of 
 online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryowolf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  RTS' have never been that popular on consoles. Mainly due to the fact that controllers couldn't 
 equal the precision of a mouse & keyboard. That mostly rings true today, but this is the first 
 console RTS done right since Starcraft on the N64.
  
  Gameplay: The interface if very intuitive, and a nice substitue for mouse & keyboard. All the menus 
 are divided up into tiers and you can select one tiers to move on to a more specific tier. However, 
 you'll likely have issues micromanagement issues, and speed issues.
  All the races are nicely balanced and unique. It would have been nice to see more diversity between 
 the races though. Why there is no mouse and keyboard support, the world may never know. After all 
 the, the 360 supports it!
  
  Graphics: While zoomed out the large scale cities, and battles look amazing. When zoomed in you 
 gradually notice how polygonal all the character models look, especially in comparison to the PC 
 version. 
  The animation is very smooth, and units have diverse attacks. In most of the larger battles, the 
 framerate will take a big hit and you'll lose most of the epicness. Shadows generally look nice 
 until zoomed in, where they are noticeably pixelated. Overall, the graphics really are quite beautiful 
 and doing a great job of recreating Middle-Earth. They definitely take advantage of the 360s hardware, 
 and could not be repoduced on any last-gen console.
  
  Sound: None of the actors in Lord Of Rings lent their characters voice talent. Despite that, the 
 sound-alikes do an incredible job of convincing you of their character. Most of them having their 
 memorable quips from the movie. Such as Gandalfs "a wizard arrives precisely when he needs to." 
 You will never really care that the units repeat themselves often, for their lines are usally very 
 well delivered.
  The movies original soundtrack is intact and will have you humming it in no time. Each army even 
 has their own theme which is represented in the movie. 
  Battles sound very rich. Lots of yelling and the sound of metal clanking. The FX are recorded straight 
 from the movie, and if you were to not see the screen, you probably wouldn't be able to tell the 
 difference.
  
  Value: The game features two campaigns to play through. Good and Evil. They are a good size length, 
 but can usually be monotonous or hand holding. The difficulty will ramp up later through the campaigns 
 and there will be some true epic battles. Expect to get your moneys worth.
  The online component is very well executed. Very rarely will you notice even the slightest lag. 
 It's a bummer you can't play split screen or system link with your friends though.
  It's really cool to see a lot of the fields and cities of LOTR recreated in the game. EA may be 
 an evil company, but they sure did a good job mocking up areas that didn't even appear in the movie. 
 That is true fan service there.
  
  Conclusion: It's great to see an RTS on consoles nowadays, especially one of this caliber. If you 
 are an RTS starved gamer, run, don't walk to nearest store. Highly recommended for anyone who even 
 has a mild interest in LOTR or RTS. This may be the game that changes the genre on consoles forever...
 
  
  --Ryowolf --
  Ryan Franzak
  
  Regular Review
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta_BITR
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 7, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings, the Battle for Middle Earth II is one of the best RTS's that I've played 
 in a long time. The controls are incredibly fluid and allow for a lot of precise control, and anyone 
 can get used to them after playing a game or two. I will admit that it does take close to 5-8 games 
 to learn about what all of the units and structures' strongpoints are, but it took about as much 
 time for me as it did to learn how to play Warcraft III right. There are 6 factions in the game, 
 each with unique abilities, structures, units, and heroes. First there's the Elves, who have really 
 good archers. These guys are a good faction to start out with. Second, there's the Men of the West. 
 These guys mainly have some of the best cavalry, but their walls are also the best since you can 
 upgrade them. Third is the Dwarves. These guys have some of the best soldiers in the game. Fourth 
 is the Goblins, who are really good for rushing. Fifth is the Isengard, and their fortress is one 
 of the best. The final faction is Mordor, who are kind of similar to Isengard, but only remotely 
 so. The campaigns each feature 8 fairly challenging levels, and there is a campaign for good and 
 evil. You might find yourself replaying some levels, though, just to get the achievements. Oddly 
 enough, there is only 705 achievement points in this game, but they are all achievable so long 
 as you put in some time with the multiplayer. There is no split-screen or system link modes in 
 this game, so don't buy it just for that. The online is very robust, featuring your classic versus 
 mode, a hero vs. hero mode (each player gets four heros, and you try to elimanate everyone elses) , 
 king of the hill ( you try to hold a signal fire for the longest amount of time) , capture and hold 
 (basically king of the hill with more "hills") , and finally, resource race ( you try to get to 
 the specified amount of resources before the other players do) . Each mode can be played with up 
 to 4 players, and they are all really fun. If you like RTS's, then get this game! If you liked 
 my review, please recommend it. Go out there and destroy your enemies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  First of all, I must admit that they did an excellent job translating RTS from PC to Xbox 360. 
 The controls are very good, although it takes a while to get used to them. This game is like a 
 mix of Command and Conquer and Warcraft, which is definitely not bad. But over to the game itself. 
 The achievements are fully manageable, and you'll have a challenge trying to play trough the campaigns 
 without a hero dying. I've only played both campaigns once (no heroes died) and I don't really feel 
 like playing it again, as I feel it's a bit too restricted. After you've played the campaign it's 
 the skirmish mode that's fun, especially some of the "castle" maps such as Isengard or Minas Tirith. 
 If you decide to battle online, there are several game modes available, which are pretty self-explanatory. 
 These are Versus, King of the Hill, Capture and Hold, Resource Race and Hero vs. Hero. KotH, CaH 
 and RR are pretty unbalanced. If you decide the dwarves or the goblins you have a huge advantage 
 against any others who've chosen differently, as you in KotH and CaH can just build a mine near 
 the objectives, and in RR you can very quickly move your troops to the resource structure attacked. 
 This kinda destroys these game modes. I've never actually tried HvsH, so I don't know how that 
 plays out. The versus mode though, is excellent! This is why you want to play this online. All 
 in all, this is a good, and maybe the best so far, console game out there, but there's still room 
 for plenty of improvements.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are okay, but you'd kinda expect more from a 360 game. Still, they're 
 sufficient I guess.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is excellent. I love the LotR music, and I'm really glad that they managed 
 to get the original voices!
  
  Value:
  The campaign mode is boring to play mutliple times, but the skirmish mode and the online versus 
 mode helps the value. But still, it gets a bit boring after a while, and it becomes "just another 
 game in your collection".
  
  Tilt:
  All in all, I enjoyed this game, and I don't regret that I bought it. The gameplay is entertaining 
 and the sound rocks, so if you want a good console RTS game, you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schurmy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Hats off to EA I never thought a strategy game would make it on a console from being a popular 
 genre for PC. This game basically pops you in right into the action with the singleplayer and you 
 find that the missions will get harder and harder. The singleplayer is a very fun experience and 
 you find yourself putting in every minute/hour to finish the singleplayer. 
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is brilliant you get many different races to choose from and 
 you meet some cool people that will trade strategies with you. If you are looking for a good multiplayer 
 experience there is no doudt that you should look for LOTR: BFME.
  
  
 If you are new to RTS then this may be a rent for you." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mullenixa
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Battle for Middle Earth 2 is a pretty good game. There are a few issues such as frame-rate 
 drops during large battles and some minor glitches. Also, the AI is not all that intelligent, and 
 usually just sends wave upon wave of enemies. The graphics aren't the best but still good. Offsetting 
 these problems is a easy to use interface, a good storyline, and skimish mode. The single player 
 missions are entertaining at first, but can get old. The best part is the multi-player. The game 
 works well on X-Box Live as well, increasing the game's replay value. I would recommend buying 
 the game, after all if you don't like it, you can just return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBOX_360_PLAYER
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing strategy game for the 360. It has giant battles and many cool beasts and soilders. 
 Its cool to build your armies and buildings. It is fun to see the battles happen onscreen. There 
 are some slowdowns on both the single player and the online. But doesnt do anything to effect the 
 fun of the game. This game has very good online with some fun modes and is fun to have someone 
 else with you to build your armies and face your enemies. So if you havent played very many strategy 
 games like me this game is fun and easy to pick up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  If this game was cheaper I would def give it a higher score, but then again if it wasnt Lord Of 
 the Rings I would rank it lower..
  
  I love lord of the things thats kind of why I liked the game so much but Its still not as good 
 as it could be. The graphics are awful !!! almost Psp or Nintendo Ds bad.. 
  
  The story is great and you can be evil or good. I like the Evil story better U get to be the witch 
 king and have dragons help you.
  
  its 60 dollars for a old pc game.. AGAIN !! like FF11 and will soon go down in price, hopefully 
 be free like FF11 was when I got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klmillis
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game to finally acquire the license from both the movies and the book, and while 
 I appreciate many of the intricacies, the quick single player missions leave so much to be desired. 
 Having been someone that has only seen the movie, and not read the book (shame on me) I enjoyed 
 getting more background to the movies via the experience of the single player content of this game. 
 Knowing a little more about what happened to the Dwarves, really brought another facet of the movie 
 to life. I have really enjoyed watching the movie and learning bits and pieces of the story over 
 the last few years, rather than just to read the book and be disappointed why some things don't 
 fit. 
  
  Enough of that little aside. The heart of the matter is that while the good and evil campaigns 
 contained a well scripted, enjoyable series of events, they were over far too quickly using the 
 "Normal" difficulty. Moreover, it wasn't just that they finished quickly, but that EA missed out 
 on a golden opportunity to reward the gamer with epic content.
  
  I am reminded of other real-time strategy games like the Starcraft series that predated this game. 
 They had a very well developed series of missions that contributed to a continuous story line. 
 They was a great deal of character development, twists and turns.
  
  Understandably, EA assumes that many have seen the movies, and/or read the book, giving the gamer 
 a sort of "do it like I've seen it" approach. This means that gamers are robbed of further character 
 development and the all important "what's going to happen next mission" feeling. 
  
  How could this be addressed? Agree, disagree? Hit the forums. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnbredVermin-UK
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  With it's in-depth story, and hundreds of smart characters on the screen at once it is easily one 
 of the best Strategy games yet, it's graphics are tremendous with buildings, units and powers reflecting 
 of water, buildings with there own moving characters working away. The engrosing storyline contains 
 16 missions over 2 capaigns, Evil and Good, the Evil story consists of the ring wraiths, the mouth 
 of sauron and the goblin king along with all the hordes of orcs and beasts, raining chaos over 
 the free people of middle earth. The good campaign has Glorfindel the Elf and Gloin the dwarf, 
 they fight to unite the elfs and dwarfs to fight the common enemy, mordor. It doesn't take too 
 long to learn the basics, simply click on a unit by pressing A and move them and tell them too 
 attack using A too, it will probaly take you 30-60 minutes to learn how to use all the skills and 
 learn what does what. My Favourite, the online play, it is highly addictive with 1-4 players, 6 
 playable factions, 5 game modes and over 20 maps suitable for different experiences of Versus. 
 The game modes are, Hero Vs Hero, Versus, King of the Hill, Capure and hold and Resource race. 
 There are many maps you will reconise from the films such as, Helms deep, Minas tirith, Mirkwood, 
 Osgiliath, the shire and tons more. The game has given me days and days on constant play and the 
 addiction is still going on! Anyone who likes strategy games or is a Lord of the rings fan, this, 
 is a must get.
  
  9/10!
  
  Unbred 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 28, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  The character models in the game are well done and impressive to watch in action. Overall, the 
 graphics are some of the best I've seen in a real time strategy game, but unfortunately, when all 
 those pretty units start running around get ting into big fights, the game's performance takes 
 a bit of a nosedive and suffers from some slowdown issues. 
  
  Even so, the game is very playable and the controls are incredibly intuitive -- amazing considering 
 that you are using the Xbox controller instead of a mouse! I bought this game instead of Prey, 
 and for the most part I'm happy with my decision. You get a good number of hours of gameplay trying 
 to beat the good and evil campaigns, and the game's replayability is increased by its skirmish 
 and online modes. 
  
  So far as the gameplay goes, the single player game is very enjoyable. It's simply fun to crush 
 the little Hobbit'sesss However, as RTS games go, I find that the skirmish mode and online features 
 are the most important in extending the game's shelf life. These modes are fun simply because building 
 armies and sending them off to crush the competition is what these games are all about. Right? 
 
  
  That said, the skrimish mode is VERY hard. I've beaten through both sides of the single player 
 game, but I'm easily crushed in skirmish mode, which I find rather frustrating. Has anyone else 
 has noticed this?
  
  Overall, i'm very pleased with the game and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys RTS games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylnuge
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle-Earth II is a great RTS game. In addition to proving 
 the idea that RTS games cannot be made for console systems, it truly is a very fun game. I just 
 got this game and found it highly addictive and fun. The game had a few minor downfalls, however. 
 First off, it is a bit jumpy at times and sometimes crashes after the first mission on the good 
 campaign (others have also had this problem) . Also, the sound can get quite repetitive, and is 
 the game's weak point. However, unlimited re-playability due to two campaigns, numerous achievement 
 challenges, AI skirmish battles, and immense multi-player action makes this game one of the best 
 currently available for the Xbox 360, or any console (and PC) for that matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ELBline
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I just rented this game and it is awsome. This is the first RTS I've ever played and it is great. 
 The way you build your army is slow, but when you crush the enemy you realize it was well worth 
 it. The graphics are so-so but it makes up for it in gameplay. If you have never played an rts 
 it may take a while to get this game down. It has real places from the books and two campaign modes 
 one being on the good side and the other on the bad side. Also you can build ships and destroy 
 other ships. Thier are certain abilities you can buy which are unique to each type of warrior. 
 And there are also heros which are things that can destroy huge armys with ease. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteCamry1997
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 28, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I have played a few RTS games on PC and Console and opf course all of the ones i have played the 
 PC versions or games have always been the best. It may have not been necessarily graphics, or any 
 special effects it was the game controls themselves nothing but frustration. So i was really skeptical 
 about this new console game that came out for the the 360. All i could think of was omg another 
 crappy RTS game. So i bought it used so i could return it in the next 7 days and I found to my 
 amazement that the controls were easy to figure out the single player was fairly decent, and the 
 multiplayer was nothing else but a blast.
  
  Areas i think i t needs improvement on has to be the single player mode. IT was too short for me 
 10 missions? Come on !!! Though the thing i did like about the missions and the online play and 
 the unlockables was how they all interacted. In completion of everything, all the side objectives, 
 and both story lines you could unlock the special heroes in the game. Also the fact that depending 
 on your performance on Xbox Live also directly effected the players gamer score.
  
  If I had to say purchase or buy this it really depends on your opinion towards RTS but to those 
 who are reading with same experiences I have had when it comes to Console RTS then this is the 
 game to redeem everything that previous companies and consoles have tried and failed miserably 
 (-_- starcraft (N64)  _ Command and Conquer (N64) ) Thank You LOTRBFME2!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmycanuck
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  A lot of hype has surrounded the XBox 360 release of Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 
 II. Could EA break the curse of the console of the RTS? 
  
  Well... Yes and no.
  
  EA has developed a control scheme that is superior to any console RTS that preceeded it, and yet 
 it still suffers from some basic flaws. Selecting individual units is never as simple as it would 
 be on a PC. Actually, doing anything is never as simple as it would be on a PC. I guess that's 
 the major flaw with the controls - despite being better than any other console RTS controls, they're 
 still nowhere near as user friendly as a keyboard and mouse are.
  
  Controls aside, BFME2 suffers from a host of other problems - some related to it's console confines 
 and some not. The units themselves are too hard to distinguish from one another. Graphically speaking, 
 this title is far from next-gen and the lack of detail in your teeny-tiny troops shows this more 
 than anywhere else. Also, the camera controls (although providing a zoom and rotate option) lack 
 the ability to change the angle at which you view you troops, and the default angle leaves alot 
 to be desired.
  
  The biggest problem with this title, outside of the detail and control issues, is in the single 
 player campaigns. The goals and story put forth are a little too simple, and often result in endlessly 
 repetitive gameplay. Make troops, walk, fight. Make troops, walk, fight. You get the picture - 
 very little strategy. 
  
  Thankfully, this title really shines in it's multiplayer. So much so that it warrants a buy despite 
 all these problems. BFME2 offers classic RTS multiplayer gameplay at it's finest, with some games 
 taking hours to complete.
  
  In summary, despite it's numerous flaws and poor single player campaign, Battle for Middle Earth 
 II is a must-own title for any fan of multiplayer RTS action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverender
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Original review here...
  http://www. mattbrett. com/archives/2006/07/the-lord-of-the-rings-the-battle-for-middle-earth-2-review/
 
  
  Over the past couple weeks, Ive been getting a daily dose of BFME2. Its been a while since I 
 was really hooked on a game as I am with this one. I find that some times up to an hour after finishing 
 a battle, Im still thinking about it. How I could have done things differently or how awesome 
 it was when I flanked the opposing army and totally caught them off guard. It really leaves you 
 feeling satisfied watching your horde celebrate as that final building crumbles after an hour long 
 battle.
  
  I knew BFME2 was going to stir up mixed reactions within the console gaming community, and it surely 
 did. Those who have played RTS games on a PC, for the most part seemed content with the control 
 scheme and overall feel of the game. While those hardcore console gamers really didnt know what 
 to make of it and often resorted to a frustrating rant before writing the game off entirely. I 
 cant say Im surprised. The RTS genre isnt for everyone and there is most definitely a pretty 
 steep learning curve if youve never played one before. Not only do you have to learn the mechanics 
 of the game, but the controls on top of it. And speaking of controls, as I mentioned previously, 
 they really did a solid job of capturing the fundamentals and presenting them in a quick and organized 
 fashion. After playing through the tutorials, you find yourself with a firm grasp and ready to 
 command your army. And once youve got a few battles under your belt they will feel totally natural.
 
  
  I started off by playing through the Good campaign. And Im glad I did, as its definitely the 
 easier of the 2. Id recommend the Good campaign as a starting point for most gamers. Its a little 
 slower paced to start, but this gives you plenty of time to build your skills and learn the controls 
 from back to front. During each campaign, you have Powers at your disposal. You purchase Powers 
 with points you earn as you play through the game. Its a tiered system in which you work your 
 way down from 5 point Powers to the greatest being 20. Some of the more basic Powers in the Good 
 campaign include Heal (self explanatory) and Elven Wood, which creates a lush forest environment 
 within a selected area that gives +50% armour to allied units that are within it. When you get 
 down to the bottom of the ladder, youll have access to the good stuff - Earthquake, Flood, Sunflare 
 and Barrage. Barrage is definitely my favourite to unleash on enemy units. It hurls flaming boulders 
 to the selected area and annihilates everything in its path. On the evil side you have Tainted 
 Land, which is basically the equivalent to Elvin Wood. And War Chant that gives a boost to your 
 allied units damage and +50% armor. The greater Powers of evil are far more devastating than that 
 of the good. Dragon Strike, Summon Balrog and Rain of Fire are the 20 point Powers and will unleash 
 hell on enemy units, quite literally. The BFME2 gameguide over at GameSpot has all of the Powers 
 listed for both the good and evil campaigns.
  
  Visually, BFME2 stands its ground with the PC version. Its not until you get up close that you 
 notice a difference. And even then, its really only the shadows that look sub par. Often shaky 
 and pixellated. But any Xbox 360 should be used to this by now as its a common trait in just about 
 every game Ive played on the console. Even in 720p, shadows dont look nearly as good as they 
 could. At first, I was finding it a bit hard to distinguish my units, but this really depends on 
 your army. The Elven units dont look all that different, where as the Goblin Warriors and Archers 
 are very easy to tell apart from the full zoomed out view. As are the Dwarves and Orcs.
  
  The sound is very well done. When you select a unit, they respond with a common phrase or in the 
 cases of the trolls and giants, will roar and its awesome every time! As you would expect, the 
 music is of the epic orchestral variety that I never seem to tire of. Perfectly queued to pick 
 up when the action does.
  
  Gamerscore whores will be stoked with the Achievements in BFME2. While there is an Achievement 
 for every battle in both single player campaigns, they require you to complete all of the objectives, 
 plus bonus objectives. Not that this is very difficult, but often requires you to take a little 
 extra time to hunt down that last Goblin cave or seize every Signal Fire. The evil campaign gets 
 a bit tricky as there have been a few times not every bonus objective has shown up on the task 
 list until the battle was won. So be sure to manually save part way through, just in case.
  
  When it comes to RTS games, online is a completely different animal, and BFME2 is no exception. 
 Theres no taking your time and constructing your army exactly how you want it. Your enemy is not 
 going to wait for you. Its definitely a rush from beginning to end to see who can build up their 
 resources and construct the largest/strongest army the quickest and unleash them on their opponent. 
 You really need to know the different unit types and what units theyre strong against. The beginning 
 of the battle is often a guessing game as you dont know what your opponent is up to until you 
 meet them on the battlefield. But once you do, its time to start building your second wave and 
 prepare another invasion/line of defense. I havent played a whole lot online at this point, but 
 Ive had a lot of fun with the few games I have played and will definitely be playing more.
  
  BFME2 is not for everyone, so its best to give it a rent or check out the demo on the Marketplace 
 before you buy. And if youve never played an RTS game before, be sure to bring your patience along, 
 as youll probably need them while you get your bearings.
  
  Ive probably put in a good 20 hours already and even as I type this am eager to fire it up again 
 and wage another war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guru-Nator
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:32 am PT
Review:  This is my first review, so bear with me. My review is split into five sections: Graphics, Gameplay, 
 Controls, Sound, and Overall.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics in BFME2 are excellent, perhaps even by next-gen standards. The terrain, whether grassy, 
 sandy, or mountainous always looks fantastic. The water perhaps looks a little murky, but it just 
 serves to help make the whole map seem better.
  
  Fire in particular looks good. Send a horde of archers with fire arrows to attacks something, and 
 youll see the fire leave a trail of smoke and embers. Silverthorn arrows, which are like fire 
 arrows but do more damage, look just as good.
  
  Almost every structure has some sort of animation. For example, when you build the Goblin Cave 
 you will see a goblin coming out of the cave and climbing up on top of it, before going back in. 
 When you build Mordors Tavern, you will see a drunk being thrown out of the door, then see him 
 slowly get back up and drunkenly try to walk back in, using some wooden poles which hold up a small 
 sun shelter to help him.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay in BFME2 is better than your average game, but seems to fall behind somehow. It may 
 be because there is rarely any sense of suspension, and because losing a unit (or even an entire 
 army along with a Hero) never seems to make you feel like youve suffered a loss, as you can always 
 rebuild them provided you have the resources and enough room under your Population Limit.
  
  Speaking of which, the Population Limit is really going to get in your way a bit when you play 
 the game, heres why. Instead of having houses to increase your Pop Limit, you have to build your 
 factions Primary Resource Structure (lets call it a PRS) , which increases it by 50. A PRS will 
 have varying efficiency depending on the terrain, indicated by a percentage which appears over 
 the buildings silhouette when you go to place it. There is a large ring around the buildings 
 silhouette, showing the radius of the terrain which will affect its efficiency. If that ring crosses 
 over with one from another PRS, its efficiency percentage drops as fast as a Sumo Wrestler falling 
 from a plane (as fast hell, in other words) . This means you have to basically pay 300 Gold (or 
 Pounds, or dollars, or Yenwhatever it is) to increase your Pop Limit by a measly 50 Points whilst 
 gaining hardly any resources from that stucture. Your most basic unit, a battalion of swordsmen, 
 needs 60, so the Pop Limit is very limiting. Heros will also take up a chunk of you command limit, 
 (most of them need 50 or 75) and Mumakil take up no less than 100.
  
  CONTROLS
  Perhaps BFME2s strongest point is the new control scheme (take that, all you PC fanboys out there!) . 
 This not only proves that RTS games work on a console, but it makes the game a lot easier by not 
 trying to make the control pad work like a computer mouse. The left stick moves the camera, the 
 right stick rotates the camera and zooms in and out, the A button selects a horde or unit (pressing 
 A on a horde or unit whilst you already have one selected will simply add that horde or unit to 
 the selection) , the B button deselects your units (pressing it over a blank space will deselect 
 them all, pressing it over a horde or unit will deselect just that one) . The right trigger bring 
 up a small menu of what any extra functionality, such as the builders ability to build, and any 
 units special abilities. These buttons are all you need to get through the game, but there are 
 many more things you can do.
  
  SOUND
  You dont so much notice the sound in the game, but you would realise if it wasnt there. Simply 
 select a unit, and youll hear them acknowledge you by saying something like Yes sir!. Tell them 
 to attack the enemy and you canexpect to hear them say something like Wipe them out! or They 
 must be destroyed!. The sound of units slashing with their swords, shooting from their bows and 
 even picking up boulder to throw at the enemy all adds to the experience.
  
  OVERALL
  Gameplay - 7
  Graphics  9
  Sound  9
  Value  8
  Tilt - 8
  Overall score  8.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toma_sasr_aus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Explosive graphics with intense challenging gameplay, the first birds eye view strat game for the 
 360.... and by god has it stunned as all. To bring multiplayer online experience to the game tops 
 it all off..... i can only imagine the hours i will be spending on this game with all the rage leeting 
 and fun this game will keep you and your friends entertained for days if not months hell might 
 as well lock yourself in your house and play till your 360 cant handle anymore..... a definite recommendation 
 for any die hard strat player. If you were summing buying this game or call of duty 2...... stop 
 here this game owns COD2, this is a must have game for any underground strat player. This game 
 goes perfectly with xbox live.... must have both :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LarrieTheOnly
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Ring Battle for middle earth is all in all a great game but the probems are that they 
 took out featuresfrom the pc version like create-a-hero and campain modes. unlocking heroes is 
 cool but you shouldn't take out create ing one. when i bought the game i thought it had that in 
 it ..... it didn't campain ok but id rather pick the race i wanna be (men elves dwarves) online 
 with other players is the best you can get with the game. I give the game a 9.0 definitly a must 
 have if you into game that are long and take stragegy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andybutch13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 26, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun first time through on both evil and good campaigns but wears thin afterwards if 
 you dont have XBL. there are some fun game modes on xbox live that add to the gameplay value and 
 will make you want to play more. The graphics are pretty good but could have been better and the 
 game slows down during big battles when there are lots of units on screen. But this does bot damage 
 the fun much atall. If your a LOTR fan then buy it atleast for the campaign mode. If you like RTS 
 and you want to try a console one then buy it. If you havent tried an RTS game then defiantely 
 buy it to check it out but mostly for online gamers although the campaign modes are still good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Battle For MiddleEarth 2 is good game that really shows off the power of the 360 and what it can 
 do. While playing through the good campaign I rarely had any slow downs. The game overall was just 
 amazing at how it was put together from a PC game to a 360 game. The controls were pretty easy 
 to get a handle of. If anyone that owns a 360 that likes RTS games and doesn't have this game should 
 be condemned, because you are missing out. As far as a story goes. Pretty much nothing from what 
 you have seen in the movies. There are even heroes that were not even mentioned in the movies that 
 play a significant role throughout the campains. Online was pretty fun, but if you haven't started 
 playing online, I wouldn't even bother because you will get beat rather badly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arc_Angel2k4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Consoles and RTS never went together that well. The infamus starcraft 64 set SC fans running for 
 the hills because it suxed. Other RTS that made it to console also were flops much like the DS 
 rts that suxs the one with kings in its name. Anyways i like the LOTR Battle for middle earth 2 
 for the xbox 360. The controls are easy and rely of the RT for the palentier LT to selesct your 
 troops on the screen LB to select all of that specific unit and the A button to tell them to move. 
 The Graphics ( I am playing on a 72 DPL HD TV) Are not bad for an RTS. The caracter models wont 
 blow you away but they dont look like crap either. The game suffers some frame rate issues I have 
 only felt those on the first good level so far. The difficulty levels are not diverse and i have 
 found that easy is much the same as hard, just how many times the enemy counter attacks your base 
 other then that the game is the same. The story mode is good but for all the LOTR fans both campanes 
 feel short good campain is 7 or 8 levels but the first 4 good levels can be blown through. The 
 evil campain is 10 and is better but there story is not as good as the good guys. LOTRS RTS dont 
 belive in resource whoring and that they can expire, I love that ust build a resource building 
 and it lasts forever its great. Unlike most RTS towers are not uber strong, i feel the battle towers 
 sux unless you upgrade them. How ever elven watch towers are a force to be recond with and can 
 hold back the enemy for awhile but once there down good luck. Wall building in this game is good 
 but if your care less you can leave gaps that enemys can sneek through. The sound track for this 
 game is the LOTR music and you hear the good theam music when on the good side and bad theam music 
 on the bad side. The voice acting is top notch and sounds very good for narating and units. Singel 
 player replay value is lacking but online is the true after single player gem. This game all in 
 all is a good RTS for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Im making this short, sorry...
  
  Basically, the controls work very well... however there are some flaws that could use a bit of work. 
 However, they're on the right track. Micro-management feels more like a chore than enjoyment, and 
 for that reason it falls just short of perfection.
  
  graphically, the game is pretty weak. The environments are pretty nice, but the characters look 
 horrible.
  
  The game lags quiet a bit, even just private chatting and playing single player. That should never 
 happen... especially in single player.
  
  overall, its still an enjoyable game. I basically pointed out the few negatives... everything else 
 is great. I would recommend rent or demo playing before a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjgoku80
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  Looks like RTS aren't just on PC anymore. XBOX 360 does a good job with its first RTS. The cast 
 of the Lord of the Rings come back to add the theatrical feel to the series and do a fantastic 
 job. Play as good or bad as you tear up Middle Earth to determine who really has the power. If 
 that isn't your cup of tea than take it on XBOX live and rip up the competiton with intense multiplaer 
 action that heightens the replay value of LOTR. Just remember the A Button does everything. A definate 
 addition to you 360 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason14yr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  The whole thing about this game was simple..... How do you fit an RTS on a what... 14 button controller 
 or less? Well in this game, the controls do not limit you on what you can do, or command, without 
 frustration... The story is really set on book literature and the actual score movie itself. Graphics 
 speak for itself in this game. The gameplay is great, although sometimes it does get a little frustrating, 
 or evein maddining when you tell your units to retreat or something, and they don't listen!! , 
 or when it lags during a 4 player xbox live, or skirmish 4 player with so many units. Those things 
 are passible though , especially if you are obsessed with The Lord Of The Rings franchise... This 
 is a great RTS, and is a recommended buy for anyone in search of wars and battles, and especially 
 ... fun! Now go play your game your thinking about right now. Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo-IV
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Ups - 
  RTS with VOIP in online play.
  Online play is great and fun.
  Ranking and many game modes online.
  Music is same as movies - very good.
  Cool powers that 
 can help you in battle.
  
  Downs - 
  Horrific framerate in all games where you get a large army.
  Graphics do not use 360's power, 
 expeciall ywith those of us with standared video.
  Not many people online.
  You can't play with a friend in ranked games - would help in 2v2 games where having a good friend 
 makes the difference.
  Single player is boring and short.
  Controls are not precise and can become very annoying.
  No number keys making controling groups 
 of men difficult.
  Armys can become very unballanced.
  Hero system is cool, but doesn't match say Warcraft 3's at all.
  Game is completely beat out 
 by PC version.
  
  Bottom line - If your really in need of an RTS game for 360, here it is. If your not, buy it for 
 computer or rent this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryangb
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 10:52 am PT
Review:  This game is just awesome, the controls are extremely easy, don't believe anyone who says otherwise, 
 unless they have a disability. The graphics are nothing special really, they are good no doubt, 
 but don't expect to look at it with your jaw on the floor. The gameplay rocks, it is extremely 
 fun, it is intense and cool that's about the only way I can explain it. The multiplayer is great, 
 but I can't say as much for the way they set it up, I hope they develop a patch that can fix the 
 way you can't invite friends to ranked matches, and unless you create a match or get invited to 
 an unranked match, you will be randomly placed in a match based on how many people you want to 
 play with, the game type. But once you play it is worth it because it is very fun. Buy this game, 
 or rent it, you won't regret it and if you do, than don't call yourself an RTS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyo704
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game on 360 i spent 10 hours playing online one player is good but i little 
 bit small needs more levels to it but apart from that can not wait c&c3 for xbox 360. people with 
 xbox live will have more fun and joy with lotrbfme2 its very easy to pick up and play it feels 
 so right useing a pad they made it so it feels like a pc mouse very good how ea have done this. 
 i would say if you are thinking about buying this game make sure you have xbox live it makes the 
 game ten times better single player gets a 7.9 but online gats a 9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammer13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is not the best around, but is definitely worth buying. Some find that the control scheme 
 is a little awkward or weird. I find it simple and easy to learn. 
  GAMEPLAY
  Controls are quite easy to learn, as stated above. The AI enemies are somewhat predictable but 
 each level of difficulty is noticieably different. Online play is amazing, minus some choppy framerates, 
 but it doesnt take anything away from the game.
  GRAPHICS
  Truly amazing. If you're playing in HD. The units need to be a little more distinguished, but not 
 a huge problem. Landscape is definitely realistic.
  SOUND
  Good sound. Hate the voices of the soldiers, very repetitive. The music is true to the events happening. 
 Example - if your on a run of carnage and destruction good music plays. If you are being ripped 
 to pieces, the music becomes evil. Calm music for the peace times. 
  WORTH IT OR NOT
  It's better if you're not sure about LOTR: BFME II, to rent it first. Some people hate the console 
 version. Not me. 
  MISCELLANEOUS
  I also own LOTR: BFME for Pc (the first one) and the one thing I still don't like are the command 
 points; the limit of how many units can be on the battlefield. You can increase it by adding more 
 resource gathering places. Usually those add 50 CP per building. So it's better than BFME I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicKid_UK
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  *sigh* When you first play this game & you watch the opening sequence, it's evident the graphics 
 are not up to much. The frame rate gets bogged down when in a large battle & not much detail has 
 been put into some of the creatures, contrary to that though some of the larger creatures such 
 as trolls & the giant eagles look very impressive & for many of the well known heroes they have 
 a pretty good likeness to their namesakes from the films. Along with this some of the voices sound 
 close to those used in the films, although I'm not 100% sure if they used the actors from the films 
 to do the voices they none the less sound like them. The gameplay is fun & addictive but can get 
 extremely repetitive which of course has to be expected with this sort of game. When in battle 
 it may be a bit hectic as in many cases the enemy attacks rapidly & with the billions of different 
 controls for different actions its not surprising that it may take you some time to master a completely 
 satisfying victory. It is nice to see creatures & characters from the books aswell as the films 
 & some of the environments are stunning, especially that of Rivendell. Not a game that is going 
 to stand up to others in the 360 line up but should you see it in a bargin bin some where, it may 
 be worth picking up as a small excursion from properly structured gaming & those simple hack/slash/shoot 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halohelldaddy45
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  LOTR: Battle for Middle Earth may seem like just any other game but it is actually the first strategy 
 game for the 360. It boasts some of the greatest battles i have ever had the pleasure of witnessing. 
 Commanding a group of hobbits just to see them die may seem a little cruel but quite hysterical. 
 Just watching these battles has led more to my downfall but still they are hard not to enjoy.
 
  This game may seem pretty pathetic or unimportant but I have had a lot of fun on it with my friends 
 on Xbox Live. Battle for Middle Earth 2 story takes place in the north. It mainly focuses on the 
 exploits of the Dwarves and Elves in the war of the ring. Apparently, while Gandalf and Pippin 
 defended Minas Tirith, Gloin and an elf named Glorfindel were defending the ancient Dwarven City 
 of Erebor from Mordor and attacking the fortress of Dol Guldor. As said you go through a series 
 of short but fun missions that actually occur in the North. You may find a small assortment of 
 heroes from the movies as well as some familiar enemies and villians as well.
  Although this game allows you to play in both the good and evil campaigns as well as a skirmish 
 mode, the real money lies in its Xbox Live play. Xbox Live has leaderboards and ranked matches 
 just like any game but i found myself wondering why I couldn't invite some of my good friends into 
 ranked games? I can understand if they want you to meet new friends or something but it is ridiculous 
 when you have to enter and exit many games before finding what game your friend has been waiting 
 for you in.
  BFME 2 also features powers such as the Army of the Dead or Flood. The powers in this game actually 
 are much stronger than the heroes that can bring down whole battalians by themselves! To obtain 
 powers you need power points which you obtain by killing enemy troops. The more troops you kill 
 the less points you'll need to summon the Balroq.
  I also found my brain thumping after thinking what to do to bring down my enemies fortress, should 
 i earthquake and take down all the towers around it or should I charge head on and get my artillery 
 to fire on him from a distance. It makes you wonder because one bad decision can lead to your immediate 
 downfall as your enemy may use his Army of the dead power and destroy your attacking army. So thinking 
 is a very crucial part of the game. 
  Battle for Middle Earth 2 has many features that may keep you coming back day after day and night 
 after night. I still play the game since I first bought it and I still love watching hobbits get 
 mowed down by a powerful group of Mirkwood Archers that have been equipped with silverthorn arrows. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryanrodriguez
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 21, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Seriously if you have no friends or family and you want time to pass as quickly as possible than 
 this would be the game for you. Granted you have to be a fan of LOTR and RTS's, but if that's the 
 case say goodbye to this century. I got this game and Prey on the same day and Iwas amped to play 
 Prey. I figured I'd plug this one in first and play for a minute to see how well this was ported 
 from the PC. Suffice it to say 4 hours later and a very irritated wife I left the realm of Middle 
 Earth to return to reality. The conversion from the PC is flawless, basically the only change I 
 noticed is the fact you use a controller instead of a mouse and a keyboard. This game is highly 
 addictive and fun. Not to mention the fact you can play a good or evil campaign makes this even 
 better. I can't go into detail because I'd be talking about this game all day. Enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l0uciferr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  LOTR - BFME II is a port of the PC Strategy game. Apparently they had to redo the whole interface 
 and lose some scenrios for the 360 version. But being that i never played the PC game and am new 
 to it, I must say this game PWNS! Its basically The Warcraft II engine updated and with LOTR mythology 
 thrown in. You pretty much go thru the battles that were not not shown in the movies but were just 
 as grand. At times the maps get filled with so much carnage that you just cant help but stop for 
 a mintue and just watch it all go down, especially when your crushing someone elses troops lol. 
 Alot of people seem to be trashing this game because they say its short and that its laggy .. To 
 them i say You way too overly critical! The game is great, I just got done with the single player 
 campaign a couple of days ago and It was a Blast! Yes the framerate may have dropped once or twice 
 (really just once or twice) But that doesnt take anything away from the experiance or anything. 
 its a great game! If you like RTS games I think you could do alot worst then this game. Try it 
 out and be pleasntly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  "Sleeper hit of the summer." That's what I heard when I heard people talking about this game. First 
 up, let me just say that I seriously hope this is the LAST LOTR game we all have to endure. It's 
 old, it's played out, can we PLEASE get some innovation??? However, since there's nearly nothing 
 out for the 360 right now, I figured what the heck. I mean, I like RTS games. I should love this 
 game right? Well.... not so fast. Let's take a closer look at it in the Game Breakdown.
  
  Graphics: The bases are beautiful, but the people... if you call them that... look horrible. I was 
 really underwhelmed with the visuals in this game. Graphics don't mean much to me, but it's worth 
 mentioning that the level of unit detail in this one is sub-par.. to be nice. Elf? Dwarf? Human? 
 Who knows.. and you know, it really doesn't matter.. which is even more sad.....
  
  Sound: "We men of Dale will help you." Multiply that times 100 and you have how repetitive the 
 audio in this game is. The soundtrack is forgetable, and the sound effects leave plenty to be desired. 
 
  
  Control: Takes some getting used to. Then it's mediocre at best. How people are praising this game 
 and saying it has some kind of awesome control that should be the standard to judge other RTS games 
 by is nothing short of scary. Point and click. That's all this game is. And maneuvering around 
 the map is a total disaster. 
  
  Entertainment: Do you enjoy trial and error? Do unstable framerates make you happy? Do you enjoy 
 spending 45 minutes trying to take down the same building only to watch as, when your guys FINALLY 
 get to the enemy base, enemies suddenly appear out of nowhere... and just so happen to outnumber 
 your soldiers.. who are apparently blind ffs. Tell your battalion to attack an enemy battalion and 
 only the front row of guys actually listens. The rest just stand around getting picked off. I love 
 games where when your base is under attack, your troops in the area do absolutely nothing to save 
 themselves unless you specifically tell them to. Innovation my left foot. I had that kind of crap 
 to deal with in the first Command and Conquer game. I don't have the time to sit around rushing 
 the same stupid base only to be taken out by enemies that weren't even there two seconds earlier... literally. 
 Battle is ho-hum... point, click, watch your guys die.... rinse.... repeat. And since they threw in 
 this stupid command point system, it's not like you can just make as many guys as you want a. k. a. 
 C & C. Oh no. For some reason, you can only have a set amount at a time. So if you plan on putting 
 your guys in guard towers, I hope that you can storm the enemy base short about three battalions 
 because that's what's going to happen. WTF they were thinking, I don't know. But it sucks. 
  
  Okay so maybe I sound bitter in this review. Truth is, I am. I have spent so much money on 
 my Xbox 360 and games for it that I'm sick about it. And yet, Battlefield 2, Condemned, and Call 
 of Duty 2 remain the only three quality titles I've come across. You know the situation is bad 
 when you have a 46" HDTV sitting in your room and you find yourself debating getting a PSP just 
 to play two or three games because you can't find a single Xbox 360 game to play. I may not have 
 another review until after Dead Rising comes out, because frankly, these so-called "hits" like 
 Prey and LOTR are nothing more than money wasted. Why people are all over this game, I don't know. 
 It has GOT to be due to the shortage of new games available. One thing is for sure though. It's 
 not because it's the ground-breaking game everyone claims it is. I don't recommend this one for 
 a rental, and I sure can't recommend it as a purchase. I hope we get some good 360 games out soon 
 because having to write reviews like this one is getting very, very old and aggravating. Game on 
 everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob76
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  So much has been made about its innovative and supposedly functional control system. Enough of all 
 this. RTS games can only be played with a keyboard and mouse. Where are the short cuts to army 
 groups? Where are the formations? Indeed the control system is simple enough but it doesn't inlude 
 all aspects of RTS games and it is higly inaccurate compare to a keyboard and mouse setup. Try 
 picking any particular unit from a huge army in the heat of battle to trigger some special weapon!
 
  
  I just don't understand why developers don't implement a keyboard and mouse interface for specific 
 games. It would cost them much less and prove much more effective.
  
  The game itself is all right. Nothing much more than any standard RTS that have been aroung since 
 the all mighty Starcraft. Graphics are good but nowt exceptional albeit suffering from a few frame 
 drops. Sound is allright. With a keyboard and mouse support this would have been a slightly above 
 average RTS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  RTS games have always been superior on the PC. The only time I can think of when a RTS game worked 
 on a console was Starcraft 64. Since then nothing has come close to working. Lord of the Rings: 
 Battle for Middle Earth II offers very fluid controls, an awesome online section, and a lasting 
 single player experience. 
  
  Gameplay (9) - I haven't had an Xbox 360 title that just keeps bringing me back every single day 
 for more. Each day I get home from work and this is the first game I load up. Whether it be the 
 single player, a skirmish, or a multiplayer game, this game just offers hours of fun. But lets 
 actually talk about the gameplay here and not how much fun you're going to have. Overall the controls 
 just work... awesome. I find myself to move a lot quicker with units than I usually do on the PC. 
 The only gripe I have about it is that selecting just a few battalions of units within an army 
 can be a hassle at times. To counter this they put in a bookmark system, which in my opinion can 
 also be a hassle at times. Other than that everything just works together really good. You're offered 
 the single player campaign, a total of 16 missions (8 for good and 8 for evil) , skirmish mode, 
 and an online mode that is among the best on Xbox 360 right now. First let's talk about the single 
 player mode. There are two campaign's in the game, on for the evil, and one for the good. Both 
 campaigns are very fun to play, and have a high replayable value. I can already tell that I'll 
 be running through this game's single player a lot. Ok, what happens if you don't have Live when 
 you're playing it? Well there's a skirmish mode for that. If you get tired of running through the 
 single player there's a very good skirmish mode available for everybody... wait, I mean just 1. 
 That's another bad thing, is that you can only have 1 player in skirmish. If you want anything 
 else you'll have to head over Live. What happens if you have Live? Well you get the best deal out 
 of anyone. Live offers an unranked mode and a ranked mode. Oh, along with complete stats and leaderboards 
 for everything that you've done. In the multiplayer section you are offered 5 gametypes: Versus, 
 Resource race, Capture and Defend, Hero vs. Hero, and King of the Hill. Here's a quick review for 
 each one:
  
  Versus - (A) - Classic versus mode which offers 1 v. 3, 2 v. 2, and free for all. This mode is 
 probably the one you will play the most.
  Resource Race - (C) - I think this gametype is one of the weakest. First person to a certain amount 
 of resources wins the game. Here's the catch, you need to build units to prevent your enemies from 
 getting units.
  Captrue and Defend (B) - You'll probably play this game a lot too. You have a series of towers 
 through the map that you need to catch and hold for a certain period of time. First person to the 
 time limit will win the match.
  Hero vs. Hero - (C) - Probably my least favorite game mode in the game. The game starts you off 
 with a series of heros, whoever gets the most kills against the eachother at the end of the game 
 will win the match.
  King of the Hill - (A) - Definitely one of the best gametypes in the game. You have one central 
 tower that you need to defend in order to win the game. Here's the catch: You have to hold for 
 (x) amount in a row. Meaning if you lose the tower, you're back down to 0. I suggest setting the 
 limit to about 4 minutes.
  
  The game also offers 40 multiplayer maps which add a lot of options. You'll quickly love a lot 
 of maps and wait, you really don't gain a dislike for certain ones. I think that all the maps in 
 the game are quite good. 
  
  Graphics - The game's graphics may not look as good as other games, but you have to remember that 
 most RTS game don't look that good. That being said, this game offers solid graphics for a RTS 
 game. I'll go ahead and talk about the cinimatics in the game too. I absolutely love them. I would 
 have given the graphics a 7 in this department, but the cinematics bump it up to an 8. They give 
 you real good feel for the game and the story, you're in for a treat in this one.
  
  Sound: The sound is done absolutely wonderful. Whether it be the horns sounding from the enemy 
 (See mission 7 Erebor Good) to the music, it just rocks in this game. 
  
  Value: Here, especially if you have Live or a fan of RTS games, you'll easily get your bang for 
 you buck at 60 dollars. If you don't have that much, try renting it as soon as possible because 
 you'll definitely enjoy it.
  
  Performance: Something this game can suffer from. When enemies at a low number are displayed, the 
 game runs smooth, as soon a 1000 or more are at battle, the Framerate can take a hit. True, it 
 happens in every RTS game, but it can be especially bad here (once again, see mission 7 Erebor 
 Good) . Other than that everything runs very well in the game.
  
  Difficulty: Hard. If you're new to the RTS genre, spend time playing the tutorials and play through 
 the campaign once on easy... or at least two times. Everybody else just run through the tutotrials 
 once and be on your way through the game. The learning curve can quickly reach up to 30-60 minutes.
 
  
  Overall this game earns a good 8.6 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigguido247
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  If you're used to the usual EA engine of one sided-ness, don't mind quirky choppiness. Then your 
 in luck. Don't get me wrong, I'm a big LOTR fan and love the story line and graphics of this game. 
 The offline mode gives you pleny to choose from to help you learn everything you need for the "big" 
 battles online. But when you do finally get to an online match, remember to take your anti-seizure 
 medicine. Whether there is alot on the screen on at once or not, the game will chop abit when you 
 really don't need it to. 
  All in all, if you're a fan of the books, live action movie or even the original cartoon movie 
 I grew up watching, then by all means add this to your collection. But if your looking for a solid 
 on-line strategy game, then wait for Rainbow six: Vegas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKiller
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  When you think of consoles, you don't think of games like Warcraft or Age of Empires. With The 
 Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth II, however, we will be seeing a lot more RTSes in the 
 near future. As the title implies, Battle for Middle Earth II is a port of the PC game that came 
 out 5 months ago. EA says that they have made a console-friendly control scheme for the RTS genre 
 to model off of. The question is: does it work? To my relief, it does. In fact, it works better 
 than any other console RTS ever made.
  
  When talking about a Lord of the Rings game, the first thing you need to point out is its presentation. 
 This is probably the best looking and sounding LOTR game ever. The character models, special effects, 
 and environments all look as good as, if not better than, their PC counterparts. But that should 
 come to no surprise, however, seeing as how the game is on the Xbox 360. The audio is equally amazing, 
 with the same epic soundtrack you have come to expect from the franchise. The graphics may not 
 be better than GRAW, but on its own, they do just fine.
  
  But the real draw to this version of BFME II are the controls and gameplay. The reason that RTSes 
 aren't popular on consoles is because the gameplay is too deep to use the controller fully. When 
 the developers simplify the control scheme, they also simplify the depth of gameplay with it. With 
 BFME II, EA has done a fine job of making an easy-to-use control scheme while still keeping the 
 depth of the game intact, the main reason the series has done well in the first place. You use 
 the left analog stick to move around the map while using the right analog stick to either tilt 
 or zoom in on the map. As for selecting the units, you mainly use the A button all of the time. 
 The difference is that it has different functions depending on how you push it. If you tap the 
 A button, you will select the current building or unit that you highlight, but if you hold it, 
 you will be able to select any number of units you have. The tutorial in the main menu is also 
 helpful for newcomers to the game, with a beginner's and advanced tutorial, though the advanced 
 tutorial isn't that much harder than the beginner's one. Are these controls perfect? No. PC fanboys 
 will say that the controls aren't as precise as they should be on the consoles, though it's a hard 
 point to argue with. Are they the greatest thing to grace the gaming world since Super Mario Bros.? 
 Well... not exactly. The control scheme is a great model, but not everyone will agree that the control 
 scheme will be used in every single console RTS to come. But does it still work? Yes, they do. 
 The control scheme will probably be modeled off of for other games for a long time to come.
  
  But you can't have an RTS without a wealth of options. The amount of game modes available are 
 basically the same, with only a few exceptions. There were two modes cut from the original: Create-a-Hero 
 and War of the Ring mode. Those modes would have added a lot more replay value. But in exchange 
 for those modes, we get five multiplayer modes, with four new modes exclusively for Xbox Live. 
 The only mode ported over from the PC version is the Versus mode, your typical Deathmatch and Team 
 Deathmatch mode. The first exclusive mode is King of the Hill. It is exactly what it says: a mode 
 where you take control of a spot for a set period of time. The second mode is Capture and Hold. 
 You have to capture numerous objectives, a la Teritorries from Halo 2. The third mode is Resource 
 Race. Players have to save up their resources to a set limit while still protecting the resources 
 themselves. The final mode is Hero vs Hero. Every player gets four heroes and has to eliminate 
 the other team while still gaining levels. All of these new modes make BFME II even better than 
 its online mode was on the PC, thanks to Xbox Live's dedicated servers.
  
  With every PC port comes its flaws, though, and BFME II is no different. The biggest problem is 
 the framerate. Many people with 360's may not be rocket scientists, but those people could easily 
 point out that the lag is a pain when in the multiplayer mode with a huge battle going on. Sometimes, 
 you can't even get any button response. It's not completely bad, but sometimes you may wish that 
 EA fixed it earlier on. Another minor problem is that the controls get a little bit touchy at times, 
 when trying to do multiple tasks quickly or trying to move the map around in an epic battle. Any 
 other game would collapse under these flaws, but BFME II's simple control scheme, beautiful presentation, 
 and epic battles help it become the first console RTS of its kind: one that is fun to play. If 
 you're a BFME fan or a LOTR fan in general, there is a good chance that you have picked this game 
 up before you read this review. But even if you are just looking for a fun, deep game that will 
 keep you busy for the summer, LOTR: BFME II is just for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booomer69
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Alright once i passed by my locol game store they were putting this game so its playible.
  This review is from what i played in the store and from what ive heard from friends.
  The lord 
 of the rings The battle for middle earth 2. Well I've got to start someware so Ill start with the 
 single player gameplay, the single player game consists of a good campaign and a evil one, oh and 
 a skirmish mode. The single player is short and repetative you will find yourself goining back 
 and forth collecting troups and then taking them to battle again and a again. While the single 
 player is fun for a while and gets you used to the alright controls it doesn't make the game worth 
 buying in anyway and you will soon find that the single player will grate on you. The mutiplayer 
 is where the game shines it's good as long as you are playing somebody who is no better than yourself, 
 I'm yet to find anybody who is as bad as me, but this as it maybe it is still very enjoyable, especially 
 when you do win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecx
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the few RTS's that works on a console. It was designed around a mouse and keyboard 
 type of control and EA did a great job porting it to the 360 and making it work with a gamepad. 
 
  
  The singleplayer story doesn't involve much of anything that occured in the movie and instead focuses 
 on the battles and events happening simultaneously to what we see during the films. There is both 
 a "good" and "evil" campaign that you can play through. Neither campaign is very long but together 
 they are around 15-20 hours. Most of the achievements are obtained by beating the singleplayer 
 levels with all of the objectives and bonus objectives complete. You can also unlock various heroes 
 for use in offline and online matches.
  
  There is also the traditional singleplayer Skirmish mode in which you can set up battles with up 
 to four players. It has very few tweakable settings, but still allows you to make the battle of 
 your choosing. There is also a good amount of maps to choose from and all of them support the maximum 
 4 players.
  
  The online portion of the game is where the great times will be had. There is a wider variety of 
 gametypes online as well as smarter and more strategic opponents. Some of the gametypes include 
 king of the kill, capture the flag, and capture and hold. If you are afraid to hurt your rank or 
 stats, there is an unranked match option to get you used to playing online.
  
  The controls are very easy to use a consist of mostly pressing the right trigger and the A button. 
 This game is a pick up and play game but can also be difficult to master. (meaning that if you 
 play a lot you can become better than your competition)
  
  The graphics aren't anything special. They are good don't get me wrong, but they certainly aren't 
 great. (but when's the last time an RTS had beautiful graphics?) The explosions however do look 
 pretty good nad make the game that much better.
  
  The sound is the real vocal point of the game (was that a pun) and features the great LOTR music 
 that you have come to love. The units also sound great with clattering armor when they run and 
 earth shaking footsteps and growling when a troll is near.
  
  Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 2 is a good game that will keep you playing it for sometime. 
 Even though the best part of the game is the online portion, I would suggest at least a rental 
 of this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  LOTR: BFME 2 is a great game on the 360. The multiplayer is top notch and doesn't lag unless you 
 unleash your full army on the opponent. The single player is a little short; only offering 16 total 
 levels ( 8 good/8 evil) . Each map in the single player does open up and give you multiple objectives 
 and bonus objectives the you must get to unlock the achievments and the heroes. The music is awesome 
 and pumps you up when things get sticky. The only complaints I have for this game are the maps 
 not being balanced. Some maps are really good and some are crappy. Hopefully, EA will realease 
 more balanced maps on the marketplace later on. Also, some of the races suck to play as, cough... DWARVES... cough. 
 Once again though, that can be fixed with a few patches if people complain about it enough. This 
 graphics are pretty good but it seems like it could be polished up a bit. Some textures just stick 
 out while playing but the animations are good. Overall, BFME 2 is a solid game that will give you 
 your money's worth. The controls are the best I've played for a console RTS and multiplayer is 
 really fun and will get you coming back for more. Hopefully EA will fix some of the minor problems 
 in the future like better maps and more balanced races. We need a map maker too, damnit! Farcry 
 got one, why not us!? Okay, enough of me complianing, send me an invite if you want to get your 
 ass beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soleway
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  This game i much prefered to any RTS I have ever played. Although the actual campaign mode is not 
 a huge size the skirmish and Xbox live battles never get old. The control scheme is nice and if 
 your like me and would rather use a controller instead of the keyboard this version is right for 
 you. Another great thing about it is the simplicity compared to the Warcraft games and is much 
 easier to start and army without having to much gold and not enough food ect. ect. Instead it is 
 simplified by having one resource base that affects the amount of your army and the cost of your 
 army. The hero mode works great and everyone likes to be in the middle of a battle and summon the 
 witch-king to slaughter battalions of warriors from the air or aragon to run into battle. 
  There are few things i would change in this game. One is the close up graphics. The graphics look 
 good from a birds eye view but occasionaly one wants to zoom right in and watch you hero as he 
 fights a group of orcs. Another is the compatability f the different races. The diversity is simply 
 amazing but i find it hard to play as uruk when they only have warriors pikemen bowmen and siege 
 weapons when the goblins have spider riders and trolls and giants. It is easy to get the hang of 
 but it takes 1 to 2 hours to fully understand the controls.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snichols77
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Wow, they finally got an RTS to work great on the console, but unfortunately they couldn't design 
 the world and characters so that they would appear clear and distinct on a TV screen (versus a 
 computer monitor which has a smaller DP) .
  
  Gameplay is great, FPS is decent, but the game is frankly just hard to SEE. When zoomed-out and 
 often even when zoomed-in, it is hard to make out your pieces (characters) and control large battles. 
 The colors in many of the maps are so similar to the pieces that everything seems to blend in together. 
 
  
  I tested the game on both a 40" Samsung DLP and a 44" Zenith/LG LCD Projection. Other games are 
 incredibly vibrant and clear, this this game is muddy and blurry due to the colors used in the 
 world and characters.
  
  Personally I give it a 4 out of 10, and advise people to avoid BUYING IT. It might make an OK rental 
 but nothing to invest heavily in.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatalframe07
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings The battle for Middle Earth 2 for the Xbox 360 shows us what a RTS can be 
 like on a console. Not only does it show the controls can be easy and anyone can handle them, but 
 it also shows that the game can run very well on a console.
  
  Graphics- 8
  The graphics in the game are done very well, but for the Xbox 360 they could have been better. 
 Still, they bring the factor of realism to the game as you play through it. The graphics are done 
 so well that when you are zoomed out all the way, you can still distinguish your units from archers 
 to swordsman or horses to pike men. The structures, terrain and water are all done very well and 
 will make you feel like you are actually in the game. The special effects in the game are simply 
 amazing from the Balrog breathing fire and recking havoc upon its enemies to Gandalfs magic attacks 
 that are simply breathtaking.
  
  Game play- 10
  The Game play is simply amazing and it is the best thing about this game. The import of the mouse 
 and keyboard was done very well as the controls and fun and easy to learn and handle. Being able 
 to build where ever you want is a great addition to the game. Another thing that is done well is 
 you gain some benefits by where you place your buildings, thus adding more strategy to the game. 
 My favorite thing about the game play is when you go into battle with the enemy, is that there 
 can be hundreds of enemies on the screen at one time and the game will have a few flaws here and 
 there, but most of the time it runs very smoothly. There is also a campaign mode that allows you 
 to play eight levels for either good or evil and neither campaign is the same.
  
  Fun Factor- 10
  The game is very fun in my opinion and the best strategy game to date. I used 
 to be a fan of the Age of Empires series, but after playing Battle For Middle Earth 1 and Battle 
 For Middle Earth 2, i have to say this game series blows AOE away. I have already played over twenty 
 hours on the game and i bought it on the first day it came out. Xbox Live mode is interesting and 
 fun and is the only place if you are looking for a real challenge and having fun at the same time. 
 Playing the CPU over and over again is still fun but you will find yourself having a better time 
 playing against another person than the CPU.
  
  Replay Value- 7
  There is some replay value for this game, such as unlocking heroes that you can use when skirmishing, 
 or doing Xbox Live. You can also unlock achievement awards that will add more than enough points 
 to your gamer score. There are also only Xbox Live achievement awards so if you want to get all 
 the points this game has to offer, then you will need Xbox Live to accomplish this. Skirmish mode 
 is always fun as it never gets boring for their are endless map and number of player possibilities 
 as well as different levels of difficulty that will keep you playing skirmish mode for some time.
 
  
  Overall- 9
  This game is a must buy if you are a fan or veteran of RTS games or a Lord of the Ring fan. If 
 you are new to them or have never played the Battle For Middle Earth series than i would suggest 
 you settle for a rental to see if you like the RTS mixed with Lord of the rings. Do not get the 
 idea that the game will be impossible to control for the controls are easy and take ten minutes 
 at the most to master. If you are playing on a HDTV then you will simply be amazed. If you are 
 playing it on a regular tv then i am sorry to say you are missing out on all the capabilities of 
 playing this game on a HDTV for their are some major differences for what i have seen.
  
  Reviewer's Score- 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thew13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  As a mostly console player, I have been waiting for a quality RTS for consoles. I have played quite 
 a few on PC in the past (Warcraft II, Civilizations games, Rise of Nations, etc.) ann have always 
 considered it one of my favorite genres.
  So I was very excited about LOTR: BFME2 for 360. Now after having giving it a whirl, I can say it 
 works extremely well on the console. Of course PC controsl are better for this type of game, but 
 it works suprsingly well.
  The gameplay itself is standard RTS - build your up resources and army, attack and defend, but 
 it is done very well. I would compare it to War Craft, but in the LORT world. 
  So if youare an RTS fan and haven't tried this game on PC, I would highly recommend checking it 
 out for the 360. A very solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jthechosenone
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  I havent beaten it yet on normal but im sooo impressed. The best part so far was fighting that 
 huge dragon with it flinging all my guys everywhere. Ive never had to worry about my guys being 
 hurled in the air before. Awsome stuff. Singer player sound effects are sweet too. Your just building 
 your base and you hear those loud drums and your like "oh crap whats coming". The parts of the 
 game that are the hardest are also the most fun. When you see a dragon your like "ugh" and "sweet" 
 at the same time. Thing of this game as any other warcraft but with more effects you can do like 
 catch people on fire and throw them around and stuff. And the controls may be less precise but 
 they are far more comfortable with the controller. Ide play it on a console over a pc any day. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: q8hr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  A game that has dominated the computer world has finally arrived on the Xbox 360. Most of the time 
 converting an RTS to a console is a grim task but this time EA has done it in such a way that it 
 is indistinguishable with the computer version. The cutting edge technology and the power of the 
 Xbox 360 allowed EA to create a graphically complex game. Now that EA has full License to the tolken 
 they were able to expand there ideas in the game and make it rich with game play. The Xbox 360 
 version of this game played well and was an experience about building up a base and gathering a 
 huge army and attacking
  
  In the Battle for Middle Earth II you have command of the good and evil side. You will control 
 what they build, what they do and how they fight. Additionally you can choose which battle you 
 want to fight. The Good campaign is around the same length as the Evil campaign. Because tolken 
 has the movie license and the books the game was able to cover all the events happening with the 
 fellowship and Frodo going up mount doom. Undoubtedly its usually hard to create a game with a 
 good story line using books and movies but EA made it a clean cut game where Elves and Dwarves 
 team up to fight goblins and Gondor and Rohan are one to fight Isengaurd and Mordor. With all the 
 variety of units heros in the books and movies, characters could be places in the race they were 
 suppose to be in and fight along with their own kind. 
  
  Comparing the two games on PC and Xbox 360 one could easily tell that the Xbox 360 version is the 
 identical to the PC version except for some factors. Both the PC and Xbox 360 version of The Battle 
 for Middle Earth 2 has an evil and good campaign each with 8 missions. You also have a skirmish 
 mode in which you are able to battle any enemy you choose on any map you want. The skirmish game 
 mode in battle for middle earth has all the maps even many from Battle for Middle Earth 1. These 
 maps were not included on the PC version without a mod so on the Xbox 360 version you can battle 
 it out in helms deep or other old maps. More maps in the 360 version offers a bit more game play 
 than the PC version. An aspect of the game which was loved by everyone on the PC version was taken 
 out in the Xbox 360 version. The Create a Hero option was removed. The Create a Hero Option allowed 
 you to literally create a hero and choose how he looks like, you were able to bring this hero to 
 various battles and level him up throughout the game. The Create a Hero Option would have been 
 a great add-on to put in the Xbox 360 version.
  
  The campaign in Battle for Middle Earth 2 is straightforward and looks like it was made for newcomers 
 in the RTS genre. You are put into a story line and given tasks to accomplish. The Battle for Middle 
 Earth 2 campaign usually starts you with structures and you must build a certain number of units 
 to defend your base or raid enemy camps. The story line is quite predictable because enemy units 
 keep coming wave after wave to attack you and you have to stop them. The pattern is usually the 
 same for all the levels and it gets quite repetitive throughout the game. The campaign is really 
 like a huge tutorial, you have to do small tasks that you probably have never done before if you 
 are new to Battle for Middle Earth. All these tasks will teach you how to make units, how to upgrade 
 armor and units, and how to attack and build structures. They all get you ready for skirmish and 
 online play so you know what youre doing when you play your friends online. 
  
  In the process of building an army you are able to build heros that will future aid you in your 
 victory. Such heros are: Gandalf, Aragorn, Thoden, Gimli, and the Nazguls. Every hero is able 
 to take out a large amount of enemy forces and the higher level they get they harder they are to 
 kill. The more enemy units you take out the more power points you will get. PowerPoints are points 
 you get when you kill enemy units. When you have a certain number of PowerPoints you could buy 
 certain powers that will hurt the enemy or make you stronger. Examples of these Powers are: Earthquake, 
 Army of the Dead, The Eye of Sauron. Every Power will help you and they are needed to win the game. 
 
  
  In an RTS such as Battle for Middle Earth 2 the online component is very important because it will 
 offer more replay value. The online on the Xbox 360 version is quite different than the PC version. 
 Firstly in the Xbox 360 version you do not have the ability to join any game you want unless you 
 are invited by a friend through live. You have to let it search for a game and put you in it. On 
 the PC you have the ability to pick what ever game you which to go to. A key factor that makes 
 the two different online is the game play modes. The Xbox 360 version has 5 game play modes, the 
 regular skirmish in which you battle it out free for all, Capture the Flag in which teams compete 
 to capture and hold flags around the map, king of the hill, resource race, and hero vs. hero. All 
 these different types of game modes make the online gaming on Battle for Middle Earth 2 360 very 
 complex and greater in value. 
  
  The question that everyone has wanting to know is how the control layout is on the Xbox 360 gamepad. 
 The control layout is as simple as an RTS game on a console can get, the Xbox 360 gamepad seems 
 to fit right in with the layout. Your main buttons are A and the two triggers. A is the master 
 button which controls where units go, where buildings go, and who you highlight. The left trigger 
 allows you to select all military on map so you dont have to click them one by one. While the 
 Right trigger brings up the order menu in which you need to choose the buildings, units, and upgrades 
 to buy. To move around you simply move the joypads. They will move around for you and also let 
 you zoom in and out of the battle fields. Those are basically the controls, there very simple and 
 straight forward and are very easy to get use to once youve played a couple of missions. Because 
 you dont have a keyboard and mouse you tend to send units in large quantities to attack instead 
 of spreading them out like you would on PC. The Xbox 360 controller is great for this game but 
 if you are wanting to spread your units around the map you might have a hard time doing that. 
 
  
  Gameplay usually stomps graphics when it comes to game but in todays society games must have good 
 graphics. The Battle for Middle Earth on the 360 was super when it came to that aspect. The graphics 
 were beautiful on HD and the terrain detail was stunning. The only visual aspect is that the shadows 
 were very low resolution if you zoom in and look. With the power of the 360 Battle for Middle Earth 
 could have easily handled better shadows than the ones that EA put in the game. There were also 
 frame rate issues throughout the game. The Game would often move slowly when you are in a large 
 scale battle and the menus would load up slow. Also during the single player campaign the game 
 would stutter every now and then for no apparent reason. A patch might later on be released to 
 fix these issues but it does not look like it will anytime soon. If you are running a top of the 
 line computer the graphics will look better on it because of the high resolution. Electronic Arts 
 could have made the graphics better but they were good enough and the game play overshadowed them.
 
  
  Playing as almost any race in Middle Earth The Lord of The Rings: The Battle for Middle earth II 
 for the 360 is a great example for future RTS games on consoles. The control layout was great, 
 the Gameplay was great, and the graphics were not that bad. Both the PC and the 360 version are 
 great and are the same and different in certain aspects but are both worth the buy. The Xbox 360 
 point system also draws this game to be bought on console if you are driven by achievement points. 
 This is a huge surprise that a Real Time Strategy game has worked perfectly on a console and all 
 gamers look forward to future Real Time Strategy games on consoles. Most say that the day Real 
 Time Strategies are playing on consoles is the day that the world ends, well the world did not 
 end it has only gotten brighter because of this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpacers31
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  This was a really good game for the 360. I rented it and kind of wished I would of just bought 
 it. I really loved warcraft 3 on the pc, and this game is just as good for a console game. The 
 graphics are stunning and the gameplay is well designed. 
  
  The controls are really easy to get the hang of. They did a great job of getting a lot of options 
 on the xbox controller, and it should not take very long to figure out.
  
  The only bad thing I can say about the game is that it gets really laggy when you have big battles. 
 The graphics are so good I dont think the game can support them all when there is a huge battle. 
 Some of the small battles get kinda slow too. I think the lag can be overlooked because the game 
 is so much fun.
  
  This is not the best game for the xbox, but I feel it should definitely go in the collection. The 
 graphics (which everybody talks about on the 360) are really really good. The gameplay is a lot 
 of fun because you can do either a good or evil campaign. There are 1000 achievement points so 
 that can make for some long time play in its self, and the online play is pretty fun too, except 
 for the lag in the big battles.
  
  Definitely buy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: den4sir
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  The controls can get frustrating, but after a while you get the hang of it. I can't stop playing 
 this game.
  
  Up top it pretty much sums up my review. The graphics are great and you're provided with LOTR sound 
 quality. Going back to graphics, even when you're on a HDTV, when you zoom in on the characters 
 their shadows are a little muffed up. It's not such a big deal, but even those who have reviewed 
 this game should take a look at it.
  
  This game has a ton of replay value. You could play the evil campaign and good campaign. It's not 
 like Starcraft or Warcraft, but those who like this genre will enjoy this game very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMMATEL2002
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle Earth 2 is the most certain the best RTS game to hit the 
 console. Now this isnt saying it is the best RTS game ever, I've played my fair share of 'em, but 
 this is really the one that would show console players what the big deal is on the PC. 
  Gameplay: BFME 2 has some problems here and there. Every now or then the game would slow down, 
 but it does has a comfortable experience. The design of BFME 2 leads itself to huge messy battles 
 that wouldnt be found in games such as Starcraft, which consists of battles with just 2-20 units 
 total. Heroes and the creatures you can summon really give the battles a more..."dramatic" effect.
 
  Sound: The typical RTS. Each army containing a certain voice of some leader leading the battle, 
 swords and armors clanging, etc. elevated only by the superb movie score.
  Controls: Not perfect, and certainly not better than the classic keyboard and mouse, but the best 
 we can get now for the console. The click and drag still is in effect, but the hot key is just 
 frustrating to set up. 
  
  All in all, BFME 2 is a superb RTS for the console. The multiplayer is excellent and really requires 
 you to think strategy. The 2 campaigns ( good or evil) , is some what entertaining, but easy because 
 of the fact that you dont think for yourself but just follow the objectives. So campaigns are really 
 just a ......."detailed tutorial" that shows ways to master the multiplayer and skirmish modes. 
 BFME 2 is the inspiration of many RTS games likely to come in the near future. It would surely 
 be enjoyed by RTS fans and LOTR fans alike and will inspire other gamers to become fans of the 
 RTS genre we've come to know and love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungryrob14
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is so freakin awsome i don't care what anyone said that this game is not worth it well 
 its worth every penny. The Graphics are great the control is just perfect and the game play is 
 just right. And having a 2 hour battle online is awesome. There is alot of different types for 
 the Xbox live like the classic deathmatch, king of the hill, hero vs. hero battle which i have 
 not played yet and other fun types of games that are all playable with 4 of your friends with 2vs2 
 match or 1vs3 or the classic free for all. The controls take a little while and a bit of practice 
 to get a hang of it but they fit great with the 360 control. The single player campaign is good 
 too. This is a great game to have in your xbox 360 collection of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  The new control layout may never equal a Keyboard and mouse but it can feel good and fluid in your 
 movement. As far as an RTS goes it has exceptable graphics and is only the first of its console 
 kind. This gamecould change RTS forever. Letting it expand beyond the PC and onto the 60" HDTVs 
 in everyones living room nowadays. I do have complaints but nothing serious. An expansion pack 
 is coming that may fix the game a little bit. I will nmae the three best things about the game 
 and three little complaints.
  
  THE GOOD- 1.) It is an RTS... that works... on a console. The 360s power made it possible and leaves 
 room for improvement. 2.) It has a gripping campaign storyline that lets you play through parts 
 of the LOTR story you didn't see in Peter Jackson's films. 3.) Online is a blast and has good replay 
 value.
  
  THE BAD- 1.) Shadowing is of low quality. Up close shaows look pixilated and blurred. (Character 
 models looked very nice though) 2.) No Men of the West in the campaign. This will probably be fixed 
 by teh expansion. 3.) Poor framerate in some of teh really big battles... the game will stop on 
 the screen but continue in the game. Slightly frustrating.
  
  As you can see by the score I gave it the Good outweighs the Bad and in my opinion it is teh must 
 have of the summer for all RTS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenixbear
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Graphics are pretty good considering everything that needs rendering. 7.5
  Sound is decent, good voices pulls from movies. 8.1
  Gameplay is immersive, allows endless creativity 
 and management fun 8.5
  You are an overseer of your kingdom, kinda like Command and Conquer-ish
  to build up armies/castles/economy, 
 you need funds... thus farms help to bring in income. As your funds grow, build where you see fit... soldiers? 
 archers? training grounds? barracks? you decide. This allows you to collect all the glory or can 
 lead to your beheading.... hmmm. Controls are basic , although I wish I could've been able to see 
 in the distance more... but you can move entire camera that direction too.
  Although I didn't test the XboxLive multiplayer, as that looks to be a two player thing where one 
 army (Elves v. Sauron, etc) , don't let this game 
  pass you by.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffyfan1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  well the game is really good but there are a few glitches and some of the levels and skirmish fights 
 are to easy but there is hard levels too. also there are a lot of hero's to unlock in both campians 
 and the game will keep u playing for hours and hours just trying to beat other people on-line + 
 the AI. also u will be replaying it a lot to unlock all the hero's to compete on -- line against 
 the best in the world . I find it easy thought on some levels just keep building a few calvery 
 and archers and u can go through any level straight through without going back and rebuilding more 
 troops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streetballfan21
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 16, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  ok this game is down right boring. you don't feel any exitment when battling. the only good thing 
 is the mutiplyer. LOTR should go back to 3rd person fighting. unless ur really into this kind of 
 games rent it first or you might regrat it. it feels to slow paced and voice acting is really anoying 
 they say the same things over and over and over and over... need i go on? this game has some cool 
 things like playing agianst friends on mutiplayer and it's set up preety decent but you feel like 
 something is missing form this game game. oh well maybe next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Lord of the Rings games EA has made so far. I know what I'm talking about, I've 
 played EA's "Two Towers", "Return of the King" and "The Third Age". The first two where great action 
 games and the third one went a RPG root, I didn't much care for it. With "Battle for Middle Earth 
 II" now on the Xbox 360. EA has shown me they still got what it takes to make Lord of the Rings 
 games. Play as the Good side or Evil side and live your favorite parts from the books and the movies. 
 The good side, you mostly play as Elves and Dwarfs to stop the dark lord, sure they have different 
 classes but are still Elves and Dwarfs. This will take some time as you must build bases and train 
 new warriors. Sure that is good, but if your like me, you'll love to play as the Evil side and 
 take over the world of men.
  
  Playing the Evil side you get control of the Mouth of Sauron, Wargs, Dragons, Cave Trolls, Orcs, Wraiths, Goblins, 
 and even the Balrog. The music fits both sides well, using key music from the movies. There is 
 no new music that I could hear, but that is not really a bad thing. The single player is amazing, 
 and you will lose track of time playing this game. It just pulls you right, not many games do that. 
 The controls are great, almost all commands can be done by holding a shoulder button and then pressing 
 the "A" button. The sound is good, each unit has its own voice.
  
  When you have a huge army, there might be a little slow down. That will not make you want to spot 
 playing. Seeing how this is the first RTS to work on a system, I hope more will fallow. Maybe we'll 
 see "Star Wars : Empire At War" , "Rise of Nations" or EA's next RTS "Command and Conquer 3" coming 
 in the near future? In short, if your a fan of the Lord of the Rings or just a fan of RTS, this 
 is a game you should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max_is_a_Knight
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game was a huge surprise for me. I've been a big RTS fan since I played the original command 
 and conquer back around its release. Since then I've tried to keep up with the genre, but as my 
 computer slowly but surely became obsolete, I havent been able to play many of the more recent, 
 more graphics intensive strategy games. That being said, I was really excited to get a chance to 
 get into some modern RTS action on my 360... but as I'm sure most people were, I was pretty skeptical 
 about the controls working out. Well, they did. The game may control as sharply as it would with 
 a keyboard and mouse, managing the action with a 360 controller really doesnt take away from the 
 gameplay at all. The controls are well mapped, and almost every command you can imagine works intuitively... the 
 only real problem Ive encountered so far is selecting one particular unit when you have an entire 
 horde on screne (but then again, this isnt always easy on PC either) .
  While the controls work quite nicely, the gameplay is excellent. The game seems a bit shallow at 
 first because of the lack of units on a couple of the armies (dwarves and elves in particular) , 
 but the number of heroes, upgrades and spell like powers makes the action much deeper than it would 
 first appear. The campaigns are relatively short, and not that difficult, but they certainly are 
 intense and entertaining. The story that ties them together while a little on the light side, is 
 also pretty interesting. The multiplayer however adds tons of different possiblities for online 
 action. The functionality and ease of use of xbox live really adds something to the console version 
 that might not be present on pc. Playing on live is really, really fun, and the avalability of 
 6 armies and lots of other cool options gives the game lots of lasting appeal.
  This game also looks and sounds excellent. The graphics and unit animations are pretty detailed, 
 and do a good job of making the battles
  seem real. The art style is a little bit cartoony (but really just a little bit, nothing like warcraft 
 3) for my taste, but it still looks quite good. There is a little bit of slowdown when the action 
 gets hot, but in my experience this never really took away from the gameplay. The sound effects, 
 and in particular the music are great. All the voice acting is good, and the music taken directly 
 from the movies makes everything you do seem awesomely epic.
  Ultimately, I'd recommend this game to any LOTR or RTS fan... or even to any 360 owner looking for 
 some sweet online gaming. The way this game recreates the feel of the movies (particularly on maps 
 like Helms Deep and Minas Tirith) is amazing, and with great multiplayer to give it lasting appeal, 
 its pretty hard not to love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Sleepsalot
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  
  This game features two decent-sized campaigns- a campaign for Good and a campaign for evil. There 
 is also a skirmish mode where up to 4 players can play online or alone.
  
  The controls are extremely easy to pick up and learn, though learning specific things (bookmarking, 
 building walls, etc.) may take a little longer. Fortunately, there is are tutorials that details 
 how to use all of the game's functions.
  
  Lag in this game is a potential issue, but nothing that should deter interest for those looking 
 for a great RTS.
  
  That being said, this game features six races with their own distinct powers, heroes, buildings, 
 and play styles. There are plenty of maps to choose, including all the maps from the previous game 
 in the series in skirmish mode. Combat is brisk and combatants on numerous. In Warcraft 3, you 
 queue up individual soldiers; But in LOTR: BFME II, each queue gives you a platoon. The difference 
 in numbers really lends to a war-like environment.
  
  Graphics:
  
  While the graphics aren't exactly great, units and buildings are modeled stylishly and with obvious 
 care to detail. Besides some down-right ugly shadowing, the graphics in this game will not disappoint.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Movie-inspired music underlines the stylish execution of the game. The sounds of this game are 
 also elaborate and compliment the atmosphere perfectly.
  
  Value:
  
  Being the only RTS game on the console, and a great one at that, this is the perfect purchase for 
 strategy fans.
  
  The online skirmish mode and numerous achievements will keep you playing for dozens of hours.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  This is a great game! The frame-rate suffers a little bit during huge battles, but for the most 
 part the graphics are good. The shadows look pixelated though, unless you have a HDTV, which I 
 don't. I love the game. Great RTS game! Great voice-over work -- some of it is really funny. There 
 are only a couple of setbacks in my opinion. One being that you cannot zoom in farther to get a 
 more detailed view -- you can zoom in, just not close enough to tell who certain hero's are without 
 reading their names; and two being that the campaigns are too short. They each only have 8 levels. 
 I beat the good campaign in two days, and the evil campaign in another two and a half days. I just 
 wish they each would have had more like 16 battles -- but it's still a great, fun, addicting game 
 nonetheless.
  Now I'm really looking forward to The Lord of the Rings: The White Council, though it's not a strategy 
 game like LOTR: The Battle for Middle Earth II. It's actually an open-world role-playing game set 
 before the battle of the ring even started. There's not a lot of info on it yet, but it sounds 
 fun and interesting. Check out the link: http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/rpg/lotrwhitecouncil/index. html
 
  Okay, so LOTR: The Battle for Middle Earth II is a great game. Great job on the first RTS game 
 for XBOX 360, easy controls, great gameplay, graphics, etc. Definately worth buying because it's 
 so damn fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyou_right
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  The lord of the rings The battle for middle earth 2. Well I've got to start someware so Ill start 
 with the single player gameplay, the single player game consists of a good campaign and a evil 
 one, oh and a skirmish mode. The single player is short and repetative you will find yourself goining 
 back and forth collecting troups and then taking them to battle again and a again. While the single 
 player is fun for a while and gets you used to the alrightish controls it doesn't make the game 
 worth buying in anyway and you will soon find that the single player will grate on you. The mutiplayer 
 is where the game shines it's good as long as you are playing somebody who is no better than yourself, 
 I'm yet to find anybody who is as bad as me, but this as it maybe it is still very enjoyable, especially 
 when you do win. The controls work well and are the best on any console rts but it still doesn't 
 match up to a mouse and keyboard., as it is still slow and can take some time to get used to. The 
 gameplay is bad basically because you don't really don an awful lot and the maps generally make 
 it so it's very hard to have any tactics up your sleeve as the maps are small. The graphics are 
 terrible, just llok at the shadows they look like smudges square smudges they suck, this leads 
 me on to talk about frame rate seriously it lags a lot and can really get in the way of playing 
 especially when moving cursor at speeds around the screen The sound is awsome though kudos, it 
 pulls it straight from the films and voices of actors are included battles sound amzing, the sound 
 just rocks. Just one last warning before I finish the review if you are looking forward to the 
 new game modes e. g. king of the hill, beware nobody ever plays them prepare to only play versus 
 mode because the chances of somebody playing another are minimal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biga407
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Im not a big lotr fan.. ive never even seen the movies.. so i wasnt gonna get this game, untill 
 the demo came out and i tryed it out. i kinda like the demo so i went and picked it up.. this game 
 is sweet, it just grows on you. im a multiplayer only type of gamer but this is a game that makes 
 me actully want to listen to the story in single player and it has come cool things 2 do.. the 
 only thing i would say bad about this game is that it has a choppy frame rate, but im sure that 
 didnt stop u from playing oblivion now did it? ofcourse not its still sweet. the graffics are nice, 
 not up 2 par with games like table tennis but for all thats going ononscreenthere VERY NICE.. 
 Espacially in the second or 3rd map in single player campain where u attack by boat and by ground.. 
 nice... another cool thing is not only do u buy all diffrent kind of troops.. but u can upgrade 
 them nicely.. all in all its a sweet game even from a non lotr fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_natural888
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  The lord of the rings Battle for Middle earth 2 is a very good RTS game and worthy of being played. 
 The game play is fairly difficult having to scroll through many menus. The camera is a problem 
 in this game. It does not zoom out enough. The graphics are good but could be better. Everything 
 is great but when you zoom in close on a solider the graphics don't look to great character detail 
 can be better. The sound is great. The sound of the battles are great the clashing of the swords 
 is the best of the sounds. If you are a fan of the LOTR series or a RTS fan this game makes a good 
 addition to a collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazydave101
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  When I heard that The Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle-Earth was going to be a RTS I was excited 
 and nervous. I love playing Age of Empires which is also an RTS. I personally had never played 
 an RTS on a counsel and was very curious to see how it played. I was amazed on how well it played 
 on a controller. It is a must have for the LOTR fans and for people who really haven't experienced 
 real time strategy games.
  
  Gameplay: I absolutely love the gameplay in the game. It especially appealed to me because I wasn't 
 rushed to get my army out fighting in a certain time. The problem with the game play was that is 
 had a little slow frame rate. Other than the rare slow frame rate, the gameplay was excellent.
 
  
  Graphics: What isn't there to love about elves slashing goblins and trolls. If you zoom in to the 
 fight the graphics are just amazing. But zoomed out it does get a little blurry. The only real 
 bad graphics that I found was that the shadows from the trees were very pixely.
  
  Sound: As always the sound in Lord of the Rings games are great. Sometimes the music wasn't loud 
 enough. If I turn the sound up I just get louder yelling from the soldiers.
  
  Value: The value of the game is just great. Not much else to say about it.
  
  Replayability: 
 The thing about the single player is that you are always doing something different in each mission. 
 Not just make a big army and destroy the other one. You won't get bored in this one.
  
  All together this is a game that really has proved people wrong. With a few minor flaws I give 
 this game a 9.0.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjaded
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  LOTR is definetly hit the target for the Xbox. The graphics are wikked, the storyline is awesome 
 and the levels are incredible. Whether you play evil or good it gets you right into the game from 
 the minute you start. The endless battles and maps keep you wanting more. Playing online with friends 
 is amazing and there is just no end to the possibilities this game can do. Playing online with a 
 group of friends keeps you on your toes a t all times and the endless battles that you can play 
 each time makes it all that mre gratiyfing. Even playing solo gives youhours of fun and hopefully 
 lots of achievments. Ea you did an awesome job bring a role playing game to the 360. Keep it up!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerdo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  In the past, there haven't been many real-time strategy games on consoles. This game, however, 
 shows us that it is possible.
  
  The graphics are very nice, and it's fun to just zoom in on the battles and see all that's going 
 on. They also do a nice job of bringing the LOTR characters that you know and love from the films, 
 and also many more additions from the books.
  
  The gameplay is where this game shines. The campaigns have some fun levels and are generally good 
 the first time through, but the online play brings out the best of this. It is incredibly fun talking 
 to my friends and having a good time while building up massive armies and constructing strategies 
 for taking down the enemy.
  
  Another good thing about this game is that there are six races to play as. Goblins, humans, elves, 
 orcs, uruks and dwarves. All of them have their own interesting units and heroes. Every race has 
 their own strengths and weaknesses with certain units, so there is no one race that is better than 
 them all.
  
  Overall, Battle for Middle-earth 2 is very fun, well balanced and has great online play. This game 
 will please anyone who loves the RTS genre, as well as LOTR fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay could be described in one word: Innovatve. The reason i use this word is 
 becasue of the way they used the Xbox 360 controller to create a control scheme that works so well 
 on a console. The gameplay is very similar to the PC, which would be a great thing as the PC version 
 was very well done as well. For Xbox 360 owners that do not have a PC, do no panic because this 
 game is just as fun as that. Personally i believe the control scheme is determined by the user, 
 so i would really recommend trying out the demo first. 
  
  Graphics: Very well done. I own an HDTV and the graphics are done very well, and the environments 
 are very gorgeous. For a SDTV it is a rather case as i heard from people or gamespot, so downloading 
 the demo to see for yourself is the best choice if you own a SDTV.
  
  Sound: Very well done, i believe the best out of the 3. It draws music straight from the movies, 
 and well, i believe many people enjoyed those music especially when you're in a battle. The voice 
 acting mostly comes from the voice actors themselves which is very unique for a game sometimes, 
 and this game truly captures the feel of the movie with these actors voice. 
  
  Overall: In all, this game is very, very well done and i would recommned this game to anyone who 
 has a XBox 360, and is unsure about this RTS. Everythings in the package here, and the online play 
 is awesome. I wouldnt delve into online yet, as playing online first would sometimes ruin the experience 
 somewhat. So thank you for reading my review, and i hope you enjoyed this, and also the game most 
 importantly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mat8ter
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I usually am not good at these type of games and i beat it in 5 hours. online got boring after 
 awhile. and the game was very repetitive. wat a waste of money!!!!!!! The evil campaign was just 
 the same stuff over and over again. Sauron at the last level was completely undestructible. and 
 that mission took me lky 20 mins to beat. online the ppl that i played sucked. buh the only good 
 part was the detail they put into it and the sound wasnt half that bad. Overall this game was ok 
 and i wouldnt recommend it unless ur obssesed with Lord of the Rings or u lky this style of gaming. 
 which i dont ewwwwwwww 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VampOrdinator
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I was pretty exited when i first heard this game announced. Having been a BIG fan of bfme 1 and 
 having played the 2nd only on abysmally low settings i was really exited to be able to play it 
 the way it was ment to be played. While i admit the controls can be cumbersome at times, but once 
 you get the swing of things you'll be dropping orcs and liberating / taking over middle earth in 
 no time. The Game features a evil and a good story mode and while not as epic as the original theres 
 still loads of good gameplay to be had. Achievements are given by completing the bonus objectives 
 durring a mission and it overall works well. The game offers a skirmish mode which is really good. 
 Since this GREATLY adds to the replay value. The graphics are very good for an rts game and while 
 the framerate does dip it's not really enough to take one out of the action unless you're a real 
 nit picker. Good news, the great licensed soundtrack makes it return makeing for some epic battle 
 themes and such. The overall gameplay hasen't changed much. Most notable the factions have been 
 split. Fusing the men of middle earth and making the dwarfs, elves, goblins, mordor, isengard. 
 All these factions have their own unique feel and play quite differently from each other. Though 
 the game does run on a rock paper scissors like system so your going to see the equivilent of a 
 spearmen and archer and such for all sides but the factions have little quirks that make them unique. 
 So between all the offline modes and the online mode this should keep you busy for awhile. If you 
 have the pc version and can run it well, i wouldnt recommend getting this game unless you have 
 a really nice entertainment system. But those looking to play the game they way its ment to be 
 played like i did or those who have never played an rts before, Your gunna want to check this out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kain_320
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This is the best RTS on a console since Starcraft 64!
  
  The game looks just like its PC counterpart, but plays alot differently because of the lack of 
 the keyboard & mouse. But it works very well, not perfect, but good enough.
  
  Controls go like this: 
  -A: To Select everything
  -Down on D-Pad: Select Worker who isen't 
 busy
  -Left on D-Pad: Select all units that can fight
  -Up on D-Pad: Selects Heros only
  -Right on D-Pad: Quick select of Special Powers
  
  You can also make groups, like if it was 
 the PC form, CTRL+1 or CTRL+2, only harder to use. Insted you've got "Book Marks" which, I find, 
 takes to long to use. The only thing i'll use a book mark for is to keep my seige units away from 
 my main army so they don't hurt my own with their attacks. That can take from strategy out of the 
 game, but its still good.
  
  Bad points about the game is as said, how hard it can be to control a bunch of different squads 
 or groups, and the massive lag you'll get during big battles. Its nothing you can't handle, but 
 it can be annoying.
  
  Anyways, its a great game and if you've been wanting a RTS on a console, or are just a fan of LOTR's 
 ooooor WHATEVER this game is for you.
  
  P. S Oh and Multiplayer is awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: letacoleta
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  i cant believe how they put all the actions in just one button, in the computer you used every 
 single key and mouse to play any game like this, the gameplay is good, only one thing is kinda 
 weird, when are you playing a big battle, the gameplay goes slow. overall is a good game to have 
 and play, the online battles are very good. if you like strategy games and been playing only on 
 pc, try this one, i dont really liked the music but you can change it ,graphics good sound can 
 be better, game play excellent, i recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bballdude997
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  Everyone thinks since an RTS is on a console, its crap. Well LOTR BFME2 is going to change that, 
 I've only had it since Monday and I'm in LOVE with it.
  
  Gameplay: Whats good about this game is that instead of like in Warcraft III where you control 
 single units, your single units are battalions (or hordes for evil) which have a number of units 
 in them, controlled as a single one. I'm not much for strategy, I just love seeing huge battles 
 which we'rent possible in WC3 .
  
  I had a 2 hour game last night with my friend, I thought we were both defeated until I realized 
 we could have rebuilt our entire fortress over, we had joined our bases so we had a giant one in 
 the middle, we defended it for over an hour and a half. It was amazing.
  
  Graphics: Awesome enviromental graphics, units look good but not as good as they should, but it 
 keeps the framerate down.
  
  Sound: Once in a while the LOTR score sounds up, but the only sounds are buildings, arrows flying 
 through the air, catapults destroying troops, troops grunting and screaming and cheering, swords 
 and shileds clashing, buildings collapsing... so yea... it sounds like hell.=)
  
  Online: Its amazing online, you can have 1 vs 1, 1 vs 2, 1 vs 3, 2 vs 2 in King of the Hill, Hero 
 vs Hero, Versus, and others I can't remember.
  Many people say the framerate bogs down during big battles, well there was a patch only a few days 
 after release which brought the framerate up considerably and only during huge huge battles do 
 I start to get slow (and it's not lag from the servers) but I mean with 200+ units PER SIDE doing 
 something different I'm sure even any computer would slow down with the graphics turned up high.
 
  
  Replayability: I can't stop playing... that should be enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_Tacular
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  RTS... a genre that has lived the majority of it's life on the PC, and as such, many gamers have 
 gotten used to the keyboard and mouse, too used to them actually. 
  
  The same thing could have happened with the FPS genre too, if that had lived on the pc most of 
 it's live and only had bad controls whenever it did appear on a console, you would be shy to buy 
 a fps on a console today. But that's not the case, FPS's have become hugely succesful on the console, 
 and part of it's success is due to the fact that the controls don't hinder it. And why can't it 
 be the same way with RTS's? Well it can, and BFME II is really close! 
  
  When I started to play this game, I learned how to control everything very well in about half an 
 hour, can you learn all the hotkeys on the keyboard for an RTS in a half an hour? Most likely not... 
 
  
  Whenever I lose a building or a battle or anything for that matter, it feels like a lack of strategy, 
 NOT a lack of speed in controling my army. 
  
  In short, you will NOT be dissapointed with the control setup, you may not like it as much as a 
 keyboard and mouse, but it is by FAR the best console RTS control scheme I have ever used.
  
  The actuall gameplay is very good, and some of the battles can have the same epic scale and 
 felling as the movie battles did. However, when the battles get this epic and large, there is massive 
 slowdown, the frames per second drops way below 30. 
  
  Other than the controller, the game is very close to the pc version, and I can compare because 
 I have both. 
  
  Overall, I think this game was excellently made, and the controller does not hinder the gameplay 
 as much as anyone would think... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  gameplay - the framerate is horible from the start , the fighting dosen't look good at all either 
 , and it's hard to controll - you have to build things using the right trigger , and none of the 
 aspects of the game are fun at all - the AI for the game is horrible as well , your armys don't 
 have common sense
  
  graphics - the graphics are incredibly horrible , you can barley zoom in and everything just looks 
 like garbage 
  
  sound - average game sound nothing outstanding
  
  value - online play is even laggier (framerate wise) , nearly impossible to play
  
  no tilt 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun247
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This is, in my opinion one of the best 360 games so far. It has everything that the computer game 
 had but this is on the console. so now people that don't want to buy more hardware to support this 
 game, if they have a 360 just buy it. Some people have been saying "give me my mouse and keyboard", 
 but i think the developers did an excellent job taking all of the controls from a keyboard and 
 putting to a controller. This game has heroes from books, game and movies. Create hordes and destroy 
 your enemy. GO BUY IT!!! AMAZING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  First off rts's are one of my favorite genres. I love red alert and age of empires. Red alert 2 
 was good and Generals was ok but this is the first time since aoe ive truly enjoyed an rts. The 
 gameplay is very similar to aoe except it has lotr characters. I hate lotr and the fact that it 
 is a lotr game doesnt affect it at all. It is a little tough to learn the factions at first if 
 your not familiar with the books/movies. The graphics are actually really good. The framerate drops 
 in huge battles but other then that it runs fairly smooth. The sound is ok nothing special. Some 
 of the dialogue of evil characters is funny so thats a boost. The sound just doesnt stand out at 
 all. For me the main campaigns are boring because i dont know much about lotr so i dont know whats 
 going on. I prefer the online aspect which is a blast. Its so much fun trying to figure out your 
 opponents next move and then how to counter it. This game really requires strategy. For me aoe 
 and red alert never really did all you had to do was build a huge army and charge. The 1 on 1 games 
 generally last about an hour. BUt i had 1 that i stopped at the 2 hour mark. It was a perfect stalemate. 
 Id attack and hed counterattack and then we regroup and do it again. I personally enjoy a long 
 game that requires a lot of strategy. This game is a great console rts. The controls seem complex 
 at first but are picked up quickly and become intuitive. Its a breeze to launch a major assault 
 and build up defenses at the same time. This Game is a must buy for all rts fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidKeevo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutly amazing. It's amazing in the fact that EA found a way for a RTS to work 
 on a console and it's amazing because of the huge battles, massive environments, and detail. People 
 may think the graphics are cr*ppy, but it's an RTS and graphics don't come first. Still, the detail 
 put onto the men/monsters are great. The special effects of powers are very well done and fun to 
 watch.
  
  This game has soooooooooooo much stuff to do. You can go on a good/bad campaign, skirmish agaisnt 
 bots, and play online. The many maps and factions make the replay value huge. Fighting a hunge 
 battle online is so much fun, and you feel so good after winning a match.
  
  Just before I wrote this review I was playing a match 1 vs 3 on Minas Tirith. Me and two of my 
 buds attacked minas tirith. You would think it would be over fast since it was 1 vs 3, but the 
 guy in minas tirith had great defenses. It lasted a good 2 hours and it was so much fun the whole 
 way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3oNR3g1z
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  I just went out this morning and picked up a copy of Lord of the Rings: Battle for middle earth 
 II, just because I'm a big Lord of the Rings fan. I was very skeptical about having a RTS on a 
 console, because in order to have a good RTS you need a mouse in keyboard hands down. How can a 
 console controller replace everything I needed. Well EA pulled it off with a very easy navigation 
 interface along with some very well thought out button layout. I will admit there are a few times 
 where I found somethings frustrating, but I think more of that will come when I can figure out 
 more strategy involved. With strategy in mind, the online aspect of the game is so far incredible. 
 It reminds me a little of WarCraft III on the PC. Especially when the hero v. hero mode comes into 
 play. 
  Overall I am glad a RTS can finally do well on a console and if it only gets better I would like 
 to see more RTS on console especially because of LIVE support. I've always wanted a game that had 
 the action of WarCraft III with the base building of an Age of Empires game, and I believe this 
 might be the game I've been looking for and the fact that it is on 360 makes it all the sweeter.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasuke55
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  
  
  When I picked up this game I was so excited. I haven't played a RTS since War Craft 3 and Age Of 
 Mythology. So needles to say I was very happy to pick this one up especially since it was on the 
 consoles. 
  
  This game is full of what makes RTS's great plenty of factions to choose from unique spells summons 
 and full of action. When I brought this game home I poped it in and just started playing to see 
 how user friendly it was. I will have to say that even with limited knowledge of how RTS games 
 work it wasn't that easy and the instuction manuel with all of 3 pages of instructions were useless 
 except for the ad in the back of the manual for the guide. Normally I wouldn't recommend getting 
 guides cause I think it cheapens the overall experince but in this case you need it just for basic 
 things. The tutorials work really well and give you a good feel to the game.
  
  Having started the GOOD Campaign its interesting to see all the movie sequences and the interesting 
 story that they tell about alternate events in Middle Earth.
  
  The Graphics are good but some what disappointing only because of what I know is currently possible 
 for the RTS genre on PC. 
  
  The only other thing I would say that bothers me is the lack of two players (without XBL) and System 
 link which I think is a sad attempt at pushing xbox live. I gues Lan parties are out.
  
  I think the controlls for this game are fantastic although I never cared to much for the keyboard 
 and mouse. This test strategy not who is a better master of quick keys.
  
  Overall I will say the game is a must have for RTS fans and casual fans as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_Stewart
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Okay I'll first begin by saying this is the best RTS game out there on a console and first successful 
 fun at most. EA was able to put the RTS controlles onto the xbox controller with very simple and 
 easy to use system. The main controls are the analog sticks and triggers are your most important 
 ones and the others buttons are to make gamplay easier for you to maneuver. The single player is 
 good to help you familiarize with the controls but the best part I love about this game is the 
 Xbox live one important thing is IT RARELY LAGS, after several games i've played I haven't played 
 a laggy game yet. It may only have 4 players but its lots of fun being able to build hundreds of 
 units. The graphics may seem at first a little simplistic but as you zoom in you see the true effects 
 of your troops in battle. I believe anyone who hasen't played a RTS becuz there computer sux like 
 mine should definitly buy this game. Hey if your a PC user and play RTS and have a xbox 360 give 
 this title a chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I've been pretty dissapointed with the predictability of the 360 lineup so far. I feel as though 
 MS is making the same run of FPS clones and such that they did with the xbox release, and not some 
 of the more creative outings that mark their more recent fare. However, LOTR really shows off a 
 another side of the console, and makes use of at least some of it's power.
  
  LOTR is fun, and would be if it were not set in such a beloved fantasy universe. This is a genuinely 
 good RTS, and I'm pretty jaded when it comes to this genre. The battles are enormous, truly of 
 the epic scale depicted in the novels and the movie, and the framerate does suffer during some 
 of the games more spectacular outing. However, if you consider what the first run of games for 
 all previous consoles have looked like, something like LOTR bodes very well for the future of the 
 360. 
  
  Graphics aside, the gameplay is very balenced, more so than I would expect from a movie franchise 
 game. EA really spent some times making sure that this was not meaningless eye candy. The sound 
 is also good, but that's generally expected for a game of this type. Plenty of units, plenty of 
 maps, and plenty of fun to be had here folks, but that said it does not break the RTS mold so if 
 you're looking for something totally fresh and new, well... this isn't it. LOTR: Middle-Earth II 
 is a fine example of the genre, and very heartening for the future of RTS games on the 360 console 
 (and others frankly) . 
  
  Final Note: A lot of people don't want to hear this, but the game is clearly meant for a high def 
 television. I'm not blaming the graphics of a game on a "next gen" console for not looking good 
 on "last gen" TVs. People whine about not wanting to buy a high def television, and that's fine, 
 but don't complain about your "NEXT GEN" console having issues because of that. If you think it's 
 an issue now, wait for the PS3 and blueray players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I went into this game skeptical. After all of these years since Command and Conquer came out for 
 64 (and sucked) , I was expecting this game to also suck. I picked it up anyway, and now I'm addicted.
 
  
  Pros: The controls are great. The controller makes short cuts much easier and alot faster. I'd 
 almost go as far to say that the controller has finally beat the keyboard and mouse in performance, 
 atleast in the RTS genre (you've got to give it atleast an hour or 2, especially if your a RTS 
 fan, to be proficiant at the control scheme) . The amount of speed and ease performing tasks with 
 the controller, to me, far surpasses the PC. We'll see when that cross platforming stuff starts 
 coming out (Shadowrun) . The graphics are about the same as the PC, which really makes me wonder.... 
 EA is very shady after all. The units are detailed. The super powers are awesome and fit in well. 
 The floods, earthquakes, giant monsters, undead armies, and sun beams are all very unique and give 
 the game it's own distinct flavor from other RTS games. Even the lesser powers such as summoning 
 an eagle or some hobbits to aid you in battle, are fun and interesting to use. You'll find, knowing 
 and using your powers are essential to victory. I haven't played too much with online, but from 
 what I've seen it's definantly a more user friendly experience from what I've found in the PC RTS 
 scene. I think that this games works so well for a consule, that we are going to start seeing alot 
 more consule RTS games in the near future. The new Command and Conquer maybe?
  
  Cons: No create a hero. Online gameplay modes not available in skirmish. There should be more unit 
 types. One Ring mode could have had alot more depth then it does. I guess, I was expecting it to 
 be more "over the top".
  
  Bottom Line: This game is fantastic and is a must have for anyone with 2 things: 1. Patience 2. 
 Enjoys strategy. If your a PC fan, and won't give this game a fair chance because your in love 
 with your mouse.... don't even bother trying something new. For everyone else, this game, from 
 a consule, is a very different and entertaining experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothicdragon216
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  Throughout the history of RTS gaming, consoles have always fallen short. I have had many RTS' for 
 many consoles, but as far as controll and easy navigation, this is the closest thing to PC yet. 
 Because the "a" button is all you usually press for commands (sometimes with a trigger to select 
 multiple troops) the gameplay is smooth and you can build your army almost as fast as you could 
 on PC. The only downsides to this game is the fact that you can't use your mini map that much, 
 and the zoom gets annoying (I wish you could zoom out a little more) . If you are a fan of RTS games, 
 and haven't got this for PC, get it for X360. You know it will be fun on Live, so go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincompost
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  Battle for middle earth 2 for 360 is a great strategy game for this console... unfortunately not 
 many 360 owners are strategy game fans... such as myself. I thought that the gameplay was awesome 
 and the graphics were great, however the campaign needs a few more missions that actually allow 
 full gameplay. Also I would like to play some of the mutiplayer gametypes against the cpu just 
 to get a feel for them before I get my butt handed to me online. I do have to say though the the 
 gametypes for multiplayer were very good. On the skirmish aspect of the game i think that the elves 
 should lose some of their power ecause the elves faction gaurantees a win. As far as equality btween 
 the others its perfect. The stats for all the units are right on for example the uriks are harder 
 to kill much like in the movies and books. BFME2 is a great game but it needs something to change 
 it up for those who do not have xbox live, also an update where there are a few new units would 
 be greatly appreciated, but I don't expect that soon... if at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TakaNui
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - Great gameplay with a lot of strategy needed to be involved. Many ways to upgrade units 
 or buy powers to really turn the tide of battle. Though the game suffers a ton of performance issues 
 when huge armies on on screen.
  
  Graphics -These are some of the best graphics I've seen in an RTS, Though shadows are blocky and 
 slightly annoying. On standard def tv it is hard to see certain units but shadows look better on 
 it. My guess is due to fullscreen displaying less and not needing things to be as crisp.
  
  Sound - The sound is amazing and all units make individual sound. Best in surround sound of course.
 
  
  Value - The 1st true RTS to come to a console. Will always be a classic.
  
  Tilt - Amazing multiplayer, limitless replay value, and suprisingly easy controls.
  
  Overall, 
 RTS fans must buy this same with LOTR fans. Everyone should at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbtrey3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Pro's : Online play is excellent! Online matches have a very short wait time and are almost completly 
 lag free. The single player campaign is fun and diverse. Endless replay value and original RTS 
 concepts. Great controls!
  
  Con's : Some players have experienced Xbox Live problems ( I have not experienced any) . Some players 
 online have mastered the quick attack method, making the game a rush to kill which doesn't allow 
 for the fun upgrades. Some slight lagging with many units on the screen (nothing major) . 
  
  I purchased this game on the day of release and have not looked back! My main concerns of the 
 controls, lagging, and multiplayer were all quickly dismissed as soon as I began playing. The single 
 player offers 8 good and 8 evil missions which are all long and enjoyable scenarios. They are also 
 very helpful for learning the controls, races, and strategies for online play. The online play 
 is what this game is all about. Finding matches in quick match literally takes a total of about 
 20 seconds. Once started you have the option between various game modes which have all proven to 
 be enjoyable. The unlockable hero's in this game and unique multiplayer matches will keep you coming 
 back for months to come. I personally can not afford a high end gaming computer to play RTS games, 
 and have enjoyed the change of pace on the console. The graphics are okay on the game. Don't expect 
 to see a significant amount of detail on your units or heros. Keep in mind that games of this nature 
 are not about the detailed graphics but instead the ability to strategize and outplay your opponent. 
 Overall I highly recommend this game for purchase. I only buy games that have a high replay value 
 and this one will definetly keep you thinking and entertained for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  The real-time strategy genre of video games have been on the PC since the beginning of the genre 
 with franchises such as Warcraft, Starcraft, and Command & Conquer. This genre and the Lord of 
 the Rings franchise have been a good match for each other with its Battle for Middle Earth series. 
 The first one focused on the movies and this one focuses more on the backstory of the books involving 
 characters that were not noticed in the movies. This is pretty much the first time a RTS game that 
 appears on a console, specifically the XBOX 360. The Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth 
 II is a great RTS with the core RTS mechanics such as building bases and moving armies around as 
 well as decent controls on the 360.
  If you have not played this type of game before, it is highly recommended to play the tutorials 
 first to get familiar with the controls and the action. The single player consists of two campaigns, 
 good and evil, and skirmishes, which you play a versus match against AI opponents. Both campaigns 
 have a decent length of time to complete with a mixture of levels and challenges you face. The 
 good campaign is perhaps a little easier than the evil campaign because of what they provide in 
 terms of heroes, powers, and upgrades. Both campaigns provide a story revolving the long struggle 
 for Middle Earth with Elves, Dwarves, Goblins, and Orcs. If you are willing to go for the achievement 
 points, the single player modes are the half of the achievements even though the total is 705 points.
 
  The multiplayer is where it is at if you get tired of single player with online battles on XBOX 
 Live up to four players at once. There are many modes of multiplayer also, ranging from a normal 
 versus battle, king of the hill, hero vs. hero, and resource race. Since the single player campaigns 
 have massive slowdown when things get chaotic, the same will go for online action depending on 
 the connection.
  Since this is a Lord of the Rings game, expect the sound to be the greatest part of the game. The 
 music is straight from the movies that makes you feel like you want to watch the movies again. 
 The voiceovers are also from the actors of the movies, but the dialogue can be a little cheesy 
 at times. The graphics for this game is decent but the slowdown can make this game frustrating 
 for hardcore gamers, which is not what you want to expect in a next-generation game.
  In the end, the Lord of the Rings: The Battle for Middle Earth 2 is a great RTS for veterans of 
 the genre who have not played it on the PC and for newbies of the genre looking for something different 
 to play on their XBOX 360s. This game proves that the genre can be executed on consoles, and it 
 gives hope that EA will release their next RTS on consoles as well if this game turns out successful 
 for sales. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Isick117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Pros: 
  Great Music and sound
  Awesome Storytelling
  Great Story
  Great Controls
  Hero Mechanic is Good
  Powers mechanoc is Great
  Fun online
  
  Cons: 
  Graphics are okay 
 up close (pretty good far away)
  Each campaign by itself is a little short (decently long together)
  Choppy Frame rate
  
  
 This is an extremely fun game. The best console RTS to date. The storytelling is awesome because 
 it blends art and it's normal Graphics together. The sound is great and almost rivals Oblivion's. 
 This is a good restart for console RTS's. There are a couple bad things about the game, the story's 
 by themselves are pretty short. The graphics up close are decent but not that great and the frame 
 rate chops when the action gets intense sometimes but for the most part it is pretty good. It is 
 an extremely replayable game since the online is really fun. And there are two campaigns so double 
 the fun, theres a good campaign that relies mostly on protecting defending Elves, Men, and Dwarves 
 from Goblins. While Evil will make you ravage lands and destroy towns. Each campaign is different 
 and fun. With the 360 spreading it's library it's hard to miss some great games, but this is one 
 almost no one should miss.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iTcaL
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Who said that Oblivion was the most addictive game for the 360? Check again. LOTR Battle for Middle 
 Earth 2 is by far the most addictive game for the console. Number 1, it's LOTR so the characters 
 are awesome. Number 2, it is all strategy. Number 3, Multiplayer kicks ass. 
  
  Single player takes you into the world to play as either good or evil. After each level, if you 
 have completed all of the objectives, you will unlock an achievement. Also on some levels you unlock 
 heroes which you will be able to use during Hero v. Hero mode on online. The campaigns were challeging 
 on easy mode, and there are a medium and hard modes also. 
  
  I love building up huge armies and fortresses, but however if you get into huge battles with tons 
 of units, you will be able to notice some lag. This rarely occurs though. Online multiplayer is 
 very addicting as you may find yourself having intense battles for a couple of hours. 
  
  The controls will take you a while to get used to but if you keep playing, you will get the hang 
 of it and enjoy the game for every minute you play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionpants
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  The game looks and sounds alright, I have a high definition television with surround sound, although 
 I hear the visuals get ugly on a standard definition television. The story is alright, there are 
 some interesting missions and the characters are very well animated along with their excellent 
 voices.
  
  The only huge, huge, huge problem I see with this game is the amazing drop in frame rate when a 
 large battle is going on. I could not believe how EA could have just passed this problem over. 
 It hinders the gameplay an incredible amount and almost makes the game unplayable. This puts a 
 huge dent in the gameplay of the game.
  
  As far as online goes, I tried to connect to their servers for 5 minutes and gave up out of frustration.
 
  
  Rent this game before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rumstocker
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 10, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Besides being an extremely long abbreviation, LOTRBFME2 is an RTS, an RTS that plays on my Xbox 
 360. At first you are like, "wow, this is going to be strange," along with, "wow, there is already 
 lag in the tutorial, wow." So at first you hate it. Then you learn it. Then you love it. Then you 
 dominate it. LOTRBFME2 is sweet, hands down, sweet. The graphics aren't the best. The gameplay 
 isn't as good as computer. The gameplay will never be better than computer... or will it? FPS? 
 Halo 2? ...... As of now though, computer game play reigns supreme, but there is one thing the 
 computer doesn't have and that's Xbox Live. Xbox Live makes this game. Of course computer has online 
 play, but the ranking system on Xbox Live is superior. Add in the addition Live exclusive game 
 modes that only the Xbox 360 offers and you have a hell of a package. Before I played this game 
 on Live I wasn't sure if I was going to keep it. After playing a six hour session last night on 
 XBL I can promise you this one is staying around. I can even throw in the comment that this game 
 might give Halo 2 and CoD2 a run for their money in my Xbox.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Some lag in big battles. Give the controls time. Flying around the map is still annoying 
 for me too, but every game I play I get used to it more and I like it better. GIVE IT TIME. Give 
 the single player and tutorials 3 hours. Give unranked game another 3 hours. Then start playing 
 ranked, you will be hooked.
  
  GRAPHICS: Not the best on 360. Probably not possible on original Xbox. The water looks pretty. 
 Some slow down. It's an RTS, they all have slow down.
  
  SOUND: It's an LOTR game. LOTR probably has the best soundtrack ever.
  
  VALUE: Once again, 
 3 hours single player, 3 hours Live unranked, start playing ranked a lot, a whole lot.
  
  TILT: Try it, Buy it. If you've played RTS's, but your not hardcore about them, then this one is 
 sweet. If you're new to RTS's buy it. If you are an RTS person try it. It's one of the better games 
 on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasxalis1987
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  As poor as the first game. Still it needs lot of work to be done. Poor game play, few stages, there 
 are units that are missing e. g uruk pikeman...
  There are very few races to choose... You do not choose the race that you like but you choose sides, such 
 as good side or bad side.
  I think that EA could have done it better. For example. You might choose races so you continue the 
 action/adventure the way you like, or the way you want to be done. The second game it is not as good 
 as the first one. I enjoy siegeing Minas Tirith, and i think that was the best stage of the game. Worth 
 give it a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Everyone is always screaming about how this doesnt have KB and Mouse. WEll, then don't play it 
 on 360 if you care so much!!! They wouldn't have made such a big game if they didn't think they 
 could pull it off... right? So off we go.
  
  Gameplay- Takes a little while to get used to, control scheme is well put together. A small bit 
 repetetive, but it's not linear so it's fun. Online is a huge bonus.
  
  Graphics- Could be better, but it's not what the game is about anyways. Nothing to be disappointed 
 with.
  
  Sound- Good ambient and sword clashing noises and such. I don't really pay attention to that anyways. 
 Oh, and the LOTR music is of course good.
  
  Value- I was skeptical if i wanted to buy it or not. I'm glad i bought it as of right now, and 
 i don't buy too many games. Lots of stuff to do, online adds a considerable amount of value.
  
  Tilt- A good, different game for the 360! Not a shooter or sports game; count me in!!!
  
 
  
  Note: One thing that is a little annoying, at least at first. It is sometimes easy to get disoriented. 
 You'll work that out. 
  
  I'm not too far into the game, but i also noticed i feel like there's a ceiling pushing my head 
 down and i can't zoom out far enough. NOthing to keep you from buying the game, but a little reason 
 why it's not a 9/10. Overall a good game you should at least rent. I know i was ready for a change. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blckflcn7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a RTS game before, but I always wanted to. The reason I couldn't is because 
 I couldn't put games on my PC because of the computer with had. So I had to wait for a game to 
 come out....... I wasn't disappointed.
  
  Graphics - Great. It could have done better, but it is pretty good. The shadows are choppy, but 
 that doesn't effect any of the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay - Great. It does lag sometimes when there are a ton of units on the screen, but what game 
 doesn't? Also, the controls did transition smoothly and made for a great control setup.
  
  Sound - Amazing. You can hear everyone talking (heros, enemys, etc.) and understand them. You hear 
 clinks and clashes of the swords and hear swooshs of the bows. You hear screechs and roars from 
 your creatures.
  
  Value - Great. You can play both sides of the campaign (good and evil) and you can play several 
 different vs battles. Online is pretty fun, though right now since the game is fairly new, not 
 many people are online. That will change after this game is out for another couple of weeks.
  
  Overall, its great. This is THE RTS game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I never thought that a RTS would handle so well on a console! The controle scheme is 
 near perfection. The gameplay douse lag a little during massive battles but I hardly ever noticed. 
 The massiveness of the battles is the thing that makes this game so fun, watching giant units throw 
 rocks or smaller units while elfs are shooting arrows at enimy troops and heroes are using battle 
 cries. Its just so fun. 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are breathtaking... when scrolled out, they look really good from a far, 
 but up close they look a little bland. Also the shadows need Anti Aliasing pretty bad. But overall 
 pretty good graphics. 8
  
  Sound: The sound swords clashing, arrows wizzing by, explosions, screaming units, its all very 
 well done. The music is suberb, it fits very well with the time and battles. 9
  
  Value: This game is just so fun, I can easily see myself playing this for months. 10
  
  Tilt: 
 THE best RTS on the consoles. if your new to RTS and dont have a good PC to play the Age of Series 
 or BFME on PC then this game is a must have. 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyHairedGamer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I havent reviewed a game in a while. That is largely because I was sucked into that great big 
 abyss called World of Warcraft.
  
  But I didnt want to miss out on the first true RTS released for the Xbox 360. Ive always wondered 
 what it would be like to sit in my easy chair, kicked back, relaxed, not in front of my PC and 
 play an RTS game. Well the wait is over and here is my easy chair review. :)
  
  Difficulty (Hard) : I rated this as hard only because RTS is new to the console and learning the 
 controller layout is not the same as learning it for a new FPS genre game. Other then that the 
 game difficulty is just right and a great first time RTS game for anyone to learn from.
  
  Learning Curve (30-60 minutes) : Again this is primarily because of the controller and PLEASE dont 
 let that scare you away from the game. It really is nicely laid out and easy to learn.
  
  Time Spent Playing to Date (10-20 hours) : Plenty of time for me to decide whether I like the game 
 or not!
  
  Classification (Revolutionary) : No doubt about it in my mind. The first RTS to make it to console 
 and it is not a disappointment.
  
  GamePlay (9) : I buy games on gameplay alone and not graphics or sound. Sound strange? Well consider 
 games like Zork, Galaga, PacMan, etc. No the graphics and sound werent revolutionary for their 
 time but the gameplay has way outlasted the graphics. This game has great gameplay that will last 
 a long time. It was the cornerstone of my purchase decision and if you love games that deliver 
 both great single-player and multi-player experiences then this game is for you.
  
  Graphics (6) : I have an HDTV the quality of the shadows and other effects leave something to be 
 desired. Shadows are very jagged and when you move the shadows cast by the trees seem to struggle 
 to keep up with the movement. That leads me into the real graphics issue that I hard to get around 
 and most everyone has mentioned, frame rate issues. When the screen is densely populated with graphics 
 the frame rate dips rather low and the screen will stutter. On a PC game it would be change your 
 resolution, buy a new video card or lower the amount of graphics being shown. Someone else said 
 this earlier and I will echo it there is no excuse for this on a console game where you have a 
 standard hardware configuration and know what you are dealing with. Hence the reasons for my low 
 score here. BTW, I tried this on a 36 SDTV to me you need HDTV to see everything correctly.
 
  
  Sounds (9) : I believe the sound is superb. I love the music in the background and the voice acting 
 is very nice. Not much more to say about sound.
  
  Value (9) : 360 games have been slow to be released and there have been, in my opinion, a lot of 
 stinkers. This game is well worth the money. It has longevity in both the single-player and multi-player 
 games. I honestly believe that this games success or failure will determine whether other companies 
 attempt to produce RTS games for the console. Thanks to EA for getting it right the first time.
 
  
  Reviewers Tilt (10) : I love LOTR so seeing that it has turned out to be a great game on top of 
 a LOTR game has really made me happy. Being an RTS on the console and leaving me in my easy chair 
 to enjoy the game is even better yet! 
  
  Should YOU buy it? I would say if you like RTS, or are a LOTR fan, or you want something different 
 then shoot whatever moves games then this is a great breath of fresh air to the console and yes 
 I would recommend buying it. 
  
  This game is definitely one of the better games for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lexidog
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Amazing! With the Soudtrack from the film and top notch RTS Graphics, this game is a must own game 
 for the 360. Every now and again you get some lag but other than that its good. You can play Every 
 BAttle you see in the movies and tons more. It hard to explain everything in this game so just 
 buy it. This is the first RTS I really played and like,, ive never like RTS games untill now so 
 if this sounds like you get it and pwn some noobs. This game is in the top 3 beest games for the 
 xbox 360, along with GRAW and Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artorius
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 9, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I was anxiously awaiting the release of LOTR Middle earth ii for the Xbox360 because I love RTS 
 style games, and I was hoping that EA would be able to bring the genre to the console market.
 
  Well I am here to tell you that they did it! The control scheme is very intuitive, there is alot 
 of depth in the gameplay, tons of multiplayer options, and smart usuage of the acheivements for 
 a change is a nice bonus, and of course the graphics are great, albeit the shadows are somewhat 
 low res.
  If you were on the fence about this game I am here to tell you buy it, you won't regret it.
  
 Back to slaying some Orcs!!
  Artorius 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crxhybrid85
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  I had my doubts about how good an RTS would be on a console but EA made the transition and did 
 it very well. Controls are easy to learn and the graphics are great.
  I went through the first tutorial in about 20 min and it does a good job of teaching the game.
 
  Only problem I've had so far is it seems to lag when big battles happen. Can't imagine the console 
 can't handle it so I'm hoping they release a patch to fix it because it happens often.
  This is during the single player mode, haven't tried online yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zidura
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I played LOTR on PC for a good couple years and played the sequel a bit. I was excited to have 
 the opportunity to try this game out on the console with XBOX live. 
  
  The controls, the most important factor here, are surprisingly easy. I still have to admit, though, 
 the keyboard and mouse is just more intuitive. I think it would have been a good idea to bundle 
 this with some kind of cordless keyboard / mouse deal with the 360 and make it work with these 
 functions. Of course, that would make it a lot more expensive and more of a niche product, so I 
 can see why they didn't do that.
  
  The graphics exhibit a good level of detail and only look a little less impressive when you're 
 zoomed right up close to units, which isn't practical anyways. Even on the fastest PC these units 
 still look blocky because they're only constructed from a limited number of polygons. This makes 
 it possible to have so many on the screen at once in large battles.
  
  Any of the complaints people make regarding framiness, stuttering, or jittery shadows are all problems 
 that are not unique to the console version of this game. Think about it, the 360 really is a juiced 
 up PC with a stripped down OS, so it's bound to have similar bugs as the PC version of the game. 
 It runs as well as it runs on a high end PC with a GIG of RAM and a $400 video card (give or take 
 a frame here or there) . So don't blame that on the 360's processing power.
  
  I did notice slightly better performance and better looking shadows when I set 360 to 720p instead 
 of the usual 1080i that I use for most games. Try it, you might find it looks a little better.
 
  
  For a console RTS, this game completely obliterates any previous bar that had been set for console 
 RTS games. If you've never played an RTS before, this would be the game to try it out on. And XBOX 
 live means you'll always have someone to play against. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gagongpinoy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this game has good graphics, great sound, good control (to some) and gameplay is also 
 great.
  
  Graphics is mostly the same as the one in the computer, but with the HD it is slightly better with 
 the lighting. The game (mostly in the tutorial) had some minor problems with the frame rate, but 
 not a big deal and will not interfere with the managing of your army. I thought that I would encounter 
 more problems in some of the missions but saw little to none, but we all have to admit that it 
 is the first RTS for this console and expect to see some problems, also remember that this is only 
 the beggining of many RTS to come in this console. I appreciate the efforts made made by EA for 
 this game.
  
  The control to some people hard to comprehend with. If you have played or use to the comp version, 
 you maybe aching for the mouse and keyboard. But if you have'nt played with the comp version or 
 you are use to multi task on consoles with the controller (GRAW for ex.) then you will like the 
 inovative control scheme. 
  
  Some will be dissapointed (mainly people who plays comp ver) because of the lack of some features 
 left behind, but not me though, i find this game as a well structured and developed game for a 
 lot of different gamers.
  
  Overall, This game has pros and cons, but the quality of this game is awesome. For those who have 
 not played the console ver, but have played the comp ver. i suggest renting this to see if it is 
 the game for you. But if some are like me with a crap comp that cant support this game i suggest 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaFalconX15
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  When I bought the game i wasn't too sure what to expect. I thought might have another crash and 
 burn port like some of the RTS ports on the PS1. To my suprise however, this game was rather entertaining 
 and I'm having quite a time playing. There are a couple spots where you might have to bear with 
 the game but nothing really major.
  The graphics remain the same kind that you would see on your PC. You can zoom and rather close 
 to your units and watch the battle happen in front of you as if you were standing there, fighting 
 off an Urkai invasion. It's not like when you in all the way these models wil get distorted. You 
 get a pretty good look at these guys and it looks rather nice. The Buildings look sweet and most 
 of the destruction looks rather good too. Also how the story scenes meld right into the real time 
 graphics of the game is a real nice affect too.
  Performance is where I have a bone to pick. The game seems to run alright until you get some kind 
 of flying unit on screen or make some kind of huge army for a siege. The Frame Rate tends to slow 
 down and you really can't get the full affects of the battle though, its not really horrible to 
 the point where its unbearable, it can be alittle annoying however. Otherwise the game runs rather 
 well.
  The Gameplay is good but your going to have to get used to that darned control stick on the controller. 
 It's not like I hate it or anything, but it's alittle tricky moving the camera around at first. 
 Nothing you can't get used to though. The game fits pretty good difficulty wise because you play 
 easy mode for your first time around or you can do hard mode for you seasoned veterans out there 
 too. For you guys who think that will be too easy or too hard..... there's a medium too..... everyone's 
 happy! if you still can't get the hang of it, there's tutorials as well. I think the gameplay is 
 really solid for a port. Especially one from a PC.
  The Sound i think is really great, you have all the music from The Lord of The Rings movies you've 
 come to love as well as some good space fillers for transitions. None of the noises sound unrealistic 
 and i gotta say they did a rather good job on the characters as well. Aragorn really sound like 
 himself from the movie. All the clinkin and clanking of the swords sounds great too if you want 
 to get every little thing in. Overall it sounds great.
  I think the game will have you coming back for awhile because of the Online Gameplay which has 
 no real considerable lag. You also get A Good Campaign and a Bad Campaign to completed both yielding 
 certain amounts of gamer points. Of course the achievements will keep ya hooked on for awhile as 
 well!
  This is a definite buy if you need a good RTS and your computer cant make the grade and at the 
 least rent it......... it's good for passing the time! You definitly won't be disapointed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The lord of the rings franchise is one that will always bring in big bucks and high numbers, and 
 this game delivers with authority for everyone, from the movie buff to the video-gamer, all aspects 
 are covered! It is one of the few games that is worth the high & gouging prices we pay. The single 
 player campaign is excellent (and Im still playing) , from the small things you would expect in 
 RTS games to the in-depth extras EA decided to throw into the game. Just as in the PC version (s) 
 you can play both good and evil campaigns bringing the full dual movie-esque quality to both 
 ends of the spectrum. There was one thing I was worried about, that I thought they might leave 
 out (to either save money, or space, or just plain didnt wanna bother) but they didnt even the 
 skirmishes are available in full RTS glory, making the game replay value skyrocket [especially 
 for a console based RTS] 
  The multiplayer is wikked awesome, bringing everything you wanted into the Frey. The online multiplayer 
 modes (**except Hero vs. Hero  also Part of the single player non-shallow unlockables through-out 
 the game) are the usual suspects, but that alone is what we all asked for. EA Did make the extra 
 effort in many areas of the game both single & multiplayer that make this game more than just 
 a rental and worth the $$$ to add it to your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJRiley
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  For many years I've been watching people play RTS on PC and was always curious about it but never 
 really played one. The Strategic portion of this genre interested me more than anything but building 
 your own cities and armies could not hurt the recipe. Many tried in the past in consoles with poor 
 results and finally today we can say, "Welcome" to RTS Console playing. 
  
  BFME is indeed a great game. The sole fact that is a new genre stepping over a field overpopulated 
 with FPS and Sims of all sorts, brings gamers a wave of fresh air and it does it very well. The 
 Tutorials even when vary basic is a great way to brake the Ice for those of us not familiar with 
 the genre. Once one ventures to play either campaign or a skirmish game the whole idea grows on 
 you gradually and the sense of satisfaction and reward increasingly embraces you as you learn to 
 dominate terrains, build better armies, gather more resources and most important learning to use 
 the Palantir (or the HUD) . 
  
  Indeed the game takes a bit of framerate suffering here and there but is never slow enough that 
 it'll make you lose your immersion or interest on any given match. Thru the Options you can also 
 lower the Scroll Speed and Cursor Magnetism which I found incredibly helpful to smooth out the 
 ride. The Graphics are not GRAW but definitely not PS2 quality either; it is after all a PC port; 
 and it does what it does beautifully. Sometimes amazing to the eyes. The Sound is just the icing 
 to a great cake... epic and never overwhelming; the voices funny and varied depending on the match. 
 
  
  The first matches I played were some of the most entertaining moments I've had in a long time with 
 a game. After learning the use of Powers, Heroes, Bookmarks and some other RTS technicallities... 
 lol I had to restart the campaigns to find a deeper sense of control, immersion and reward. You'll 
 be challenge to think quick and act at flash speed while some other times you just need to relax, 
 enjoy the atmosphere and work towards the prosperity of your units. 
  
  Skirmish against the AI is a --get ready school for online playing. Make sure you pick two players 
 on the Skirmish main lobby. 
  
  All and all, BFME is a great way to welcome the RTS genre to console gamers and a great experience 
 that like good wine gets better with time... 
  
  Great job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SailorAide
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  General usage of the controls is very simplified. I was able to get the hang of it pretty quickly. 
 The gameplay is fast and the game looks and sounds fantastic. The core gameplay has not changed. 
 This was a near perfect port in that department. And hey, actually playing an awesome RTS on a 
 console is just fun!
  
  However, it can become difficult to manage anything less than an army. Selecting a single hero 
 requires zooming in most of the time. Also, trying to fight a battle on multiple fronts or flank 
 an enemy can be a real pain due to the fact there is no easy way to quickly switch your view from 
 one army to the next to your base. You can do this to some extent using the "Y" button, but it 
 is by no means as helpful as clicking on a mini-map in the PC version would be. I've also experienced 
 some annoying lag. It hasn't affected my battles yet, but getting lag in the first two single-player 
 missions worries me since I know that my armies will only grow.
  
  All in all, this is a solid port and just as most of the reviews have mentioned it is truly the 
 best RTS we've seen on a console. But despite the fact that I am a lifelong Tolkien/LotR fanatic, 
 I cannot say this is what I'd hoped it would be. For my play style, multiplayer games are going 
 to be extremely difficult due to lack of ability to micro-manage. If you're a rusher you should 
 have no problem, but when it comes to tactics don't expect a lot of maneuverability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fisticuffs
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I am a RTS vet. Love RTS games more then any other kind. So when I decided to give up on PC gaming 
 and go totally with consoles this was my only real sacrifice. I am very happy EA has decided to 
 release LOTR Battle for Middle Earth on the 360 and I think they did a great job.
  The graphics are very good except for some slow down in the frame rate here and there. Quite frankly 
 I think that is almost unforgivable since this game is for a system that works exactly the same 
 for everybody. Still the slow down is not all that often nor does it hurt the gane play. But if 
 slow down is the price we have to pay for good graphics (but I still dont think its an excuse) 
 then it might have been a price worth paying. There are some great visuals and you very often see 
 brand new things that blow you away. I LOVE watching the ents move. I wish they would have given 
 you even more camera control tho', like with the PC game warrior kings, where you could zoom in 
 so close you could look at someones shoes or out so far you were looking through the clouds. But 
 that is more of a personal taste issue than any thing else.
  Control works well enough. True it isn't as perfect as a mouse but it doesn't have to be. If EA 
 was using this game as a test for controls and to see if console gamers liked RTS ganes enough 
 to buy them, I hope they will feel good enough to release others- I WANT C&C Generals on my 360 
 please. I don't mind the controls much at all and got used to them pretty quick. The only thing 
 I miss right now is being able to click on the map with the mouse and have instant travel, but 
 they have supplied an option even for that which I have just not quite got used to. I still wish 
 they would have used the left button drag and select option westwood used on Red Alert 2 for the 
 ps2. I thought that worked very well myself.
  This game is a LOT of fun to play and pretty challenging as far as rts games go. The units are 
 balanced well and even the single player is a lot of fun, which susprises me because usually in 
 rts games I just stick with skirmishes. BTW there are some nice Skirmish maps as well.
  The Xbox live service seems made for this and there are some creative gametypes. Multiplayer worls 
 better now than it even did on the PC and adds some extra value to the already good package of 
 the single player game and the skirmish mode. I also am susprised that I love the hero units in 
 this game. I usually don't. But I seem to have great fun in keeping them alive and running the 
 show.
  In short go buy this gamje. There is nothing like it on the 360. If you are a long time fan of 
 RTS games here is a chance to play one with well thought out gamer points on your 360 on your nice 
 LCD tv and if you are new to RTS games LOTRBFME is a great and easy place to jump into the mix. 
 I am very happy with my purchase.
  UPDATED:
  After a lot more playing and many hours and skirmish matches later I had to rate this game even 
 higher than I did before. I have devloped a higher taste for the graphics and the gameplay. The 
 framerate problems I mentioned are very rare and I see that much more now. Also as far as gameplay- 
 I am starting to think this is one of the greatest and most challenging RTS games ever. It gets 
 better and better every time I play it. The graphics are breathtaking!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  I loved this game when it came out on PC, and i was pretty skeptical about this when i heard it 
 was gonna be ported to 360, and i have to say my worries where with good reason after playing this. 
 The graphics matched up to the pc version no surprise there although it was a little sluggish in 
 frames which kinda surprished me coming from a "Next gen system" Besides that i found online to 
 work nicely on xbox live. My main problem came from the controls in this game, i am sorry but RTS 
 games work better with a mouse and keyboard just moving around the map and selecting units felt 
 like a freaking pain in the a$$ choir compared to the PC counterpart. if ya can play this game 
 on PC, if ya cant afford a good PC which is pretty much every Xbox owner get it on 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genocide1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  If you're an RTS fan, this is a great addition to your 360 library. 
  
  Graphics: They're decent. They do the job. When zoomed in the characters and units do look at little 
 blocky.
  
  Gameplay: Classic RTS. Controls are still difficult as it is a console RTS. They did a good job 
 and made single units into small battalions of about 10 units, all controlled as one. This makes 
 it easier to move your men, but causes some problems. It is very difficult to get certain units 
 doing certain things all on teh same screen in a timely fashion. Practice makes perfect, and you'll 
 need fast hands to keep all your forces occupied if you aren't having them all attack the same 
 thing.
  
  Sound: Just fine.
  
  Value: Maybe not worth $60. $50 dollars would have been a little better suited.
  
  So give 
 it a try if you're sceptical. But if you're an RTS fan, or a Lord of the RIngs fan, check it out. 
 They did a great job at redifining console RTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uziel126
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? The game is good, but it is outdone by the PC version. Confusing controls, view 
 and a slightly long time to load make for a bad game. Thankfully, the game's storyline and mission 
 design are excellent, and make up for the defects in the game. The campaign missions are good, 
 but if the PC has all that, and does it better... Get the PC version if you want to enjoy the game 
 better.
  That being said, If you have an XBOX360 and a lousy computer, get this game. However, you'll find 
 yourself switching to other games quickly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  After playing the pc demo i decided to pick this game up. The single player was great from the 
 first few missions i did, then i wanted to play online, being one of the more important reasons 
 why i got the game. I'm not sure if im just really bad, or if everyone that plays this game is a 
 freak. Even when i think im doing good online, just a few seconds later im hammered by my opponents 
 army. This is definatly not a game for noobs, or anyone that isnt a super rts fan, being this is 
 my first rts game could be the reason why im loosing. A lot of people seem to play the versus mode 
 online instead of the other 4 modes which i wanted to play a lot more. Anytime i searched for a 
 game i only found a versus mode which i get pwned in everytime. The graffics are nice from the 
 far distance but close up arnt to detailed which is to be expected. For an rts on a console it 
 feels really good, i picked up the game and went through the basic tutorial and have things down 
 pretty good. Sound is good, but i could care less about it. If you rent this game, you probably 
 wont be able to get all it has to offer if you keep it for a short time, but if you but it and 
 get the hang of things, this will be a game for you. The game has a nice online community, and 
 will probably keep growing. And again. this game is not for noobs or people who are not willing 
 to keep playing over and over 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contaminated
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  RTS is starting to die off on PC and are non-existent on consoles however lately there have been 
 some nice RTS games coming out for PC recently but the Console RTS market is still quite non-existent. 
 However this game changes that and it does it right. The interface is easy but takes a bit to learn 
 so theres a tutorial mode to help you out. Once you have it down the game plays well and smooth 
 and you will be assembling the masses in no time. The graphics ain't so hot on a standard TV but 
 its managable and you won't care much for it once you can see units being flown across the board 
 by mountain giants. The multiplayer is solid and very fun it has 5 game modes all of which are 
 fun and creative although they are based on traditional modes. Multiplayer would be better if they 
 had a map editor so you can create your own maps and game types. The achievment points arnt many 
 but you shouldnt obcess over it for its about the game itself. The soundtrack from the game also 
 fits correctly in the game especially when it is about your current situation you will hear a victorious 
 song as you raid the enemy base or a more sad song as you are getting attack. This game the first 
 great RTS to come on consoles and shows all the devs out there that strategy games can be done 
 on consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is a godd adaptaion to how RTS should be on the console, but until now they have been 
 terrible but this one changes everything. The gameplay is awesome and it makes you nervous when 
 you are in battle and under attack, or makes you in agony as you your fortress is destroyed. I 
 the graphics are not the best but are still good. The sound was great with the voices of the real 
 actors and giving it a real feeling that you are there. The game does have some faults like not 
 being able to build your own maps or your own hero but the creating hero got annoying because it 
 was to powerful. Although the multiplayer is amazing and the more people you have the better and 
 also being able to taunt your enemy with your own voice and not a typed message. If you are a fan 
 of the lord of the rings and RTS you will enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: map1273
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Good: Pretty easy to figure out for the most part. Easier than the pc game. Excellent music straight 
 from the movies. environmental graphics are excellent. Good for beginning RTS players. All in all 
 just plain fun.
  Bad: Poor frame rate at times . Some of the character gaphics aren't great. I wish you could zoom 
 in closer for more detail. Can get a bit overwhelming when the battles get hectic.
  I have tried other RTS games on the pc and I never could really play them because they were too 
 hard, but even though I haven' figured everything out yet 
  this ones not too bad so far. I recommend anyone not sure about RTS to give this one a try. If 
 you don't want to shell out the money than rent it first. I think you'll be pleasntly surprised, 
 I was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJC36091
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 7, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge LOTR fan so i do enjoy this game alot. The graphics are not what you would expect from 
 a 360 game but then again it is a RTS. The single player campaign is great but i havent played 
 multiplayer yet so i wouldn't know how it is. The only negative thing i have to say is sometimes 
 there are slowdowns and it kinda gets in the way of the gameplay. But other than that this is a 
 satisfying game to play. If you are a LOTR fan you should definetly get this game. It was worth 
 my time and $$ and will be worth yours. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firestorm10
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  When I picked this game up yesterday, I wasn't sure exactly what to expect in terms of gameplay 
 and controls, since I was kind of skeptical about how well the controls would function on a console. 
 But it seems my fears were incorrect. EA did an excellent job of making the controls fit a console. 
 Sure, there are a couple things I wish they'd have done better, but overall, a very nice job. The 
 gameplay is standard RTS: build a base, raise an army, and alternately attack the enemy base and 
 defend yours.
  
  The graphics on this game are great. Watching a dragon shoot a fireball at my troops and send them 
 several feet in the air, only to crash into the ground again is nice.
  
  The music in this game fits The Lord of the Rings perfectly, and the sound of arrows whizzing by 
 and steel clashing are well done.
  
  I can see myself playing this game for a long time, with 2 sides of the campaign, a load of single-player 
 skirmish maps, and online support, this game should still be very playable for a long time.
  
  Overall, an excellent game, and a great first attempt at an RTS on a console. If you like RTS's, 
 pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKiZONMaHiZo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I just went out this morning and picked up a copy of Lord of the Rings: Battle for middle earth 
 II, just because I'm a big Lord of the Rings fan. I was very skeptical about having a RTS on a 
 console, because in order to have a good RTS you need a mouse in keyboard hands down. How can a 
 console controller replace everything I needed. Well EA pulled it off with a very easy navigation 
 interface along with some very well thought out button layout. I will admit there are a few times 
 where I found somethings frustrating, but I think more of that will come when I can figure out 
 more strategy involved. With strategy in mind, the online aspect of the game is so far incredible. 
 It reminds me a little of WarCraft III on the PC. Especially when the hero v. hero mode comes into 
 play. 
  Overall I am glad a RTS can finally do well on a console and if it only gets better I would like 
 to see more RTS on console especially because of LIVE support. I've always wanted a game that had 
 the action of WarCraft III with the base building of an Age of Empires game, and I believe this 
 might be the game I've been looking for and the fact that it is on 360 makes it all the sweeter.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 08willej
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, with the replay value higher then any game i have ever played. The graphics 
 are stunning and the effects of when a troll falls back when slayed and falls on men killing them. 
 The Hero aspect is really cool, unlock heros for beating the campaign and use them online. All 
 the factions are different and very unique, my favorite prolly being the orcs or isengard. The 
 maps for the skirmish or online play are done extremely well, and there are many to play on. Online 
 mode never lags and the framerate is never bad which still amazes me. There is only 2 things i 
 don't like about this game one: after the game you can't return to the lobby 2: I wish there was 
 8 player online. 
  
  Overall this game is a extremely well done RTS for the counsil, this game is seriously one of the 
 best games i've ever played and any RTS fan (who is not a comp. troll) will be extremely impressed 
 with this game. This is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazygamer01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  This games is definatly the game that is going to make RTS games famous on consoles. I mean its 
 fun, exciting, and has great mutiplayer. The creaters of it obviously spent a lot of time working 
 on this game but they probably could have touched up the graphics a little more. This game obviously 
 proves that RTS games can be done well for consoles. I thought it was great because I have 3 computers 
 and they all are full of RTS games and now i can finally play a GOOD one on consoles. I LOVE IT! 
 WOOT WOOT! GO GET IT!!! 
  
  P. S= if gamespot rates this lower then an 9.0 dont listen to them at all! its worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madroxcide
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  After checking out some online sites about the game it started noticing it getting good scores 
 but i was mainly worried how an RTS would work on the 360 because i didn't really want the pc version. 
 I have always played RTS on pc so not having a mouse i felt it would be a little bit weird, and 
 it was at first. Once you go through the tutorials which there are only 2 you have it down. This 
 is a clever game on how you control everything since you are restricted to a controller.
  
  The single player experience is pretty good too. I keep seeing people say its short well i don't 
 believe it is, you can choose to go with the good or evil side and there are bonus objectives to 
 get which can be a challenge. Of course thats not all, you can make matches against a cpu opponent 
 and there are different game modes and of course where most rts games go is online. 
  
  One thing i absolutely love about this game are the sounds. From the clanging of steel in fights 
 to just hearing the roar of the units as they go fight. It almost makes me want to stand up and 
 yell out CHARGE! Anyways the sounds are one thing i really enjoy about the game. 
  
  I felt the graphics to be pretty good for what the game is. Sometimes there is just a bit of slowdown 
 but even during that slowdown its not unplayable its just because there are 100s of units on screen 
 fighting.
  
  I believe the only gripe i have is you should be able to zoom out more so you can see more. You 
 can zoom in and out some but sometimes i get lost a bit because i am used to a view that is farther 
 out but thats just me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingchunstudent
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of LOTR or a fan of RTS games then you'll probably get this game when it comes 
 out. 
  
  There are six different factions to play in this game and each one boasts their own set of strengths 
 and weaknesses. Every faction has powerful backup characters in the form of Heros and Siege Weapons. 
 These include characters from the LOTR trilogy from Gloin the father of Gimli to Shelob the Queen 
 of the Spiders. There are War Machines such as Battle Wagons and Trebuchets to employ depending 
 on the faction that you play. After a few hours of gaming I find it hard to put down, and with 
 2 complete campaigns to play through plus online multiplayer, this game will be in my console for 
 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groovus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  First off.... Kudos to Louis Castle and his team for this incredible job on making a RTS work on 
 a console. Beautiful work.
  
  I'll cut to the chase, and describe the important features. This is coming from a 15+ year PC gamer 
 BTW.
  
  CONTROLS::: Awesome. This game just feels "fun" playing with the 360 controller. The sticks do 
 a much better job of navigating around the battlefield opposed to a keyboard and mouse. Rotating 
 the camera, zooming, etc, it feels and plays great. If your a veteran of RTS's, and are adept at 
 FPS's on the 360, you will get the hang of the control scheme very quickly. 
  
  FRAMERATE & GRAPHICS::: Beautiful graphics, period. The battlefields look incredible, immersive. 
 The shadows of the buildings, warriors, etc, look a little blocky, but no biggie. I would suggest 
 a High Def set up though... I haven't tried it on a 480i setup (normal T. V.) , but I would guess 
 it would not look this good at all, and the text would be blurred.
  The only time the framerate took a hit ( and it wasn't unplayable at all... it just slowed down 
 a bit ) was when there were a TON of armies on the screen. The 360 is a marvel at handling this 
 game. Normally there is alot of armies on the screen at a time battling, and there is no framerate 
 issues at all. It's only when there is a TON of them in a big battle. And still, it's very playable. 
 I would honestly say if this was a concern... it is not. 
  
  And finally..... it's just fun. The gameplay is a blast. I can't quite put my finger on it, but 
 just playing this RTS with a 360 controller feels fresh, innovative and something new. I hope more 
 RTS's are on the way.
  
  People bashing this game need to disassociate themselves from the PC version and admit this was 
 a great port and a awesome job of making a RTS work on a console. Or maybe it's jaded PC gamers 
 who feel consoles are invading the RTS genre that previous consoles couldn't handle. The fact of 
 the matter is..... this was a incredible job at bringing the RTS genre to the console market.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertFox702
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:32 am PT
Review:  The Second time around with The Battle for middle earth on xbox 360 was original enough that it 
 didn't feel like a pc Port. The extra book content EALA acquired satisfies your inner ringer, and 
 is an experience you should not miss, if your a Tolkien fan. The presentation during the campaign 
 felt very story book like, with Hugo Weaving telling you the drama story during the campaign with 
 cutscenes into game-play makes it seem like this is what a book to game translation should feel 
 like in an RTS. 
  And Speaking RTS wise this feels like a point and slash were flanking and sneaking up on an enemy 
 isn't nearly as important as big numbers. Becuase playing through the game just having a mid sized 
 army with 2 or 3 heroes you can pretty much beat any mission in no time. but its a lot of fun running 
 around with all the diffrent units and ordering them to attack enemies on the map. Although on 
 a lurning curve for 360 owners who have never played an RTS, the battle for middle earth 2 can 
 really kick you where it hurts since the experience is brand new to next-gen counsles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larskaos
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  The best thing about Middle-earth II is proving that RTS is perfectly adaptable to consoles. Easy 
 and intuitive to control, and not once did I miss the mouse. 
  
  As a single player game Middle-earth II is a very big let down. Visually the game is very nice, 
 but with a few problems regarding frame rate with many troops on the battle field. But regarding 
 to game play Middle-earth II is nearly completely without challenges. 
  
  There's only one strategy you need to know. Build a base. Defend it while maximising the buildings. 
 Build a great army. Go to battle. Repeat if necessary. And that is it. So simple and simply said: 
 Boring!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenSr
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  got home and on the 360 at 2:45pm with LOTR II. The first couple of hours I was frustrated, because 
 of using the controller instead of the keyboard, hopes of a larger map, and it just seemed so off 
 !
  Well first off I'm not to much of an RTS fan, I'm a FPS! I only gotten into it a couple of years 
 back because of my oldest son Mike always pushing it on me, wel it worked and I got into Command 
 & Conquer. Really like the series, have to think thngs out, not my run around shoot'm up stuff 
 I usually play. I'm a big chess player also so this is probably why the RTS games interest me. 
 
  So when I played the demo of LOTR Battle to Middle Earth II on pc from Game Spot. I thought right 
 away this would be so cool on the 360. Well the first couple of hours were kind of tough trying 
 to figure things out! I was thinking I made another big mistake in picking a game again. how ever 
 after about 8.5 hours I'm figuring it might bre OK! II Not great, but OK, still have some things 
 to figure out to get a better type of game play, but like most new games I've bought it would take 
 me awhile to figure the stuff out, but I still feel that the map it's self could of been bigger, 
 moving around from one point to another , keeping up with your troops is a pain it's like I loose 
 them for awhile, which isn't cool during battle, some lag when alot of things are happening and 
 my controler started to freak out vibrating like crazy and didn't stop til I completed the campaign. 
 Yes there's somethings that need to be worked out here, then again maybe it's just me and my expectations 
 of spending over $60.00 for a game! 
  Well I don't think this game is going to get off to a good start, with the relearning of playing 
 an RTS and that Prey will be out Monday which I'"m also getting. I know both are to totally different 
 type of games, but I have to admit I was able to catch on to Prey alot quicker than LOTR. I'm not 
 going to stop playing LOTR II, No, it'll be there for me for a change of pace, I do think it's 
 pretty cool, just not what I hoped it to be, and LOTR II is a game that you always try to beat 
 your self , trying to figure different ways to beat the enemy, and the out come can be different. 
 So I'll still have fun with it and who knows maybe in a week there be an update for a keyboard 
 mode, which would be nice and make me real happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blade1205
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is very well made and IMO is the best RTS to date. There are two campaigns (evil and 
 good) which consist of 8 missions each these missions are very well done and show some of the backstory 
 for the movies. Heros are used in the game which range from some of the well known characters from 
 the film (Frodo and Legolas) to some more obscure characters from the book, this hero system is 
 very similar to Warcraft 3 and works well in the game. However the real meat of this game is its 
 increadible multiplayer which is very fun and addicting. Buy this game now you wont be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ppickeri
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Admittedly I have only played the tutorial and one single player mission in the "Good" campaign. 
 However, my first impressions are somewhat disappointing. 
  
  I played the PC demo version of LOTR and was quite impressed. My biggest concern before purchasing 
 the console version was the control scheme. Sure, mouse and keyboard are going to be superior to 
 a controller. However, the controller is still too clunky to have a smooth RTS experience. Some 
 of the key elements of the game are buried in sub-menus which are difficult to get to at a moments 
 notice (like book-marked battalions) . Selecting larger objects (buildings, battalions, etc) is 
 a snap... but smaller objects such as heroes can be frustrating.
  
  The sound is not as good as I had hoped. LOTR has some of the most memorable music in recent history... but 
 somehow it is not immersive in this game.
  
  The graphics are also mediocre. It is difficult to tell archers from infantry unless you zoom all 
 the way in. I know on the PC version there were many new effects that were quite cool. One example 
 was a hero using a special power to knock down most of the troops in a battalion. While this effect 
 still exists, the mediocre detail prevents you from seeing it unless you zoom all the way in. It 
 is even difficult to tell your own troops from the enemy sometimes!
  
  Perhaps if you have not played the PC version this will be a good experience. Unfortunately, the 
 console version does not live up to my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roscoe19151
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  EA took a big leap buy doing this game.
  Not to many game developers were sucsessful when tring to bring an RTS to a consle. Think about 
 it, "Goblin war" (or what ever that lame ass game was called) and "Pigmen" come on man these games 
 suck. Thanks to EA I can play good RTS game with a nice control scheme. The online play is the best 
 part. Even though the PC version offered online play thers nothing like Xbox live. Im pretty shore 
 other game developers were waiting for this release to give the O. K...... so I say , Bring on the 
 RTS games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I have never played an RTS game. Ever. The reason I am providing you with this info right up front 
 is to show just how attracting and impressive BFME II really is. I heard about BFME II back in 
 January for the PC and thought about picking it up because I love LOTR, but I play consoles for 
 the most part, so I never bought it. But now it is on the 360 and has been hailed as a masterpiece 
 RTS on a console. I am proud to say it truly is. I can't see why RTS haven't been on consoles this 
 whole time because BFME plays so well. You have a very comprehensive, well developed control scheme 
 that makes everything feel controlled and very unlimited. You have easy access to a control menu 
 that has this certain feel of genius about it. You have a simple, easy to use way of selecting 
 troops, sending them off, and building resouces for your base. Truly, I have not felt limited once 
 by these controls.
  Now here are the specifics:
  Graphics: Good, but don't tap into the 360 Graphical power much. That is probably because they 
 wanted to use the CPU's for a stable frame rate though, but the cause is not what determines this 
 catagory. FACT: They do not use the 360's power as nearly as well as they could. 
  Gameplay: Genius and quite fun even though it is an RTS.
  Sound: Superb. A dream lineup for any 
 gamer that really hinges on the sound quality. 
  Value: Great because it's the only aewsome RTS on a console, only RTS period on 360, but cheaper 
 game for PC and War of the Ring mode is left out of 360 version.
  Buy or not to buy: Have it on PC, don't buy because you basically already have the game w/o spending 
 60 bones, otherwise, buy this baby!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of Real Time Stratagy games, my favorite being Star Craft. To this day, 
 I still play it online with my friends, and still have the same great time every time I do. Somewhat 
 on a whim, I bought this game after checking out some user reivews and based on the hype of it, 
 it payed off. LOTR: Battle for Middle Earth II is great, its a sure-fire win with anyone who enjoys 
 RTS type games, or Lord of the Rings in general. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good, for an Xbox 360 title they are pretty lacking but nothing horrible. 
 Its not the most graphical game I have ever seen, but still, its good enough for what it is. The 
 animations are great, you can zoom in and out to see the different battles taking place, which 
 is pretty cool. The sound really good also, you can hear the men charging the enemy, weapons clinging 
 against other metal and a final "yell" as they win the battle. All in all, EA did a fine job on 
 making it sound like your on the battlefield. The music of the game is what you would excpet, LOTR 
 music, thats about all. 
  
  There is a online multiplayer attached to this game, which I havn't gotten into because of the 
 EA servers being down for work, but as far as I know there are 5 different game types and up to 
 four people can play on any one map. The other modes of the game include the campaign, which is 
 "good and evil", so there are really two campaigns total to go through along with a nice "skrimage" 
 feature that alows you to have some instant action. 
  
  Something I forgot to mention, the controls. Surprisingly, they are very well designed. EA did 
 a very good job with this, its not just some "port" of the PC version, its an actual re-designed 
 layout for Xbox 360 itself. You use your right and left triggers and make your base, and create 
 your army, its easy to make and move. I tip my hat to you EA.
  
  Overall, LOTR: BFME II is a great and fun expenience. If you have an Xbox 360 and have some money 
 to blow, then this is the game for you. If not, but your still a fan of RTS or LOTR then buy it, 
 its worth your money and is a great time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChiefSUB0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  I just picked up the game today and for anyone waiting for a review, I'm here to just give you 
 some insight. The controls are perfect, perfect for a console RTS. I kid you not, they are actually 
 quite easy to use though there are a few hang ups at times. The graphics are well done considering 
 it is a PC port as well as an RTS but don't expect anything too dazzeling. The gameplay is of course 
 great, its an RTS. Basically Age of Empires LOTR style. The framerate can get hung up just a little 
 but fear not, the game is well done and the controls are far better than I would have hoped. While 
 they do take a little getting used to, I picked up on them right away. Double-Tapping A while holding 
 L to select all units very easily done. There is a great selection of races from Middle-Earth. 
 I've yet the chance to tap into the Xbox Live battles but overall, trust me on this one, the game 
 is well done for a ported RTS and anyone into RTSs should pick this one up. So far, 8.5/10, maybe 
 even a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Many of my friends who are not as fortunate as I too have a high powered rig to play PC games on 
 have been jealous of some of the great games I am able to play. One of them, being geeks that they 
 are, is the LOTR Middle Earth series. When we found out it was coming to the 360 we all had our 
 doubts having been burned on console RTS games before. Granted, there have been some decent original 
 RTS games on various consoles but never one of the true A++ titles. We watched the development 
 of the 360 version wondering if it would be severly dumbed down as is often the case with PC ports. 
 The control scheme also seemed circumspect. Now I have it in my hands and have to admit most of 
 the doubts have been put to rest... but not all.
  
  First, you may wonder why if I have this game on a PC would I want to play the 360 version. Well 
 there are three reasons:
  
  1) I am an achievement whore
  2) I can finally play with my friends who don't have those high powered rigs
  3) I want to support 
 sales so that other RTS games come to the 360 and PS3
  
  All good reasons to me.
  
  The gameplay is not dumbed down in the way Battlefield 2 was when it came to Xbox and 360 from 
 the PC. It seems that many publishers think that the console crowd has the attention span and skillz 
 of a gnat. LOTR: BFME II is even more complex because you cannot rely on nifty icons on the screen 
 to click on or shortcuts on the keyboard. However, most of the commands are intact including creating 
 battle formations on the fly which I never thought would make the cut. Granted, when the swords, 
 axes and arrows start flying you have to be quick on the controller and toggling through options 
 but no one can ever say the game is boring. You are constantly working on building up your fortress 
 with walls, towers and other adornments while you need to recruit your armies and gather resources. 
 All of this once you get the hang of the control scheme is right in your hand within easy access. 
 Controlling the camera is actually a lot better than with a mouse or arrow keys. EA has actually 
 pulled off the compexities of a true RTS without sacraficing much and this they deserve big kudos.
 
  
  However, as every hobbit knows, the dark eye of Sauron is always watching and this game is not 
 free from all evils. While its easy to get your armies together its not as always easy to get them 
 to go exactly where you want them to especially in the heat of battle. I am used to being able 
 to give a command to a unit and not have to babysit but I sometimes found the units staying put 
 where I left them instead of protecting my Inn from that big troll throwing rocks. They also do 
 not easily run when you want them to. At times, I had to keep on click on a spot to get them to 
 get a move on. They also are not always that bright but you can toggle their stance to try and 
 keep them from doing to many stupid things like a single unit running over to try and take Legolas 
 down on their own. Not going to happen.
  
  The single-player mode for better or for worse is fully intact as well. It really is a decent romp 
 through middle earth with nice acheivements to earn and has both good and evil campaigns. Multi-player 
 is just an awesome experience with lots of great modes that offer the more typical modes where 
 you build up your forces by gathering resources and also the quickies where you can just get down 
 to kicking butt. Where else can you finally see Gimli kicking Legolas's butt or vice versa.
  
  The graphics are surprisingly good and almost match those that are on my PC which it better 
 since the 360 is supposed to be more advanced that most PCs on the market. The environments looks 
 sharp whether you are zoomed in our out but the shadows are terribly pixelated to the point that 
 they would have probably been better just leaving them out. 
  
  Actually, maybe if they had forgotten about shadowing each character it would have stablized the 
 other problem with it which is the framerate. I cringed when I heard from previews that there were 
 problems with it staying at 30 frames per second. It almost made me consider giving this game a 
 pass. Fortunately, it is not nearly as bad as the doomsayers will have you believe. Yes, its there 
 at times when a lot of units are tearing each other apart but not the point that it is unplayable. 
 Plus, when the battles get that heavy you are probably just throwing as many units at each other 
 as you can and finese is not an a priority. 
  
  I would not even be surprised if they continued to try and fine tune gameplay with updates on Xbox 
 live as there was already an update issued today. Patches are now on reality on consoles so some 
 out of the box issues may not always be permanent ones.
  
  Yes, the game is not as smooth as it was on the PC but it is darn close. Whether or not you have 
 played it on PC being able to play it on Xbox live is a lot better. If you are new to the RTS genre 
 please go get this because it is a totally new game experience where planning and action go together 
 like peanut butter and chocolate. Its not going to be boring or going to be overly complicated 
 and I am sure you will find yourself hooked after your first online battle.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda450
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The controls work surprisingly well on the 360. Every command is easy to issue, and it 
 is easy to build buildings as well. The only difficult thing is creating hot keys (shortcuts for 
 your units) , which take to long to assign to truly be shortcuts.
  
  Graphics: The overall level of detail is amazing. Water effects in particular are amazing. However, 
 when zoomed in, the graphics are sort of ugly. I also noticed some slowdown, espescially at the 
 begining of levels.
  
  Sound: It's LOTR. What's not to love?
  
  Value: If you have always wanted to play an RTS on a console, then this is definitely worth $60. 
 If you are a PC man, skip it.
  
  Tilt: See sound.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legusto
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, I am a LOTR fanboy, but I've only played the Return of the King, and by far, this game 
 is much better
  
  RTSs have always been slow and boring to me, but this game is so fastpasted and fun and I almost 
 forget it's an RTS
  
  Graphics-Very stable and detailed for such vast environemtns, when zomed out it still looks pretty 
 good, but clsoeups could use some work
  
  Sound- As all LOTR games/movies it sounds amazing and draws u into the experience
  
  Value- 
 Being $60 may drive people away, but there are 4 new game modes and achievements to unlock, even 
 though there is only around 700 points to unlock
  
  Gameplay- awesome, easy to use and the balancing system is amazing, picture Rock, Paper, Scissors 
 with warriors
  
  Tilt-IT'S THE LOTR, BUY IT!
  
  Unless you have the PC version, but a must own for 360 owners, RTS fans, and fanboys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoiled_spanich
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  (yay 2nd review)
  this is a great sequel to the 1st game of the series and i highly recommend it to anyone who loves 
 RTS or simply looking for a good game.
  Overall this game have a few minor set backs but it's easily overlooked with many of it's fully 
 functional features.
  
  Features:
  the controlls are excellent, if you have a doubt about how the controll's gonna work, look online. 
 but they work perfectly.
  
  8 levels on good campiagn and 8 levels on bad campaign
  
  great story about what happend before the time of the movies
  
  After you finish the campaign 
 you can play skirmish mode. plus A. I. on unranked matches. and also since this is RTS there will 
 be no split screen.
  
  and i suggest you buy it. there are 3 bonus map on xbox live for 700 points. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
