-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Legend of Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/spyrodawnofthedragon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous visuals and a thrilling score create a vivid fantasy world.
 Convenient local co-op lets second player drop in or out at any time.
 Good variety of elemental powers at your disposal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is uninteresting and sometimes tedious.
 Unfocused level design can lead to aimless wandering.
 When playing solo, the AI-controlled teammate can sometimes get stuck.
 Control of the camera is too limited.
 Story borrows too much inspiration from elsewhere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.4, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 124 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Etranges Libellule
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lackluster gameplay makes this a disappointing conclusion to the Legend of Spyro series. 

  When he first debuted on the scene just over 10 years ago, Spyro the lovable purple dragon starred 
 in a series of truly excellent platformers on the original PlayStation. But oh, how the fire-breathing 
 have fallen. The first two entries in his current trilogy, The Legend of Spyro, have been marked 
 by mediocrity, and sadly, the conclusion follows suit. It's an unfocused, uninteresting game that, 
 despite its flying heroes, never manages to get off the ground.  

           You'll battle a massive fire-breathing balrog. Err... golem.      

  Picking up where 
 The Eternal Night left off, Dawn of the Dragon concludes the Legend of Spyro series with an extremely 
 run-of-the-mill tale of our purple hero, accompanied by nemesis-turned-ally Cynder, taking on the 
 Dark Master Malefor. It all makes for a typical wrap-up to a fantasy trilogy. Dawn of the Dragon 
 certainly looks like the climactic chapter of an epic fantasy trilogy, too, and not just any epic 
 fantasy trilogy. Specifically, it takes more than a little visual inspiration from the  Lord of 
 the Rings  films. This influence is frequent and undeniable, from the initial confrontation with 
 a massive fire-breathing demon of the deep, to a desperate battle against the siege towers of tremendous 
 armies from the ramparts of a pristine city, to the foray into a scorched land dominated by a volcano 
 above which the Dark Master resides. And as Spyro, Elijah Wood has some distinctly Frodo-esque 
 lines of dialogue. While not very original, the visual design, coupled with a gorgeous musical 
 score, is effective at creating the sense that the fate of the world hangs in the balance of Spyro's 
 struggle. Unfortunately, the gameplay falls well short of matching that level of excitement.  

 
  The combat in Dawn of the Dragon has you employing a combination of weak and strong melee attacks, 
 an assortment of elemental powers, and the ability to grab smaller enemies in your adorable little 
 jaws and thrash them around. You can also guard against attacks and perform a quick roll to evade 
 them. Despite this variety of moves at your disposal, the combat is never interesting. In the earlier 
 parts of the game, you'll often fight so many weak enemies at once that the screen becomes a cluster 
 of chaos, making it all but impossible to tell when an attack is incoming. Not that you need to 
 be defensive, though, since pure button mashing is enough to defeat these foes. Later on, you'll 
 frequently be waylaid by groups of larger, more powerful enemies. Much too frequently, in fact. 
 These enemies are dull and require no particular skill to defeat, but they can take a long time 
 to wear down, and they kill the game's momentum and make the last few chapters feel like an uphill 
 slog.  

  The few boss battles look monumental, but they're simple and unimaginative. You avoid the same 
 obvious patterns and exploit the same weaknesses over and over again. And worst of all, there are 
 some so-called elite enemies scattered throughout the game who are wickedly frustrating. When you 
 encounter one for the first time, you're given no clue how to defeat him, and initially, they may 
 seem downright impossible. Even when, through trial and error, you stumble on the trick to beating 
 them, they do so much damage that sometimes one slipup on your part can cost you your life. It's 
 true that fighting elites is always optional, but you'll often earn some useful rewards for defeating 
 them, such as pieces of armor that give Spyro's or Cynder's abilities a bonus, providing an incentive 
 to just suck up the frustration and deal with the chore of fighting them. Lousy content is lousy 
 content, optional or not, and the elites may frustrate and alienate some of the younger players 
 to whom the game appeals.  

           Combat is uninteresting despite the range of abilities at your disposal.      

  Both 
 Spyro and Cynder have four elemental powers, and some of them are fun to use for a little while: 
 Cynder's wind power lets you pick up an enemy and fling him into his companions, and Spyro's electricity 
 power can leave some foes stunned and open to attack for a moment. And powering up these abilities 
 over the course of the game can be satisfying. Spyro's fire-breathing ability looks pretty powerful 
 to begin with, but after you use the experience points you've earned to purchase its final upgrade, 
 it's far more impressive. However, because the combat in which you employ these powers is never 
 involving, the powers themselves are redundant, and switching them up isn't enough to keep things 
 interesting.  

  Dawn of the Dragon departs from the earlier games in the series by letting you take flight at any 
 time. A few presses of the jump button have you take to the air, but this new ability doesn't end 
 up having much of an impact on the overall gameplay. It's useful for covering larger distances, 
 but there are always gusts of wind and other mysterious forces that prevent you from exploiting 
 this freedom, so you'll still have to do a fair amount of platforming. The game sometimes tries 
 to do too much with flight. One sequence in particular has you zooming through the cavernous innards 
 of a giant to strike at its crystalline heart, and like so much of the game, it looks thrilling 
 but just isn't much fun to play. The flight controls are fine for gliding gently across the levels, 
 but they lack the precision that a sequence like this calls for.     

  It's a good thing you have a way of getting around faster, though, because the level design is 
 often so unfocused that you'll need to spend a good deal of time wandering and searching for where 
 you're supposed to go next. One level requires you to first find one cave, then another, and then 
 another, and while the area isn't enormous, it's large enough that you can spend quite a while 
 looking until you stumble upon your next objective. (According to the manual, your dragonfly companion, 
 Sparx, "is always willing to help Spyro and Cynder find their way when they get lost." No greater 
 lie has ever been told.) Later, you'll soar all over the huge body of the aforementioned giant 
 looking for a number of small crystals you need to destroy, and again, you may spend a good bit 
 of time looking all over the place until you find your next objective. A bit of open-ended exploration 
 can be fun, but levels like these could have benefited from the occasional nudge in the right direction. 

  Spyro and Cynder can never get too far apart, thanks to a cursed magical chain that binds them 
 together. If you're playing alone, you can switch between them on the fly. The AI-controlled character 
 isn't very useful in combat but fortunately doesn't take any damage either, so you don't need to 
 worry about protecting your companion. And in most cases, the AI character does a fine job of following 
 you around, but there are a few things, like ramps, that the character sometimes gets stuck on 
 and seems incapable of handling, forcing you to switch back and forth to get both dragons into 
 a position from which you can advance freely again. You're better off if you can convince a friend 
 to join you. The ability to have a second player drop in or out of local co-op at any time is convenient, 
 though it's too bad none of the versions offer support for online cooperative play.  

           Many of the environments are breathtaking.      

  On the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3, Dawn of the Dragon is gorgeous. From the picture-perfect vistas of green grass and rushing rivers 
 under a pristine sky to the foreboding burned lands of the Dark Master Malefor, the vibrant colors 
 and detailed environments create a compelling world that will appeal to younger players and older 
 fantasy fans alike. As you'd expect, the Wii version isn't quite as impressive, but it's no slouch, 
 though the less captivating visuals, combined with a few awkward motion controls, put it a bit 
 behind the other versions. (Blocking is done by lifting the Nunchuk, for instance, and it's mildly 
 distracting to have to always be mindful of how you're holding it so you don't accidentally stop 
 attacking and start guarding.) In all versions, the camera can be frustrating. There are times 
 when you can rotate it around you any way you please, but more often than not, you can only inch 
 it a bit in one direction or the other, which is very limiting and prevents you from getting a 
 good sense of your surroundings.  

  The excellent score, with its urgent, rousing choral sections and lush orchestrations, creates 
 an emotional pull that, unfortunately, the gameplay doesn't warrant or support. As Spyro, Elijah 
 Wood is a good fit, at least in part because of his familiarity as Frodo and the similarities between 
 that unlikely hero's quest and this one's. Christina Ricci is fine but underused as Cynder; likewise 
 for Gary Oldman as the wise Ignitus. As Malefor, Mark Hamill's voice is processed through so many 
 filters to make it sound supernaturally booming and evil that they may as well have gotten Pee-Wee 
 Herman to play the part for all the difference it makes. Wayne Brady, as Sparx, is forced to utter 
 such painfully unfunny asides that you'll want to reach right into the screen and swat him yourself. 

  If you've already trudged your way through the first two Legend of Spyro games, you may want to 
 play this one as well, just to see how it all ends. It will take most players around 10 hours to 
 finish Dawn of the Dragon. But while you can sense the visuals and music straining to create a 
 mood of epic fantasy excitement, it's just not enough. This game isn't good enough to redeem the 
 series or to be a compelling stand-alone experience, so if you've avoided the previous entries, 
 there's no need to jump in here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: fuzzywolf91
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  This game got slated so bad so i wasn't even gonna buy it, but i gave in to my love of Spyro, and.... was 
 really suprised with it. I don't understand how it got such a bad score, i got into it straight 
 away and i thought it was a really great game, however, a little on the short side. Puzzles aren't 
 my thing either so they got me a bit stuck (i know i'm probably the only person to have found them 
 hard....) , the camera control can be a bit annoying too sometimes but all in all its a good one, 
 the flying's fun too. Bit sad it's the end of the Spyro games though, i've enjoyed all of them.
 
  Maybe you won't enjoy it as much though if you're not a spyro fan, but it's still worth playing, 
 and if you're an achievment lover on the xbox then you might like it just for that reason, quite 
 a few easy gamer points in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheActionGuy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2009 4:22 pm PT
Review:  After two average games, this is one is isn't all that bad, it has it's faults but it also has 
 moments when it shines in this third and final chapter of the legend of Spyro trilogy.
  
  The natural:
  The story: The story picks up three years after The eternal night. Spyro and Cynder 
 wake up to find they are chained together and Malefor the dark master has returned. There are some 
 good moments and the story progresses well. However There isn't that much mind blowing that we 
 haven't already scene, and there are also scenes that are blatantly ripped of from the the lord 
 of the rings movies.
  
  The good:
  Elemental powers: The elemental powers are fun to use and are more fun once you upgrade them. There 
 is also the good variety of them which you are going to enjoy using.
  
  Bosses: While there aren't that many of them, they are huge and the music makes them feel epic. 
 They are cool looking and are sometimes challenging.
  
  Flying: For the first time ever, fly at anytime anywhere in the game. I only first they could have 
 made it a little more free forming to fly up and down, instead it's limited to where the game tells 
 you, where you can go, buts still a welcome feature.
  
  The music: The orchestrated soundtrack rocks and sets the tone for each stage pretty well.
  
 
  The bad:
  The camera: It's like they couldn't decide weather or not they wanted a fixed camera or a free 
 camera, so what we got is a combination of both. There are some parts of the game were you can 
 barely move the camera at all and really its annoying when it doesn't co-operate.
  
  A little repetitive: Grab moves and combos are good for a while, but the melee and even the elemental 
 powers can get old in time. If your a hardcore gamer then this is not your game.
  
  Overall: It suffers from frustrations but Spyro fans and Casual gamers will enjoy the game for 
 what it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnfirewire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  This is the third Spyro game in the "Legend of Spyro" series. This is also the first game in which 
 Spyro can actually fly and is the first game made for the XBOX 360 and PS3 generation of consoles. 
 
  
  The original Spyro games, that came out for the Playstation One, were highly rated. Moreso than 
 the more recent "Legend of" series. 
  
  That being said, I think this game delivers in providing some really cool, great looking next-gen 
 environments along with, for the most part, the kind of quality gameplay that satisfies. 
  
  Graphically the strengths are that the environment and ambient surroundings are among the best 
 I've seen for a game that is intended to be charming for both kids and adults. The weaknesses are 
 that the camera angles get very restricted and the frame rate drops and gets choppy at times. Both 
 Spyro and Cynder, along with the environments, look great in this game. Just as you'd expect on 
 the 360. 
  
  Gameplay-wise I have to say the God of War like boss battles are very enjoyable and work well. 
 Battling the typical onslought of enemies can get repetitious as they come out in large numbers 
 at times and respawn over and over. Though you'll probably find yourself button mashing the x and 
 y buttons to continually attack in these instances, there are some nice grabs and combo moves that 
 you can do that help to break up the monotony of it. Each dragon has specific breath attacks, such 
 as fire, ice, electricity ... etc, that can be upgraded to be more powerful throughout the game. 
 Armor can be obtained and upgraded as well. 
  
  The co-op play works well. All you have to do is pause the game and you can choose "Single Player" 
 or "Two Player" from the menu at any time and a friend can join in. Both Spyro and Cynder are joined 
 together by what appears to be an electro-magnetic tether that keeps them within a close range 
 of each other. This means in co-op mode the two players have to work together to try and basically 
 move in the same direction throughout the gameplay. 
  
  The flying is sweet and I really enjoy it with only the downside being that it is limited by barriers. 
 Tap the "A" button three times and you're in the air, any time at any place in the game. However, 
 you usually have to get a long flying run, or have to go through a predefined route, in order to 
 get to higher locations that Spyro can't immediately ascend to. If you're like me, you'll enjoy 
 flying through the awesome environments at times. 
  
  The story plays out in a kind of superficial way. It is decent enough to carry the game but not 
 quite up to par with the epic soundtrack and background music. The audio is top notch and the voicework 
 is well acted. Background ambient music is movie-like and helps this to truly feel like a game 
 for this generation. 
  
  Aside from the frustrations of limited camera angles, invisible barriers and repetitious fighting 
 of common enemies, I think this game is great and I am glad I bought it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewKing
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I just got Spyro Dawn of the Dragon, this was the game I was waiting for MONTHS to be released. 
 Well for in case u didn't play one or both of the other Legend of Spyro trilogy games, DON'T PLAY 
 THIS YET, u MUST know the other 2 games' storylines in order to understand this one. Anyways, the 
 story starts when Spyro and Cynder finally get out of that crystal they were in for 3 years, but 
 a little after they were stuck in there, the Dark Master escaped and is planning to destroy the 
 world (Remember this) . But lets talk about NOW, anyways, after they come out of the crystal and 
 fight some grublins, they meet a Cheetah named Hunter and he told them what happenend while they 
 were in that crystal (Told u to remember) . Now Spyro must stop the Dark Master, Maledor, while 
 partnering up with Cynder. And one of the best parts is that the cutscenes is that most of them 
 are more of HD cutscenes (BUT u'll still see some in-level cutscenes) . Along the way u'll see some 
 AMAZING scenery, I am serious, this scenery PWNZ! If ur not paying attention to the enemies, maybe 
 its cause of the amazing scenery. Like I said, u can play as both Spyro and Cynder, Spyro has his 
 same elements from the last games except they got improved and Cynder has dark elements where they 
 are VERY useful for combos. But another good thing about Spyro and Cynder is that they've grown 
 some since the last game and look more realistic, and thats HARDCORE! Now, about the music in the 
 background, it is some of the most dramtic music I have ever heard, it goes along great with all 
 of the levels. But sometimes u might come across a enemy that is a PAIN IN THE BUTT, these are 
 what I call, BAD ___ ENEMIES, when u come across a BAD ___ ENEMY, they will be very hard and very 
 frustrating to beat, and thats the same way I feel when they spam enemies while I have low health. 
 But lets ignore that and get to the sexy violence, this game says its E+10, but if they added some 
 blood, they would've bumped it up to T and made the game more HARDCORE, but no they didn't, but 
 its still HARDCORE. The fighting system has changed some and improved it by allowing u to grab 
 enemies and have a NPC take over the other dragon so it'll make it a LITTLE easier. And is this 
 game worth $50?..... HECK YEA IT IS!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnsjax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Well first let me say how glad I am that Spiro's back... I thought it would be a sequel that would 
 never be. I've played every Spyro game in the series and always look forward to them because GOOD 
 platformer games are sooo hard to come by and it seems as though it's almost a forgotten - platform. 
 This new Spyro is no letdown for sure! I grabbed the game before GameSpot has rated it because 
 I knew from reputation alone that it would be good... and it is. The first person shooter games 
 are great but they are all generally the same thing... if you own Halo 3 you pretty much own them 
 all. However, platformers are typically very unique outside of the normal fire world, forest, sea 
 and air levels... but that's what makes them great. Spyro has some really cool powers and there 
 are many which keeps things interesting and collecting gems to gather more strength is still just 
 as alluring as the previous games. What surprised me was the powers of Cynder... wow she really 
 has some unique powers that are new to the gaming world... very creative. I'll let you check them 
 out for yourself. So all in all, having free range to fly anytime and anywhere along with the hugely 
 upgraded graphics... this is definitely a game worth looking into and if you love platformers it's 
 a must have!
  FINAL THOUGHT - The game's graphics also don't look like all those crappy 1980's pre-nintendo era 
 games I see everywhere when I click on the Platformer section on GameSpot. Come on guys, let's 
 see a little "Spyro" like inspiration in platformers already... yeesh! We purchased the advanced 
 hardware of an X-Box360 has for a reason so let's stop with the "cell phone quality" games and 
 make something that can compete with this game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
