-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Last Remnant
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/thelastremnant/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A long, epic tale in a fascinating new fantasy world.
 Fun, uniquely strategic battle system.
 Gorgeous musical score.
 Beautiful art design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Abysmal frame-rate problems.
 Awful texture pop-in.
 Combat mechanics can be obtuse.
 Losing a long battle means having to repeat huge chunks of gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.8, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 872 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Nov 20, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Technical flaws mar, but don't totally destroy, this long and fascinating role-playing game. 
 

  When you first begin The Last Remnant, you'll participate in a battle within moments of inserting 
 the game disc, and chances are that you'll be struck by a glaring issue: The frame rate is awful, 
 and the texture pop-in is shockingly bad. It's an issue you'll never quite get used to, considering 
 that it mars the entirety of the experience. What a shame, because this long and fascinating Japanese 
 role-playing game has a way of getting under your skin. It features a rich, original fantasy world, 
 obviously crafted with great care and artistry, and it tells a strong, politically charged tale 
 that will keep you glued to the screen. Although somewhat flawed, the battle system is fun to play 
 around with, particularly in the second half when enormous armies go head to head in some dramatic, 
 bloody showdowns. Had developer Square Enix not rushed an unfinished product to shelves, The Last 
 Remnant could have been an instant classic. But even if the game isn't what it should have been, 
 RPG fans should take this journey in spite of the game's technical defects.  

           Rush is a pretty man in a pretty world.      

  Rush Sykes is the prototypical RPG 
 hero, innocently sulky but totally devoted to his sweet sister Irina. When Irina is kidnapped, 
 Rush hurries to liberate her, but unsurprisingly, it's not the most straightforward of rescues. 
 Rather, Rush finds himself caught in a political struggle centered around powerful magical artifacts 
 called remnants. These objects are both the center of society as well as a great curiosity, heavily 
 researched at the Academy by hosts of scientists, including Rush's own parents. What starts as 
 an upheaval between the pro- and anti-remnant factions explodes into an all-out war when a formidable 
 hulk of a man calling himself the Conqueror appears, apparently able to control any remnant, no 
 matter how large or potent. Political forces clash and hidden powers are unleashed, and though 
 a tenuous peace is eventually achieved, it isn't long before conflict reawakens. The story is epic, 
 even if Rush himself isn't the most interesting leading man. Fortunately, his supporting cast is 
 excellent; the noble David is a charmingly haughty presence, and David's guard Emma makes a strong 
 impression, thanks to some excellent, emphatic voice acting.  

  Whereas other RPGs tend to center on their protagonist, The Last Remnant eventually focuses on 
 the Conqueror and his secrets. He's a solemn, momentous presence who makes an impact each time 
 he appears, and it's easy to believe that this man may actually be capable of controlling the universe. 
 But though it will take you a good 60 hours or more to unravel all of his secrets, the journey 
 is entertaining, given that The Last Remnant's distinctive fantasy world is so beautifully constructed. 
 Each city you visit is different from the last, yet the overall vision is cohesive, so nothing 
 feels out of place. Landmarks such as the towering, glowing remnant in Elysion are not soon forgotten, 
 and numerous side quests will have you exploring scorching deserts, caves of bubbling lava, and 
 even the land of the dead. Most of these locales are lovely and beautifully lit, the handiwork 
 of a talented team of artists.  

  It's downright depressing that this inner beauty is so heavily diminished by a totally broken technical 
 framework. The Unreal 3 engine powers The Last Remnant's visuals, but it isn't clear whether the 
 technology wasn't a good fit for the game, or whether the development team simply wasn't capable 
 of using it to manifest its vision. Either way you look at it, the visuals are technically broken, 
 a total embarrassment that intrudes on every single aspect of the gameplay. The frame rate is awful, 
 often pausing for a second or two at a time, and slowing to a crawl anytime anything of significance 
 happens on the screen. This isn't just an annoyance, but a huge detractor to the pace of battles 
 and exploration, which are further broken up by inexplicably long loading times. Cities are divided 
 into tiny areas, and moving from one to the next leads to loading screens that jolt you back to 
 reality every few minutes. Furthermore, though many Unreal 3-powered games suffer from some texture 
 pop-in, you've never seen it to this extent. It can take almost 10 seconds for some textures to 
 load, and that includes everything from ground textures, to character faces, to walls. These drawbacks 
 are somewhat alleviated if you install the game to your hard drive, but it isn't a big enough difference 
 to justify using up such a huge amount of drive space. Either way, we shouldn't have to choose 
 either of these evils.  

           Once you get a lot of units in the mix, battles are fun and complex.      

  As bad 
 as these issues are, the game lurking beneath them is outstanding in a variety of ways, starting 
 with the battle system -- though you may not see its intricacies at first. Rather than controlling 
 party members during combat, you recruit leaders and soldiers, and group them together into unions 
 of up to five members each. Although each unit has his or her own stats, equipment, and arts (the 
 game's versions of spells and combat skills) , you issue union-wide, turn-based commands on the 
 field. Whereas in most RPGs you choose very specific actions, such as casting a particular spell 
 or using a particular item, in The Last Remnant you choose broader commands. These may include 
 healing unions that need it; performing mystic arts (while you can see which arts the units will 
 use, you can't micromanage them on a unit-by-unit basis) ; or summoning Rush's awe-inspiring, beautifully 
 designed cyclops to assist in battle.  

  Early in the game, when you don't have a whole lot of unions under your command, you may bemoan 
 the lack of micromanagement that this system entails. The fundamentals are a little confusing too, 
 given that there doesn't always seem to be rhyme or reason to the process that decides which abilities 
 are available to you, and when. Later on, however, you'll have a lot more units under your command, 
 and you'll discover how elaborate battles can become. As units use certain arts, they level up 
 those arts and learn newer ones, all the while improving stats -- though it's unclear how some of 
 those stats affect the outcome of your actions. (Units possess such attributes as gluttony; what 
 does that do, anyway?) Thus, grouping units into sensible unions is tantamount, as is grouping 
 them into an appropriate formation. You can get through many standard battles without putting too 
 much thought into these aspects, if you take a lot of side quests and grind your way to power. 
 However, even with a lot of grinding, the biggest battles require care, both before and during 
 combat. As you play, you'll gain a better grasp of your enemies' weaknesses, the pros and cons 
 of each formation, and the best way to develop your individual units through battle commands.  
    

   

  Once you get to the second disc of the Last Remnant's dual DVDs, you'll experience some large, 
 impressive-looking battles. They can also be really challenging, so don't expect to rush to a victory, 
 particularly when dozens of unions are involved. Individual turns can take a while to complete, 
 but you shouldn't just sit back and let them play themselves. The game will throw quick-time events 
 at you that require a rapid button press; performing it correctly may initiate a counterattack, 
 or will improve your units' position in the turn order. This mechanic is nothing new, but it works 
 fine here, though the frame-rate problems are a hindrance because they often disrupt the flow and 
 timing of the event.  

           Quick-time events will keep you on your toes.      

  These colossal battles are the highlight of the game, not just because they are impressively dramatic, 
 but also because you can see the effects of your union makeup, formations, and in-battle decisions 
 more clearly than in the smaller ones. A morale bar across the top of the screen adjusts during 
 the constant tug of war, based on whether you are attacking an enemy's flank or rear, what status 
 effects are active, and a number of other factors. Location on the battlefield, attack range, and 
 potency of healing items and arts are among the many other dynamics you'll need to consider as 
 you plan out your turn. This thoughtful preparation makes it all the more heartbreaking when you 
 lose a long, well-planned battle. A significant number of late-game skirmishes take a long time 
 to complete, often stringing several tough encounters together without letting you save your game 
 in between. Considering that formations and union setup can require a bit of trial and error, you 
 might lose an hour of progress the first few times you attempt these colossal battles. Thankfully, 
 the combat is fun and addictive, but given the length of these multipart clashes, there is no legitimate 
 reason not to allow saving between stages. Otherwise, you can save almost anywhere, and the ability 
 to skip cutscenes should you need to replay a section is also a welcome convenience.  

  Outside of combat, a little scavenger named Mr. Diggs will excavate various raw materials that 
 you encounter in dungeons. Along with the monster parts that you forage, these items can be used 
 to upgrade your equipment or create new weapons and accessories. There's not much to the process, 
 and you can customize only Rush's equipment; other units take care of things on their own, using 
 the items you let them keep in the postbattle screen to upgrade their stuff, or sometimes even 
 going so far as to ask if you will give them an inventory item. Considering that characters develop 
 based on the attacks they perform, there is a lot of flexibility -- and intangibility -- to party progression. 
 As a result, there is a certain amount of replay value here, if only to see how differently battles 
 can play out if you decide to make Rush concentrate solely on mystic arts, or see what happens 
 when the four-armed Torgal focuses on combat skills.  

           Pictures of battles look good, because the textures are all there and the game isn't moving. 

  The Last Remnant sounds mostly spectacular. The voice acting isn't always excellent, though it's 
 hard to fault the actors when they're forced to deliver some of the game's awkward dialogue and 
 odd bits of slang. Everything else is of top quality, particularly the excellent symphonic soundtrack. 
 Even after hundreds and hundreds of encounters, the battle music is always rousing, and the triumphant 
 fanfare after every conflict rivals the best of the genre. Every town has its own theme music, 
 and the melodies are terrific in their own right and flawlessly match the city's unique visual 
 design as well.  

  You may be inclined to give up on The Last Remnant when you first witness its major graphical flaws, 
 but if you can grow to forgive them, you'll find a fun adventure that will draw you into its finely 
 crafted universe in spite of it all. How unfortunate that such a renowned RPG developer has buried 
 a potential classic under a humiliating technical fiasco.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (65 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Aerosite
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Behold The Last Remnant, but hopefuly not the last one. This game will keep you on the edge of 
 your seat during the whole way.
  
  Discover the secrets of the Remnants, powerful artifacts that could be used as either tools of 
 construction and peace, or weapons of complete anihilation.
  
  Main Character Bio's:
  
  Rush Sykes- (sounds as it looks) - Leading man of this game. Rush is a young man about 17. His sister 
 Irena has been kidnaped out of nowhere. Rush runs into the middle of a war during his search. Rush 
 is a responsible man, who doesn't pay much consideration to royalty. There is more to Rush than 
 meets the eye.
  
  Irena Sykes- (ir-een-ah) - sweet young girl who has no idea how much she is worth. Rush's younger 
 sister. Irena is kidnaped and has no idea why. Irena is a kind young woman who cares dearly for 
 her brother.
  
  David- (Da-veed) - Marquis of the main city. David has much power in his Remnant, the Gae Bolg. David 
 is royalty, not much more needs to be said.
  
  
  Good points.
  GRAPHICS ARE INCREDIBLE!, just not in the characters. The enviornmental graphics is incredibly 
 detailed, it even takes a few seconds for it all to load in. Combat system is classic and easy. 
 you control squads, you tell the squads what to do, depending on their position depends on the 
 avaliable actions.
  
  Bad points:
  Boss fights take forever, literaly, one part took me 4 hours to beat, prepare for a looooong night. 
 Game lags during combat; again, graphics are so advanced, that during combat it lags, but not much, 
 about 1-4 of a second.
  
  Over all, this game is worth buying, lots of collectibles for you completion punks. Experiance 
 much in terms of magic, and combat. Pay attention to your people, and how your squads are formed, 
 and you should do just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fiery_Eternity
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily one of the best rpgs i have played.
  
  People can whine and be frustrated and say this is a bad game because it ( on occasion) glitches 
 out and sometimes freezes for a certain amount of time. definitely not the best example of Unreal 
 Technology BUT if you download this to your drive then the lag issues pretty much disappear. There 
 are lengthy loading screens that you might want to stress about and there might be a point where 
 you will get EXTREMELY frustrated and throw your controller at the T. V and scream words not fit 
 for children ears. This game is definitely not for the inexperienced to the genre. i play games 
 like this all the time and this is easily one of the most difficult i have played. 
  
  The storyline is not the best out there but the area that this game really focuses on is the Combat. 
 When you first start off in this game it will pit you against a swarm of enemies and you will have 
 no idea what to do. the combat takes awhile for you to get used to and you might want to give up 
 then and there. But when the combat picks up the pace and you get better at this game shines. especially 
 when you are in a fight against a large amount of enemies and you have only 15 fighters on your 
 side. The combat however DOES get repetitive and boring later on as you advance.
  
  This game definitely has a large replay value. if its just so you can try different weapon styles. 
 The number of allies you have per battle is limited that you are going to want to retry the game 
 with different tactics and styles. Or you missed so and so many side quests and you really want 
 that final achievement that you just have to start another game. 
  
  (7) - storyline. just not the best square enix has offered.
  
  (9) - Combat. Easily one of the 
 best parts of this game.
  
  (10) - Re playability. so many choices that your bound to replay.
  
  (8) - Controls. takes awhile 
 but you get used to them.
  
  (9) - Visuals. when the game isn't glitching the visuals are stunning.
  
  7
  9 +
  10
  
 8
  ----
  34/40 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartjock6
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 12:07 am PT
Review:  of them were fun to do.... and exciting. The battle system I think was the best so far, there could 
 have been a little more control but i was happy with it. I just wish the game would never end! 
 I think it was really under rated... the characters were great and great storyline just the slow 
 frame rates was a tad annoying, but you get used to it. Anyone that loves long RPGs with plenty 
 of side quests and long battles will love this game! There is good amount of weapons to create 
 and a lot of cool and different characters. I just wish they would allow you to have more main 
 characters in a group, instead of mostly basic soldiers. The monsters in this game are pretty good.... a 
 lot of monsters you have never seen before... and there isn't too much repeating by just changing 
 colors like other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollowShinigami
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  You might think I'm bluffing, but this game's a great one. It does start out slow, and it does 
 occasionally have framerate issues -- easily fixed by installing it to your hard drive -- but it's 
 by far one of the best games on the 360. 
  
  The storyline is alright, it follows a kid trying to find his sister after she gets kidnapped, 
 and the story just gets more bizarre from there. Not going to go much into detail on the story, 
 because I played the game purely for the gameplay. 
  
  It's a tactical RPG -- equip your character, assign him to a squad, and build up a few other squads. 
 It's pretty much the same thing as other Square-Enix titles, however it's a whole lot easier to 
 die in this one, if you don't configure your party correctly. I mean, if you don't have at least 
 one tank in each party, they're goin' down.
  
  I don't have a great deal of time left, now, so I'll just say in closing that the first time I 
 played this game, I was tempted to return it to the video store.. but I'm glad I didn't. You have 
 to be willing to give a little when playing this game, just like any other game -- you have to be 
 willing to accept that this will not be the perfect game, and it will not cure cancer, and you 
 will probably get tired of it sooner or later.
  But, 'til that happens, it's one helluvalotta fun. 
  
  My rating: Rent it. This game isn't 
 a must own, but it is a must-play. Trust me on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunamoonfang
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  It's very simple to take all those little annoying slow glitches and cut all loading times down 
 to a quarter of the time? Install the game to your Hard Drive, Frame rate looses it's glitchyness 
 and Load times are unbelievably fast, and comparable to it's PC counterpart. 
  The battles in the game are a little long, the cinematics are detailed, the storyline is well written. 
 The game isn't easy, but it isn't hard either, It's just fun. It takes a little while to get into 
 it, but after you have a general idea on how everything works it becomes so much fun balancing 
 between Group Makeup, how to train your leaders and keep track of your military support.
  Granted the Leader Maximum is a tad annoying I guess it keeps balance and can easily be worked 
 with in this fun Time consuming Political Drama RPG Style Game that was looked over too quick because 
 of everyone lack of interest after the release glitches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsyunami
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Tho the there are plenty of bugs in this game that mar the experience, if you can look past that 
 its a pretty good game. The character's aren't as cliche as a lot of other Japanese RPG's out there.. and 
 the gameplay is rather unique for a 360 console, or any console for that matter. Speaking of the 
 characters: The story nicely develops on the other characters creating a pretty impressive 3rd 
 person narrative view of the plot. The customization could use a little more work... since the 
 game is of such a large scale. But there's plenty to do even after you finish the main game in 
 side quest thanks to our nice little friend called DLC. If you do happen to have a PS3 or PC i 
 say wait a while and try those out instead of the 360 version since most likely they will have 
 most of the problems fixed in those ports. But if you don't you could at least try renting this 
 game or borrow it from a friend the price has dropped a bit because of its bugs and the fact that 
 its a few months old, so it wont hurt your wallet too much if you buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hot_dao
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I expected more from this game, hoping it would have a good story and all, but it didn't... the 
 graphics are okay-good, the voicing is okay (expect for irina or whatever her name is...) , the 
 battle system takes too long, they seem too be expecting the players to have HD or big screen TVs 
 (meaning that i have to put on my glasses to see the small letters) , and the game can sometimes 
 be unfair...
  
  the battle system i don't really like because i don't get the group HP and the individual HP (i 
 do, but then i don't) . The battles is like watching a movie, no button smashing... the characters 
 don't have common sense meaning that when you click the option to "play it by ear" or something, 
 even though they are about to die, they wouldn't heal. the option to heal unions is not "unions" 
 it's just one union, leaving the other groups to die. when fighting some bosses or whatever, they 
 sometimes get two turns to attack. one individual attack where your party does not attack back, 
 and another attack when your party is attacking (unless they are flanking) . the poisoning or whatever 
 skills that cause that, when you use those skills on the enemy, the chances that they will poison 
 is not too high... but every time they poison you, you will get poisoned unless most or all the 
 members of your party members doges it. the formations are unless, there doesn't seem to be any 
 difference from any of them except they you take more or less damage from them. when you unlock 
 a "improved" version of an existing formation, there is no difference.
  
  the game performance is not that good unless you install/copy the disc into your hard drive.
 
  
  the weird thing i thought was when irina joined the group and you have her available to use, her 
 stats are higher and better than any of your characters (unless to train your people... a lot...) . 
 
  
  i wished i never bought this game... i would recommend telling friends not to buy this game, it's 
 not worth the $60... use that money to buy something else, like candy, that's much better than 
 this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adaram1050
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying Gamespot had it right, visuals and good but that's about it. 
  
  Graphics: As I said, one of the few good things about the game. The only problem, well for me and 
 anyone with a standard definition television, is that any text outside most dialogue is blurry 
 and hard to read. If there are other problems, I don't really notice them.
  
  Sound: The game is appropriately scored and the music and sound effects are appropriate for the 
 game. Voice acting is all right and I don't really have any real problems with it.
  
  Story: Good for the most part ----you feel for Rush & his quest to find and rescue his sister. And 
 you get to feel that there's a bigger picture and world outside that main quest.
  
  Combat: Innovative squad controlled turn based combat is unique and you're usually given 4 or 5 
 options for each squad per turn. It's nice that all damage is healed after a battle but that's 
 about all that is good about combat. There aren't a whole lot of differences in the animations 
 for the various arts, making combat repetitive. When you select which arts you use, you don't get 
 the option of selecting which "combat" or "mystic" art you will use. Once you get into the game 
 and spend some time, you can acquire a number of each art ----quite frankly that's just annoying 
 because if you're playing a turn based RPG then you would expect multiple choices. While I give 
 the company credit for trying to simplify things, it doesn't work well. As for "Deadlocks", all 
 I will say is that they're too complicated, strangely too integral to how they affect combat, & 
 quite frankly could be done without. Get rid of them and combat might be better; marginally better.
 
  
  Gameplay: Best way to describe it ----cobbled together and lacking. Honestly I think the developers 
 decided to work on the aforementioned combat and then at the end only remembered that this game 
 was supposed to be an RPG. Let's start off the list and see where things go. Classes, seem to mean 
 little & if they do they aren't significant enough to make a player care. Sure classes change but 
 there really isn't any rhyme or reason or explanation for how and why. There aren't any bonuses 
 to each class; well if they are they aren't apparent or noticeable. Verdict: They're pointless!!!!!!
 
  Next up is Item collection and creation. Honestly you only really get items by using Mr Diggs 
 (an amusing creature that you kind of want to upgrade like some little virtual pet but that's all 
 he is) and by killing monsters. Either way you don't get a whole lot items. There are few treasure 
 chests and half the time they contain maps. With regards to item creation, it's a joke ---a very 
 bad one played on the player. I've been playing long enough & collected enough items that I should 
 be able to create at least more than handful than items or upgrade them. However I've only been 
 able to create 3 or 4 things, at most, and do a single upgrade. I can't be entirely sure how far 
 along I am but I certain that I should be able to do create more than I have already. EIther that 
 or the developers put way too many useless items into the game.
  With regards to stats I'll admit that for the most part stats in an RPG to me don't mean a whole 
 lot or I don't see the connection. Yes I can see that an increase in hit points in other games 
 and an increase in attack power will allow me to do more damage. But in this game because of the 
 aforementioned combat the stats seem to me just there because the developers thought they needed 
 to be in the game because it's an RPG and don't serve a purpose. If there's anyone out there who 
 makes sense of them and sees their purpose, good for you. Personally I don't see their point in 
 this game. Hit points tend to be more affected by the numbers in your squads rather than the indiviudals 
 themselves. While after each battle someone usually advances in something, there's nothing in the 
 game that makes me want to be checking my stats to keep track of their progression --------in short 
 they're about as useful as the classes in this game.
  
  Conclusion: While I will keep playing this game to see where the story heads, I'm not really having 
 a whole lot of fun doing it. To the developers: If you plan a sequel I implore you to go back to 
 the drawing board and reevaluate some of your decisions. Don't have things in the game just for 
 the sake of having them. Give them purpose that is obvious and usefull to the player. There has 
 to be a connection between classes (advancing them as well) , stats, and player performance. And 
 for the love of whatever you believe in, make the combat less obtuse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcrafiused
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  For my Video Review, go to, http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=qVfUAWc-Jy8&feature=channel_page
  
  The Last Remnant is an ambitious JRPG from square enix, it feels like a fresh game in they're 
 long line rpgs, the game provides a nice, if not slightly annoying sense of challenge, but at the 
 same time, its rewarding, and worth playing if your into a nice challenge.
  
  The Last Remnant follows the story of a young man named Rush Sykes, Rush is on a journey to save 
 his sister Irina, who was kidnapped by a mysterious flying remnant, and with the help of his new 
 aristocratic friend David, he sets out, to save her. Yeah, not really an original rpg premise, 
 its the basic save the princess formula with a sister, with that said, as you progress, the story 
 kicks it up a notch, and actually becomes pretty interesting.
  
  The game of this game is probably what turned a lot of people off, because at a first glance it 
 looks really confusing, to be honest, its not. The basic game play of The Last Remnant is the same 
 of that of any rpg, you run around, buy items, and take quests, nothing new. Its when you get into 
 combat that you notice the confusingness that is this game. Rather than your typical take 3 people 
 and take turns whacking each other with swords formula so many jrpg's do nowadays, instead you 
 basically control a small army, your party members are divided into unions, each with a leader, 
 and act as a single entitiy, so if the thought of controlling an upwards of 25 people at once is 
 overwhelming, don't sweat it, for example, if you have 3 unions, each with 5 people in them, don't 
 think of it as controlling 15 people, think of it as 3, since everyone shares the same hp bar, 
 and acts a single entity, combat then becomes very simple, but you'll still get your ass kicked 
 fairly often, which is where the "save anywhere" feature comes in handy.
  
  The Graphical presentation of The Last Remnant is a hit and miss, on one hand, its a beautiful 
 game, characters move realistically, and during cut scenes characters show such a level of emotion, 
 that i've yet to see in an rpg before, on the other hand, the game suffers from some serious frame 
 rate issues, as well as texture popping, which i know is a huge turn off to some gamers, but you 
 should really look past these flaws, especially since they can be remedied somewhat by installing 
 it onto your 360's hard drive.
  
  The Sound design of this game various, and overall its pretty good, it features various battle 
 themes that all get you pumped for the action, voice acting is good, if not a bit confusing at 
 times, for example, the main character rush sounds american, but david sounds english, so idk how 
 that works, but voice acting is pretty good regardless.
  
  Overall, The Last Remnant isn't a bad rpg, it really isn't, you just have to look past some small 
 presentation flaws, and a messed up achievement system, because of this, im going to give The Last 
 Remnant a 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoraPKing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Really this game would have been perfect if it wasn't for the texture popping and the annoying 
 Battle Rank system. Of course if you don't like turn-battle gameplay you won't like this but even 
 if you do their is a good chance you won't like this. The game is very long two discs so it isn't 
 going to be catching dust on the shelf anytime soon. I feel its better to talk about the cons of 
 a game rather than the pros so I'll do just that. At times the game is very laggy and is pretty 
 laughable. When fighting large enemies such as dragons or grand beatles they'll be texture popping 
 everyturn and is IMPOSSIBLE NOT TO NOTICE. The Battle Rank system makes the game a challenge no 
 matter how much your grind which some might see as a good thing but the system is broken. It changes 
 on how much you fight instead of your stats so you might have the worst stats ever but your Battle 
 Rank could be enormous making the game impossible. Over-all those are the only cons with this game. 
 Its a very traditional turn-based RPG with a twist. That being unions and ect. I would personally 
 rent it first because some people just won't be able to stand the texture popping and the difficulty 
 but again it is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gh0stHacker51
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 19, 2009 7:56 am PT
Review:  The Proposal
  So one day some guy at Square Enix goes to whatever committee they have to decide what games they 
 should make. He says:
  
  "I have an idea for a strategy game where the player has no actual control over the actions of 
 his characters, where they move, or even if he does manage to tell them to do something they will 
 decide on their own not to comply."
  
  And that's the least of it.
  
  When you create a Strategy game, you would normal think that Strategy plays a large role in it. 
 In order to function in a strategy game, you would expect meticulous control over every minor detail 
 of your teams and characters. It is pretty much the only requirements to call yourself a Strategy 
 Game.
  
  For those of you lucky enough never to have played this game, I will explain.
  
  More To Do Than Fighting...?
  The game itself has very little to offer outside of battle. 
 You run around and talk to people in towns and do tedious things like buying/selling/modding items 
 and equipment. You hire and fire members of your team and mercenaries to lead them. The only real 
 differences between Leaders and Soldiers are better Stats/Abilities and a very small amount of 
 character design and personality. They really don't "lead" in any way. So what little bit of customization 
 the game offers is really not engaging or interesting at all.
  
  The items in the game would be interesting... if the stats they gave you were realistic, change-able, 
 or in some cases shown at all. Your attacks and spells will miss whenever it would be least opportune 
 no matter what you wear because there is no accuracy stat. Each character will hit as hard as it 
 feels like with no true regard to their stats. I've had 2 units with the same strength and same 
 weapon, but one of them always hit for more than double the other one.
  
  The Story is interesting and entertaining for the most part if you're willing to look past how 
 annoying the main character is. There are a few cheap and contrived plot devices sprinkled throughout 
 that keep you from truly caring about the characters, but it was enough to keep me curious about 
 what would happen next... And then I saw the ending. The ending is a complete cop-out that is only 
 more of a cop-out if you watch the short snippet after the credits. Nothing that happens in the 
 story really matters ever, and even if you think it does mean something at some points, keep watching 
 and it will soon reverse it.
  
  When you have control of your character in a dungeon, it is normal dungeon crawling like any other 
 game. The monsters are on the field and you go into a battle if you touch them. There is a time-slowing 
 ability that helps you avoid/chain fights together, which makes it a little more interesting.
 
  
  The Art Of Strategy-Based Combat
  When you enter combat, each of your teams (up to 5 members per team) works as one unit. This means 
 that if you attack an enemy with 1 health point left, your entire team's turn is pretty much wasted 
 after the first member flicks him.
  
  Each team also shares a combined health total and so do enemy teams. The only problem I really 
 have with this is the fact that some enemies have abilities like Surefire, where they can instantly 
 kill one of your team members. But if the enemy team has 5 members and only 1 health point left, 
 all five of them will be alive and able to attack because you cannot kill just one of them with 
 any of your abilities.
  
  Action Points are basically the equivalent of Mana or Magic Points. Every action you team members 
 take in battle cost AP, except for using items or a generic attack. You build up AP every turn.
 
  
  When you are choosing what each team's actions should be, the game gives you up to 6 different 
 options which are decided at random. They will give you two options to heal yourself when you have 
 full health. If one of your teams is dead, you won't even get the option to resurrect them sometimes. 
 If your team has 300 Action Points, it won't give you any option to attack with more than 4 of 
 those Points, meaning instead of hitting for 50,000 damage, you hit for 12,000 that turn... for 
 no good reason. They will sometimes not even allow you to do nothing if you want to stay back and 
 avoid damage. There are some times (maybe 25% of the time) where they give you an option you might 
 construe as ideal.
  
  There are also Special moves that some Leader characters can perform that will in many cases turn 
 the tide of a battle. The availability of these options are entirely random, so you might spend 
 2 hours fighting trash enemies before you finally get to the boss, but the Special Move that would 
 make the fight possible will not be available. Your teams will be wiped out. You will need to start 
 from the very beginning 2 hours ago. At random.
  
  In battle, your units have the ability to re-assess their actions based on the conditions of the 
 battle. This means that if your team gets hit hard by an unexpected attack, they can change their 
 plans and heal themselves... or so you'd think. In reality, half of the time re-assessing will 
 make your player decide that instead of killing the boss you're fighting with the action you miraculously 
 got to show up in your random options, he will instead learn the ability to drop an ice cube on 
 the boss for about 5% of the damage he would have dealt. The boss will counterattack, and Game 
 Over.
  
  So in the end, you are not given the ability to decide what your characters do, and even if you 
 do get the opportunity to do something CLOSE, there is a chance he won't listen anyway. So what 
 you get instead of a strategy game is the far more time-consuming version of simulating a football 
 game in Madden 2003. You have no control over what happens and the only thing involved is stats 
 and a random number generator.
  
  Bosses in this game are incredibly difficult. They usually require several attempts to kill and 
 over an hour per attempt in many cases. At the end of the game, the bosses will be so difficult 
 that they will require more than 10 attempts. When you finally kill one of these bosses, it will 
 usually be because you randomly got to use a Special Ability at a good time finally or because 
 the boss decided not to use his anywhere near as often as he did every other attempt. The only 
 exception to this is THE FINAL BOSS. The big finale for this game that takes 60 or so hours to 
 get to the end if you never die is a joke. The final boss takes about 15 minutes to kill and he 
 is actually easier to kill than the mini-boss dragons you have to kill to get to him. The only 
 thing that could possibly be worse than this anti-climax is the huge cop-out **** story that you 
 see via cutscene afterward.
  
  As a side-note there are enemies that use the ability Self-Destruct when they get low on health. 
 It hits everyone near them for more damage than any team can actually have in health... BUT IT 
 DOESN'T KILL THEM. This is just one infuriating example of why this game is so horrifying.
  
  Other Special Features
  The textures don't load until 3-10 seconds after the scenes load. 
 For some god awful reason the cutscenes are all in-engine, too, so the textures load slowly in 
 those too. I'm all for optimizing the engine so that you can avoid having loading scenes, but the 
 problem is THERE ARE STILL **** LOADING SCREENS. It would have taken an extra second or two on 
 the 20 second long loading screens that display before every scene/battle/sneeze to avoid this 
 problem. The art is truly beautiful once you see it, but it really destroys the immersion.
  
  There is nothing more annoying than the sound clip that plays nearly every single time your 
 main character's group takes an action. Especially when the main character is as annoying as he 
 is. "Let's kick some A!" ... like the letter A. Why would you even record this voice clip if you 
 didn't want to use the word 'ass'!? Why wouldn't you just say butt? Even more enervating is the 
 fact that other characters say **** a few times in the game.
  
  Conclusion
  I wanted to like this game. I spend $60 and 80-something hours doing every single side quest and 
 progressing all the way through it. I suspended disbelief when one of my characters died dramatically... 
 and then was replaced 2 minutes later by a near-exact replica. I didn't put down the controller 
 and hurl the discs out the window when one of the main story elements said that David wasn't allowed 
 to use one of his weapons without permission from a higher ranking lord.... but he used it whenever 
 he felt like it in battles throughout the game. I gave this game every courtesy I would give a 
 game I knew would get good after the initial rough patch. And the rough patch never ended.
  
  I have never played a game that made me so furious. I have never actually thought to myself 
 "Is it worth the $1000 it would cost me to replace my TV to allow myself to throw my Xbox controller 
 through it?" I didn't give any spoiler alerts in this article because the game was spoiled when 
 it was a sketch on a whiteboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baramos6
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review ever, and I'm not going to format it the way you're probably used too. 
 The Last Remnant is a good game, I've played it for quite a bit of time before I gave up on it, 
 while I managed to do half of the Disk 1 Side-quests, and 80 % of the first disk, the game seems 
 to go through mood swings... Wait did I say the "game" goes through mood swings? Yeah, I did.
 
  
  The story in itself is interesting and enough to keep you playing, but holy crap, the game-play 
 is psychotic. First it starts you off by introducing it's battle system, which is quite tough to 
 learn, and since battles are the main thing in this game, if you don't pick it up quickly it will 
 kick your ass. Now this isn't exactly a bad thing, because it adds a new level of challenge, the 
 problem is that once you get used to it, it raises the difficulty once you reach the third (or 
 fifth depending on the side-quests you have done.) Castle town. And, this is problem number one, 
 what the hell is with the difficulty?! If you did absolutely no side quests and tried to go for 
 the main storyline... pah! Forget it, YOU WON'T SURVIVE. Oh, and the bosses are always reinforced 
 with other strong unions... yeah... I mean whatever happened to the Square I know that pits you 
 against challenging bosses and not "plain cheap" bosses near the beginning. 
  
  As for the achievements, I didn't mind Infinite Discoveries Achievement List as it is doable, but 
 The Last Remnants achievements are mostly easy to miss, the ones that are easy to miss are worth 
 the most points and sound rather hard even for RPG standards. 
  
  I'll be blunt, I'm not an expert gamer, I'm good enough to be competent with them, believe me when 
 I say that the Last Remnant is not easy to stomach. I never had any trouble with Tales of Vesperia, 
 Lost Odyssey, or Blue Dragon, and I was hoping this would be the usual JRPG with a new battle system, 
 however it turned out to be worse; as you couldn't heal units unless they told you too, you miss 
 more than you should, battle rank of 55 is not anywhere equal to a level 55 character in any regular 
 JRPG, Bosses are nearly impossible or incredibly cheap, and the achievements are just "Blah!" don't 
 get this game if your an achievement whore, you will regret it... i know i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2009 7:31 pm PT
Review:  If you're like me you've been dying for a good RPG, especially if you're like me and don't own 
 a PS2 and just a 360. So when this title came around my eyes were glued to it, from Square Enix 
 the makers of Final Fantasy they presented this title, The Last Remnant. While the game is confusing 
 in some aspects when it comes to they "Why did they do that?" category it still manages to be a 
 above average quality game.
  
  Graphics - This was the most confusing part of the game, normally Square Enix is one of those companies 
 constantly trying to set new standards for graphics quality. Or at least they used to be, then 
 again they always used to build and use their own graphics engines and not someone else. The Last 
 Remnant is built on the Unreal 3 Engine, which is a decent engine though it has it's share of flaws 
 which sadly all stare you in the face in this title. The Early versions of the Unreal 3 Engine 
 were plagued with texture problems, my favorite being cut scenes in which everything looks hideous 
 only to watch the high resolution textures magically pop into place to make everything look good. 
 The Last Remnant has this problem in spades, almost every cut scene and a majority of the battles 
 suffer from characters that have a solid color to them and then suddenly have a highly detailed 
 outfit with buttons and all the trimmings. This it's self is annoying but not bad, the true kicker 
 is the constant load times and frame slowdown. While not the worst I've ever seen for a game, it's 
 pretty bad for current gen systems. Loading every time you enter battle or change areas, this will 
 start to work on a person patience pretty quick. Also when battles begin there are often hiccups 
 in the frame rate and obvious spots where the engine just can't keep up with everything it's supposed 
 to do. Still while it may sound like a mountainous set of issues, it's not as bad as it seems if 
 you're willing to tolerate it in exchange for what you get in return.
  
  Mechanics - The game play for The Last Remnant is really good, while just like the graphics partially 
 flawed. Combat goes on a turn basis more or less, but instead of giving issues to a single person 
 you give commands to squads, though each person in the squad levels up at their own pace. This 
 is great and bad at the same time, the problem being you don't get to choose ANY action you want. 
 I. e you know the big boss guy is about to do some serious damage, so you want to counter his damage 
 by setting up a heal (since it's turn style combat) BUT because your squad hasn't taken any damage 
 you aren't given an option TO heal. You see the action menu is 'intuitive' meaning you get a list 
 of actions per individual squad per that squads current circumstance, generally these options are 
 pretty good until you get further into the game and want to do some cross unit team work, such 
 as attacking with one squad while another squad heals the attacking squad. When you want to do 
 things like that the game gets hairy, healing in the game is one of the more complicated mechanics 
 in the game. If you have characters that know magic healing AND herbal healing get ready for confusion. 
 Many a time you'll select a healing ability only to find out you used a magic instead of a herbal 
 or vice versa. Still though 95% of the time you will get at least one option which fits your desires. 
 The combat is done quite well too, as it's turn based you get unlimited time to make combat decisions, 
 during this you can pan the camera some to look around the battle field but instead of being boring 
 and every standing still waiting to do something all of your characters and enemies continue to 
 fight though to no avail of doing or receiving any damage, it's merely for looks to make things 
 feel active and alive and this little trick pulls that off well. Everything from the exploration 
 to the talents Mr. Diggs is quite well done, nothing stellar or evolutionary but nothing drab and 
 uninteresting either. The best part of all this, something that may be considered evolutionary 
 is that after EVERY battle (as long as you win) your entire team (meaning all your squads) gets 
 all negative effects removed, all health refilled to maximum and all K. O'd team mates revived and 
 back at full. This is great in a lot of ways, removing the tedious micro management of going to 
 the menu after every battle and healing/ removing effects. As well you no longer need to carry 
 an entire stores worth of healing potions or mana potions to be able to do said healing and such. 
 While this does make the game feel some what lazy by just handing you fully replenished stats, 
 it also adds to the speed.
  
  Story - Again stories now and days are getting pretty run of the mill and while The Last Remnant 
 isn't a carbon copy per say it does feel pretty expected and not too original. Unlike the days 
 of Final Fantasy VII and Chrono Trigger, these days all JRPGs and Even American RPGs share a rather 
 basic story recipe that involves a lone hero pulled into some type of grand scheme without his 
 consent and eventually a girl of some sort, either a love interest or a family member / friend 
 gets pulled into it too and must be saved. There are always little odds and ends added to the story 
 but that's the just of it.
  
  Overall - It's a good game, without it's engine issues and below Square standard graphics is could 
 have very well been great. It's a good long RPG though that one could dump weeks or even months 
 into if you had the desire too, it goes back to the old tradition of grinding out levels. While 
 some may not like that, I myself deeply enjoy grinding out some levels so when I get to the first 
 boss and I should be level 9, I'm actually level 19. This is a title that RPG enthusiasts will 
 love and RPG fans are sure to get some kicks out of, While it's release day price tag of 59.99 
 may be a little much for non RPG addicts, people like myself will gladly pay that much for a game 
 mainly on the grounds that it can't be beaten in 8 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naesaki
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 3:56 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the reviews for The Last Remnant, I wasn't so sure I would find it any good. But 
 oh was I most certainly surprised.
  
  Getting thrown into that big battle tutorial battle at the beginning was nothing but spectacular 
 things to come. I thought the main character was a little too young and perhaps the young hero 
 was overdone too much, but that's just me and I can live with it :)
  
  While playing through the game, the storyline and characters were very intriguing and there where 
 plenty of funny moments.
  
  The battle system was very interesting as well, not as revolutionary as I thought but it was very 
 addicting and very satisfying when i was able to get through a big long hard battle.
  
  I did find some downsides, such as the frame rate issue, the levelling system was very unique if 
 not confusing, the sheer length of some of the battles and if you lost you had to go through it 
 all again, but that did not deter me. I still find Last Remnant to be an awesome game and I will 
 happily play through it time and time again as the replay value is very nice. Now I'm hoping for 
 a The Last Remnant 2 :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 7, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  First off the game doesn't look very good after playing my most recent JRPG Lost Odyssey. The texture 
 pop in is really obvious on any scene and distracting. Also during battles there is so may characters 
 that sometimes a active unit disappears and is invisible while taking his turn, also slowdown of 
 the action happens in every turn. This is a Square Enix game?
  
  What really might do the game in for me is the tiny lettering that you have to read for all the 
 dialogue and battles. There is some points I have to get right up to the screen to see what a weapons 
 stats or what is being said or the ingredients for a upgrade. I must admit I have a decent 32 inch 
 tube tv but come on can't they make a option for big lettering? Guess I'll put the problem of tiny 
 letter behind me when I get that HD LCD I always wanted ...
  
  Well, maybe I take a trip to the video place to trade it in, maybe Infinite Undiscovery will be 
 a better choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirkgamespot
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2009 2:01 pm PT
Review:  DON'T BELIEVE THE REVIEWERS!!!
  
  If you love RPG's like I do and like turn based games, then you will love The Last Remnant! I was 
 put off by the reviews for the game and when I picked it up and played it, I could't believe how 
 good the game was.
  
  First off, the reviewers destroyed the game for slow down and texture tearing. All you have to 
 do to eliminate most of that is download the game to your hard drive. Just like in most games for 
 the PC, this optimizes the game and cuts down on the load times and texture popping.
  
  The story rocks and is as good as SquareEnix has been. The epic scale of the tale can't help but 
 suck you in and is a great addition to the SquareEnix empire. The musical score is on par with 
 a major motion picture and does a great job engrossing you in the story and pulling you into the 
 game! The graphics are incredible. I couldn't help myself from smiling every time I entered a new 
 environment and marveled at how breathtaking they were. The level design is top notch and does 
 a great job of emursing you into the fantasy world. 
  
  The bold new 'Union' battle system is more strategic then most turn based RPG's and allows you 
 to arrange your team in groups of up to 5 . The game is extrealy detailed and epic in scale and 
 the battle system is one area where this game really shines! The game does a great job streamlining 
 the commands between: combat arts, mystic arts, healing and weapon arts. This is actually a great 
 idea because your army can have up to 25 units and micro-managing each unit would be very cumbersome.
 
  
  Square is known for their Epic tales and this game is no exception. To say that this game is HUGE 
 is an understatement. The shear amount of detail and depth is mind blowing. I have enjoyed many-many 
 hours of fun and excitement: maxing my skills and equipment, engaging in sidequests, recruting 
 and growing the 30+ leaders, etc. 
  
  The game caters to the RPG fan and does a great job with the whole presentation in making a very 
 polished, exciting, beautiful tale chalk full of challange and great character catch phrases; all 
 of which can't help but make this gamer cry.. weep weep!!!!
  
  So, moral of the story is if you like RPG's then make sure to pick up The Last Remnant! Easily 
 the best RPG for this generation of game systems. 
  
  Did I mention that it is BETTER then FF12. Rock on SquareEnix!!!!
  
  GO PICK IT UP!!!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDmarc89
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  unfortunately reviewers were sooo off with the review on this game...
  yes it's true that it has some technical issues, such as the framerate issue, the lagging, the 
 instance where you go slow mo during a critical trigger, and too much loading...
  
  most of the said tech problems could pretty much be reduced by installing it on the HDD (you read 
 right i said "reduce", since no matter what you do this would still pop-up every now and then) ... 
 But the loading issue's not really that bad after installing... Thus said this issues don't really 
 interfire much with the actual game...
  
  they've hit this game too much just because of the tech issues... i mean have you seen Gears...?? 
 Both gears of war still got good reviews even with some framerate issues, why you ask...?? Who 
 know, some say that reviewers now a days focus more and more on Shooters... Have you read reviews 
 on upcoming games...?? Almost 85% of reviewers ask for "multiplyer" if it has co-op or anything 
 of that nature... Come on people...!! It's an RPG why would you have multiplyer on it...?? Single 
 palyers are one of the building blocks of PRG...
  
  Some even say it's not worth the buck, but oh god how wrong was that...?? Fable 2 cost like $60 
 and how short was that game...?? Sure the graphics are awesome, but The Last Remnant also brings 
 forth great graphics in its' own way... And since SE went and gave this a price drop why not grab 
 it...??
  
  And more and more of the reviews have said that the game's story was so cliche... Uhhhmmm... have 
 we forgatten that Almost every game's story's basically the same...?? That being most of it's "TO 
 SAVE THE WORLD" and then some...?? Come on people they're basically all the same, the only difference 
 would be how they're told... Like Fable 2, that story was really bad... I mean being a hero and all... tsk 
 tsk tsk... And so was the ending... Sigh... Sure the story telling of The Last Remnant's not all that 
 great, but it was good enough to keep you on the game...
  
  And have you read the thing 'bout the leaders...?? They said they were to shallow, and needed more 
 so we (players) could connect... I mean did they just hire the generic leaders (generic being the 
 premade ones without story) ...?? Didn't they know 'bout the uniqe leaders that you can actually 
 talk to when visiting their hometowns, and some even give you quest so you would be able to know 
 more 'bout them... Sadly reviewers may have had no idea 'bout this when they were writing their 
 reviews (probably didn't even reach the end of disk1, sigh...)
  
  I'm not saying that Gears or Fable was bad (since I own both and got them without going to ign, 
 x-play, nor gamespot for a review) ... I'm just saying that gears had some framerate issues and 
 short story line, but they didn't get much points off for that...
  
  Ohh, and have you seen the list of "best" games that are coming out...?? If you haven't check it 
 out, most of the games here are Shooters, and you would hardly find any RPG...
  
  So please before you even brush this game to the side based simply on "reviews" think first, or 
 better yet rent it... This game's not as bad as what "they" want you to think... (A lot of people 
 hated it after a few hours of gaming, and why is that...?? simply because they didn't understand 
 what they were doing and didn't think... This game's probably one of the few games with a busting 
 board/forum and people ready to help if you ever need it...)
  
  This game is not for the faint of heart nor is it for people who can't take the heat... This game 
 gets harder and harder and probably one of the very very VERY few games that's actually challenging... (Simply 
 because you can't really go off and lvl grind to overpower everyboss, since they in some form scale 
 with you... And I for one love challenges...)
  
  Try it out... Good graphics+Battle Sysyem that has a lot of potential+A lot of quest+Immense difficulty+Huge 
 amount of customization+A lot of skill that you just can't help but to get them all+A long gameplay+Good 
 amount of reasons for at least a 2nd play-through, and what do you get...?? You get The Last Remnant... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdboomer
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 3, 2009 3:15 pm PT
Review:  After finishing Fable II and Fallout 3 I was hoping to find another rewarding Action/Role Playing 
 game. I don't usually like Japanese RPGs, but I did like Lost Odyssey so I thought I'd give The 
 Last Remnant a try. What a mistake that was. I've never played something so tedious and repetative 
 in my life. Combat Arts, Attack, Combat Arts Attack, Heal, Attack over and over again.
  
  It seems like you visit the same linear areas and fight the exact same battles over and over.
 
  
  Almost all your quests come from the same place making exploration useless and when you do explore 
 there is no voice over for any of the dialoge.
  
  Speaking of dialoge whats with the cheesy voice acting. The whole Da'veed and Dave thing gets old 
 very fast!
  
  What a dissapointment. Hopefully EB games will give me a few buck toward a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2009 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Well I had been waiting for The Last Remnant, then when it came out it started getting a lot of 
 bad reviews. A lot of people saying that it was unplayable and that it wasn't worth it, basically 
 that it was a horrible game. Well I thank different it does have problems and a little more than 
 usually but what game doesn't.
  
  The story is really fantastic it's what made me get the game in the first place, which I am a person 
 who likes story's so yea I wouldn't going to let it pass me by. Although I thought SE could of 
 made a better story and a lot of people may thank the same.
  
  The graphics are simply nice everything looking great including the characters and every environment 
 that you will see. My friend said SE could of also did better with the graphics which I ain't going 
 to disagree but overall there really nice to look at.
  
  Gameplay is a little different but for the most part it's kind of just like any other RPG which 
 if you're a fan of games like this you'll most likely like. But for others it may take some time 
 to get used to but after that you'll find that they work out for the best.
  
  The sound is another great thing about the game, the music is nice to listen to and it's something 
 that I really enjoyed listening to. The voice acting is really great and was done nicely which 
 is a plus for the game and something that I like to see.
  
  Overall The Last Remnant is a great game one that most fans of RPGs would like especially SE fans. 
 But if your new to these kind of games then you might want to like for another game. Are who knows 
 you might really end up liking it just give it a chance.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10679
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 3:56 am PT
Review:  i don't about you guys but i never suffered from any techical issues mentioned by gamespot. i think 
 that gamespot forgot to install the game into the hard drive. This because when i did the loading 
 timer for the textures were very fast and teh loading time when going into a new area was also 
 very fast. i advise everyone to install the game on the hard drive as it makes a difference. You 
 need at least 6gb to do it. Once that is done the game is freakin awesome. the fighting system 
 is cool and the side quests are cool and the coolest part of teh game is when you have 32 people 
 fighting at the same with minimal lag which is understandable. well i hope this game stays on xbox 
 360 as this game is too good for ps3 and can't wait till final fantasy xII comes out next year 
 and street fighter 4 next month :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 5:34 am PT
Review:  The Last Remnant so called because it will strip the Last Remnant of sanity from your mind and 
 soul this is not a game for a beginner.
  
  I'm not a beginner but not too far removed from one, when it comes to strategy role playing game 
 however this has taken my cherry.
  
  I feel ashamed and dirty used and abused cheap.
  
  Why couldn't I have waited for something that would have treated me so much better than this, 
 a game that would respect me in the morning, a game that wouldn't slink out the door without leaving 
 me a phone number?
  
  It had all started off so well, a nice basic tutorial about combat, a few simple "go fetch" quests 
 to get you some cash and experience everything looked so promising.
  
  But I should have seen the signs to draw enemies into battle you press the right trigger button 
 and a circle appears around your character, all enemies within are drawn into battle just like 
 Blue Dragon did but so much better.
  
  In battle itself to keep the player interested you're asked to press a button at a crucial time 
 in the attack to supposedly inflict more damage just like Lost Odyssey did but so much better.
 
  
  As time went on the illusion of happiness and quality began to slip, the plot moves on but the 
 game doesn't move on with it, the battles remain the same just with more people to help you fight, 
 more people to command and more units to move but the same bland combat.
  
  You can instruct a unit to attack using combat arts but you can't tell them which combat arts to 
 use, they decide for themselves, thus they'll use the least effective attack in their range of 
 moves when what you really need is the big daddy move to finish a boss off alternatively they'll 
 decide for themselves not to just use the basic attack to finish off the already crippled spider 
 but the huge massive move you wanted them to use 10 minutes ago when it bloody mattered.
  
  You reach the second disk, and if you've got any remaining sanity left well done but the game 
 refuses to change, the fighting is still the same as in the opening battles many, many hours before 
 side quests still involve you going to a location, killing everything and then returning to the 
 quest giver a quest giver who won't be grateful, a quest giver who will probably try and kill 
 you later on rather than say thanks for the help matey.
  
  You'll feel more and more abused cheap dirty.
  
  Texture pop in is present, certainly now 
 worse than in Mass Effect but that had a great game to back it up here, we have generic plot, 
 generic weirdo characters, generic clich ridden locations and some horrible attempted westernization 
 of the dialogue the word Cowabunga should never appear in a role playing game not unless you 
 get to eat sliced, fried turtle after the battle has been won.
  
  The frame rate occasionally stutters, never in any place where you might suffer as a consequence, 
 but enough to annoy, generally this happens in battle as one of your team strikes a pose for the 
 camera and the game will wait for itself to catch up before launching the attack, but often characters 
 will strike a second pose for the camera, and when you got 18 characters in your team participating 
 in the one battle, which may take several turns to complete these stutters can add up to a lot 
 of wasted time, and its worth mentioning here that you will be doing a lot of fighting and by 
 that I mean, you'll be fighting for around 85-90% of your total playing time.
  
  It all started so well, but I feel like I've been used, my initials joy at its very presence now 
 tainted forever by bad experience, I've been taken for a fool and played like, like some, something 
 that gets played you know what I mean god damn you.
  
  I'm in counselling now in a much nice, brighter place where people don't mock me much a place 
 where you feel appreciated and they don't judge you for your past deeds on hang on yes they do, 
 but at least Albion hasn't yet tossed me aside like yesterday's newspaper I won't be going back 
 to Last Remnant, and if you feel the urge to sample it's "delights" then think carefully or be 
 played for a fool.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aidan129
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Despite his battle cry, urging players to journey forth and kick some A, Rush Sykes mostly gets 
 his A beaten with The Last Remnant's choppy graphics, epic load times, and frustrating battle system. 
 However, despite its many flaws, The Last Remnant has just enough virtues to save it from disaster. 
 And yes, Rush really does say, "Let's kick some A!"
  
  The game begins on Eulam Island, an idyllic paradise that has long been isolated from the horrific 
 wars that plague the mainland. That paradise is lost, however, when Rush's sister, Irina, is kidnapped. 
 He immediately gives chase, but soon stumbles upon two massive armies engaged in battle and you, 
 the player, are immediately placed in charge of that battle.
  
  At a glance, the battles in The Last Remnant seem horribly complicated. Right out of the gate, 
 the game starts throwing its terminology at you. Words like "deadlock," "raidlock," and "flank 
 attack" are initially daunting, but the game does an adequate job of explaining its vernacular 
 and it soon becomes second nature. Once you get past that vernacular, you're actually left with 
 a simple (and occasionally fun) , yet extremely flawed battle system. 
  
  In The Last Remnant, you don't take direct control of your characters. Individual characters are 
 grouped into unions, and it is the unions that you command during battle. At the beginning of each 
 turn, you are presented with a list of actions you can command your unions to take. These actions 
 can range from basic attacks to powerful summons, healing, or even defense. After you give your 
 orders, the units decide for themselves what to do. For the most part, they make intelligent decisions, 
 though they are often inept when it comes to healing. Some units with the ability to heal will 
 sometimes ignore the heal command, or when instructed to save another union, no matter the cost, 
 they will dutifully save the wrong union, thusly allowing their ailing comrades to die a horrible 
 death. Geniuses they are not.
  
  But that is only the beginning of the problems. The option to heal, like many of the other commands 
 available to you, seemingly appears at random. It's often available at the very beginning of a 
 battle, when every union has full health but then fails to appear later on, when every union is 
 on the brink of death. The same goes for the devastating special attacks available to many characters. 
 Rush will often draw Omnistrike while fighting against a few gnats, but against a boss when it 
 might be useful? Maybe he will, maybe he won't. Victory in battle often comes down to pure luck. 
 When luck is on your side and battles go quickly, there is certainly some enjoyment to be had. 
 Alas, it's downright infuriating when you're thwarted because you never got the option to heal.
 
  
  The random nature of the battle system wouldn't be such a problem if the game wasn't so consistently 
 brutal. While encounters with standard enemies are frequently challenging, The Last Remnant's many 
 boss battles are insanely difficult. Not only do the bosses hit extremely hard, they are often 
 joined by three or four other unions that are themselves rather powerful. This combination has 
 the ability to very easily decimate any union before they can even make a single move. Leveling 
 up your characters to overpower the enemy is also out of the question, for The Last Remnant doesn't 
 have a leveling system. Instead, characters gain random stat boosts after battles, but these are 
 rendered moot by the fact that enemies gain strength as you do. Adding insult to injury, boss battles 
 are both very long and often come back-to-back, with no chance to save in between. A game over 
 often means more than an hour of lost playtime.
  
  The Last Remnant's graphics are absolutely stunning as long as they're not moving. Though the 
 environments are often well-designed, visually appealing and extremely detailed, the game seems 
 to chug the moment Rush sets into motion. The problem is even worse in battle, when the game can 
 sometimes slow to a halt. Textures also seem to take an extraordinary amount of time to pop-in, 
 which is virtually inconceivable considering the length and frequency of epic load screens featured 
 in the game. For example, many cut scenes are actually shorter than the load screens that precede 
 them, and in many cases, the textures have not appeared by the time the cut scene ends. Not that 
 it matters, because a lot of the animation in the cut scenes is very stiff and unnatural. Most 
 of the characters seem to walk around like robots with rusted joints. Rush, however, is the exception 
 to this rule, but that is not a good thing. While his animation is a bit more fluid, it's also 
 very, very awkward. When exploring the game's many towns and environments, you shall duly note 
 that Rush walks around like he has a load in his pants. There's no other way to describe this curious 
 phenomenon.
  
  The sound, however, fares much better. Though infrequent, the voice acting is generally solid. 
 The dialogue is often cheesy, but all the right emotions are conveyed at the right times. The Last 
 Remnant's music is easily one of its strongest assets. Tsuyoshi Sekito delivers a powerful soundtrack 
 that deftly weaves together both rock and orchestral music that fits the game's atmosphere extraordinarily 
 well.
  
  The Last Remnant's other strong suit is its story. What begins as little more than a simple kidnapping 
 very quickly turns into a compelling tale of warfare and political intrigue -- and that alone is 
 enough to encourage you to forge ahead. Though the characters aren't particularly deep, The Last 
 Remnant does take some chances with them, and it pays off. When was the last time you saw a mother 
 and son -- in a video game -- sitting across from each other at a table, just talking? Or two friends 
 engaged in a thoughtful conversation about responsibility? While the main story is certainly adequate, 
 it's the little moments like these that make The Last Remnant shine.
  
  While not entirely successful, one cannot fault The Last Remnant for trying something different, 
 and if you can overlook its many shortcomings, there is indeed a decent game here to enjoy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2009 11:50 pm PT
Review:  The Last Remnant is a game with flaws and at times its battle system can be a little annoying, 
 but that is not a reason to not play the game at all. The Last Remnant throws us into a world where 
 a young boy by the name of Rush Sykes is looking for his sister that was kidnapped, along his journey 
 he meets up with David and his generals to save the world. The game features a great soundtrack 
 and the music really fits the game well. A few things that really irritate me are thr Graphics 
 are sometimes pixlated and sometimes stay a black color the entire scene. While The battle system 
 is frustrating at times it does a really nice job at trying to break away from the Regular turn-based 
 RPG rather than scrolling though magic attack after magic attack you have only a few commands to 
 choose from and you don't always get what you want either. another thing that makes the battle 
 system so unique is the fact that instead of controling just one character you control and entire 
 union so when you give commands it affects all characters in the Union rather than one. The battle 
 system has so many unique elements that talking about them all would take to long it is really 
 something you will want to experiment with yourself. Anybody who is looking for an RPG and a good 
 game to pass some time need to pick up this title. but it's flaws in the battle system make it 
 a rather difficult game to play, you will need alot of patents. Not one of Squares Greatest games. 
 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonwhite88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  i got this game again in hope of finding the best rpg since ff10 cuz since squaresoft merged with 
 enix there rpg's have sucked but through years of waiting i think this is the best since!. Its 
 battle system is very crazy in the tutorials and looking very difficult but it gets so easy to 
 use its so innovative. Its not just typical turn-based cuz you have to plan every move to gain 
 an advantage due to the deadlock/interference. Story is enjoyable, not the best, but still very 
 enjoyable. Characters are ok as they grow on you but in all a great game lets hope its a turning 
 point for square 
  
  Cant wait for final fantasy 13 either hopefully it doesnt suck like final fantasy 12!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.
 
  
  xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: player5454
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty neat in that you do get alot of players to fight with, but the the entire problem 
 is that there is no skill required to play the game, just alot of luck. When fighting it gives 
 you like 5 options for a team of people and most of them are never what you really want, so you 
 just choose the one that is least worse. Leveling up must be done right or else you end up towards 
 the end of the game at a really high Battle Rank and terrible stats. Upgrading weapons alone takes 
 forever not to mention you have no control over what your other members do to their weapons. I've 
 had several members upgrade their weapons for worse weapons than they had. Fighting is completely 
 random so you could walk into a fight and get options to hopefully attack the way you want but 
 since order of attacking is never precise no matter what speed ratings you have, your team could 
 get intercepted and anything you thought you were going to do is now completely random again. Finding 
 hidden monsters to beat for guild quests are abhorrid to find becuase you might have to entire 
 an area 10 - 20 times before you actually find what you wanted. If you accidentally miss ONE side 
 quest by not saying the right thing or moving to far in the game then you'll lose out on 400 gamer 
 points right off the bat with no hope of getting it back. I just wish the game allowed more control 
 over what you could do and didn't make everything to be this random.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hajjjustin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  The last remnant was not a bad game but had a few areas that would inhibit a gamer from enjoying 
 the game. the last Remnant starts with Rush Syckes the main character is looking for his lost his 
 sister. during this time he runs apon a large battle. Rush runs to the battle thinking his sister 
 is there and ends up falling in a hole with another solder Emma another main Chacater. from there 
 the story begins.
  
  The graphics were amazing, Last remnant used the Unreal Engine thats in gears of was and i beleave 
 the lost odyssey. this engine worked great in both or thouse games, but not in this one. Yes the 
 graphics were nice but the frame rate of the game would change form 128 to 64 to 32 to 16 a times 
 during the battle system. this was a big annoyance. the only way to speed things up was to download 
 the game direct to your hard drive. this would not a cure for the problem but it did help. other 
 than the battle system the graphis were well done, the cities were nice and original, the caves 
 dungeons were a little bland but the charaters were well done.
  
  Like i said before the Battle system was a little broken but other than the choppy fram rate the 
 battle system was a little old school (time based) but had a great change that made it interesting. 
 instead of each player attacking, or use a spell or Ect. you hade units that you contorl Consisting 
 of 1 leader ( a main charater) and 0 to 4 solders (grunts that level up) . You are responsible for 
 how you make your units, changing around units will increase or decrease your battle Rank. durring 
 battles you would choose one option for each unit durring battle like attack or Spell Ect. and 
 each unit would respond accordingly. i like this feature but the only down fall is that this would 
 wind up for some lengthy Battles (anywere form 10 to 18 characters Battling gets Crazy long) . another 
 nice feature was that you would heal automatically after battle so you do not have worry about 
 running low on HP at the end of a battle.
  
  The Story Plot was written well its not the best iv ever seen and its a little predictable but 
 its intriguing to the point that you will keep playing, there is a little backround story for some 
 of the Main Characters but not alot, the Best part of the Story is the Conqueror, this is the Main 
 Villain in the game and he is a Bad As*. There are side quest in the game but they are lengthy 
 and dont really produce that many good items all you get are material to synthesize weapons and 
 you level up you unit a bit. but non are fun at all. and there are not like your classic RPG sidequests.
 
  
  The Music in this the last Remnant is amazing its the best part of this game, during the battles 
 the music changes after about 3 turn so you wont have to hear the same music over and over. The 
 voice acting Was Ok none of the charaters were annoying and the sound effects were good.
  
  The only Problem i really had was that as much as i leveled my guys up i never flet that much stronger 
 than the bad guys or the bosses, i mean you could go back to a earler stage and wipe out the badguys 
 with one shot but your current quest still were hard.
  
  Overall if you are an RPG Fan this is a good game if you are not i would rent this game first. 
 and Please load the game to your Hard dive Frist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gennerik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  From the very first battle, I got a sense of being over my head. I didn't know what was going on 
 and felt like I was just hitting buttons. The instruction manual didn't seem to help, but I managed 
 through it. I soon found myself amazed at the depth of the game system, though I found myself looking 
 at long loading screens and slowdown, and I was wondering how long I'd be playing.
  
  I ended up installing the game to the HDD and playing around with the battle system, and suddenly 
 I was hooked. The loading screens were only a few seconds, the slowdown was drastically minimized 
 (though it still occurs every now and then, and sometimes the advanced texture features take a 
 while to load) , and I could actually play the game. Battles became more interesting, and it was 
 indeed refreshing to actually be challenged by random battles. I get a good grasp on how the system 
 functioned, though a lot of the information is still a mystery.
  
  A lot of information can be had at the GameFAQS forum (and probably the Gamespot forums as well) , 
 and there are a lot of people involved in really unlocking the game, but the game is very open-ended 
 with a linear storyline that you can follow (skipping the side-quests) if you choose. You really 
 have the option to play the game the way you want, and the game doesn't punish you that much for 
 trying different things. 
  
  There are a number of things that I don't like about the game, from certain enemy actions and immunities 
 to how punishing the fights can be at times, but given that you can save pretty much at any point 
 in the game, you have the option to be clever and try new things. And this is important because 
 sometimes the battle system doesn't quite give you the options you need to show up, and it's pretty 
 easy to find the tide of battle turn against you suddenly.
  
  All in all, I'm incredibly glad that I ignored the ratings on this game. It's a blast to play, 
 offers about as much depth as you want to handle, and gives you the option to grind or not, meaning 
 that you can play the game a lot and hunt down rare monsters and upgrade all your items or just 
 play through the storyline and see things unfold. Add in how some actions actually change the outcome 
 of the world, and you have an engaging game that offers you as much or as little as you want, giving 
 you a great game to not just play through, but also one that you can play through over and over. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fissurestriker
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:02 pm PT
Review:  ok ill admit i am not a fan of the final fantasy and i DO NOT like the attack system where you 
 have to take turns attacking (it is boring !!) but.... this game is different in some way, its actually... good. 
 ok, at first i was disapointed but give it some time and you will like this game. you can make 
 strategic decisions... (well sort of) and this is the first xbox 360 game that i have ever played 
 that is so long that it comes with TWO game discs. the graphics are very good but please stop using 
 the stupid attacking system where you take turns it is so crap. other than that its a good game, 
 voice acting is good, decent storyline (and long) but i suggest renting first! there are one or 
 two problems, for example; the desert in the game is SO FUKIN BIG its riduculous, and get rid of 
 the taking turns combat system PLEASE, easy to lose your way and not know what to do, but other 
 than that a decent game. it has made me want to try and get into the final fantasy series but i 
 dont think i will. i have yet to even get on to the second disc and ive been playing it for a while 
 so it lasts a good long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slingman7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so mabye the graphics on this game aren't quite up to par. Big deal. In a TRUE RPG, what 
 truly matters is the story and the battle system, and in both these catogories this game goes above 
 and beyond. Since when did losing a long fight and having to do it ALL over again become a bad 
 thing? I still have memories of Sephiroth.......... anyways, this game gets it right. From the 
 climatic story to the voice acting to the simplest of guild quests, this is a true, die-hard RPG. 
 Sure, it might not be "innovative" or "revitalize the genre." It is still a hell of a game.
  
  The only downfalls of this game are the graphics. So yes, in a large fight, you might get some 
 lag. Not alot, but about 20-25 fps. Or for me, at least, it was 20-25 fps.
  
  This game musically is a masterpiece. The fight themes are the BEST I have ever heard. Even walking 
 around, the soundtrack is wonderful. 
  
  The combat system can get a little...... annoying at times, but not alot. For being fairly complex, 
 I found it handles pretty well.
  
  So, all in all, this is the most UNDERAPPRECIATED game out right now. For those of you who still 
 call back to the days of Cloud's hair being small yellow blocks, the graphical problems will not 
 phase you, and you will love this game. If you are a graphics junkie, then yes, you will probably 
 find major fault with this game from the pop-in. But give it a chance, at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonydamasco
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  1. The Battles are bad ass, you have armies instead of just a few characters.
  
  2. The more battles you fight in a row, the better the loot, and the higher the XP. You get this 
 thing called a "Chain" just like if FF12 - Get the chain over 50 and your characters stats will 
 start to go up after almost every battle.
  
  3. The story line is pretty good after you get past the gay intro - starts to get interesting. 
 (I'm half way thro)
  
  4. Good amount of side quests, Rewards you very well for doing quests, you never feel like you 
 did something for no reason.
  
  5. The game is buggy as hell, and there are some laggy fight scenes, but it's easy to get past 
 that if you enjoy the battle system.
  
  Overall I would recommend this game to anyone that enjoys RPGs, or is looking for a good game on 
 the xbox 360. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Tyrant
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The Last Remnant has been slammed by reviewers, stating that it has a lot of frame rate problems, 
 making it almost unplayable. That may be true, but playing it from the HD makes it much smoother, 
 and TLR also features an excellent story, enjoyable and innovative battle system, that more than 
 make up for its shortcomings.
  
  Graphics: 7.8/10
  Being a Squeenix game, TLR could feature better graphics than this, though they are still good. 
 The art is very beautiful, making a good job to set up the atmosphere.
  
  Sound: 8.6/10
  Great Voice Acting is complemented by good music tracks, and very well done sound effects. 
  
 
  Gameplay: 9.0/10
  The Last Remnant is pretty much an average RPG, but the battle system is what sets it apart from 
 the other games of the genre. The union system makes you bring small armies of 1-5 characters to 
 fight enemies in the same way. It brings some fresh air into tired battle system, making it much 
 more fun that it would be. The luck factor sometimes plays a bigh part in some battles, making 
 the game a bit hard, and sometimes unfair, but still worth playing.
  
  Story: 8.5/10
  Though maybe not to the story you would expect from a SE game (said that before, haven't I?) , this 
 RPG still tells a good tale. Rush Sykes gets entangled in a war when his sister, Irina, is kidnapped. 
 A plot about the Remnants slowly unfolds, and is one worth playing through.
  
  Overall: 8.7/10
  The Last Remnant is the best game delivered by Squeenix in a long time. It may 
 be not the epic games the Japanese company used to develop, but it is an innovative and good one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoorah12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting for the release of this game for months, and I rushed to the store with excitement 
 when it finally hit shelves. When I put it in and began the game, I was impressed by the graphics 
 at the start. Litte did I know, I wasabout to be greatly dissapointed. First, I began to notice 
 that the movements of the characters mouths didnt match the voice. I thought to myself "no big 
 deal" and kept playing. However, as I kept going, the fact that the characters showed little or 
 strange emotions in the scenes began to bug me. I pushed it out and continued nonetheless. Then, 
 much to my dismay, the game through yet another flaw. There would be random cutscenes just to throw 
 info at you. I was starting to get irratated. I was very dissapointed, because I really wanted 
 to like the game. I ahd been looking forward to it for a while. Overall, I don't completely hate 
 it. There are just certain things in epic rpgs that i crave. I thoroughly enjoy connecting and 
 delving into the personalities of characters. In this game... you just dont get that effect, and 
 I dont feel myself really caring about the fates of the characters. Now, I am not finished the 
 game yet, so there might be a chance for the story to redeem the game... but not likely.
  Overall, It had alot of potential. And I am sure that many will enjoy it. There are just some things 
 that it lacks that are big parts of rpgs for me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayo_93
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:23 am PT
Review:  I am convinced that Square Enix is one of the laziest companies in the video game market to date. 
 Their name is as big as its titles and for that it can put half-hearted efforts into its games 
 and expect to see decent sales. Whether my conspiracy is correct or not Last Remnant feels that 
 way. 
  
  Last Remnant should have never made it out of product testing. The game is saturated with technical 
 flaws. Luckily enough both the texture pop-ins and load times are fixed decently with the installation 
 of this game onto your hard drive. Even the frame rate seemed to have increased, but I may have 
 just gotten used to it. However, without the ability to install this game onto my hard drive I 
 would not have played this game. 
  
  Prior to installation textures were up to 30 seconds late to pop in. The frame rate problems made 
 the game unwatchable and the load times were unbearable... all of which is unfortunate because the 
 textures and backgrounds all look really pretty. The animations not so much. It looks like they 
 used the Hunchback for most character animations, especially rushes. I also don't understand the 
 views during battle animations as most of those are more interesting than anything I do get too 
 watch. 
  
  However, I do appreciate some newer aspects to a square enix story which has carried over from 
 Lost Odyssey. This is the inclusion of adults into the story, my 18 or whatever, year old character 
 is not the most learned guy in the game. The aspects of family also make it a more believable story 
 (outside of magic and remnants.) 
  
  What really sets Last Remnant apart from other RPG's is it's combat system. The battles are a little 
 more strategic than previous square productions. Rather than command 3 or 4 characters at a time 
 you are able to command many leaders (main characters) and many more soldiers. All of which adds 
 up to longer, more epic and much more difficult battle system. A welcomed addition beyond the very 
 simple style adopted by 75% of RPGs. The only downfall with the system is that the game simplifies 
 it's command options to make input quicker and allow you to go through battles slightly easier. 
 In doing this you may find yourself needing to be cured/using potions and not being given the option 
 to do so. 
  
  All things considered I have given this game a 7 only because the Xbox saved it from a lot of the 
 technical problems. Without the installation I would probably give this a 5.5 or 6. Simultaneously 
 if they had been fixed by Square I would have happily given this game closer to a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSG003
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game. Dont let the gamespot review scare you away. I would have thought they 
 would have re-reviewed The Last Remnant, as all you have to do is download it to your hard drive 
 and that solves the abysmal frame rate problem and texture issues.
  
  Anyway the game is pretty immersive and sucks you in. The instruction manual is a little lacking, 
 but I hear the guide is getting ready to be released...... You can also pretty much save where ever 
 you like, so I am not quite sure what gamespot is talking about having to start a huge chunk over 
 after losing a big battle. 
  
  I especially like what they did with the characters... Unions and being able to purchase characters 
 to fight in your Unions. The Quest are pretty decent. All in all I rated the game as an 8.0, for 
 graphics and story, gameplay. I dont really care about replay, as I never play the same game twice. 
 I highly recommend it to anyone who likes RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3chos3non3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  It's interesting how things turn out. For several months I eagerly awaited the release of Infinite 
 Undiscovery only to be considerably disappointed. Meanwhile, I sat idly apprehensive about the 
 forth coming world release of The Last Remnant  only to be remarkably surprised by the content 
 and fluidity of raw grand scale battle.
  
  I wont lie, when you have up to 50 plus (and often more) participants on a battlefield, and each 
 is constantly moving by its own AI, along with snarls, growls, squeals and infuego  the xbox360 
 is pushed nearly to the point of failure. There are times when the texture rendering doesn't quite 
 keep up, and screen lags a noticeable degree. The action may be turn based  but everything on 
 the screen is constantly moving. I would claim that this is the first game to over-power the 360 
 behemoth.
  
  I personally find the game to be quite beautiful, with breathtaking scenery and the ever impressive 
 remnants scattered about containing some of the most stunning lighting and ambient effects I've 
 ever seen in digital media. The character models are unique and consistent, giving the player a 
 sense of racial diversity and equality. The voice acting is grade A, and the script writing is 
 quite solid. And just in case you were wondering  the battle system is entertaining, fun, challenging, 
 and somewhat deep.
  
  As stated before, the battle system is turn based. However, this is not you typical line and smash 
 on each other melee. The system requires you to evaluate distance, position, type of attack or 
 command, as well as anticipate the enemy's action.
  
  for starters, you control not just one character, not just one party, but several parties (squads) 
 made up of several characters (units) . Each squad has a leader, and is flushed out with general 
 units that you hire or rent. As the game progresses, you gain more freedom in how many squads, 
 units, etc, and how to arrange them in battle formation, skills, equip, etc. The game does a very 
 good job of keeping this streamlined instead of obtuse. Primarily, you only manage in depth inventory 
 on your main character  Rush Sykes. There is no leveling up  instead, units will "stat up"  
 each stat increases on its own, usually according to battle actions taken and choices made. Units 
 learn skills to use in battle which are determined by the weapon equipped (which you may not change 
 sometimes) or the way that weapon is used by the unit. Keep in mind that units have individual 
 stats, and just because they are same type of unit does not mean they advance the same way or have 
 the same strengths and weakness.
  
  Battle itself is deep, taking place epic style on a huge battle filed. Here, distance becomes a 
 strategy. Attempt to attack an enemy squad too far away and you may be intercepted  leaving that 
 squad at a disadvantage for the skirmish. Likewise, interfering with an enemy attacking your fellow 
 squads places you at a statistical advantage. Commands are simple and have fun clichs to mix things 
 up. You choose actions for the entire squad. If a squad has three units in it, you make a decision 
 for all three, and the unit decides its course of action depending on battlefield dynamics. If 
 you have five squads  you make five battle commands. Pushing the X button while viewing possible 
 battle commands will allow you to see which actions each unit will choose, and you being the commander 
 has to choose which strategy would be best.
  
  After making your choices, all the battle sequences are played out, complete with clashing weapons, 
 and rending armor, splashing blood and war cries, simulating the passion of arduous battle. But 
 that's not all. Often, you will be gien the chance for timed button presses, issuing a critical 
 hit or parrying defense, adding just one more facet to individuals' blow. Status affects abound, 
 and sometimes you'll find yourself clinging to life, surviving a very long engagement.
  
  the game is designed as such, so those who rush into battle and do not weigh their decisions will 
 suffer greatly on the battlefield, and often receive a game over screen because of it. As a means 
 of balance, you are identified with a battle rank number. The higher this number is that you've 
 earned, the enemies grow in strength accordingly preventing many enemies from being to easily pushed 
 over.
  
  Eventually you can "pull" enemies into battle. Pulling many enemies into battle makes it more difficult, 
 increasing risk  but also enhancing the rewards. Items are frequently dropped, and you can capture 
 enemies to sell for weapon upgrades. Or you can separate them into components and upgrade the weapons 
 yourself at a shop. The choices are yours.
  
  The game harbors an intense and beautiful soundtrack which varies during battle, often changing 
 with field dynamics much like your battle choices. Fans of medieval and fantasy warfare will most 
 likely enjoy this game and all of its political upheaval and iron clashing action.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlrunions
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that I have been looking forward to for quite some time and now I finally get to 
 review it. Was it worth the wait?
  
  Story.
  You play as Rush Sykes a young boy who sets out on a quest to save his kidnapped sister Irina from 
 the bad guys. Of course there is much more to it, for he meets a proper lord named David, and several 
 other characters, and also finds that he has mysterious powers of his own. while not totally original 
 in story it is entertaining, and it makes you want to keep playing to find out what happens next.
 
  
  Graphics.
  This is the one area that the game has some issues with. There is a lot of slowdown, and some parts 
 where it just takes forever to load., but when the game is good it is good mainly the fmv they 
 as always are nice, but the other hiccups do mar the experience.
  
  Game play.
  This has got to be one of the most complicated things for me to explain. In battle you control 
 up to five unions, with five people per union. But instead of controlling each person who control 
 each union as a group. This makes things much easier to keep track, of but takes some of the micromanagement 
 that most people like. Personally I find it a very interesting set up that I like. One thing that 
 I will say is that the game can be incredibly hard for example some regular monsters in an area 
 are very simple to defeat, but once you get to the boss. it gets extremely difficult to win. Making 
 the game feel slightly unbalanced, but all the more rewarding when you finally do manage to beat 
 that toughie.
  
  sound.
  All I have to say is that the music is excellent easily some of the best boss battle music ever 
 written. The voice acting is good as well with special props thrown to Chris Ayers for Wagrim. 
 he makes one heck of a villain. wow.
  
  All in all if you can get past the graphical issues then your going to find a great game here. 
 Perhaps not as great as Tales Of Vesperia, but still you should pick this one up no matter what.
 
  
  Final Score 9.8.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaborwaki22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  I had been waiting a long time for The Last Remnant to come out. This all changed though around 
 the release date when I started to read some reviews. I was devastated that the game was averaging 
 a 6.5 out of 10. I never went to pick up my pre-order and decided to spend money on other things.
 
  When Amazon. com had the game for sale at $40 I decided to relook the reviews. They had not changed 
 too much, save the player reviews. Every gaming site /magazine review of The Last Remnant says 
 something like this, great game, bad frame rate and loading times. Well, from a few player reviews 
 I learned that if you install the game to your hard drive, this nearly cures the frame rate issues, 
 and cuts down the load times drastically. If you don't play this game because of the reviews, then 
 you are the sucker that I almost was, basically a slave to reviewers.
  
  The protagonist is a pretty boy (thats Square Enix for you) named Rush Sikes. Rush travels to a 
 land foreign to his homeland, and is thrown into a conflict because of his search for his sister. 
 That is typical of a lot of RPG's and nothing special. What is special is the gameplay.
  
  Read the reviews, they all say how great the combat is. Combat is massive in this game. You build 
 your team using unions. A union is basically a group of warriors who you assemble with a leader, 
 you chose a formation for them, and they act as 1. All the units in a unions hit points and action 
 points are combined. So a unit stays alive as long as the union he belongs to stays alive.
  Much strategy is available, when you build your unions and chose their formation. Apparently their 
 are tons of formations to chose from, un-lockable as the game progresses.
  After this long and exhaustive review, I hope you take one thing. The frame rate and loading times 
 are barely noticeable after installing the game to hard drive. If you have to rent it first, then 
 do it. You wont regret (if you enjoy JRPG's or even SRPG's) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaink24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  My main issue with the game is long load times between basically everything. Zones in towns, in 
 and out of menus, in and out of rooms, cutscenes, etc. Like long enough to read the entire paragraph 
 "tip" on the loading screen. Also, there is some clipping and frame rates when you are in a battle, 
 and as there is a timed button press critical hit system, that basically tosses the fun of that 
 out the door. Seriously, Lost Odyssey used the Unreal Engine as well and had stupid long battle 
 load times as well.
  
  The other problem is with giving commands. Commands are not specific in terms of person X do action 
 Y. Instead it is group A perform general instruction B (attack with magics, attack with combos, 
 etc) and their specific action is up to them. Where this becomes a HUGE pain and issue is when 
 you are fighting a boss, and can't queue up healing spells when you need to as the option isn't 
 even available at times, and watch as your entire unit gets one or two shotted. Also there is a 
 strong bit of luck in fights in terms of what abilities you have pop up and what ones the boss 
 uses on you when. It takes the turn based strategy out of it. Also some fights are a series of 
 bosses right in a row, and can take a really long time, and there is no way to flee fights or know 
 if the monster you are running up to is above your level or a rare monster. Better hope you save 
 before you make that fatal mistake!
  
  The last problem is that you can only get equipment for the main character, and about an hour in 
 you are given the rest of your main party, and only have a finite number of slots in battle, so 
 doing side quests to unlock other characters or formations or items becomes rather negligable.
 
  
  The story though is really good, so if you can get past the gameplay issues, or don't mind LONG 
 load times, then its worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luthair
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  I find this game interesting, and entertaining. I give all games a fair chance, not quickly just 
 condemn a game based off what other people say. The game is buggy on the gfx side, there is no 
 hiding that fact, and the plot can seem a bit shallow. Its still fun to play though, I think the 
 focus of the game is more on combat, not a game/movie like the Final Fantasy :-p but lets be fair, 
 square is FINALLY leaving there comfort zone and trying to be somewhat flexable. Sure its not like 
 Chrono Cross or the Mana series, but its different than Final Fantasy atleast, for that be understanding 
 and write Square with feedback, I'm sure they would like that. Basicly, Give the game a chance, 
 don't be so closed minded. And if you do have the new xbox dashboard, I would highly recommend 
 installing this game, its a huge install, like 12.5 gb, but its worth it, helps the game load much 
 faster and remember you have to run the install on both disc :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tainshy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is amazing and the story becomes more and more interesting. Installing to the hard drive 
 is recommended as it becomes quite jumpy playing from the disc.
  
  The battles in the game require a lot of thinking and planning as one wrong choice can spell disaster 
 for your unions. The choices you can make are limited though as sometimes the game chooses what 
 you can choose from and a sensible order may not be included in the list. Boss battles are extremely 
 frustrating as their attacks a lot of the time are very unfair, they can destroy a union in just 
 one move and the curse and enthralled status effects mean you might as well just restart as they 
 will kill or severely cripple you within a round.
  
  The main story will keep you entertained for at least 30 hours and with the many side-quests available 
 the total game time is well above 50-60 hours, and the side-quests also introduce knew characters 
 that provide new fascinating stories. There are also guild quests available that require you to 
 collect certain items and kill certain numbers of monsters, and then there is rare monsters which 
 is very similar to the rare game in Final Fantasy XII.
  
  The game is very good overall but some parts of it will leave you feeling very frustrated, but 
 it is well worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bad_fur_day
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  A totally absorbing fresh new take on jrpg's from SquareEnix. Anyone who likes dark jrpg's like 
 Megaten, Vagrant Story or Barouque should definately take a closer look. 
  
  Interesting characters, absolutely stunning music, beautiful art direction, excellent character 
 and monster models, strange new battle system, awesome cinematic camera, good animation, a fully 
 realised dark world. Everything I want in an rpg. Sadly missing from most rpg's these days. The 
 framerate and texture pop issues and load times are over exaggerated in reviews, and hardly matter 
 at all, even without installing it. 
  
  It has a very different battle system to a standard jrpg, it's a cross between a normal turn bassed 
 battle system and a stratigy battle system, so don't expect everything you've learnt from other 
 jrpg's you've played to work. Also the timed critical button presses work really well and add to 
 the gameplay alot, the battle goes into slow motion matrix style, it's really cool. 
  
  Thank you SquareEnix for making rpg's for rpg players again. To hell with the people who don't 
 appreciate it, the're missing out big time.
  
  Vagrant Story move over, war is here. :D Woooo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BubbaBull
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The graphical issues are decimated after installation to the harddrive, but can still be a little 
 frustrating. Still, graphics are pretty good. 
  You play as a young guy named Rush who is in search of his sister, and before you know it, you 
 are caught up in the middle of a huge battle. These first couple of fights introduce you to the 
 combat-mechanics. Instead of using each character individually you are grouped into "Unions", and 
 your battle commands are a randomized selection of any of the so called arts (combat~, mystic~,...) 
 your units inherit. This is something that requires a little time to get used to and can be a little 
 frustrating later on in the game. If you are on a razors edge between winning and loosing and instead 
 of getting the "heal the others at all costs" you get only attack options for your healer-union, 
 you feel a little cheated. But after all, this introduces a tactical depth that keeps you combining 
 different leaders and units to get your favorite combinations. In addition you learn a lot of new 
 formation along the way, which give your unions different stat boosts.
  Also, instead of leveling up through the countless battles, your overall performance is documented 
 through the "battle rank". Your stats, arts (if used) and battle rank level up after fighting. 
 You can chain up enemies into one batlle to boost the bonuses you get and the fiends and enemies 
 you encounter along the story line will grow stronger accordingly, so there is allways a descent 
 challenge. 
  The story itself is engaging and you quickly pick your favourite characters and grow accustemed 
 to them. Although its not the longest game, if you stick to the main story (maybe 20hrs) , the huge 
 amount of rewarding sidequests, recruitable leaders and rare monsters to defeat, give you a long 
 lasting experience ( 100) , you would expect from a Square game.
  To sum up, LastRemnant is not the typical FinalFantasy-Clone, but thats not a bad thing in this 
 case. Its certainly worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Blade1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The Last Remnant is an interesting game to say the least. The creators made an imaginative layout 
 of the world, and if I say so myself the world is huge and I mean HUGE!!! In the game there are 
 many cities that you will encounter along your way in your adventure like the mountain city of 
 Royatia, the city of the desert, Balterossa, the city of the Lord Davide, Athlum in which you will 
 start out in. These are just a few cities you will pass by in to buy weapons, shields, accessories, 
 herbs, items, etc. In the pubs you can learn about the current gossip in the city or accept a quest 
 from somone in the pub. There are many things to do besides the actual storyline let yourself be 
 free and train hard in the most dangerous of fields and dungeons.
  
  The graphics in this game create a frustrating atmosphere for the players and you will probably 
 ask yourself at some point in the game "did I get him?" I know these graphics are amazing and yet 
 glitchy at most times and yes it does take a long time to finally load these graphics which are 
 amazing if I do say so myself. If you forget about the faults in this game, The Last Remnant shows 
 promise and has an absolutely amazing storyline that will leave you on to edge of your seat. In 
 the end this game is an amazing strategy game that most fantasy-strategy lovers must buy this game 
 for themselves so they can enjoy the Last Remnant for themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y2kay
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, this game is a RPG game... why do ppl whine about getting bored of repetition of the fights 
 and those monsters are just so easy to beat?? I bet everyone will agree then, when you get into 
 a RPG game, you don't just spend a day or two to finish it, you will have to find every bit of 
 details to strengthen your characters and finish it well with considerable time.
  
  The main point of this game is how to polish the whole team or all the unions you have during the 
 battles. As you get more chance to hold more unions, you will be more prepared for the boss fights. 
 All those easy monsters are not for you to just bash it with all the high end leaders and soldiers 
 in your union, but to level up skills of your weak leaders and soldiers as you recruit along the 
 way.
  
  I dunno if anyone is up to disc 2 yet or not, or up to the point where you find 20 links (that's 
 more than ... 50 unions of monsters, where i only have 5) at the same time (spoiler here, obviously 
 i die in this battle, but was having so much fun even though I know I am not skillful enough to 
 finish the battle) . If you do, you will know that the starting point is at disc 2, but not in disc 
 1 at all. All those battles you fought in disc 1 are just tutorials, and most of the details are 
 in disc 2.
  
  RTS is another main point of this game. I found it very interesting. Based on your decisions, you 
 can either win the battle easily, just ok meaning you have certain unions die during battle, or 
 wipe out by the enemy in a few minutes even though your main character (s) is/are semi-god type 
 of fighter (s) . That's the attraction of the game.
  
  By the way, the cut scenes are stunning and with music completely matching with every themes as 
 well. The storyline just draw you from every corner. The quests are there for you to find out the 
 threads of connection between this and that. The slow motion during battle maybe annoying to some 
 ppl, but it lets you see how your attacks are performed where I found it a pleasure to watch.
 
  
  All I can say is "go grab it," and play the game before the official guide come out, you will find 
 much fun just exploring all the places with a lot of uncertainties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iwiseguy2
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  What little story you can find is not interesting. Nothing but fighting and trying to figure out 
 where to go next. The battles gets boring after a short time. Ranking up does not seem to be fulfilling. 
 The whole thing is a huge waste of time and money. Between this and Infinite Undiscovery I think 
 Square Enix should shut down and take the graphic artists and have them find work with a company 
 who knows how to make good games. The game is pretty, and the fighting can sometimes be interesting 
 when you first meet new creatures, but then it becomes repetitive and once you rank up many of 
 the bugs become too easy. It's not fun to run around some creatures just to avoid the dull fight. 
 It's unfair to release a game that looks good, then when everyone gets it and is disappointed ... 
 it's time to take a good look at the company who puts out this type of game and start avoiding 
 them. Items are not explained well and a lot of what you can do in this game comes too late after 
 the bordom sets in. PASS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  The new characters are fun to play and the game grabs you right away. I had no issues with graphics 
 at all. The graphics are beautifully done. The music is perfect for this battle-hungry story. Frame 
 rate is solid and the one texture pop I saw was not even worth giving it a bad notation in the 
 review. I am also able to save the game frequently and you have 50 slots for saved game files. 
 The new combat style is a must to try out. Having the team battle as a whole in health is an amazing 
 change. The only thing I can say that disappointed me was the missing feature of leveling my characters. 
 I am very impressed with this game and Square Enix on giving us another great storyline/game to 
 play. 
  
  Honestly I am very disappointed in the reviewers on Gamespot lately. I have been a total access 
 member for a very long time now and they used to be dead-on in reviewing games. Now they are very 
 off. I really don't feel they know a great game when they see one anymore. FPS's are getting all 
 the love in review scores. We really need true gamers with tech experience reviewing these games 
 per genre. Obviously the person who reviewed this game put no real effort into the game or had 
 the knowledge of the unreal 3 engine or Square Enix games to have a clue on what they were playing. 
 
  
  This game rocks. Also it will be a rare to add to your collection because few copies out there 
 and they are disappearing very fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ritual-Power
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 28, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Ok so i thought that MAYBE just MAYBE that square enix MIGHT have learned a lesson from their last 
 horrendious attempt with infinite undiscovery. Boy was i wrong. It is clear to me that square is 
 well past their glory days *cough ff7 cough*. I hate to say it but i think that infinite undiscovery 
 is better then this Aweful excuse for an RGP. Think The worst RPG game youve ever played and merge 
 it with the worst RTS game youve ever played and this would be your result. the characters lack 
 and real personality and expression. There all monotone and i sware each voice is done by the same 
 guy!! (yes even the womens) . just think of a mime that has a severe case of the jiggles and this 
 is what you get. it doesent matter what situation your in weather your scared, mad, sad, happy 
 "Rush" which is the main characters name (seems fitting since the game was "RUSHED") haha.. i kill 
 me. Oh yeh he always has the same dumb expression on his face.. kinda like he was sandblasted by 
 a soup cracker? bottomline; terrible game; not worth your 11.29 at blockbuster let alone the 64.99 
 price tag at eb games: (. If you can find this game on your bargin shelfs for maybe 1.00 pick it 
 up just to break it: (.
  
  
  -in a race between a rock and a turtle; dont varnish your clams-Dilbert cartoon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacatash
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I was eagerly anticipating this game since it was announced last year that it was coming for the 
 PS3. Eventhough I have an Xbox360 since 2006, I hated playing RPG games (Lost Odyssey, Tales of 
 Vesperia, Mass Effect) on it because of the horrible noise of the DVD drive. Actually, I barely 
 use the Xbox360 because if the obnoxious noise coming from its DVD drive. I decided that I'll play 
 my action games on my Xbox and RPGs for my PS3.
  
  However, earlier this summer, Microsoft got a 'timed exclusive' from Square Enix. Instead of releasing 
 the game for both systems on November, the agreement allowed Microsoft to release the game on November 
 and the PS3 version was pushed back till 2009. Bummer. The good news is that Microsoft promised 
 that the NXE will allow games to be installed on the hard drive: improved load times, improved 
 frame rate and best of all NO NOISE.
  
  Although skeptical, I came to a decision that if the HDD installation feature fixes or improves 
 my previous RPGs for the Xbox then I would just go ahead and get the game for November. To make 
 a long story short, I was VERY happy with the HDD installation feature. Blue Dragon, Tales of Vesperia, 
 Mass Effect and Lost Odyssey can now be enjoyed without the ear-shattering noise. Loading times 
 on the Lost Odyssey improved also. After the Last Remnant came out, I bought it without hesitation 
 even after reading the reviews.
  
  MY TAKE ON THE GAME: Let me start off that most of the reviews and opinions on this game is correct: 
 It has technical problems with frame rates during battle scenes, loading times and also popups. 
 Its been fairly documented that this is the MAIN reason why this game gets such a low score. Let 
 me explain what this means when you have not yet played the game. .
  
  1. Frame rates issues in the game refers to the slow down and choppiness in movements when characters 
 take actions during battles and also when unleashing their ultimate moves. The main gameplay in 
 Last Remnant is to assemble your teams called UNIONS. One UNION consists of a maximum of 5 people 
 called UNITS. Once you encounter group of enemies, you assign specific commands to each UNION you 
 created. This game is a Strategy-Turn based game in third person perspective. Once you finished 
 assigning commands, your UNIONS and the monsters/enemies charge each other. When they meet, individual 
 actions are shown. These scenes are very highly detailed, special effects-laden and will tax the 
 system hardware to the max. In most cases, frame rates will be choppy when there are too many special 
 moves are unleashed. Unloading Ultimate moves by either side will slowdown the frame rate further. 
 It is not a 'slideshow', just noticeable when the characters are moving at 30-60 frames per second 
 and then slow down to about 20-25 frames per second.
  
  2. Loading times refer to the amount of time in going in and out of scenes when going through a 
 door or entering to a different location on the map screen. Typical of any RPG, you have to go 
 to shops, inn, guilds, map/dungeon entrances to advance the storyline. The Last Remnant has a lot 
 of them and each time you enter or exit a location, the screen will load 5-10 seconds for the next 
 location to load. The Last Remnant, however, allows a player to bring up either the World or Town 
 Map so that your character can select what area of the map to go to. This is different from FFXII, 
 where you have to literally run across the country side if you want to visit different locations. 
 The Last remnant remedies the loading time by just using these short-cuts without using a Chocobo 
 or an Airship.
  
  3. Popups refer to loading of textures (details) when redrawing the screen. In the Last Remnant, 
 after entering a new location, you would notice that some details or textures are missing from 
 your character and the current screen. After 2 seconds, details are applied. This is true for every 
 scene/location of this game.
  
  Should You Buy/Rent/Not Buy The Last Remnant:
  
  Although they (tech problems) are there, I am not bothered with them or annoyed with them. Do they 
 distract me from the gameplay as an RPG veteran? No. Let me explain.
  
  1. Frame rates ONLY slows down during battle BUT since this is a Strategy Tactical RPG and not 
 an ACTION RPG, it really hardly matters. Slowdown in frame rates also allows you to hit long combo 
 chains by timing your button presses. .
  
  2. Loading between screens averaged 5-6 seconds ... which may be annoying but if you have at least 
 7.0 GB space on your HDD, install the game and this will cut the loadin time in 3-4 seconds and 
 would help the frame rate issues during battles. .
  
  3. Popups are still there even if you load it in the HDD but all details are loaded within 2 seconds 
 which to me does not bother the gameplay. .
  
  4. RPG games are not measured or reviewed by framerates or popups alone. Turn-based and strategy 
 RPGs are measured by the gameplay, music, characters and story. I have played a lot of RPGs of 
 both turn-based and strategy based in my time beginning with the Final fantasies series, Dragon 
 quests series, Lost Odyssey, Blue Dragon, Final Fantasy Tactics, The Fire Emblem series, Advance 
 Wars series, The Disgea series, Shin Megami series (Persona 3, Digital Devil Saga 1 and 2) , Grandia 
 series, Arc the Lad series, Skies of Acadia, Lunar the Silver Star series, Baten Kaitos, The Suikoden 
 series, Chrono Cross, Chrono Trigger, Xenosaga series and even obscure titles such as Atelier Iris 
 series and Stella Deus. Each game that I mentioned are Strategy/Turn based type RPGs. .
  
  Reviewers have to consider that Strategy/turn based games' strong points are not in the technical 
 department (graphics, frame rate, loading time) but the STORY, CHARACTERS and GAMEPLAY. .
  
  Lost Odyssey has long load times between battles and some frame rate issues but the story, voice 
 acting and dramatic sequences are exceptional that it will draw you in. .
  
  Similarly, Final Fantasy 2 on the SNES, has frame rate issues with its MODE 7 back in 1990's BUT 
 the story and characters were exceptional and moving at times that it became a classic and remade 
 into FF 4 for the DS. .
  
  Xenogears have 'crappy' camera angles and graphics but the depth of the gameplay and plot twists 
 makes it a well-loved game by the RPG gaming community. .
  
  Last Remnant is the same: its glory is its BATTLE system: its engaging and the strategy will tax 
 your brain to win almost tough impossible battles. The music and atmosphere are also above average. 
 It's a winner in my book since as a veteran gamer, I can compare other awful games that I have 
 played that received much higher score than this ( (Stella Deus=7.5) One Final Note: .
  
  Do not expect this to have the same gameplay as an ACTION RPG game like the Tales series, Valkyrie 
 Profile, Kingdom Hearts and Star Ocean series since you will be disappointed. This is a game requires 
 your BRAIN and not your fast thumbs. Rent the game if you are not sure. Buy it if you are an RPG 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyC
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 26, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  I remember a time when Square used to be gold. Every RPG they made was either a classic or at least 
 good enough to want to play through once. Now I cannot bring myself to play more than an hour's 
 worth of their latest efforts. The Last Remnant looked so promising and yet it is completely frustrating. 
 Your main character looks like he has buck teeth and lacks any real personality. Then the more 
 frustrating part occurs when you are in battle and everything seems like it is running in slow 
 motion. I just feel that we should be way past slow down problems with this generation of games 
 and to still see it is not only disappointing but shows a lack of commitment and polish on Square's 
 behalf and is an extreme disservice to their loyal customers. I do not know why they cannot produce 
 a RPG with the level of quality in which the company used to be known for but it would be nice 
 if they figured it out before their fan-base dwindles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinantes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  I wish I could have waited longer to post this, but I fear that people sitting on the fence about 
 this game deserved a prod in the right direction. 
  
  The Last Remnant is a fantastic game. As you might have read it is marred by a sluggish opening 
 and some technical flaws that all but disappear once you load it onto your 360's hard drive (a 
 feat I only learned to do upon release of this game) . These flaws, however, do not detract from 
 the experience as a whole, and I feel that it has suffered unduly from reviewers fixated on them.
 
  
  Minor technical issues? Deduct a point a move on. Whoop-de-doo.
  
  Now, to the game itself. It feels like Final Fantasy. The characters are rich and realized, the 
 word has depth and astounding detail. I get giddy when I load it up -- how's that?
  
  Its obvious masterstroke -- and at least every review DOES mention this -- is the battle system. Whether 
 fighting in close-quarter caverns or amidst the sprawl of a chaotic battlefield, the fighting is 
 engrossing and fantastically involved. Parries and dodges are fluidly animated and brutal strikes 
 look, well, brutal indeed. The strategy is simple enough to learn but complex enough to keep you 
 working towards mastering it throughout much of the game.
  
  Character customization is also a strong point, with key figures asking you which area they should 
 focus on or seeking your approval to use your loot to upgrade their equipment. And there are plenty 
 of characters to choose from: Enigmatic leaders that are hired at guilds and have varied backgrounds 
 of there own, as well as more general foot-soldiers with fun names to fill the ranks and even grow 
 alongside the main cast (think Final Fantasy Tactics) .
  
  The cutscenes are dramatic and well-directed, the music is superb, and the game's antagonists -- from 
 cruel warlocks and conniving politicians to the mysterious Conqueror (whose cold disregard and 
 understated menace remind me of the greatest of all Final Fantasy adversaries) -- keep the story 
 riveting and entertaining as it unfolds.
  
  Before this game's release I assumed it was basically a Final Fantasy game that takes place on 
 battlefields, and that is essentially what it is, though the story and gameplay outside of that 
 has delighted me greatly. If you like Final Fantasy, I cannot recommend this game enough. Load 
 it onto your hard drive, and then get ready for a classic. Stunning vistas, epic battles, dream 
 sequences, flashbacks, crazy realms inside realms, betrayal and revenge and friendship -- it's all 
 here.
  
  Oh, and one more thing: There is a race (one of which is a main character and others you can employ) 
 of four-armed cat-men. So, yeah. Frigging awesome. Cat men. Four arms. Think about it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmmmmy1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Any publicity is good publicity they say, and in the case of The Last Remnant it is completely 
 true.
  
  You have all read the Gamespot review, and noticed the rather dismal average set by the critics 
 of the gaming world. You've also seen the player reviews, which range from stellar to near crap. 
 Where does the truth lie? Both, I'm afraid.
  
  Last Remnant is by all accounts a brilliant RPG, and a bold endeavor by the grand Square-Enix. 
 The story is engaging, fulfilling and deep; the battle system is complicated at first, but draws 
 you in undeniably as you begin to truly comprehend what is happening. As the game progresses, the 
 charm oozing from every pore will entwine you in its web and you will be unable to put it down. 
 Your dreams will take on an epic cast, I assure you!
  
  That being said there are of course the rather glaring technical issues. The frame rate at times 
 slows to a crawl, and the textures have a way of appearing out of no where. In a game like Final 
 Fantasy this would be a fatal flaw, but in a game with so much happening on screen, its completely 
 forgivable. Think of the days of Suikoden where we were mystafied and satisfied by nearly 8 bit 
 representations of armies on the battle field. 
  
  What do you expect from games these days? An HD adventure with stunning graphics and uncompremised 
 realism? Or are you looking for a brilliant story, with fun battles? If you dont get too caught 
 up in your own expectations for the graphics of this generation, you will easily overlook the small 
 errors.
  
  This game as package is worth 8 without a doubt, and a 9 from me because the glitches I can live 
 with. For those who find it too much to bear, I would recommend you still play it, give it a rental. 
 Find a friend, buy him a beer and talk him into letting you play his copy. You won't regret it......... better 
 make it two beers.
  
  Cheers :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudStrife97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Over the years I have been a huge square enix fan, and even just a huge RPG fan. Ive played all 
 Final Fantasy games, the Fable series, Star Ocean, Dragon Quest, Tales Of Symphonia, Eternal Sonata, 
 Infinite Undiscovery, Kingdom Hearts, and probably some more I cant remember, but even after playing 
 and beating all those RPGs I could never get tired of a game like The Last Remnant. 
  The Last Remnant is a great game for anyone who loves RPG's or anyone who just wants a fun game 
 with a good story. 
  The Good: The battle system is amazing. To start off it is a little slow, and you will be very 
 very confused for the first 3-8 fights until you realize whats actually going on. The story is 
 new and inventive, though it does take awhile to get really into it. The characters are intresting 
 and you can really connect with them. And the voice acting is very good, they got a good line of 
 voice actors including Johnny Yong Bosch (Bleach, Trigun, Devil May Cry, Power Rangers Black Ranger 
 Adam
  The Bad: Yes the framerate is not the best we have ever seen in an MMO, but within 2 seconds of 
 each scene it corrects itself and goes back to being fine. 
  So in the end there is no reason why any RPG fan should miss out on this game. Square Enix has 
 done it again, and even though many people didnt like Infinite Undiscovery, I promise you if you 
 give The Last Remnant a chance you wont be disapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_redwan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The Last Remnant is an outstanding JRPG that breaks the classical Turn based formula without becoming 
 "another" Action RPG game. the battle system is amazing and highly invigorating. Although technical 
 problems are obvious it in most scenarios does not break up the play of the game significantly.
 
  
  The game whilst centering around the role playing experience does tend a heavy hand towards the 
 strategic aspect. Pre-battle planning is a strong part of the game as you manage your unions sort 
 out who works best with whom, the formation etc... This is cleverly integrated as it does not seem 
 like a chore and feels like it is a part of the game as you move through the excellent story with 
 a few twists thrown in.
  
  Overall an excellent game that could have warranted an instant purchase from all gamers if it were 
 not for the minor but obvious technical flaws. PS3 and PC users can rejoice as the extended time 
 between the releases will allow the developers to remedy these faults and offer a smoother gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FF_Fan13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  The Last Remnant is an immersive, turned-based RPG. That's right, TURN-BASED!!! Thanks to Square 
 Enix, fans of the genre can once again be ecstatic. A thought-provoking tale, only at first cliched. 
 Rush Sykes must rescue Irina from unknown flying creatures, first seen in the E3 trailer. But that 
 soon turns into an intricate plot involving countless people and the search for power. However, 
 TLR is far from cliched, as gamers discover as they progress through the game, and should last 
 gamers anywhere from 50 hours to 70+. The battle system is unique, strategic, and absolutely fun. 
 Some frame-rate issues are the only things holding TLR from a game nothing short of brilliant. 
 Definitely a must own... if you have a 360. If you got PS3 and 360, you might want to consider 
 waiting a few months for the PS3 version to avoid frame-rate issues. But if you only have a 360, 
 don't let the technical issues hold you back from owning this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareRocks
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  The Last Remnant is an excellent game, with a great story. I was sucked in for eight hours straight 
 playing it the day it came out. The battle system is very unique, but fun at the same time. Graphics 
 wise, it looks wonderful. The player models look great against all the lighting and shadow effects. 
 The only problem with the game are the small slow downs during battles, which are mostly fixed 
 just by installing the game to the hard drive. The characters are interesting, and the whole fantasy 
 world SE created is just fantastic. For anyone who likes a good soundtrack, this game has one. 
 I strongly reccomend this game if you are hungry for a good Japanese RPG like I was for this generation. 
 It is up there with Lost Odyssey, Tales of Vesperia, and Eternal Sonata. In my personal opinion, 
 it is better than all three of those, although they are fantastic games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caribo2222
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  So you read the review on Gamespot.... It's wrong!. The Last Remnant is a take on classic RPG style, 
 but with a twist so it appeals to the old and the new.... Believe me, the music is wonderfull, story 
 is fufilling and the gameplay is hella fun. 
  
  So you miss old RPG style?... You will love this. Maybe you prefer new style?... You will love this. 
 Either way you will be surprised at how great this game is.
  
  The graphical problems you say?... You get over, they're annoying at first, but once you see how 
 good the game is who cares anyway. 
  
  This game does everything right and appeals to all RPG fans, and i don't think the score should 
 have been lowered because of the technical issues, look at Mass Effect GS.
  
  Don't forget this guy gave Blue Dragon a 6, Lost Odyssey a 7.5 and in this review says nothing 
 but good for the game except for technical issues which can be fixed with an install.
  
  
  One peace of advice.... Don't miss out, enjoy and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aevalon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  You would think a company like Square-Enix would have more experience under their belt for great 
 RPGs and classics. Sure, they have graphics and characters down perfectly. Plenty of time went 
 into this game, and what do we get in the first 10 minutes of play? Slowdowns, even when installed 
 on the HardDrive of your XBOX 360, using the new Experience update. The very first battle suffered 
 from terrible choppy slowdowns, you could barely make out what was happening in the fights. 
  
  Voice acting was good, lip-syncing was great. Not including Japanese voice acting? Bad. We're 
 in a great technological age where it's very much possible, and alot of fans even prefer it. If 
 you don't, that's fine. But having a choice on the matter suits both kinds of fans. Fights seem 
 very tedious and not too well thought out. Others will greatly disagree with these simple opinions, 
 but I promise you, they're nothing more than opinions. Please, don't get offended by them. 
  
  The choice on the purchase is yours to make. I would recommend a rental. I see the potential, 
 but it's an acquired taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosita46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Hello, to all RPG Fans, this game is Amazing! Of course this is one of those games you just have 
 to play in for 15 or more hours and it will be all worth it. The scenery, characters, music, this 
 game is Solid it has it all for those of us who are Final Fantasy fans, go and buy or rent it is 
 worth the time you invest in playing. I am truly enjoying the play through and I know I have to 
 give it more time for the fighting sequence, but I did play TOV and that game got me from the start. 
 And that is what The Last Remnant did not do for me from the start but we all can have a change 
 of heart. So I continued playing and was hooked. The story line is very interested you do get into 
 the characters and the story I am so glad I gave it the chance it deserves. Because I do think 
 that all games deserve to be reviewed has one, so for now I will continue to play game see if my 
 rating changes. The story line I do love it and the graphics are Amazing and so are the voice and 
 they do sound very familiar!!! And of course my rating of the The Last Remnant has changed So until 
 later have fun, enjoy and see ya!
  xbox gamertag
  Iluvsleepy25 
::::::

::::::
UserName: philiphasler
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:16 am PT
Review:  I think I am agreeing with most reviewers, when telling you that the gamespot-editors are terribly 
 wrong concerning their rating of this fantastic game, especially in their attention to the technical 
 flaws... if a game is perfectly flawless, it is not fun anymore... there have to be some flaws 
 or little programming mistakes, which in my opinion make the game even more human... the graphics 
 are immense, the characters well presented and colourful, the game play is brilliant and the battlesystem 
 innovative. Some times, the gamespot-editors are looking for mistakes, but can not appreciate the 
 brilliance of some of the games. while numerous ego-shooters seem to be more or less perfect, they 
 have one big flaw in common: not being an rpg. 
  
  back to the game: I've been looking forward to this game a long time, but this did not put me in 
 a position too subjective anyway... and you, dear gamespot-editors? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7vaan7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  I Love this game, i am not very far into it but loving it, i'll write this with just sections cuz 
 this is my first review
  
  Story, 8.8/10-
  Most games from this Company, SE, don't have the greatest stories unless they are truly an FF game, 
 but this one really made a stand, it was a unique plot with a good base to start off with, no milling 
 around until the plot really starts up, you get on it right away. Not too complicated, not too 
 simple.
  
  Gameplay, 9.4/10
  After watching many trailers for this i was still curious on how the system worked, and it lived 
 up to my expectations, it is a very new system, where you control Unions of characters (5) , not 
 just single characters and you select a command from a list to address all your characters for 
 a given situation, weapon skill (Combat Arts) and Magic, sort of (Mystic Arts) which slowly evolve 
 as you become attached to one or the other, i haven't explored much of Mystic arts but Combat Arts 
 aren't flashy, but they are effective
  Bottom line, amazing system, but due to not as much player interactiveness during the stage in 
 which all commands play out, kept it from being perfect.
  
  Music/Sound, 10/10
  All i can say is WOW, a breathtaking twist on traditional Game soundtrack by adding guitar and 
 other effects to the normal techno-ish themes, along with the city themes being heavily reminiscent 
 of themes from FF12, *cough* Archades and Rabanastre *cough* the battle is amazing and keeps you 
 wanting to battle and even changes due to flow of battle, not necessarilly who si winning, but 
 the game knows when the climax is, and changes appropraitely. BUY THE SOUNDTRACK IF YOU AREN'T 
 GOING TO PLAY THE GAME
  
  Overall, 9.5/10
  
  this game is an instant classic, you should play it, ignore what people say about lagg and such, 
 for you will only miss out on the true potential of games if you only pay attention to that stuff. 
 My only true gripe is the text size/font, i don't have the greatest eyesight and refuse to wear 
 glasses, so i have trouble with it, but even at close range, reading art effects are immensely 
 hard, HD may be able to fix it, but i am not going to get my parents to invest in HD just for a 
 single game.
  
  All in all, one of the best games I have ever played
  
  The Last Remnant 2, FTW... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChoboDrifter
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I really liked the intro. Once you get into the game it goes to a cut scene where you see Rush (The 
 main character) running to where the battle is taking place. I noticed the frame was kinda choppy 
 and i was hoping it wouldn't turn out to be like Lost odyssey. It's not as bad but you will get 
 it here and there. 
  
  Graphics:7/10
  It didn't WOW me but i could deal it with. As you progress into the game you will noticed the texture 
 in the cut scene is sloppy in the background and is very noticeable. The character design was done 
 great. The character design is a huge thing to me and i liked it. 
  
  Gameplay:8/10
  Really convenient when your in a town. You don't have to walk area to area. I like how you could 
 create, upgrade and customize your own weapon. (I don't know what else to put here)
  
  Character System:6/10
  I was a bit disappointing with it when i noticed you couldn't level up. 
 Instead you level up stats like HP, AP, Strength, Intelligence etc. The other bad thing about this 
 is you cannot equip gear on characters except yourself. There gear could be upgraded by obtaining 
 certain items from loot. 
  
  Battle System:7/10
  I think the most troubling thing you will come across to is the battle system. Really unique but 
 confusing as well. I didn't understand one bit of it when i engaged in my first fight. There is 
 also a morale bar. It depends on how well you do in battle the bar will move in your favor. The 
 main point of it is it can help you do more damage to your opponent or vice versa. They also have 
 a trigger button in which if you time it right you can do more damage for example if Y lights up 
 on the screen you press it. You'll get use to it eventually and know everything later on in the 
 game but to start off it was difficult to understand.
  
  Voice/Sound:6/10
  the voices were good. They have a lot of cut scenes and i enjoyed them so far. But as for when 
 your in battle. You only hear Rush talk at the beginning and then it goes all silent. Like other 
 games, when your about to attack usually characters say some one liners but in this game, they 
 don't talk at all. The sounds in battles were really pathetic. most of the time you hear the music 
 but the action sounds i don't think were even there. So its basically like playing with no sound 
 while having your music on. Actually i think that is better than playing with the game sound. 
 
  
  Character recruitment:
  In towns you could access a house called "Guild (something) "
  In that place you could recruit your units. They are expensive but very useful. 
  
  (The sound 
 was disappointing but the game overall is good. I give it a 34/50=68%)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonymemu
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  this is my first review but when i tried out the game i felt like i had to share my thoughts about 
 it with somebody,
  
  things i like about the game,
  
  -the battle system even though a bit strange at the beginning, feels awesome as you get used to 
 it. really innovative.
  -simplicity in cities or in the world map, where you can go wherever you want without delay or 
 having to run all around the city to go to whatever shop you want to go to.
  -graphics, good graphics it doesn't stand up to Lost Odyssey in graphics but nearly, no near Lost 
 Odyssey in face animation or animations in general.
  -recruiting soldiers, mercenaries etc
  - the ''fishy'' kind race
  
  things i really don't like
  
  - how rush stands out of the 
 picture with the other characters, ''let's get it on'' don't sweat it, etc etc, the other characters 
 are great.
  - loading times
  - maps and some scenaries, too simple
  - some flaws in the storyline
  - Rush
  - Rush
  
  
  The game is good and worth playing!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xraided199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm not gonna make this too long like I sometimes do. But that's not because the game doesn't deserve 
 it, it's only that I really need to be straight to the point.
  
  I rarely play anything other than traditional RPGs, and this one has blown my mind. From reading 
 the many previews and viewing as many videos as possible, I got an idea of the combat system before 
 engaging it. Well, it's amazing. I'm kinda disappointed that many RPGs have lately turned to action-style, 
 which is not bad at all, but I am tried and true a turn-based fan. This system gives a special 
 twist to turn-based by involving huge groups of soldiers and enemies.
  
  The story, while some elements of Rush remind me of Capell from IU, is actually quite captivating 
 and keep me fairly interested. The characters all seem to have their normal RPG-quirks which I 
 have come to love in these types of games haha.
  
  The look of the game is incredible as well, the only minus being the apparent hit the FPS take 
 during an intense fight scene or action scene. And maybe it was just me, but during certain cutscenes, 
 I realized that during the 1st few seconds, some of the detail appears in "layers" on the screen. 
 Again, this is only noticeable for a few seconds and then the detail and beauty blow me away.
 
  
  All in all, I highly recommend this game, and there are SO many elements I haven't even gone into 
 right now. JUST BUY THIS GAME, YOU WON'T BE DISAPPOINTED!!!
  
  -m$ney- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szalkerous
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, with all the hype surrounding The Last Remnant, I set out to give the largest Square Enix 
 title to hit the XBOX 360 a go.
  
  The game is packaged well, with a 41-page user manual, two DVD discs, and a complimentary poster.
 
  
  Upon loading the game, it briefed into a quick title screen. Upon selecting "New Game" I was treated 
 to a Config menu, after which I was set on my way into the game world.
  
  The initial cutscene immediately set into motion. The graphics are unique, very crisp at some spots, 
 blurred in others. I noticed the cutscene stuttered a bit during the first 10 seconds of play, 
 but seemed to smooth out a bit afterwards. The character profile and appearance was well done, 
 far more detailed than other RPGs. The first battle came quickly after further video. I was a bit 
 taken aback but the rash and vulgar drop in framerate during this portion. The graphical intensity 
 of this game is immediately obvious, with highly detailed and colorful character models and scenery. 
 Upon completing the first serving of gameplay, I was treated to further cutscenes, short, but all 
 interrupted by a full-sized loading screen.
  
  Being a bit disappointed at the performance and plethora of loading interruptions, I decided to 
 load the game to the XBOX HDD, to try to squeak out a bit more performance. This was the first 
 time any 360 titled compelled me to do so -- all other titles have seemingly run fine direct from 
 disc.
  
  After which, the game seemed a bit better, but I still was rudely aware of the blatant texture 
 loading when entering new scenes or camera angles. I daresay this title may be exceeding the 360's 
 rendering capabilities at the higher HD resolutions. I personally am running at 720p. I hate to 
 guess how it performs at a full 1080p.
  
  Overall, the storyline and attention to detail is a 10/10, but obvious flaws in the graphical presentation 
 in the form of stuttering, low framerates, texture loading, and persistent loading screens weighs 
 heavily against it. I've also noticed some choppy model animation at points, but I think this stands 
 out more so in stark contrast to the typically fluid motions of the characters otherwise. The tutorials 
 are strange and feel unnatural, and there are sections of the game where no indication of "what's 
 next" are presented. I only hope as the game progresses the storyline succeeds where the technical 
 shortcomings have held it back, making it an enjoyable overall purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JTheUntouchable
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The Last Remnant, from Square-Enix.
  
  Is it any good?
  
  Of course it is!
  
  Let me break it down for you. The graphics are pretty good, i give it a 8.5/10.
  There is plenty 
 of voice acting, but sometimes the mouth doesn't in sync with the voices but its not so bad.
  
  The battle system is unique, I'm still kind of confused by it but its definitely something 
 different. From what I noticed, there is a ring system, sort of like Lost Odyssey. A list of triggers 
 come up, telling u to press either A, B, X or Y, and even the RT button. Doing so at the right 
 time makes your attacks stronger, which is pretty good. From what I also understand is that you 
 can multi-task with a lot of characters in battle and sort of control a group of fighters so you 
 would have like 3 here, and 3 there maybe... fighting these group of monsters while the other group 
 fights the other. There isn't really no time bar or anything for an attack you chose to take place 
 instead it is turn based, but it is pretty quick!
  
  There is also a Morale bar on top of the screen everytime you are engaged in a fight. Depending 
 on how many enemies u defeat during battle, and how you planned your attack the bar gets higher 
 in a blue hue which says allies which is you. Your attacks increase as well as speed I believe, 
 this is also a lil nice thing square has added to this game.
  
  Battles are also user-initiated and they are not random which is good! But it is advised to battle 
 as much as possible to level up yourself as well as your magic etc, etc.
  
  Loading times are also ehh, they're so so, but they're not as slow like Losy Odyssey... forget 
 about it lol, but this game I'm sure maybe if you even install the game now with the new x-box 
 experience out onto your hard drive the load times will prob be even cut completely.
  
  Lets see what else, the music is pretty cool I mean I don't know how many people actually care 
 about it but its good, its not boring or anything like that.
  
  This game overall is pretty good, I really like it so far. Keep in mind I have only been playing 
 it for about 2 and a half hours, but so far I am liking it a lot. If your skeptic, rent it I guess, 
 but I think you will be satisfied with the outcome. The game is also 2 discs!
  
  I hope I was helpful by putting up this review... feedback is appreciated. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
