-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Lord of the Rings: Conquest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/lordoftheringspandemicprojectworkingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fight epic battles in iconic locations.
 Evil campaign is morbidly delightful.
 Cutscenes and music create dramatic atmosphere.
 Playing as trolls, ents, and heroes is exciting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Battles often boil down to button mashing.
 Many cheap ways to die.
 Playing campaign solo can be aggravatingly hard.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 14, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 5.6, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 932 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Jan 13, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Lord of the Rings: Conquest is an exciting and action-packed way to experience Middle-earth, 
 provided that you have the patience and fortitude to shoulder a few frustrating burdens. 

  The Lord of the Rings universe is full of memorable battles. No matter whether they are staged 
 in a cramped burial chamber or on a vast, open plain, each clash of arms teeters between exultant 
 triumph and agonizing defeat. In The Lord of the Rings: Conquest, you'll experience your fair share 
 of both. There are abundant thrills in both the good and evil campaigns, from attacking oliphaunts 
 with catapults on the Pelennor Fields to burning the ringed ramparts of Minas Tirith. However, 
 the frantic combat can often devolve into a button-mashing frenzy as you try to avoid the many 
 varieties of death (some unpleasantly cheap) that await you on the battlefield. These frustrations 
 may prove to be too high a cost of entry for many, but if you're willing to brave the pitfalls 
 (or are a big Lord of the Rings fan) , then Conquest has many hours of satisfying and immersive 
 action for you to enjoy.  

           Trolls? Oliphaunts? Just another day at the office for Legolas.      

  The best hours 
 you'll spend in Conquest will be in the campaigns. The War of the Ring campaign puts you on the 
 ground in the most memorable battles from the books, taking a few detours from canon along the 
 way. The well-crafted, immersive environments mirror those of the movies, from the filthy industrial 
 pits of Isengard to the crumbling walls of Osgiliath, and the score draws on themes from the movies 
 to make battles feel more dramatic. As fun as the War of the Ring campaign is, there's an exciting 
 novelty to playing as the forces of Mordor in the Rise of Sauron campaign. In this alternate storyline, 
 the ring bearer fails in his mission and the once-ebbing tide of evil flows forth across Middle-earth, 
 scouring all in its path. Cutscenes between levels use footage from the movies to craft a believable 
 narrative around your dark exploits, and it's morbidly thrilling to destroy beloved locations and 
 heroes. The last level in particular is so delightfully sinister that you'll likely find yourself 
 cackling with malicious glee.  

  During most of the battles, you'll be fighting as one of the rank-and-file soldier classes. The 
 warrior, the archer, the mage, and the scout all have their own unique strengths, weaknesses, and 
 special attacks. From the mage's firewall to the warrior's whirlwind sweep, each class can perform 
 a number of pleasingly powerful special attacks by drawing on energy gained from fighting and surviving. 
 As deadly as each class can be, they are also vulnerable. An archer can easily mow down a warrior 
 from a distance, but if the warrior manages to close the gap, there isn't much that the archer 
 can do to survive. Close combat is brutal and chaotic, and once you get knocked down, it can be 
 very hard to get up. Because fights favor the soldier who lands the first strike, they often become 
 frantic button mash-offs. This can be tense and exciting, but it also makes defeat bitterer than 
 it ought to be.  

  Working with other players is a great way to shore up your defenses, and The Lord of the Rings: 
 Conquest features a cooperative campaign mode for two players, both locally and online. However, 
 when you're going it alone, you'll find that not only is friendly AI unhelpful, but the enemy AI 
 also sees you as public enemy number one. You'll have to destroy the lion's share of the enemy 
 forces and be vigilant for attacks that can kill you instantly (such as fire arrows, backstabs, 
 and anything a troll or ent does) . You have a limited number of lives, and with so many ways to 
 die, they can go quickly. Restarting the level is mildly tedious, but it can be a blessing in disguise 
 when a mismatch between friendly and enemy spawn rates has you facing an insurmountable tide of 
 foes.  

           A poison arrow to the face will take the wind out of that Gondorian's sails.      

 
  It can be frustrating to be a grunt, so it's fortunate that The Lord of the Rings: Conquest offers 
 many ways to make your battlefield presence more formidable. The simplest of these involve mounted 
 weapons such as catapults and ballistas: powerful yet destructible machines of war that can be 
 a blast while they last. You can also mount horses or wargs and ride through enemy ranks, sword 
 a-swinging. Taking control of an ent or a troll lets you grab, smash, and throw enemies to your 
 heart's content, and rampaging around on a massive, lumbering oliphaunt is unwieldy fun. Occasionally 
 throughout the campaign you will also get the chance to play as heroes, such as Gandalf, Aragorn, 
 Sauron, and the balrog. These units are powerful versions of the normal classes with their own 
 unique special attacks that let you wreak all sorts of havoc. There is a pleasing variety of heroes 
 featured throughout the campaigns, enough that there is an entire online mode dedicated to hero 
 play.  

  Hero Deathmatch is just one of the 16-player online modes available in Conquest. There is also 
 normal Team Deathmatch, as well as Lord of the Rings versions of Capture the Flag and Territories. 
 Everyone chooses a soldier class to begin with, but the many maps feature the aforementioned machines 
 and mounts to spice things up. When a team reaches a certain percentage of points needed for victory, 
 the top-scoring player will be offered the opportunity to spawn as a hero. It can be tough to break 
 a team's momentum at that point, but success really depends on the players' willingness to work 
 together. Playing against human opponents is both more exciting and more frustrating. It's more 
 satisfying to work with human teammates to kill characters with human minds behind them, but those 
 same human minds are more capable of getting the best of you with aggravating combat techniques. 
 This makes online battles legitimately challenging, so you'll want to polish your skills in the 
 campaigns first.  

  War is messy, and The Lord of the Rings: Conquest isn't a clean gaming experience. Combat can be 
 as exasperating as it is exhilarating, and playing solo can be a trying endeavor. Nevertheless, 
 these pitfalls are somewhat compensated for by two epic campaigns that draw you into a rich world 
 in new and exciting ways. Fans of this world will get the most out of The Lord of the Rings: Conquest, 
 but gamers who are looking to battle in an epic setting and willing to weather some frustrating 
 elements will find plenty of excitement on this journey through Middle-earth.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (80 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ablain1981
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 10:25 pm PT
Review:  When I purchased this game I was expecting something like Star Wars: Battlefront set in the Lord 
 of the Rings universe. Conquest starts down that path but seems to stop short in its delivery in 
 most areas.
  
  What I found most disappointing is that the game leaves you with very little reason to care about 
 your progression. Like many other games in the LotR universe, Conquest is plastered with clips 
 from the movies. These clips are usually taken out of context to suit the game's storyline (see 
 LotR: Third Age) , and really do a mediocre job of immersing you in the story. 
  
  Since you do not have a character, there is no character progression in the story; you merely get 
 bits of LotR read back to you then you keep playing. Since the game completely ignores canon anyway 
 (yes, even in the good campaign) , it would have been preferable to follow the story of one group 
 and see how they progress. This lack of story progression would be forgivable if there were any 
 sort of other reward for progression.
  
  Similar games in this genre often use achievements or RPG-style character progression to give meaning 
 to your successes. Conquest has absolutely nothing in this regard. You have the same four units 
 available to you and that's it. They don't get stronger, their abilities don't change, they're 
 completely static. The game doesn't even track your statistics. Couple this with the lack-lustre 
 storytelling and, like I said, you keep plowing through with no reason to care.
  
  To compound the lack of incentive to advance is the fact that it can be very hard to do so. Even 
 on "casual" you will find yourself losing all your lives or losing a challenge and having to start 
 from the beginning. The worst part about the difficulty is that it is uneven; it can jump from 
 rediculously easy to frustratingly hard, even on the same challenge. There's no pride in beating 
 a difficult challenge because on some other play through the level, you'll walk right through.
 
  
  The controls to the game are okay, but the HUD does more to confuse you about which button corresponds 
 to each skill than it does to help. Do not make the mistake of believing that green, blue and red 
 icons on-screen correspond to the A, X and B buttons. When you finally get used to using a unit 
 it won't be an issue, but it's a sloppy design element that really should have been caught along 
 the way.
  
  The scale of the game is also disappointing considering the subject matter. The individual maps 
 in the campaigns are surprisingly small. Grand locations like Helm's Deep and Moria feel scaled 
 down. It is often quicker to play through a battle in the game than the same battle took in the 
 movie. The game rarely presents you with a wide field to view, so you never really get a sense 
 of the epic battles that are supposed to be raging around you. 
  
  The visual presentation of the game (HUD aside) is wonderful. Many of the familiar places in Middle 
 Earth are fleshed out well, even if you don't get to see much of them. The sound, as expected, 
 is probably one of the best presented aspects of the game.
  
  If great visual presentation and immersive musical scores are your thing, go out and buy the movies. 
 Conquest is a frustrating, rewardless button-mash. It rests on it license too much and provides 
 no interesting features. If a sequel is made that includes these features, it would be well worth 
 buying; this game, however, is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorBrian
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  One word can describe this game, frustrating. I would want to kill this game if it would be at 
 all possible. The game started out fun because it was Lord of the Rings. I figured that it would 
 be a lot like Two Towers and Return of the King but it wasnt that linear. On the battlefield you 
 were able to do whatever you wanted which was great. Sometimes on the easiest setting it was a 
 little difficult, but that could be because I wasnt taking my time because I wanted to beat it 
 and never play it again. Multiplayer wasnt that great either. It was a great idea but it was hard 
 to control and I died a lot because I could never get close enough to use my sword or whatever. 
 Plus there werent that many people playing and there wasnt anyone played ranked matches so forget 
 trying to get any of the muliplayer achievements. All I have to say is that I rented the game and 
 didnt buy it. If I spent $60 on that game I would have been really pissed off. This game is basically 
 a swing and a miss which is sad because I love the Lord of the Rings universe and would kill for 
 a great game to play on X360 with my friends online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linksit
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Well were do we start about this one. Well The Lord of the Rings Conquest game was over all a big 
 dissapointment. This game could have been so much more better then it is. But i still had fun with 
 it. The online on the other hand was way cool. I had a fun time playing as the Mouth of Sauron
 
  and kicking the hobbits around but it all got old fast. The only thing this game has going for 
 it is the online and the different type of people and monsters you can be. I beat the game and 
 was wanting more. The game play was glitchy
  and sometimes would freeze when the battle got a little too hot. I found it hard to hit people online 
 unless I was shooting them with a bow or fire ball. This game lets a lot of cheap players kill 
 you no matter what there live meater says
  and the spawn killing is crazy. So if I were to be asked buy or rent I would say rent. Because 
 if you bought this game like I did then I feel really sorry for you. I would just bring it back 
 and say that it did not work and that you want a different game all together 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kg1212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Conquest is a great game for fans of games like battlefront 1 and 2. There are 
 only a few minor issues with the game. Those include the occasional problems with the game freezing 
 up for a fraction of a second, the repetitive gameplay, characters and scenery and the fact that 
 it is slightly overpriced for what it is. Other than those few problems there is really nothing 
 wrong with this game. There have already been a couple of downloadable content packs that include 
 a new game mode and new maps and characters. This is good because that was one of the few things 
 the game was lacking. Overall, this game was a fun, addictive game that only had a few notable 
 issues. If you can overlook those issues this game would be a game well worth the purchase, even 
 though it could use a small price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacho123456
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 8:55 pm PT
Review:  First, I will admit that I do not play many hack and slash games and am not that good at them. 
 However, I am a fan of the Lord of the Rings and looked forward to this game for a long time.
 
  This game has so much potential. Combat is fairly fun, and the all the battles from the movies 
 are there. However, I quit the game because I got frustrated playing the same battles over and 
 over because I died at the end of a level and had to load back to the last checkpoint. Each level 
 has several objectives, and the entire level must be finished to save your progress. Even when 
 an objective is completed you do not get a save until the entire level is finished. BOGUS!!!
  
  The other frustration is co-op mode. I wanted to play co-op with a friend (a better player 
 than I am) , but you cannot play co-op on the same computer. You have to have two disks and 2 comps 
 strong enough to run the game.
  BOGUS AGAIN!!! The game is definitely not worth this expense.
  Even a primitive system like the 
 Wii allows up to four players to play on the same machine.
  
  Overall, not a bad game but can be very frustrating if you are not an experienced player of this 
 type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMalicettlGx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:35 pm PT
Review:  If you like Lord of the Rings, this is the game for you, it is very fun and has very simple objectives 
 (that, come to think of it.. get kind of repetetive..) but are still fun nevertheless. Single player 
 mode is decent, but the online and 2 player co-op campaign (especially co-op campaign) are insanely 
 fun. I'll admit i did get stuck on a certain mission in the game on single player and never beat 
 it until a friend came over and elped with co-op. The online seems fun from what i have played 
 of it (which hasnt been much) but i plan on playing it more in the future..
  
  As far as gameplay goes it is very simple and repetetive (ex. warriors only combo is like: XXX 
 YY B lol)
  
  One thing i thought it could do with out was the evil campaign... I honestly didnt like it that 
 much.. Maybe they couldve made the game longer and left out the evil campaign.. but that's just 
 me.
  
  So, if you're a fan of the lord of the rings, i highly reccomend it.
  
  P. S.
  
  PeteDorr!
  check him out on YouTube! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  As the title states, you can be evil as well as good. and that means killing all the heroes from 
 the films and books yourself, for the first ever time! It's something new too the LOTR series and 
 the combat is very fun, don't believe the bad reviews at least rent it if you have doubts. But 
 really this game is epic.
  
  
  SINGLE PLAYER
  
  Single player allows you too play as the forces of good or evil through two separate campaigns 
 and as you may have heard each have different storys from the films and "what ifs" in them, they 
 are likely too last you 10 hours each, so that 20 hours from them and that's very good.
  
  Then there's Instant action which has:
  
  *Team death match
  
  *Team Hero death match
 
  
  *Capture the ring
  
  *Conquest
  
  Each are fun and each exstend Single player, here there are three difficulties Easy Normal and 
 hard, this gives you great challange in these modes.
  
  The AI is great and just like quake wars you believe there real people because they jump do great 
 combos take over areas by themselves and team up agaist you as well as use objects like catapults 
 and horses to there advantage.
  
  MUTIPLAYER
  
  Don't believe what people say, you don't need Live although just like BFME 2 it would make it even 
 more fun. Of course you can play in the same room split screen and that is just as fun as live 
 sometimes.
  
  Just imagine taking on 4 people at once and you start losing and your friend comes to help by jumping 
 of a tower and kicking one guy into larva. Well yes there will be all that "HELP ME STUFF!" And 
 "You flank him from behind and I attack him from the front." What is even more fun is shooting 
 from a tower and sunddenly a guy comes up trying to kill you and you kick him of to his death. 
 Only for an invisible person too come up too kill you, although the same fate awaits them. Yes 
 there is teamwork in this game, archers shoots from the towers while the warriors heads head first 
 into battle, while scouts backstab enemys and mages heal and protect the archers. Mutiplayer is 
 team based and you need too work together, it's why other classes are powerful than another. If 
 you don't work together and fight well your likely too lose.
  
  DLC
  
  There's a free pack already that gives a hero and two new maps so that's good. However the latest 
 one that costs 800 points is a bit of a rip-off.
  
  OVERALL
  
  
  Grapics 7/10
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  Voice acting 6/10
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  Combat 10/10
  
  Music 10/10
 
  
  Levels 10/10
  
  AI 10/10
  
  Slicing up 40 enemys at once 10/10!
  
  Killing gandalf 10/10!
  
  Killing frodo 10/10!
  
  Cutting a hobbits throat: Words just can't 
 describe this!
  
  10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 5:03 am PT
Review:  It's been years since the last Lord of the Rings movie, and I really loved the trilogy, and loved 
 playing the games. I even read the books, though I would have rather just watched the movies and 
 skipped the books.
  So, being a fan of Lord of the Rings, I was excited to hear of a new Lord of the Rings game that 
 played out like a Battlefield game. I couldn't quite imagine what that would be like at the time, 
 since it was like a year ago, but what they made is pretty great.
  The game players like a third-person shooter if you're a wizard or an archer, because they shoot, 
 and it plays like a hack-and-slash game if you're a warrior or a scout, because they carry blades 
 and just throw things. The console games made alongside the movies were hack-and-slash, so that's 
 pretty cool. I would have prefered a combat system more like Morrowind, y'know, first-person and 
 the same view no matter what you're doing, but oh well.
  
  The game begins with a tutorial, as do many games. Much like The Two Towers game made back in 2002, 
 this tutorial starts in an epic battle against Sauron's forces, the battle at the beginning of 
 the first movie. All of the epic fighting is in the background, though. Many of the levels throughout 
 the game feature hordes of AI fighting in the background, numbering in the hundreds, and if you 
 watch them, they just battle endlessly in the same place, never dying, but they do move around 
 a bit.
  The actual level is pretty tedious. As a tutorial, it moves a little slow, but it shows you the 
 ropes, and explains all of the different classes one at a time, then ends with an epic battle against 
 Sauron himself.
  It also reveals how generally every level will work from now on: You do one objective after the 
 other, and lots of AI run around and fight eachother. These AI involve the four player classes 
 from the game, but there are also special AI, like "captains", that look more beefed-up and are 
 a lot tougher, and then there are lots and lots and lots of grunts.
  All grunts look exactly the same, can't block and are generally helpless as they fall before your 
 blade. They remind me of Dynasty Warriors, as you just wade through them and they die bloodless 
 deaths, although this is way more fun. They add to the environment, and give you something easy 
 to kill, because all of the regular enemies and captains take tons of hits and don't appear in 
 high numbers.
  Some variety would have been nice though. Every Gondorian grunt looks like the same long-haired 
 guy with a beard. This is a pretty distinct appearance so it looks funny when you have twenty of 
 them side by side standing before you. Why not put the Gondorian helmet on them? They would look 
 the same, but it would be because of their uniform instead of their haircut so it'd look fine.
 
  
  This game was made by the same guys who made Star Wars Battlefront, and it really shows, because 
 it's vaguely similar, and the campaign works the same way: multiplayer levels with a single player 
 style. One big improvement is that, instead of losing reinforcements when your teammates die, you 
 just have extra lives. This means that your teammates are almost completely incapable of completing 
 any objectives by themselves, but it was pretty much the same in Star Wars, only you were punished 
 for the dumb AI's inability to defend itself.
  
  Something you will probably notice is that the AI prioritize you as a target over your friends. 
 In Star Wars Battlefront, there was no such bias. Enemies treated you and your teammates the same. 
 But in Star Wars Battlefront 2, somebody had the bright idea to make all AI put killing the player 
 above all else. There would be an epic battle going on between the enemy and your teammates, but 
 as soon as you appeared, any enemy that saw you would shoot at you and only you, irrelevant of 
 all the teammates that seperated the enemy from you. This looked really stupid, and it is really 
 stupid, and it's not at all fun in general.
  Lord of the Rings Conquest at least improves this BAD feature, so that, from what I could tell, 
 only a certain number of AI will prefer you as a target, and if you run away, or hide, or get teammates 
 between you and your foes, they'll forget about you and fight your teammates. This works out pretty 
 well, as it always keeps an enemy after you, but not ALL of the freaking enemies like SWBF2. I 
 would prefer never to be prioritized, but then I would also prefer useful teammates, and since 
 the game doesn't have useful teammates, they pretty much HAD to make the player the number one 
 target.
  To even things out, you can do a co-op mode with a friend. One thing you'll notice, when having 
 a friend play, is how useless the friendly AI are. The mage is a necessity to any group of soldiers: 
 He can block arrows and spells, and heal teammates, but friendly arrows and spells will pass right 
 through his shield, so archers can hide in his shield and fire away, safe from enemy fire.
  But the AI won't do that for you. The AI only heal when they feel like it, and same goes for shielding. 
 Sometimes, there are NO friendly mages. With zero mages, it can be difficult to be any other class 
 because the mage is so crucial for the survival of the other classes. You will notice that the 
 enemies have LOTS of mages, and they LOVE to use their shields all the time.
  Enemy soldiers also love to block. Grunts can't block, so you can just wade through them, but enemies 
 that CAN block just never stop. If you're a warrior or a scout, only ONE attack can hurt a blocking 
 opponent, and it requires energy to do the attack, so it's really annoying. Energy is limited, 
 and recharges either slowly over time or quickly through fighting.
  The campaign has catapults, and and explosives-shooting ballistas, and mounts, but I could never 
 use any of them. I'd touch them and get knocked off immediately. It was easier to just go on foot, 
 since you never have to use any of those things. There are lots of ents and trolls going around, 
 and how this works is a player walks up and "gets into" the ent or troll. You can't get back out 
 once you're inside one, or if you can I couldn't figure it out. In the campaign, I only got to 
 be an ent once. I was never again given an opportunity to get into a troll or ent. There are also 
 battering rams, which are only in the single player mode in certain situations, and all you can 
 do with them is move them forward.
  
  The most fun levels of the campaign are the big, open battles, of which there are few. Most of 
 the levels have you go through lots of paths, hallways and other crap. Two memorable levels are 
 the Pelennor Fields and Weathertop, because they are battles that take place on open battlefields, 
 instead of lots of small areas.
  And, really, that should have been EVERY level. They went out of their way to make up reasons to 
 have you fight in the hallways of Moria and Minas Morgul, why not go out of their way for some 
 more open levels? The tutorial level doesn't have a multiplayer version, but if you watch the movie, 
 the actual battle takes place in a huge field. So why not have a multiplayer level that takes place 
 in the huge field at the beginning of the first movie?
  
  Speaking of movie, this game takes a lot of liberty with the events of the movie. Many of the levels 
 take locales from the movie where there were no big battles, and put big battles in them. In the 
 Mines of Moria, Gimli and Gandalf go back with a bunch of soldiers to reclaim it, and then for 
 some reason Gandalf has to fight the Balrog again, although this time Gandalf can shoot lightning 
 out of his hands so he is decidedly more prepared than last time.
  Some of the levels based on actual movie battles just don't seem like all they could have been. 
 In Minas Tirith, rather than fighting an epic battle on the walls to defend from orcs, you go on 
 the walls seemingly by yourself and have to take down a bunch of siege towers single-handedly, 
 and then once they're gone, you immediately leave the walls. You'd have to play the 2003 video 
 game and be Gandalf if you wanted to get a better experience in the battle of Minas Tirith.
  In the Pelennor Fields, there are hardly any Riders of Rohan to speak of, or horses in general, 
 and all of the wargs in the game just stand around like the horses, which seems really weird because 
 you'd think that they would just keep fighting anyway, being giant, deadly super-wolves.
  Helms Deep is lacking all of the heroes from the battle, though Aragorn EVENTUALLY appears (in 
 his King of Gondor outfit) , but Theoden appears first, without his horse for some reason. You defend 
 the wall from guys who want to blow it up, but when they do blow it up later, they don't even go 
 through the wall. There's nothing at all behind the walls, but in the movie, Aragorn and like 100 
 guys fight the orcs head-on behind the walls. Why couldn't that part be in the game? Why couldn't 
 they use the heroes more, especially in places where they obviously should be? Also, you can't 
 kick down the ladders. That really bothered me.
  When you go to Isengard, you kill Grima Wormtongue like a miniboss. Yeah, the snidely, forktongued 
 liar is suddenly a badass who wields two swords, turns invisible and beats the crap out of you. 
 Then you turn into Gandalf, walk into Saruman's tower and choke him with your bare hands. Well, 
 you kill him single-handedly with magic.
  In the actual movie, in the extended version, Grima kills Saruman. So having Grima dual-wield swords 
 to beat the crap out of an entire army by himself, and then have Gandalf kill Saruman, is REALLY, 
 REALLY taking liberties. I mean wow.
  It just looks like they didn't even watch the movies before recreating some of these battles.
 
  I could nitpick all day at the missed opportunities and lackluster treatment of actual battles, 
 but ultimately, they're OK. I still wish heroes would have appeared more when appropriate. They 
 only appear at certain times, and unless the hero spawns BEFORE you're given the option to play 
 as them, if you say NO, then they just never spawn. If you say yes, they'll spawn, but then you 
 have to play as them. Sometimes, you get a hero, and then you're given the option for a second 
 hero, so if you take the second hero, your first hero disappears entirely. The Mines of Moria are 
 the only place where you can elect not to play as the heroes, but the heroes remain in the battle.
 
  
  Appearances-wise, it's weird how NOT-movie-looking some of the goodguy soldiers are. It's like 
 they just made up appearances for the characters, even when their armors are well-established. 
 Obviously, scouts and mages weren't in the movie, but they fit into the game, so they had to get 
 new designs. But how many archers and swordsmen do you see in the movies? A ton! So why do they 
 look all crazy? Something is just off about all of them, like they only vaguely resemble what they're 
 supposed to be. If you watch the movies, and then play the console games based on the movies, and 
 then play Lord of the Rings Conquest, you could probably spot the differences instantly. They just 
 look better in the movies and movie-based-games.
  
  The four classes randomly change appearances, but I'm not sure if they randomly change appearances 
 for each player in the same battle, or if they just randomly change to the same appearance for 
 all players. Hopefully it would be the former. Like, play a battle, and then look at the archer, 
 and then restart that same battle, and look at the archer again, and he will probably look completely 
 different.
  You never see the appearances for the grunts, or the Captains, outside of single player. This is 
 disappointing, because the Gondorian captains look really awesome.
  What you never see ANYWHERE in the game is SHIELDS. It's insane. The game utterly lacks shields. 
 Sure, some of the characters in the movies elected to go without shields, but not ALL of them! 
 The Riders of Rohan all had round shields. The soldiers of Gondor had GIGANTIC shields. All the 
 orcs had shields. But in the game, you don't see shields anywhere, not on peoples' backs or anything. 
 In the movie games, half of the enemies had shields you had to freaking break with a strong attack. 
 In this game... No shields. It's insane. Why would they take shields out? That's the biggest problem, 
 visually, with this game. I said they screw around with the apparances of the characters, but REALLY 
 what's bothering my eyes, what makes them look so different and so wrong, is the fact that they 
 just don't give the soldiers the shields they should be carrying.
  All of the grunts in the game go one-handed with their swords, and they don't have shields, and 
 all of the warriors and captains just carry their swords two-handed. It just looks stupid that 
 they would ALL be doing that. Why would they do that!?
  
  Sorry, the shield thing just bugs the hell out of me. They base the game on an epic trilogy and 
 take out all of the shields, which were insanely abundant in the movies.
  You might not think it's much, but lemme' put it into perspective: Imagine they made a game based 
 on the first three Indiana Jones movies and they just took out all of the hats, so people who should 
 have hats, including the main freaking character, didn't have hats.
  Imagine they made a game based on the first three Star Wars movies, and they just took out all 
 of the shoes. Sure, the game would PLAY the same whether or not they had shoes, but now they look 
 like idiots! Where are their shoes!?
  Luckily, no such games exist where nobody has hats or shoes when they obviously should, but what 
 I'm saying is, Lord of the Rings Conquest shouldn't have a total lack of shields! It shouldn't 
 be like that! It's stupid! My brain hurts just thinking about it!
  
  OK, back to the gameplay. Once you beat the first campaign, where you play as the goodguys in familiar 
 battles and a couple of made-up ones, you unlock the second campaign. In the second campaign, you 
 play as the badguys and fight the goodguys. Basically, it's an interesting trip into the world 
 of "what if". What if Frodo failed? What if Sauron got the ring back? Middle Earth would be screwed, 
 right? You're damn right it'd be screwed, that's exactly what happens in the evil campaign, Middle 
 Earth is screwed and you play as the side that screws it, the whole thing is just tragedy after 
 tragedy against the forces of good as Sauron's armies sweep through Middle Earth, killing any goodguy 
 that stands in their way, including the heroes we all grew so familiar with. Yeah, you like Gimli? 
 You think he's a fun character? Well get ready to kill him dead so he dies forever.
  This pretty much happens to everyone. In the very first level of the evil campaign- my favorite 
 level of all time, because you play as a ringwraith, and your whole team is just ringwraiths, THOSE 
 THINGS ARE AWESOME- you kill Frodo himself! How's that for hardcore?
  Ever since the first movie game, I wanted to play as a ringwraith. They look freaking awesome. 
 In this game, you get a whole level dedicated to playing as ringwraiths! That was just too cool 
 for me believe but it's so.
  The whole second campaign is morbid and dreadful, and it really shows how utterly hopeless everything 
 would've been if Sauron got the ring back. Also, Sauron just brings back the Balrog, the Witchking 
 and Saruman without any explanation. Actually, for the Witchking, you bring his helmet to an alter- 
 I'm pretty sure it was crushed in an implosion when he died but OK- and he just comes back to life 
 after you make a bunch of sacrifices (you only get to play as the Witchking in one level, which 
 makes me sad) . For the Balrog, you pick up two SUPER CRYSTALS and bring them to an alter again. 
 To charge the crystals, you have to kill the goodguys. One crystal only requires 20 kills, and 
 you make an explosion every time you hit somebody, which is freaking awesome, so it's sad that 
 you only get this powerup for such a brief time. The other crystal takes 25 kills, and it just 
 heals you, making it way less awesome. What's really bad is, I kept dying on this part by falling 
 into pits, and it made me restart the kills, and there were hardly any enemies to kill. It required 
 me to explore parts of the level I'm not even supposed to go to, entire rooms with virtually no 
 enemies in them, no objectives whatsoever to be had. Anyway the Balrog comes back to life. Saruman 
 just comes back and you play as him twice but you only play as the Witchking once. That's messed 
 up, Saruman doesn't even have an excuse for being alive.
  The best thing about the evil campaign is the voiceover. He talks to you like a drill sergeant. 
 He's quite the motivational speaker.
  
  Speaking of voiceovers, every level has this annoying voice that tells you what to do. It's cool 
 the first time, but eventually you hear the same line over and over and over, but you don't NEED 
 to, because you know EXACTLY what to do. It's never so annoying that you have to turn the voices 
 off entirely, but it's a bit much.
  What's worse is, the game has no battle chatter! Heroes give out some witty one-liners, but nobody 
 else utters a word, they just go "UGH" as they die horribly.
  I don't know about Star Wars Battlefront, but SWBF2 had tons of voice acting for every character, 
 so it's really disappointing that they would neglect to do so in this game. In the movie games, 
 I never even noticed there was no battle chatter, until long after I had beaten them. But in this 
 game, it was the first thing I noticed. I would EXPECT battle chatter, from a modern game, with 
 lots of action. Battle chatter has always been pretty important from an audio point of view, but 
 this game is dead silent. What voice acting there is doesn't involve the real voice actors, if 
 I'm not mistaken. The movie games had the real actors doing the voiceovers, but this is years later, 
 so it's perfectly reasonable to just imitate their voices, since it's way easier and cheaper.
 
  
  Another interesting thing about the evil campaign is that it still uses real clips from the movies, 
 and coupled with the voiceover, it's really convincing that Sauron is back in power and wreaking 
 havoc, going places he shouldn't be. Although, when he goes to Rivendell, that doesn't make sense. 
 Didn't all the elves leave???
  
  What's interesting to note is you can only have two players in the campaign doing co-op, but you 
 can have four players doing multiplayer matches with bots. In SWBF2, you can have four players 
 doing co-op in the campaign, and that was on the XBOX, so I dunno' what stopped them here.
  You also can't take any players online, or do the campaign online. You won't really miss not being 
 able to do online co-op, and although it would have been nice to take players online, it is still 
 nice that you can do split-screen with bots. At least they give you and your friends something 
 to do with the game besides not play it at all, since nobody wants to take turns playing online 
 by themselves- what an utterly true oxymoron.
  
  So I talked about the campaign, the UNBELIEVABLE lack of shields, and the disappointing lack of 
 battle chatter. I even mentioned the split-screen options, important things to note in any game, 
 as split-screen is constantly neglected in video games these days because game developers suck.
 
  
  All that's left is the multiplayer.
  And that's where the game really fails. You'd think the multiplayer would have to be way better 
 than the single player. That's the way it was with Star Wars Battlefront 2. Sure, it was OK, but 
 it had a linear structure, and still maintained the aspects of a multiplayer game, so once you 
 beat it you didn't care anymore.
  But with Lord of the Rings Conquest, single player is where all the fun is! And that's not saying 
 much, because only some of the levels are really replayable.
  Here is the big problem: The levels are BIG. I'm talking large. Oversized, even. That would be 
 fine, sure, if you had a big player count. But the player limit is 16 people! You go onto Weathertop, 
 a gigantic, open battlefield, and you only have 16 people running around! It's completely empty!
 
  Let me do some more crazy rhetorical situations. Let's say you watched the movies, you watched 
 an epic battle, you watched the battle on the Pelennor Fields where the Riders of Rohan charge 
 the Mordor horde. Now, imagine there were eight orcs, and eight riders, except only two of the 
 riders have horses. Pretty epic, right?
  That's actually not a fair comparison, because in the background, an epic battle goes on, and Pelennor 
 Fields is actually one of the smaller levels, or that is to say, it's really easy to find your 
 enemies.
  So, imagine Helms Deep. Imagine the gigantic army of Uruk-Hai at the bottom, screaming up at the 
 humans and elves filling up the walls. Now, imagine all of the people on the walls just leave, 
 disappearing into outer space, save for seven guys (and Aragorn) . Now imagine only eight orcs at 
 a time attacked the walls. Wow. Epic stuff.
  Obviously, the player count should have been higher. 32 players minimum, preferably something more 
 along the lines of 40 or 50, like the Resistance games on the PS3 or Frontlines: Fuel of War, which 
 has an XBOX 360 port, and supports servers with 32 or 50 players.
  They also take out the oliphaunts in multiplayer, though only one level actually had enough room 
 for one to walk around.
  They could have adjusted for the low player count by putting in the grunts and captains seen in 
 the single player campaign. They wouldn't be a substitute for more players, but they would be visually 
 fill in the battlefield and make things more exciting, because as it is, the game is utterly empty, 
 and that's a lot worse.
  Sixteen players simply is not enough for a game like this.
  
  The gametypes are few: Conquest, a typical Battlefield gametype, like the domination gametypes 
 of old, where players capture control points to get more points.
  Capture the Ring, like Capture the Flag but with rings because it makes more sense that way.
 
  Team Deathmatch: I have to say that one is pretty self-explanatory.
  The last one is Hero Deathmatch. This is like Hero Assault from Star Wars Battlefront 2, where 
 all of the heroes featured in the other gametypes and levels become the only things you can play 
 as, so every player is a hero, running around and killing eachother. If you haven't seen the featured 
 heroes already, and you're familiar with the trilogy, you can try to imagine every possible hero 
 you can think of that they would include, and you'd probably be way off.
  I like this gametype just because the badguys include the Witchking and the Nazgul seperately. 
 I love ringwraiths. Srsly.
  Sam, Merry and Pippin are all excluded from the game completely, just like they were from The Two 
 Towers game.
  And I must wonder, why can't it just be one player per hero? It looks so idiotic to have two Frodos 
 and three Sarumans and crap like that.
  Sadly, like SWBF2, every level only features one hero per side. Nearly every battle actually featured 
 lots of heroes, especially Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli together, so it's weird that you'd only get 
 one per level, especially in the single player campaign where they could have had all the heroes 
 they wanted. Oh well.
  
  I don't think I mentioned just how easy it is to die. If I did, I didn't stress it enough.
  For 
 one, there are lots of one-hit kills. Get anywhere in front of an ent or troll and you're in for 
 a one-hit kill. Even if a troll instant-kills someone by grabbing him, he can then instantly kill 
 you by throwing the person into you.
  Eagles and fell beasts will also swoop down and instantly kill people without warning.
  Scouts 
 can turn invisible, and then sneak up on you and instantly kill you, and there's nothing you can 
 do about it once they have you. I've spotted a scout, and then seen them turn invisible. I swung 
 wildly all over the place to try and kill him, and he somehow got behind me and instantly killed 
 me anyway.
  Then, enemies can just do endless combos on you when they're not busy instantly killing you. You 
 fall down and you're totally screwed if you don't get up in time.
  Then countless problems arise when you're by yourself, facing more than one enemy, especially if 
 you suck like me. If you're a warrior, enemies can just back up and hit you over and over and if 
 you can't catch up to them there's nothing you can do but suck and die.
  In the middle of a heated battle, it's EXTREMELY easy to get snuck up on and instantly killed by 
 a scout. When playing the Hero Deathmatch, FIVE Gandalfs (no more no less) appeared, all together, 
 which is just an unstoppable force. Constantly running into insane encounters like that was only 
 made worse by the fact that, whilst trying to kill the enemies that I could see, fighting desperately 
 to achieve victory, Frodo snuck up on me and instantly killed me. This happened three times in 
 a row! It probably would have happened four times but I just got fed up and left the match. I'd 
 be holding my own and then get ended by sneaky hobbitses and after a bunch of that crap it gets 
 really, really annoying.
  Many of the game's fights go from skill and strategy to just desperately hoping you can get back 
 up in time so that you can actually fight back. You can get back up by pressing A, and if you time 
 it right, you can stop from falling down at all. You can also swing your weapon while you get up, 
 but half the time your weapon won't swing, especially if you get back up in a timely manner, and 
 more often than not, it won't even hit anybody.
  The game is simply unfair most of the time. The classes are built to work together and counter 
 eachother. If you're by yourself, and you have to fight two people, you're probably screwed! No, 
 seriously, much of the time, no matter how well you fight, your enemies can be complete idiots 
 and fight terribly and still stomp all over you and you're just helpless to watch your character 
 get the crap beat out of him before he dies. You MUST have your teammates nearby, or you're doomed.
 
  If you don't play through at least one of the two campaigns all the way through, you probably 
 won't be familiar enough with the way the game works to beat people without lots of trial and error. 
 And even then, all the skill in the world just won't help you in some encounters.
  I am not kidding. It can get ridiculous. Lots of enemies would often spawn really close to me, 
 or in the case of Hero Deathmatch, right next to me, and I'd be surrounded by enemies and totally 
 cut off from my allies. This equals inevitable defeat for anyone that can't beat feet out of there 
 and regroup with his allies.
  
  
  
  I don't know if I could easily recommend this game to anyone, especially someone disinterested 
 in the Lord of the Rings. I mean, it was really fun, but the multiplayer is too underpopulated 
 to be exciting. Plus all those other things I complained about.
  And then, the game is just too unfair most of the time, especially when it comes to scouts, ESPECIALLY 
 in Hero Deathmatch where scouts can just sneak up on you and instantly kill you with great ease 
 as you try to fight other heroes. It's just unforgiving. Unless you encounter an enemy in the right 
 situation, you can be defeated easily and in a very frustrating manner. You have to have lots of 
 teamwork to prevail, which sounds like "well, obviously", but how many games have you played where 
 you would DIE without teammates at your side constantly? Where a one on two spelt defeat for the 
 one?
  I am probably just going entirely off of my own unskilled ways, maybe I didn't try hard enough. 
 But scouts are bullcrap. Seriously, play as a non-scout and wait until you get stabbed ten times 
 in a row by scouts while you're trying to fight someone else.
  
  I can safely assume that, like most PC ports, the PC version of Lord of the Rings Conquest supports 
 WAY more than 16 players. And, if that's true, then the PC version is the one to get. 16 players 
 isn't enough. Having more won't make the game any easier, but it will make it more fun. I would 
 not recommend paying too much for this game, but overall, it's a good game, especially for Lord 
 of the Rings fans like me. It's at least worth a rental, and if the PC version supports more players, 
 then it's worth a purchase on a PC that can handle it.
  Yep, that's how I'd have to sum it up: I have a lot of complaints and it's really frustrating trying 
 to fight other players, but it's still a good game.
  Even though there's not a single shield in the game. That's crazy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings Conquest was clearly aimed at the MultiPlayer people out there. It gives you 
 very little in terms of Campaigning, but quite a lot from a multiplayer perspective.
  
  Synopses: As the good campaign you relive the major battles in the movies and books. In the bad 
 campaign the writers very cleverly changed the end of the movies to tell a different outcome to 
 the battles for middle earth.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics is actually really good in this game with an immense amount of detail on 
 all the units and heroes. The environments are also really well detailed and larger than life.
 
  
  Sound: You have the voice overs from people who almost sound like the characters from the movies, 
 and some super cool sound effects. The music is nothing new to Lord of the Rings fans, using the 
 same score as in the movies and any other Lord of the Rings game.
  
  Controls can get a little confusing and the characters a little unresponsive, you find yourself 
 button mashing a fair amount with no real strategy as to what you are doing. 
  
  I'd say the game is great if you have the Internet Capabilities, else, I would not totally recommend 
 it unless you are a LOTR fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRTG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  LOTR: Conquest is a pretty cool and the best in the LOTR series, in my opinion. The graphics are 
 great, which is to be expected. There are a farir amount of playable characters, levels, and syles 
 of gameplay; multiplayer, singleplayer, or online. It takes a while to really get tired of the 
 game, due to the variety of gameplay options. 
  You can play in almost every level in the movies, from the Black Gates of Mordor to Minas Tirith. 
 Like the Batlefront series, there are hereos to play as but a lot more to choose from, such as 
 Sauruman, Gimli, etc. and the not so well known ones, like Wormtounge and Eowyn. Besides the 4 
 main troop classes (warrior, mage, scout and archer) you can also play as trolls, ents, ride horses 
 and wargs, and control catapaults and ballistaes depending on which level you play in. When playing 
 as a hero, there si no time limit as to how long you can play as the hro, but you only get the 
 chance to be the hero onece in a battle. 
  In campaing mode, you can play as the evil or good forces, but you must beat the good campaign 
 to play the evil one. A campaign mission is longer than a normal batle, but is usually easier, 
 as most of the enemies are weak grunts that can be killed with two or three blows. the battles get 
 harder as you get further, of course. The last level of the evil campaign is particularily evil 
 as it takes place in the Shire, but I won't say any more. 
  So, in short, LOTR: Conquest is a good game depending on what you like with a lot of variety, but 
 it has a lot of bad things too that can be overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rethis
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 3:54 am PT
Review:  Graphics 3/10
  Looks like a PS2 game. Seriously, Return of the King looked better.
  
  Gameplay 5/10
  Online play is the only reason to play at all and capture the ring is quirky fun 
 but gets old quick.
  Combo's are repetitive.
  The characters you play most of the time make you feel like a red shirt on star trek.
  Gandalf 
 is Awesome! Good control, good combos magic spells and healing all in one package.
  Trolls are fun.
  Only one can be the Hero.
  
  Sound 5/10
  Taken from the plethora of content 
 between two EA games and 13 hours of released movie footage. Nothing new. Nothing imaginative. 
 You have heard every sound in the game before. Nice to be true to your inspiration but still.
 
  
  Honourable mention to addictiveness.
  Once you get a handle on using the characters you can waste time easily just playing the multiplayer.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phileosophos
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like Lord of the Rings Conquest (LotRC) for the Xbox 360. I was geeked about 
 it from the first time I saw a screenshot. It looked like a game developer was finally going to 
 put forth a great, LotR-themed action game, and one that had all the tie-in rights to the movies 
 no less! Too bad it blows, and I mean blows. Don't waste your money. It's a great idea with great 
 presentation values, but it's drenched in stupid and that's saying nothing of its preposterous 
 departures from canon. It is simply a terrible game.
  
  I don't often "roast" a game. I think Black & White was the only game I can really say I've excoriated 
 over the years, but LotRC deserves it. It starts off on a great note, taking you through some basic 
 training and then a wonderful set-piece battle at Helm's Deep. Unfortunately, it all goes to hell 
 in the very next level at Isengard. Imagine architecture with lots of exposed edges, from which 
 the player can drop to an instant death. Then imagine that pretty much any enemy has the ability 
 to kick you over the edge. Get the picture?
  
  But that's not all! Once you've recovered the key to Orthanc from Wormtongue, who fights harder 
 than an elite Japanese ninja on crack, you head up to give it to Treebeard. But he doesn't agree 
 to keep Saruman penned up, oh no. Instead, you get to play as Gandalf and march boldly into Saruman's 
 lair to open a can of wizard-whoop-ass! Maybe that wouldn't be so bad, but Saruman can kill Gandalf 
 in two hits whereas Gandalf needs dozens to hurt the white nasty. What should have been a great, 
 climatic fight was reduced to ganking him on the stairs with lightning and firewall, then ducking 
 out of his line of sight. Lather, rinse, repeat for about five minutes and he's dead. Gosh, that 
 was fun.
  
  And as if that wasn't bad enough, do you remember the Ents from the movies, the tall tree-beings 
 that were practically invulnerable and tore Isengard down to rubble? In LotRC they're just fragile 
 vehicles: they stand there until you "man" one, and then they die from a couple of hits from orc 
 archers. Oh, they have a pretty devastating attack, but every NPC enemy in the area shoots you 
 with fire, which burns an Ent to the ground before you can say "bararum".
  
  And then it got a lot worse in Moria. I seem to remember Gandalf standing up and going toe to toe 
 with the Balrog. This could have been done so many ways. Even a QuickTime-event (QTE) sequence 
 would have been entertaining. But what did the developers choose to do? They turned the balrog 
 into yet one more stupid mega-boss that you need to run from constantly, breaking his line of sight 
 to you with columns as you toss off lightning and firewall until he eventually dies (about ten 
 minutes later) . The balrog in LotRC is arguably the most dull, formulaic boss battle you'll ever 
 see. I can't believe I'm saying it, but they managed to make a balrog dull and uninteresting.
 
  
  And if you haven't seen it coming yet, the next mission at Osgiliath was even worse! It starts 
 off alright, with you taking down a host of invading orcs and then getting to play as Faramir. 
 But then comes the most painful gaming experience I've had in a while: escorting Frodo to safety. 
 The problem is, little Frodo likes to run right into the thick of every group of orcs he can find, 
 yelling at the top of his lungs, "You'll have to kill me if you want to take the ring!!!" So much 
 for keeping it secret and safe, eh? But it's not really the orcs that are the problem. The real 
 problem are the Nazgul, whose programming is so awful that they snatched Frodo up from the bridge 
 every time I played the sequence for nearly ten minutes. That results in instant failure, and you 
 get to start over.
  
  To be fair, I finished the entire "War of the Ring" campaign before I decided to write this entry -- which 
 took a paltry two hours -- because I wanted to make sure I wasn't just playing a couple of clunker 
 levels. I wasn't. Every single level had something impossibly stupid. I finally quit when I discovered 
 in the first mission of the evil campaign that the Nazgul, whom you get to play as, can be killed 
 by a couple of orc warriors. After getting clobbered by orc warriors over and over, I said to hell 
 with it. The only way you should buy the game is if you're a masochist. It's the worst pile of 
 crap I've ever seen for the Xbox.
  
  The only good thing I can say about it is that I didn't buy a copy. I "rented" it from GameFly, 
 and it's going back tomorrow for something that isn't crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnygopher123
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:35 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the rings series always drew me in with it's use of trolls and arrows. This made me 
 want to chuck every piece of memorabilia that reminds me of the game into a hole. The game play 
 is complete bogus because of the fact that you don't have to have any startegy. I got good in a 
 few minutes by slamming the controller right into the middle of my noggin!
  
  Another fact is that in no way are they keeping anything proportional to the movie. I hate to be 
 such a fanatic about a series but camon! Think of the fans when you're creating a game based off 
 of a movie/book! It's ridiculous because not one of the classes even looked like the guys from 
 the movie. Orcs didn't look anything like Orcs there all clones, Elves looked like hippies, and 
 the Uruks have axes (Where are there crossbows by the way!??) NOT ACCEPTABLE!!!
  
  I do give Pandemic credit for making the places look like they do in the movie but still, not cool. 
 The voices in the game are nothing like the actors. Saruman and Gandalf have a showdown in Isengard 
 but they sound like twins! It's a joke! Finally to wrap it all up, WHY DID PANDEMIC THRASH THIS 
 GAME!!?? 
  
  Overall I would like to give this game the rank of epic failure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l3g3nds
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  The first thing i am gonna say about this game is that it is a blast to play. I has decent graphics 
 but character models are all exactly the same, i mean i know that Gondorians all wear the same 
 armor but all of their faces and other features look exactly the same. And this is especially annoying 
 with the orcs who in the movies all wear different stuff. Same with Uruk Hai, the handprints on 
 them are all in the exact same places (different for different classes but for example all mages 
 have the same handprints in the same spots) . Besides that the graphics are good but you may find 
 the occasional glitch (I've played a lot and this has only happened once, but i will maybe fall 
 down and never get back up until i kill myself for some weird reason) . Campaigns are pretty short 
 but are very fun (especially the evil campaign) . Instant action never gets boring (capture the 
 rings is sooo much fun) And the music it the same Lord of the Rings music we all love. For the 
 game itself i give it an 8/10 but on a scale of how fun it is i give it a 10/10. Again an extremely 
 fun game but with its problems 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jambickie
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  I wondered whether I should wait for price of the game to drop before getting it after bad reviews 
 but I decided to buy it at full price.
  The first thing you'll probably play on this game is campaign which is damn fun but short. It 
 won't last you more than 5 hours. Though these 5 hours will filled with epic moments from battles 
 like Helms Deep and Pelanor Fields, there is also a nice but small range of equipment you can use.
 
  After this the online multiplayer is the main drive so it's advisable you don't get this if you 
 don't have Live. The multiplayer is just plain fun .While the mage is a little overpowered you 
 can still have great fun.
  One thing to note is that the achievements are very easy to get and the ranked online match achievements 
 can be cheated very easily.
  The graphics aren't the best but there still pretty nice to look at.
  The sound mixes in which 
 the epic moments of the campaign.
  Combat is fun but can be frustrating.
  Overall a great game that doesn't deserve its bad review 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GLORFINDEL_12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was an instant favorite of mine until my friends came over and we played three player. 
 We discovered that the first players screen was bigger than the others and the third screen was 
 really dark but other than that the game was really cool! It was just like Pandemics other game 
 Star wars battle front 2. I liked how you could be good or bad unlike the lord of the rings games 
 for the original xbox. I also liked that you could kill the trolls and mumaks by leaping on there 
 backs and ether slashing there face or stabbing them in the back. I would for sure give this game 
 an 8.5 out of 10. My favorite level was probably the Fall of Rivendell because it was the most 
 challenging level in the game. I also thought that it was pretty radical when I was offered the 
 choice to be a hero and when I accepted it was awesome when Sauron appeared in the game, as large 
 as a troll. Thank you for taking the time to read this review.
  Glorfindell_12 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 10:12 am PT
Review:  I loved the Lord of the Rings books and later the movies that came out but never got around to 
 playing a Lord of the Rings video game until Lord of the Rings Conquest. I really wasn't impressed 
 by the game and was pretty bored with it quickly. I think I played thru half of it and stopped 
 at the evil re-telling of the story. It just was a lot of running around and mashing on buttons 
 and once and awhile getting to play as one of the hero's from Lord of the rings. Even that was 
 underwhelming and playing as Argon or the Warrior class didn't feel too much different from each 
 other. Also this game just didn't look good and felt like a Playstation 2 game in my opinion. I 
 wouldn't even say this was a good rental and certainly not a buy. If your a Lord of the Rings fan 
 I won't say you should pick it up just because of what it is. It's just a sad grab for some more 
 cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRunner
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:37 am PT
Review:  Lord of the rings conquest is like a starwars battlefront version of lord of the rings. Alot of 
 people hate this game and alot love it but it is truely fun. If you have ever played Dystany warriors 
 and mix it with battlefron this is what you get. You basically play through the some of the most 
 famous battles in the lord of the rings trilogy and you can play as either a Warrior, ( Hack n 
 slash guy with lots of combos. Combat can be a bit meh sometimes) , Archer ( basically the shooter 
 with the power to shoot fire, poison and multi arrows ) , the scout ( can turn invisable and 1 hit 
 kill stab in the back ) and lastly the uh mage which i cant recall being in the movies but i hideously 
 overpowered. So like battlefront if you are doing well you get your self the choice to play a hero 
 like gandalf, witch kind etc.
  Whilst the campaign is short passing the good side take 2.5hours and so does the dark side, an 
 evil twist where frodo doesnt destroy the ring and sauron rules again, Plus you get to kill hobits 
 in the side which is fun.
  so probs 5-6 hours of campaign and you have the Instant Action which you can play all of the maps 
 from campaign in conquest deathmatch and capture the ring sadly its only 8v8 would have been better 
 is 16v16 or 32v32 but it will make do. The online is basically the same instant action, could have 
 been better though.
  
  Bottom line the game is highly addictive and really fun, oh and the 4 player instant action and 
 2 player campaign is a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yeley718
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 31, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good- Two awesome campaigns, Ability to play as trolls or ents, Nice Battlefront setup.
  
  The Bad- Combat boils down to button mashing, Campaigns are incredibly hard when played solo, 
 Many cheap ways to die, Some bad textures, Only 4 online modes.
  
  Review- Not only is Lord of the Rings one of the best stories ever, but it also has some of the 
 most epic battles of all time. And now Lord of the Rings lets you live some of those fights for 
 middle earth, but it comes with a price.
  
  The combat in Conquest often boils down to button mashing, you simply hit the same button over 
 and over and over until your enemies have fled and you have won the battle, not only this but combat 
 also relies on who gets the first hit, this is horrible in multiplayer since playing against smart, 
 human players is a lot harder then dumb AI.
  
  The graphics are kind of average. I mean, some of the textures are just plain bad, but there are 
 lots of men on screen. So i can forgive that, but the character models are very bland and don't 
 take control of the 360s' hardware.
  
  The setup in Conquest is a lot like Battlefront. You can change classes, choose spawn points, and 
 almost everything else from the battlefront 2. As we all remember, Battlefront 2 had great multiplayer. 
 Unfortunately, it wont be long before conquests relatively small community gets bored of the 4 
 gamemodes, which are hero team deathmatch, conquest, team deathmatch, and capture the ring.
  
  There are 2 campaigns in Conquest the good campaign and evil campaign, where Frodo keeps the 
 ring for himself, and you take control of saurons armies and wipe out all of the heros. its an 
 interesting twist, but both sides play the same and aren't very different.
  
  But the game has some fun moments such as when you play as ents or trollls and wipe out all of 
 your attackers, and 2 player co-op over live or offline is a welcome addition. and if you can forgive 
 the problems for these fun moments then you can have a great time with conquest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo_marlo13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Lord of the rings is a great online game. There were great graphics on the characters, and on the 
 weapons. Theirs a lot of detail on the soldier, scout, archer, mage, hero. Example: the belts, 
 the weapons on there back when operating a balista or riding a horse. the gondor soldiers with 
 the tree on there chest plate. Lord of the rings is a great multiplayer game but in Campanion (War 
 of the ring, Rise of Sauron) the levels are to short, like Moria, Plennor fields... the objectives 
 are way to easy. they should have done it like Star Wars battlefront series, more fighting classes 
 like: an engineer to fix some catapults, balista. have some Dwarves and Men of dale, more Elves. 
 they should also have longer levels, and they should add levels like: Amon hen, Mirkwood, Lothloren, 
 Gap of rohn, Ithilen, Westfold... I've seen the movies and there missing some of the best battles. They 
 should also add heros in the game like: Boromir, Gollum, Sam, Pippin, Merry, Eomer, Theoden, Galadrial, 
 Arwen, Bilbo, Elendil, Hadir, King of the Dead and more that where in the movie, and for the evil 
 heros: Sharku, Grishnkh, Gothmog but most of them are already on, so good. Have you players learned 
 that the voices of Lord of the rings conquest aren't the same in the movie? thats another thing 
 they should fix, add the original voices that should bring the score up. i was hoping that the 
 game would be 4 player co-op but i was wrong. Pandemic studios should work on improving the game 
 or make Lord of the Rings Conquest 2 better. I wasn't too disappointed, lotrc online is still addictive 
 and fun. Still that game deserves a good score but they should make the next one better to get 
 it up to the 8s or 9s or even 10s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViolentMarv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  First off id like to point out to everyone that i am not at all a fan of lord of the rings, i always 
 thought it was a little too "fairy tail emo" for my taste. After seeing the review on GS and watching 
 replays, regardless of the poor rateing i was still curious about the game. I decied to try the 
 demo, and i was greatly suprised. The gameplay is great, dont belive when ppl say its all about 
 button mashing because it really isnt. If you play on the hardest difficulty every move has to 
 be timed right, effective for that specific situation. You cant just simply mash X or Y to do random 
 combos because any opening, mistake, or foolish movement will be taken advatange of. The combat 
 system is great, unit classes are well balanced. This game really does feel like battlefeild with 
 a lord of the ring theme. EA and Pandemic had the right idea, adding in epic cut scenes from the 
 movie and useing the accual movie soundtrack, really set up a great feel for this game. Your there 
 a soilder, in this huge battle, and really i cant descirbe the grand scale of the battles themselfs, 
 but they are epic and every bit worthy. Playing as good is fun, you get to relive all the great 
 battles and moments from the movie, however the real delight to this game is the evil campagin. 
 Thats right, you can play as evil. Giving a compleat new story line, new movie cut scenes, and 
 some disurbingly evil and twisted missions that will make you drool. I think GS rated this game 
 low, due to the fact that the AI in the singleplayer isnt all that helpfull, you cant expect the 
 AI to know what you want, its pritty ovbious your ment to play this online with a friend or coop 
 split screen. Alot of elements are rather hard, rideing/fighting on a horse or the various other 
 mounts can be very challanging and frustrating at times, but if you really spend the time to get 
 good at it, the reward is soo satisfying. The game is ment to be played on the hardest difficulty, 
 and it is punishing but only then can u really see how each class shines, and how little button 
 mashing is accualy invovled. Parrying, blocking, breaking enemy guards, useing ur throwing axe 
 to stun/knock down enemys all become vital factors in survival. 
  
  All and all i think this game is a must have, i gave it an 8.5, however sicne it isnt for everyone, 
 i strongly suggest you try the demo or rent it before you commit that 59.99$... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the original LOTR games and Battlefront but they don't work out well. The batles 
 you think would be nice but they're so short each battle can take about 15 minutes to beat so pro 
 is easy achievements. What's really disappointing is how repetative this game is. The originals 
 had around 15-30 combos but sadly the string of combos for a warrior is 6 and they show you the 
 best combo in the turtorial. The voice actors will definetely tick any LOTR fan because they're 
 poorly done. Pandemic didn't even get the movie actors or some believable actors for the voices. 
 Graphics are disappointing and there is very little character variation. You can complete the game 
 in a day and will still be asking yourself why'd I pay $60 for this game. The online is a saving 
 grace but comes with a hollow victory. Coming from COD games and Resistance 2 I'm not highly entertained 
 because of the repetativeness. Barely any achievements or trophies (PS3) for online glory. Pandemic 
 should have stayed out of the LOTR saga. What really made LOTR games fun was customization and 
 being your favorite hero and slaughtering all who opposed. In this its hard to get used to a regular 
 death and continue. The battles are still small for a 360/PS3 game the most you see may be 20-30 
 guys total but very rarely. Your AI are extremely moronic and can't fend for themselves and barely 
 help you at all so your pretty much doing it by yourself.
  Graphics-7/10
  Gameplay-6.75/10
  Story-8/10 for making more battles out of the movies
  Total-21.75/30 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are good or evil. The game is all about The Lord of the Rings the movies. The 
 game is about attacking the other side of the enimies. You can be the humans or the goblins. They 
 both have the same men. You can be a warrior someone who just has a sword to use. An archer a person 
 who just uses arrows to attack up close or far away. A scout a person who can turn invisible and 
 attack the enimies easily when it is. A mage who is a person who uses magic to attack and defend 
 themselves with. On the humans side they use the enf which are huge walking and talking trees. 
 On the goblins side they use trolls which are huge walking ugly things that can destroy the enimies 
 easily. And you can sometimes be the heroes on each side. The game has really huge battles but 
 it is easy to die and most of your enimies take forever to kil. You also have your teammates but 
 they are really terrible to use. The story is also long and you can be good and bad in the game 
 for each story. 
  
  The good of the game is that the battles are fun to be in. The story is quite lengthy for both 
 sides that you are.
  
  The bad of the game is that it is easy to die. Some of your enimies are to strong. Terrilbe AI.
 
  
  Overall this game is really fun to play and is a great button masher. I rate this game 8.0 outta 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2009 7:20 am PT
Review:  LOTR Conquest makes you love it yet hate it. For one it does many things right like the epic scope 
 of the game. This is especially noticed in the fight at Pelanor Fields. It just really gives you 
 a feel that you're there fighting as Legolas and bringing down Siege towers and Oliphaunts.
  
  The Rise of Sauron campaign can also send chills down your spine as you destroy all the forces 
 of the free people of Middle-Earth. But this is were everything good the game does mixes with a 
 pinch of the bad.
  
  The ever annoying voice in the game that screams the same thing again and again and again can get 
 on your nerves quickly. This especially comes true when in the evil campaign and the orcs are shouting 
 rude remarks and orders at you..... And that can be irritating.
  
  Other than that, everything is good. And it's definitely the best hack and slash game I've played 
 for a long time. In other words, if you're a gamer and know anything at all about LOTR, you should 
 definitely purchase this game: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchebaby2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  Lord of The Rings: Conquest is an action game in the genre of the Battlefront and Battlefield series. 
 It places you in the shoes of one of the thousands of soldiers that fought in a given battle and 
 you must slash, shoot, and burn your way through the hordes of enemies before you to achieve victory. 
 While this is immensely fun, it does get a little tedious when you get down to some more complex 
 scenarios.
  
  One of the main issues in Conquest is the intense difficulty of the Campaign, even on easy a lone 
 player will fail a scenario over and over mainly because the AI units on your team tend to only 
 attack 1 unit at a time, while you manage 10 or so in more intense battles. This issue is easily 
 resolved if you play the Co-op campaign because of the additional help and the ability to split 
 up objectives between yourselves.
  
  On the positive side, Conquest features some very epic and memorable battles at Helms Deep, Osgiliath, 
 and Pelenor Fields. In each battle I can name several awe inspiring moments of heroism and bravery. 
 Like in Osgiliath where you charge a horde of hundreds of enemies on a horse and destroy them in 
 that one charge. Or in Pelenor where you mount an Oliphant and bring him down. Any of these moments 
 make you feel great when you succeed and that excitement tends to remove any discontempt you have 
 with the game, at least for a little bit.
  
  Overall Conquest is a fun game that any Lord of the Rings fan would enjoy. I would not recommend 
 it for the average player because of the many problems. Personally I give this an 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LDunlopeth
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Luckily I got this game for free. That alone should sum up the rest of this review.
  
  I won't be totally vindictive, but I'm not going to go easy on this game either. I played the demo 
 first and was let down, but I have played demos that were bad to games that turned out good, so 
 I gave this ones retail a chance, to no avail.
  
  The one word I can think to describe this game as a whole is "dirty". It's an ugly game with cut 
 scenes that have been done a thousand times before. Yes, Lord of the Rings was a movie, Yes the 
 clips worked well as a backdrop for narration, and YES it would be fun to recreate the battles 
 from the books/films. But it would only be fun if done right, which, it wasn't.
  
  From the get go of the game it just looks bad, the graphics rival that of Heroes for Xbox. Combat 
 is clunky and unfair, and blocking is more or less useless. I found myself pressing block only 
 to scoot around the screen getting hit even more than before with my arms in the air.
  
  The real gem of this game is encountering an enemy who as an affinity for blocking (Uruk-Hai Warrior, 
 to name one) . Impossible to penetrate with standard attacks forces you to use your much desired 
 lifeblood, also cleverly named, Energy to break his guard. Doing this allows all the other Orcs 
 and what have you surrounding to attack you with no mercy, and when you are on the ground the Warrior 
 will jump right in a pummel you to death. Here's the best part, after pathetically trying to break 
 a block, the enemy gains Energy himself which he will unleash on you with a relentless fury.
  
  In what I was actually looking forward to, playing as an Ent, I was most disappointed. Their 
 health drains so fast they might as well be NPC's. Picking up health is of no use either. In one 
 instance I found myself in dire need of health, a common scenario, only for it to be stepped on 
 by another Ent who refused to move as if he had some sort of grudge against me.
  
  The game allows you to play as "Heroes", who are just as powerful as anyone else. My advice, play 
 as the Scout and just backstab everything (bosses included!) and you will be done the game in about 
 2 hours, more than enough time to realize that's all the time this game deserved.
  
  -Levi Dunlop
  
  Gamespot- LDunlopeth
  Gamertag- Black Mumbazo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptinJohnny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This game was awsome! There is great choice of characters, good controll, amazing campains. First 
 the the choice of characters. For good or evil u can choose to be a warrior, archer, mage and a 
 scout. then the heros are very good for both sides. Seconded the controll. The controlls arnt hard 
 to learn, it my take a little bit for u to know different combos forthe normal class and for heros. 
 Thrid the campains. There are two campains u can play War of the Ring where u play as the good 
 side and Rise of Sauron where you play as evil. There are lots of places in the campains that u 
 will rember if u seen the moive. There are great battles that u fight in. Its very cool to be on 
 the bad side cause u get to be a Nazgul or the Nazgul King. The online play is good. If you dont 
 have online then do instant action or co-op on splitscreen, its just as good online. This is a must 
 play for a fan of the movie, or a person that likes midevil stuff and magic power stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo8514
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:40 am PT
Review:  well i'll get straight to the point. this game is completly overrated online all u meet is constant 
 archer noobs and scout noobs yet alone mages and warriors.
  all every class does is 100% noob. who ever gave the archer the power to shoot a multi arrow that 
 always hit's 3 people and even hits invisible scouts.
  while scouts are so invisible u cant avoid them and warriors overpowered fire blade combo which 
 u cant get out of. or even the mages normal attack is half health. it isn't right. this game would 
 be in my 10 worst games if i had made a list. the campaign is insanely short only a few hours long 
 takes about 6 hours to do both campaigns. and there not even fun it's just hearing a voice shouting 
 where to go and just a few buttons to kill everything. in my opinion am glad i borrowed this game 
 off a friend if i would've bought it i would've started thinking i have problems and am mentally 
 retarded but i guess not. i think my mates retarded. the only thing this game is good for is very 
 fast achivements and gamerscore. in my opinion only worth paying about 10. it's a complete let 
 down dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I am just shocked on how this game turned out, I believe this game is meant to be a milking product, 
 to squeeze more money off of gamers. Enough of my rant let's get some review done.
  
  Graphic 7/10
  
  First thing you notice is the graphic isn't that next gen, even on PC was it 
 not that great with max setting, so being said, it could been alot better. But on the other hand, 
 there is no fps issue, so I guess you have to trade a bit of graphic for that. 
  
  The sound of this game is based off the movie and so are the musics. Nothing wrong here.
  
 
  Gameplay 4/10
  
  Here is where it gets dull, the tutorial give you the basic idea of button smashing with 3 buttons, 
 even ninety-nine nights have more combos than this game. 
  
  You get 4 class which some is extremely overpowered and some is underpower. 
  
  The goal of 
 the game is like battlefield in a linear map, capture and control flags and win, there are more 
 online, but you get the idea. Most people don't care about objective, they just want to kill.
 
  And it is a big mess with 10 dudes clubbing each other in the center and mages and archers shooting 
 in the mess.
  
  There are 4 classes, 
  
  -the warrior as in the basic hack and slash character with his most useful special move that hit 
 enemy around him, 
  
  -the archer, which shoots deadly arrow (very deadly) and have extremely good accuracy (no gravity 
 pull down on arrow) and not to mention they all shoot like legolas,
  
  -the scout, more like a spy which have some stupid special moves, only thing that is good is the 
 cloak and backstab (with horrible detection)
  
  -and the mage, the overpower beast, it shoots chain lighting that hit multiple target, can heal, 
 can stomp the ground with magic to stun surrounding enemy, and he can create shield that block 
 magic and arrows 
  
  There are seriously lot of stuff to be balanced out before this is consider a fair game. Not to 
 mention the heros are not that much better.
  
  The game comes with 2 campaign which one starts off at helms deep all the way to the end, 2nd one 
 is prospect from the evil side which is quite interesting, they should actually build from that.
 
  
  Multiplayer 6/10
  
  The game is reviewed to be multiplayer focus, however as of launch there is lot of problem with 
 balancing and poor detection. 
  
  Maps need to be more detail and with no hope on custom map it is hard to continue this game with 
 multiplayer with all there is, I am not surprised after a month they will put a map pack for 5 
 bucks to milk more of your money. 
  
  With updates generally come slower on xbox 360 people should avoid this game unless you are a fan 
 of this series, guarantee price drop soon.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sub-Hero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The game has decent graphics and gameplay. U can see up to (estimated) 50-60 people on screen at 
 once which in turn hurts the grapphics a good amount. BUT If you are lord of the rings fan U will 
 enjoy this game MOSTLY for the Alternate campaign "Rise Of Sauron". With all the people saying 
 this game sucks i was compelled to state my opinion defending the game. I Mildly liked Dynasty 
 Warriors and LOVED Starwars Battlefront series So i do tend to like this game if you go online 
 its a great game i have not gone online yet because i havent played long enough to. but in the 
 hours i have played i must say this game is unique for its button mashing tactical shooter/melee 
 king of the hill gameplay. Im not a fan of button mashing but in this game i am okay with it I 
 love the hero system and the maps. If EA plans to make something better of this game they have 
 the great option to make some really sweet updates for the xbox live marketplace and for the Playstation 
 Store. I think that could relly raise this up to an 8-9.5 score AT least. I hope that they play 
 their cards right and make an update or two so everyone can see a little bit of the good in the 
 game instead of the bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shanoobergloobe
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 22, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  this game was a huge let down considering im a huge lord of the rings fan and i was looking forward 
 to another lord of the rings game since bfme games came out in 05 and 06 -- and sad to say 3 to 
 4 years later some ppl have the chance to come out wiht a great game like this but made it sooo 
 freaking bad its not even worth looking at. ever since i "attempted" to play this game i will now 
 have my htoughts on potential good games. the bottom line is that this game is god awful and if 
 u love getting into frustraiting button smashing battles and dying for no reason because u cant 
 land a hit with your sword or melee weapon or someone use some dumb power or u get bombarded by 
 long range archers that can shoot at a rate of 100 arrows per minute this game is sooo dumb...... 
 the online is the worst thing ever.... when you have 8 on 8 and everyone is archers theres nothing 
 you can do besides capture a point then get wasted by tons of powered up arrows... also this game 
 has terrible choppy graphics and THIS GAME IS NOT WORTH RENTING AT ALL!! SAVE YOUR TIME AND MONEY!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aurz2004
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 22, 2009 2:08 am PT
Review:  i downloaded the demo and i could tell it was no good in the first 10 minutes they sold this game 
 by its name and not really done what they can to make it a good game. dont they realize we buy 
 this game cause we like lord of the rings if they make a crap game next time they wont be forgivin 
 they should make a war game like this or viking but with the assasin creed graphics and style of 
 fighting that woulld be awsum please let them know this ive been waiting so long for a game based 
 in roman era wher your part of an army jus a normal soldier and the better you are the more likely 
 to get promoted to lead squads of units then bigger squads so on and you have your own house to 
 go back to after war unless you dont have the money cause your a slave soldier till your promoted 
 to a normal soldier getting paid and you get paid more the more you get promoted and gain more 
 respect of your men you fight with they notice you . i could think of so many ideas for this game 
 but defintly with the graphics of assasin creed it would be the best game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro_Zelda_playa
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:59 am PT
Review:  I don't know why it is rated 6.5. This game is amazing for a person who actually enjoys button 
 mashing and killing millions of hordes coming at you. The graphics are great yet not perfect. It's 
 missing blood. The game play is amazing and lord of the rings fans would die for the game. The 
 only thing that really bothers me and bothers other players is the frustration you get when you 
 keep on getting hit and killed by a warrior. A warrior keeps on hitting you and you just cant do 
 anything about it but fall. That was the only thing that bothered me in the game. Other than that, 
 nothing. Great story. Two Campaigns. And playing evil is awesome. Here is a breakdown:
  
  Game Play - 8.5: The best game play, but a lot of frustrations.
  
  Graphics - 9.5: Only missing 
 the blood.
  
  Multi Player - 10: This game is designed for multi player. Killing other people is really fun.
 
  
  Sound - 10: Great sound on a 5.1 surround sound system with the classic lord of the rings songs.
 
  
  Cut Scenes - 10: Great cut scenes from the Lord Of The Rings Movies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 12:01 am PT
Review:  Well, my parents taught me that if you can't say something nice; don't say anything at all. Hence 
 the title. The graphics are decent. The uhmm "characters" are well rendered. There is slim pickings 
 to cling to with any real commitment here. You play the game as one of 4 generic non-named classes: 
 warrior, archer, scout or mage. They have specialized battle moves that seem quite different but 
 the onslaught of enemies always reduces the battle to near mindless button mashing. This game should 
 have been classified almost arena fighting/ action as that it the way it feels. You have no choices, 
 no dialog, no puzzles. No way is this game "adventure". It almost feels like an online multiplayer 
 game pared down to a solo experience (in single mode, I mean) . I am sure the multiplayer aspect 
 is more fun than the solo since it is so obviously geared that way. If you like endless battles 
 in (granted) beautiful environments from the movies, you will love this game. If you don't care 
 for rigid storylines, button mashing battles galore, and really hard solo campaigns that lead to 
 endless repetition of those same battles, you might want to wait for the Lord of the Rings: The 
 White Council. I know I wish I would have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienhunter187
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 8:58 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to argue against the brilliance of many of the battle scenes Peter Jackson brought to 
 life in his adaptation of "The Lord of the Rings" eight years ago. For a series of books that are 
 regarded as some of the best works of literary fiction ever created, the entire universe seems 
 ripe for the picking in a video game form.
  Imagine a game where you could control hundreds of men, elves and dwarves against the armies of 
 orcs and Uruk-Hai in a battle against the dark lord Sauron himself? If Jackson could bring the 
 battles to the big screen, why can't an equally talented video game developer bring them to the 
 52-inch high-definition television sitting in your room? That's a good question. 
  "Lord of the Rings: Conquest" was released under the promise that it would be the most expansive 
 and thrilling game set in the fabled Middle Earth to date. Instead, it provides on a few moments 
 of excitement, which are overshadowed by odd, and sometimes frustrating, design decisions. 
  Pandemic, the developers behind "Conquest" are no strangers to bringing expansive battles to life 
 from other famous licenses. Their "Star Wars Battlefront" series went a long way toward salving 
 the respect of "Star Wars" among gamers after several failed games. It's been at least three years 
 since "Lord of the Rings: Battle for Middle Earth II" was released on game consoles. Since then, 
 PC gamers have been running around in Middle Earth in "Lord of the Rings Online," but the license 
 has been dead on the console side. With the popularity of Jackson's adaptations waning, "Conquest" 
 could have been the spark to renew it.
  The game plays similar to the "Battlefront" games. You control one of four different characters 
 inspired from the Jackson adaptations: a warrior, an archer, a scout or a mage. Yes, there are 
 mages running around Middle Earth like rabbits. No doubt, Pandemic exercised their literary license 
 with the game. After all, a Balrog trashes the Shire later in the game. 
  Each of the characters has their benefits and drawbacks on the field of battle. The warrior has 
 the most health and can sprint across long distances. Aside from the standard melee combos present 
 in all hack-and-slash games, he has several melee powers that can unleash a load of damage if used 
 right. The archer can shoot arrows with a blazing speed and take out enemies from afar. He can 
 also zoom in and headshot enemies. Yes, you can headshot someone in this game with an arrow. The 
 archer also has poison arrows and flaming arrows along with a power to shoot three arrows at a 
 time, which is helpful if you're getting overwhelmed. The scout can turn invisible, which allows 
 him to sneak up on enemies and stab them in the back. He can also throw satchel charges, which 
 can kill large groups of enemies. The mage, which is arguably the most powerful of the classes, 
 can shoot lightning bolts that can dissipate over a group of enemies, killing many with only one 
 shot. He can also unleash fireballs which will burn a patch of area for several seconds, killing 
 any idiot non-playable characters that walk into it. The mage also sports an interestingly-named 
 attack called "you shall not pass," that sends a shockwave out around the character, killing anything 
 near it. The one power that makes the mage the most useful is his ability to heal himself and any 
 allies surrounding him. 
  You'll need to use each of these characters throughout the story campaign, which takes you from 
 the Mines of Moria to the slopes of Mount Doom. You'll be tasked with completing certain tasks 
 that include holding off a small area to capture it as well as destroying Sauron himself and the 
 Witch King. After you complete certain tasks, you can take over control of one of the heroes of 
 the lore including Gandalf, Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas. The only difference between the heroes 
 and the standard characters is the addition of extra health and a more damaging moveset. They play 
 exactly the same as their standard counterparts.
  A second campaign is available after you destroy the One Ring in Mount Doom. You can play as the 
 forces of Sauron and recover the ring and fight off the forces of Gondor, Rohan and eventually 
 destroy the Shire with a Balrog. 
  Both campaigns can be played with a second player through split screen or over Xbox LIVE and the 
 PSN. Cooperative play will help lessen the blow of the frustratingly difficult elements of the 
 campaign. Every enemy character in map comes directly for you and ignores your dimwitted allies. 
 You will have two or three enemies attack you at the same time, levying a combo on you that will 
 either kill you or severely weaken you before you can even get a move off. 
  Many of the expansive battles you've seen in the movie, like the siege of Helms Deep are brought 
 to life on the game, but are in a compromised form. You can only fight in an isolated area against 
 waves of enemies while looking at the horizon and seeing battles commence. You can't reach them 
 due to invisible walls. But the majority of the area you'll fight in will be barren with setpieces 
 sprinkled in the background. The whole experience feels hollow. 
  After you complete the campaigns, you can take your skills online and battle other players, and 
 the game itself, in a number of multiplayer gametypes including Team Deathmatch and Capture the 
 Ring, which is a variant of capture the flag. 
  While the gameplay works decently in the campaigns, fighting against other players completely unravels 
 any shred of decency the game has. The hit detection is extremely poor and the classes aren't balanced 
 properly. An army of mages will destroy just about anything they come across due to their healing 
 properties and fire balls. Melee classes like the scout and warrior are almost useless because 
 of the long distances they have to cross to get to an enemy, which will no doubt result in death 
 by arrow or lightning. If a warrior does get the jump on an enemy, many of its attacks will simply 
 go through the enemy without any damage done. 
  "Lord of the Rings: Conquest" caters primarily to Tolkien fans, only if they can ignore the creative 
 license taken by the developers. Sauromon is brought back to life, as is the Witch King and other 
 deities of the dark lord. Mages and wizards pop up like rabbits all over Middle Earth with no explanation 
 or cause. 
  The game does have its moments with some entertaining battles that you can partake in. But it ultimately 
 falls apart as an unpolished experience with unimpressive graphics and buggy gameplay. Even if 
 you're a "Lord of the Rings" fan, your money would be better spent on a pre-order for blu-ray copies 
 of the trilogy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MandoWolf
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2009 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I love Lord of the Rings, and I loved playing Star Wars Battlefront, I actually remember wishing 
 they would come out with a Lord of the Rings Battlefront style game. So imagine the thrill to me 
 of hearing that my dream was coming true.
  
  First off, I think the campaign was fun but WAAAAY to short. Each level is no longer than 5 minutes. 
 I beat the Good & Evil campaigns within 4 hours at the most. This really brings the short but sweet 
 saying back into focus.
  
  By the second day of owning this game on the Xbox 360, I already had 860 out of a 1000 gamer score 
 points. This is too easy and shows a lack of planning and effort.
  
  Now the levels are full of exciting button mashing, that can be fun if you are a good combo person.
 
  
  The thing I am more disappointed with was the voice acting, and is one of the worst I've ever heard 
 in a video game.
  
  Online play is completely dominated by capture the ring, which if you get the ring, are given like 
 3 seconds before you are 1 hit KO'ed by some Assassin (there is a reason its spelled with two asses 
 in the word) . Or you will get shot from no where or electrocuted or poisoned then shot to death.
 
  
  All in all this game was good if you are looking just for a simplistic hack and slash game. Now 
 the fun can come from the Co-op play but it will be short.
  
  Last but not least, the main menu...
  
  WTF, they could have made it a little better looking, 
 and not like some game made by a guy in his basement.
  
  This game is good despite what I say, but one thing: DON'T BUY IT,
  
  RENT IT! You will enjoy 
 it much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Desalbert-
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  My goodness. I believe this may be one of the single WORST games I have ever played! I'm so overwhelmed 
 by that notion that I'm just not sure where to start.
  
  The concept? It doesn't sound so bad does it? Take an award-winning formula (as far as the masses 
 are concerned) throw in some awesome Lord of the Rings, and presto, magic right? Well, believe 
 me, this game is actually WORSE than you can imagine, even with that motto.
  
  First of all, the Battlefront style of game has always had questionable AI. Here, the AI is MORE 
 than questionable, with some troops being flat-out brain dead. In fact, frequently during the battles 
 you'll see enemy and friendly troops just standing there! Right in front of you, doing absolutely 
 nothing besides waiting to get killed. Now, this doesn't happen to everyone, but the fact that 
 it happens to more than 20% of the soldiers on the field, is absolutely unacceptable. Helm's deep? 
 Yeah right, it's more like, Jump from your castle wall and kill some stupid Orcs single handily-God, 
 the AI is just flat-out horrendous.
  
  What's worse than that though? Try a large number of things, if you can believe it! First, the 
 classes are so non-realistic to the Lord of The Rings Universe that it makes you feel like they 
 wanted to butcher it on purpose. A mage, warrior, assassin and archer? Real creative-and since 
 WHEN did a simple orc ever utilize magic!? It's just so non-sensical. 
  
  More than this, the combat is just horrendous. No, you won't get to hack people to bits, or even 
 kill them with a single, regular sword blow. Instead, what you get to indulge in is the game's 
 appalling arcade-y combat mechanic, where you pull off canned combos, which involve every thing 
 from your sword bursting into flames during a circular swing, to a magical multi-shot arrow. The 
 fighting, in this sense is non-canonical, with moves you'd expect to see in some half-serious game, 
 but not in a Lord of the Rings game; but what is worse than the non-faithful combat, is the fact 
 that it just has zero fun-factor whatsoever. You will not do much thinking here, just hold shift, 
 and tap the left mouse button for that devastating roundhouse, fire-blazing slash. Yay! 
  
  My goodness, ladies and gentlemen, the combat is so bad, that I guarantee you that you will find 
 yourself simply either button mashing, or doing the most powerful moves over and over as much as 
 your energy permits.
  In fact, to me, the fact that there is a 'character moves list' at all is just appalling; and it 
 is indicative of the fact that the game offers no realistic medieval combat whatsoever. Do not 
 expect to be genuinely riveted by the combat, and for a game that is based on combat, that is not 
 a good thing
  
  Worse than an entirely boring, hopelessly non-canonical combat though, is the fact that the scope 
 of the battlefields themselves are laughable at best. Perhaps you're like me; perhaps you thought 
 you ought to pick up this title, if only to play the awesomeness that is Paelanor fields, and the 
 Olliephant
  Wrong, for although I was impressed to first gain control of that gargantuan elephant, my happiness 
 came crashing down, when I literally took two steps to the left, and was told I was close to leaving 
 the playing field. That's right; the sizes of the battle maps are simply ridiculous! In Paelanor, 
 you've barely any room for the beasts at all, and when you do use them, you realize how tiny this 
 so-called pivotal battle really is, as it's rendered in the game. And that trend continues throughout 
 the game. None of the battles live up to their source-material's billing. In fact, helm's deep 
 is just an outer shell of a castle, a high wall, and a small swathe of land out front where the 
 Orcs materialize. Sure, the game also throws in the hordes of Orcs to give atmosphere, but they're 
 honestly no better than cardboard cut-outs.
  
  And that's just the thing: These battles really only amount to small 15 on 15 conflicts, it seems. 
 Where is the epic in that!? What is the Lord of the Rings in that?
  
  Moving on, the sound design is hardly worth noting, the weapon noises and deaths are all standard-fare, 
 with one notably cool sound effect being the ability to screech like a ring-wraith whilst playing 
 as the Witch-King. As well, the music is fabulous-taken straight from the film-the problem? It 
 isn't used enough! It barely appears to give the battles any spunk, and is generally limited to 
 the menus-bad design decision.
  
  In the end, when you take the whole sum of this game into consideration, it is just way too weak 
 and un-fun to even think about recommending. Hell, even the diehard fans will be appalled at the 
 game's simply disastrous take on Lord of The Rings warfare, and the pitched battles of book and 
 movie fame. 
  
  As a brief note, the campaign is simply non-engaging with predictable objectives and age-old gaming 
 conventions (hold x spot for 2 minutes, stop AI from breaching the gate; alone etc.) , and I cannot 
 imagine that the multiplayer could be much fun in such a broken and over-blown combat system.
 
  Honestly, believe me when I say that Lord of The Rings Conquest is an absolutely abysmal failure 
 that reeks of cheap cash in. The fact that it topped the list of "highest sellers" on ebggames. com 
 is saddening, but it works to show just how blind some gamers are.
  
  As a final nail in this atrocious coffin of a game, I will hereby state, that Lord of The Rings 
 Conquest, for all its promise and its terrible and irrevocable butchering of the licence and the 
 concept of Orc vs. Man warfare, (among other things) has officially received the lowest score I 
 have ever given to a title here on Gamespot, or ever.
  
  1.5/10 Easy contender for worst game of the year, and to date, it is currently THE worst noteworthy 
 game that I have ever played.
  
  Avoid this at ALL costs. You will find nothing redeeming here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMBladed
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I think this got unfairly reviewed. It is so far as I know the only game that I have seen that 
 is like Battle Front for any system so far. I believe this is a test to see how it would do for 
 that style of game play and I believe with a little more trial and error it would be one of the 
 next top selling games world wide. Unfortunatly the game play is fairly easy you could easly take 
 this game on in co-op in the good side in a cpl hours tops. So its got maybe a total of 5-6 game 
 play top due to the fact of how easy it is. On the fliip side the graphics are good. And the levels 
 are also great just wish it would be harder. This is why I gave this game a score of 8 out of 10. 
 The classes could use some work as well as make it more strategic not just a botton masher but 
 they are fun as well. All in all I would recommend this game to any fan of LOTR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaehosser
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 22, 2009 8:27 am PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game. I was so looking forward to stomping down hordes of orcs as Gandalf 
 or wrecking everything as Sauron, the Balrog, and the Witch King. I looked forward so much that 
 I Pre-Ordered the thing. The game did not deliver anything I was looking for, when it finally came 
 3 days after the release date (odd, since Amazon usually gets my pre-orders to my hands the day 
 it is released) .
  
  The combat is entirely frustrating which makes the game no fun at all. I could have looked past 
 the poor level design and the cheesy voices and the average graphics. Hell, I could have even looked 
 past the "only pick a hero during certain parts of the campaign" too if the normal combat system 
 was tweaked. It relies too heavily on ranged attacks (canceled out by any enemy mage) or knockdowns 
 and juggle attacks - which are more easily done to you than to enemies. I know there was plenty 
 of arrow play in Lord of the Rings, but wasn't there also a TON of stand-up melee combat?
  
  I slogged through both campaigns in about 4-6 hours and I don't even want to play it again 
 - UNLESS there is a way to play the campaign always as a hero of my choice instead of generic class 
 grunts, but this option isn't available. You can only play as heroes during certain parts of the 
 campaign or in a Hero multiplayer match. That is extremely disappointing for a fan of Lord of the 
 Rings, and especially disappointing for someone who doesn't really play multiplayer. Why would 
 I want to play generic orc grunt or Gondorian mage when I know there are heroes like Aragorn and 
 Gandalf and Gimli and the Witch King and Sauron and the Balrog?
  
  Pick a warrior and get knocked down and juggled by other warriors (yeah, I forget to block sometimes 
 but should I be punished with 3/4 of my health being taken off?) or shot down by archers. Worse 
 than that is being back-stabbed and instantly killed three times in a row by a scout in under 2 
 minutes! Even worse is the mages - always just out of range behind a line of enemy warriors, archers, 
 grunts (or an invisible scout lurking) they constantly heal while launching very damaging spells 
 at you. I understand that the mage should do this for tactical reasons, but as a warrior, I expect 
 to blitz through a weak portion of the enemies and go for the quarterback sack tactic - but then 
 I get a HIGHLY damaging fireball or lightning bolt in the face. This happens over and over to the 
 point where I found myself not even trying to fight anything and instead running to whatever objective 
 will win the battle and finishing as quickly as I could hoping that the part would have a more 
 powerful hero to help out or ANYthing to make the combat a little more enjoyable as if just maybe 
 I had a slight edge over the competition or something to exploit. Nope. The warrior is a grunt 
 and anyone, including the other warriors, can just chop him down at will.
  
  Pick a scout and never be able to stealth kill anything while there are archers or mages present. 
 Warriors will stomp you. Archers will turn you into a pin cushion. Mages will fry you. I often 
 found even if I managed to go stealth (by running away from the objective and enemies) coming back 
 to pick off a mage in a crowd with a one-shot backstab - well, the targeting was off and I'd backstab 
 a lowly grunt. Then enter the warriors or archers or the mage to just plow my stupid scout for 
 even thinking he could make a difference.
  
  Pick an archer and find that your enemies are untouchable if even one enemy mage is present. Try 
 to come in close to kick him down and plug him with arrows and those troops he was shielding and 
 healing will cut you in half. Archer wasn't too bad if you could keep your distance and there weren't 
 mages. Just have one mage show up, though, and the archer is useless.
  
  So I pick a mage and start launching lightning and fireballs and healing myself. Nice. Then an 
 enemy mage fries me - deflects my long range attacks. Archers pick me off while I'm trying to heal 
 or fireball or anything. Scout backstabs. A couple of warriors bum rush. Mage still is better than 
 scout or warrior. I don't want to constantly be shielding and healing, but I spent at least half 
 the time having to do that. Sheilding is no good against the warriors and scouts, however.
  
  Best thing in the game - trolls. I loved the Balrog, but the one level you actually get to 
 use him, he is easily rushed up on and beat down by... ents? Shouldn't they be set aflame just 
 coming near him? Whatever. Ok. I get to pick Sauron. Legola's and company put him down without 
 much trouble. Well if that's all it takes to bring down Sauron, why are we even bothering with 
 a trilogy of books and movies and... this game in the first place.
  
  Trolls, however, can heal themselves (thank you) unlike the Balrog. Troll's attacks do plenty of 
 damage and I found myself playing as a troll as often as possible so that I could finish the level 
 and quit playing the game. 
  
  I'm sorry, I was just severely disappointed by this game. I guess I'm probably glad I haven't played 
 Star Wars: Battlefront, since everyone says it's the same. Ugh. You know what could have made this 
 game much better? KOEI Dynasty Warriors: Lord of the Rings edition. At least then you could stomp 
 through the enemies and the challenge would come from occupying objective territories or rolling 
 up on an enemy hero or something and really digging in to put him down. THAT would have been fun. 
 THAT would still have been challenging enough (and if it wasn't - difficulty settings are implemented 
 to make the game more challenging - not poorly worked combat systems) . 
  
  The Pandemic crew really didn't put much thought into this game. I would gladly have waited another 
 6 months if they could have fixed the combat - THE MOST IMPORTANT PART OF A GAME LIKE THIS - and 
 implemented some kind of Hero unlocking thing through the campaigns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperking07
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:04 am PT
Review:  Being honest, even at the start of this game, being from when i even heard it was coming out on 
 the 360 and ps3 etc, i knew this could be an amazing game if you are a Lord Of The Rings fan, becuase 
 in this game it allows you to take control of nearly every character within the films, including 
 the unlikly Oliphants that charge down the fields outside Minis Tirith!. Multiplayer turned out 
 a lot better than i thought, and also if you play well in an online game you are rewarded with 
 your efforts to become one of the main characters to help, such as for example Aragon, Gandalf, 
 WitchKing etc, it really is an awsome game, there can be a lot of button bashing but isnt every 
 game button pressing fun anyway, you will without doubt have an amazing action adventure with this 
 game, only of course if you like lord of the rings, other wise dont even go close to buying it, 
 as of course you will not be pleased, stating the obvious. In other words this game is very much 
 like Star Wars battlefront 2, and taht game was a big seller and very popular, this game is bascially 
 the same type of gameplay but with of course lord of the rings. So buy this game its awsome and 
 enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malakogavlides
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 4:32 pm PT
Review:  To make think straight i dont believe that the game deserves a 9.5 but i gave it to raise it a 
 little. I think a 8.3 would be what it should be. Lets see...: the graphics are great but not the 
 sound. the classes are quite good so are the heroes. the story mode is very good. If it has more 
 variaty in the classes and the heroes it would be perfect. i mean, the uruk-hai warriors should 
 be stronger than the orc warriors. the same for the human warriors and archers, elf archers ect. 
 they also should have differrent type of attack. they are clones with the same moves and same skills. 
 the only think that changes is the textures. be same for heroes. gandalf should have the blast 
 move. no the same tricks as the simple mages. the oliphants are great, so are the ents and the trolls. 
 and sauron dies too easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  LOTR conquest is finaly out and alot of gamesites dont like it for reasons i dont know i think 
 the game is great for LOTR fans multiplayer fans and Star wars battlefront fans. as everyone knows 
 u can play as 4 classes warrior, mage, archer, and scout. preety much warrior is for fans for close 
 combat archer will be for shooter fans mage as people wanting 2 help other people and scout is 
 for fans who want to be sneaky and capture points more easily. There are 2 campaigns Good/Evil 
 both have 8 levels that are farily difficult really easy with a friend (personally liked the Evil 
 campaign more :lol: ) there are plenty of fun modes to play online u have conquest, team deathmatch, 
 hero team deathmatch, capture the rings. there are plenty of levels to (theres to much so iam not 
 naming all of them) well i prety much named all of them so i think u should get this if u are a 
 LOTR fan and MULTIPLAYER fan or STAR WARS BATTLEFRONT FAN. so yeah this is worth ur $60$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsduncan7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  I have beaten both campaigns in single player mode, and enjoyed it very much. I liked the second 
 campaign with the big what if scenario of Frodo keeping the ring. To me, the game just isn't as 
 bad as the big reviewers make it to be. Some of the those reviews actually contradict each other 
 about the game. I actually like this game better than SW: BF2 because in that game, I never really 
 cared to be other classes. With Conquest, each class brings different things to the game. So playing 
 as a warrior really is quite different than a mage. Classes in SW: BF2 all just felt like the same 
 character, but a different gun, and nothing really different. LOTR fans should definitely get this 
 game, because it is the best one so far. The other games were good, but they never really immersed 
 you in Middle Earth like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allknowingvorti
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 11:04 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best LOTR games to date and is incredibly fun and addictive, despite its 
 flaws such as the spawning rates and "flotyness" (is that even a word?) If you are a LOTR fan and 
 liked the battlefront games then you will love this game. The campaign is fun (if not a great storyline) 
 and you will have an ejoyable playthrough both the good and evil campaigns. the multiplayer is 
 where the game really shines with up to 16 players over xbox live the battles can become something 
 of epic. Imagine yourself as a mage desperatley trying to keep your last command post in the high 
 walls of minis tirith and while also trying to keep yourself and your team-mates alive. When all 
 of a sudden a army of orcs come at you with the witch king and a troll destroying your allys as 
 if they were toys. This is truely an exhilerating experience and will provide fun and pleasure 
 for any LOTR fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2009 3:38 am PT
Review:  As I stated this game is a lot of fun when you share the experience and so I did. In split-screen 
 I shared it with a friend and we went trough the whole campaign in one afternoon. When I think 
 back the harder campaign in one of good vs. evil the battles are visually great, the music is not 
 that bad but playing is a bit repetitive. You can play as warrior, archer, scout, mage, hero, ent 
 and all of the other "wonderful" creatures that we got to know and like in the LOTR saga. Your 
 opponents vary in class also but there is also a way to get rid if them almost painlessly if you 
 do it right. 
  Controls are mapped logically so when you change class you'll still know what to do. 
  The battles 
 are epic in proportion and if you fail at any given stage, and there are four to five stages per 
 battle you failed so that could get frustrating in single player mode and also sometimes you just 
 don't know where to go but the game is good in that way since it allows you to go about solving 
 stages in ways that you want to.
  Heroes die just like the rest but they come with certain perks or special powers but just sometimes 
 you wish you could roll or run from your attacker and that, my firends, is sometimes not an option.
 
  In conclusion it's fun just plain fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slaughtahouse
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:58 pm PT
Review:  My opening statement is very simple and its that this game entierly is not trying to do much. Many 
 LOTR fans (such as my self) had always wished for an all out multiplayer experience that would 
 recreate emmense battles and create addictive gameplay. Some other reviewers are taking this game 
 to seriously and giving it strikes for every fault. Yes there are some such as minor spawning and 
 ladder glitches, the game is short, and possibly the shallow combat. I think when most people go 
 into an EB games or Gamestop will know what there getting when they ask for a movie based game. 
 But I found myself supprised when I played the demo. It was easy to get into, the controls are 
 simple. Yes there's button mashing but what do you expect when you shooting hunderds of enemines 
 or "ramboing it" into 50 when all you carry is a sword. Theres going to be lots of button pressing 
 get used to it.
  
  The graphics for the game are good. The character models are mixed reactions because some of the 
 orcs look like a twist vile warrior, that has blood on its mind. While some run like they took 
 a dump in their pants. The backrounds are quite impressive. While I was playing on one of the 13 
 multiplayer maps, pelennor fields, and i was looking at minas tirth in the backround and the Oliphants 
 roaming the battlefield I thought it looked preaty dam good! 7.9/10
  
  The audio is good as well but not amazing. Theres no real flaws to it but its not outstanding like 
 battlefield bad company or dead space. Its nice to hear the LOTR theme song in the backround, its 
 makes the battles (how can I say it) more awespiring! The weapons sound good and theres a lot of 
 metal clashing and nazgul screems that add to the experience. 8.2/10
  
  Finally the gameplay. Alot of people are complaning about button mashing and theres not really 
 anything here but running around killing people (orcs too) .
  But thats what I like, thats why I liked battlefront, thats why I like Fallout 3, and primalry 
 thats why I like video games. To create an experience that you cant go out and just do. I really 
 dont understand why people cant just try the demo and if they dont like it , leave it at that. 
 No they go out and buy it and then say "Whats the trade in value?". If your going to buy it and 
 you have live ( I think most people would have live since its a multiplayer game) then try the 
 demo first. Anyways the campaign I was really supprised. I knew it wouldnt be much but mindless 
 objectives + lots of killing but I liked how they have two campaigns and its gives you varity. Also 
 you can play both campaigns entirly co-op which is another bonus. After you beat the campaign or 
 during it however you would play a game you must, must, MUST try the multiplayer. Thats the main 
 focus and once you go in its hard to get out. There are a bunch of maps but only four modes and 
 it goes up to 16. The multiplayer is really addicitive and fun but it needs a few more modes and 
 maybe one more class. If you dont have live and your going to get the game, dont worry there are 
 bot modes so you can try out the multiplayer too! 8.7/10
  
  Final Verdict: If you like violent, awespiring battles with a LOTR theme and a chance to kill hobbits, 
 get the game. If you dont or you dont have xbox live, upgrade and try demo. You owe it to yourself 
 too. 8.3/10 (round it up to 8.5) .
  Gamertag: Slaughtahouse04
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugo_fusco
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The game is based on the movie Lord of the Rings trilogy, and have some informations about the 
 book, such as levels and descriptions that arent in the movie.
  
  CAMPAIGN: The story of the game is very good, 15 levels only, but you can fell the emotion and 
 the action of the game. All the musics of the movie have in the game, you can fell like ,you are 
 in the film.
  The campaing have two storyes, ''WAR OF THE RING'' ( the classic history of the movie) and the 
 ''RISE OF SAURON'' (What could happened if Frodo had failed to destroy the ring?) In this campaing 
 you can play with all evil heroes, such as the traitor Saruman , and the champion , Balrog.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: The game have a amazing mutiplayer. In this mode, you must play in the modes, CONQUEST, in 
 that mode , you must capture all territories of the map to win the match.
  Capture the Ring: in that mode you must capture the one ring, and take to the enemy's base.
  
 Team Deathmatch: Simple, defeat all oponents to win the game.
  Hero Team Deathmatch : The same, but with an amazing thing, only heroes on the battefield! You 
 choose, evil heroes, or good heroes.
  
  ACHIVIEMENTS: The achiviements are easy to get, but not simple, i said easy , just like KILL 100 
 ENEMIES with the WARRIOR in ONE LIFE. And there are harder achiviements to take to , such as win 
 a ranked match in first place , or capture all the ring in a capture the ring .
  
  
  
  MAPS AND HEROES: All heroes and enemies of the movie , and of the expended movie are in the game. 
 The map are great! There size are great, and some maps are smallers, but all the maps of the movies, 
 with all the details, are in the game.
  
  People this game is AMAZING, i hope you like my review and those who didnt liked, I don't care. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carbon_Python
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Playing single player had me frustrated in some parts and with a rather large grin in others (killing 
 hobbits) . There are four of the most basic classes ever to grace the fantasy world (mage, Warrior, 
 rouge and archer) Each of the classes has there one strengths and weaknesses as usual but they 
 all play the same, I would have expected the devs to add some customization commonly found in newer 
 games of the same sub genre. The single player campaign has some really epic moments but at the 
 same time there are some moments where the only real way to get passed is to run through it as 
 a scout in stealth. Either way in short I enjoyed the gameplay but some might not however playing 
 with a buddy is always fun.
  
  Graphics:
  This isn't crysis but with a 150 npcs on screen the game does pretty well and still manages to 
 look pretty good there are some graphical differences between the 360 and the PC the latter being 
 the better.
  
  Sound:
  The music is amazing and the sounds of battle do pretty well however all the npcs for some reason 
 feel the need to dye with the same scream how they do it I wouldn't know.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond2d
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:34 pm PT
Review:  I palyed the demo of the game about a week and a half ago and i thought i will gie this game ago. 
 I bought it on release day and it still was a major dissapointment. The chances are if you didn't 
 like the demo you won't like the final product. The game is basically capture the flag but in Middle 
 Earth THAT'S IT! The game does have some cool features though ie the ability to control Balrog, 
 and to kill Hobbits which is fun.
  
  The sound in the game is spot on i must admit. The online play is fun and the single player gives 
 a differnt veiw on which the film took. Evn if your a harcore LotR fan like my self you may think 
 the same as me. EA have yet agen messed up a licence for a film by making it into a game that fails 
 to delliver to a standard of gaming expected in 2009.
  
  TERRIBLE GAME, RENT IT FIRST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmacfan532
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Pandemic could've done so much more with this game... it's kind of a shame that they didn't. Some 
 other things they could've done would be to add more units like they said they would, keep the 
 full maps for online play, and add more classes. Also, they should've made some more game modes 
 such as Ringbearer and Strongholds like they said they would. Overall, the epic feeling from the 
 movies was taken away and replaced with the feeling of taking part in small skirmishes. More AI 
 units would've remedied this, but oh well... it's still fun for Lord of the Rings fans. But if 
 they would've put more effort into it, this could've been one of the greatest games ever. 
  
  Final verdict: If you're a LOTR or Battlefront fan, you'll be able to get some use out of this 
 game. If you're not, then rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jegan234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Originally I thought this was going to be the Star Wars Battlefront version of Lord of The Rings. 
 I thought it was really fun, but it lacks a lot of things, such as customization and selection. 
 Those two because you can't customize your guys at all, and all the good scouts look the same. 
 Selection because if you want to be a elf at Minas Tirith, you can't! Plus, how do you get to be 
 a captain? They look cool, and they are really strong, but you can't be one! Plus the campaigns 
 are REALLY slow. If you play them all day, it takes like 3 hours to beat it. But there are some 
 things that are fun. Like backstabbing people and using a horse. But if they make a second one, 
 I would suggest these things: 
  
  A. Choose what race you want to be and where. 
  
  B. Choose what armor and weapons you get such as if you are a elven archer you can choose what 
 armor you want and what weapons. 
  
  C. Make the campaigns longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7089
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2009 12:51 pm PT
Review:  LotR Conquest is a game I've been reading about for almost a year. Up until its release I've probably 
 seen every video and read everything written about it. Unfortunately the demo shown me the future, 
 and I knew it wasn't going to get that great of a rating, but simply telling them to stall the 
 game won't work. (I've tried with several games, they always shelf it and take the bad rating instead 
 of delaying for a better one) I still pre ordered it, and now own it. I'd say I was ripped, paying 
 60$ for this really wasn't that good of an idea. I'd have been better off renting it, plowing its 
 short campaign for those easy achievements, then taking it back.
  
  We were all expecting and hoping they'd make Conquest a masterpiece due to the excellent work they've 
 had with Battlefront, but I have to say that Conquest feels like they cashed in on many things 
 for a quick release instead of taking the time to polish and add the depth that could have been 
 in. Countless features that their older games have, (such as a more meaningful scoreboard at the 
 end of a game) are missing for some reason in this game.
  
  To make matters worse, the companies made promises about countless things last year and simply 
 did not deliver. They promised several multiplayer modes that are not included in release, along 
 with big online battles featuring 16 players+ bots. But sadly, multiplayer is actually limited 
 to just 16 players with no bots, unless they are filling in for the missing player slots. They 
 didn't even bother to tell you these things until release, so you probably found out the harsh 
 way (by cashing it) . Maybe they'll add everything this game needs and was promised as free downloadable 
 content, but I wouldn't bet my 60$ on it. Most companies at this point, simply move on to the next 
 game. (or offer any kind of changes as terrible value paid downloads, look at Gears of War 2, 10$ 
 for THREE downloadable maps, anyone that pays that is a real moron. You'd think that the billion 
 or so dollars Microsoft made off the game would be enough?)
  
  The singleplayer experience is the highlight of the show. Although it is short, offering little 
 more than 5 hours of content (that's both good and evil, not one) , it is a meaningful and fun experience. 
 Despite the terrible and repetitive voice spam you get from your allies reminding you to do an 
 objective over and over (they say it again and again until you do it, as if you weren't already 
 trying, you'll be wishing you could shut them up without turning off all the voice in the game) , 
 you'll still enjoy the campaigns. If you didn't like that agonizing voice in the training levels, 
 I'm sorry to tell you that you'll be burdened hearing it throughout most of the Human levels. (Yes 
 I know it sounds like some idiot yelling into a mic) Luckily it's less of a annoyance when it finally 
 changes to a different guy, and becomes an Orc voice during the evil levels. If it really kills 
 you, at least you can turn it off, the problem is your inability to hear what you want to hear, 
 when you turn off what you don't want to hear. (such as a voice saying an objective the FIRST time)
 
  
  You'll be surprised that friendly AI is actually meaningful in the singleplayer. I usually always 
 get healed if there are nearby mages, countless times I could use their shields as well, or they'd 
 even help me with objectives. In some levels you need to push a battering ram, but since the AI 
 will push it when able, you need not do it at all. (unless you want to speed things up some) . But 
 there's also splitscreen and CO OP, allowing you to do these with other players. The singleplayer 
 varies, so you won't get bored running the entire thing as one class. I put the scout to use in 
 certain objectives where I needed to get past many enemies, sneaking it in instead of fighting 
 it out. Some times enemies use mages where you'd really want to fire as an Archer, prompting you 
 to just switch classes instead. I was pleased with this since it effectively prevents you from 
 sitting on the Archer the entire game. I found Warrior to be the most useful to push my team forward, 
 not dependent on cooldowns that much and giving the AI a reliable tank. Too bad this fun class 
 has it hard in multiplayer where players abuse the ability to backpedal while casting/shooting. 
 
  
  The game works differently than battlefront though, where in it you had a time limit in any level, 
 here you can play for as long as you like, provided you don't run out of lives. So dying just to 
 switch classes isn't a wise idea, fortunately you can switch classes on the fly at any base you 
 control. The lack of a time limit allows you to do your own thing and play at your own pace, making 
 it more fun, assuming you can put up with that spamming voice telling you to do the objective. 
 You shouldn't die that much since health orbs drop everywhere and your allies usually favor healing 
 you. The campaign isn't repetitive as it usually offers varying objectives. It isn't always about 
 capturing/defending bases. Sometimes you'll have to escort a battering ram to break a large door, 
 kill a certain hero, free captured allies, or kill a certain number of enemies. Most of the human 
 levels are defensive (such as defending Gondor) while the Orc levels are much more offensive (such 
 as destroying Gondor afterwards) . 
  
  As you've been told, the evil levels start at the end of the third movie, but assumes that Frodo 
 didn't make the special delivery. The human army that attacked mordor retreats and survives, Frodo 
 gets killed by a Nazgul (you, to be specific) , Sauron gets the ring back, and begins sieging Middle 
 Earth once again. But since the Orcs are endless, humans can't hope to survive simply by defending, 
 and as such you will conquer middle earth with a smile on your face. The humans, having lost the 
 ring to Sauron, split up and prepare for their last stand. Gandalf headed home to the shire, Aragorn 
 went to weathertop, Gimli wanted to be with his ancestors in Moria, Elrond camps Riverdare, etc. 
 You'll have to siege them all one at a time to hunt them down.
  
  If you are expecting a degree of strategy or loath combat, you may be happy or disappointed to 
 find out that Conquest is about button mashing. It favors whoever hits the enemy first, locking 
 the struck person until the attacker is finished. Since you can't do anything while being hit and 
 life bars are really short, it really is about hitting anyone and everything before they hit you. 
 This game doesn't perform like you'd think, playing a melee class here is kind of like playing 
 an action game. Other than timing cooldowns right, mashing buttons over and over, and hitting the 
 enemy first, there isn't much strategy to be had in the game. It is about cheaply hitting the enemy 
 first, not much else. There is plenty of action, though.
  
  The celebrity voice overs didn't bother me. I've read about how terrible they were, why are they 
 terrible? They sound great to me, almost like the real ones. I know they aren't the real ones, 
 so its amusing to hear how close they come. The graphics I also didn't have any problem with. Given 
 the smooth frame rate from start to finish with the decent environments, the graphics are great. 
 What the game really lacks is a decent number of animations and models. You'll feel tedious seeing 
 the same attack animation over and over, and on many maps you'll see or use the same models as 
 well. Not much helps to break this up, other than heroes. While you may not get them that much 
 in multiplayer, you can get them often in singleplayer. Since they are tough, do not expire over 
 time, and can be healed, you can usually stay the hero the rest of the level.
  
  The campaigns try to follow the movies, a shrunken Helm's Deep, outside/inside Gondor, and so on. 
 They vary, which is good because there wouldn't be as many levels if they hung to the movies word 
 for word. It's a shame they couldn't be more creative and add more levels, sticking to the movies 
 so closely really limited the number of levels. Each level is narrated by the real voice of Elrond (aka 
 Agent Smith) , which is a real nice touch, along with flashes from the movies. These flashes were 
 put in nicely, and don't feel out of place with what's going on in the game. (Even though you'll 
 suspect so before playing the game)
  
  Where the game dies is in its multiplayer, not offering many game modes and not delivering the 
 large battles promised. If you played the demo, you've seen everything worthwhile the multiplayer 
 in this game offers. You can't even customize the settings as much as the Battlefronts, another 
 letdown. Why would a next generation game be more limited than a previous, with less modes, less 
 classes, less models, less settings? It all feels rushed, half finished, and will get repetitive 
 quite quickly. You only have a few modes, capture the ring, a lame version of capture the flag, 
 team deathmatch, hero team deathmatch, and conquest. Capture the ring puts a ring (aka the flag) 
 somewhere on the map and wants you to get it and take it home. The problem is that the carrier's 
 location isn't pinged or arrowed, so once someone has it, good luck finding him to help or stop 
 him. Hero Team deathmatch may be ok for some, but I didn't like it at all, mainly because the same 
 hero can be seen several times. How could you enjoy 5 overpowered Gandalfs running around pwning? 
 No limit cap ruins that game mode. Conquest is the only real option for fun, only only allowing 
 one guy on a team to be the hero at a time, while you fight to control points. Unfortunately the 
 games are too short, and since the hero is given to whatever team is in the lead, 99% of the time, 
 the first team to hit 50% score will dominate, as you can't do much to catch up once a decent player 
 on an already winning team is given a hero. (even less if its a mage hero) I expected to be able 
 to set the score past 1k since that's what the demo was at, and its very short. But sadly (and there 
 are many sad letdowns with this package) , you cannot. So those short 5-10minute games are all you'll 
 get out of this one decent game mode. Short games prevent a losing team from having any time to 
 make a comeback.
  
  Unfortunately the classes themselves aren't well balanced either, which really hurts the multiplayer. 
 Mages can inflict too much damage for a "support" class (and heal on top of it) , while a Scout runs 
 around with a cloaking you can see through that also has a short time limit and a backstab that 
 fails often, dropping your cloaking when it does. (which often gets you killed) Warrior feels alright 
 for the most part, but you better be good with that throwing axe, else you'll rarely kill an Archer 
 or Mage. It's too easy for them to keep range, unless you're lucky and they miss an ability (or 
 used it already) . The bottom line is that the melee classes are significantly harder to play as, 
 as its hard to line your melee attacks up on enemies when you can't move while swinging, but yet 
 they can move while shooting or casting. If they buffed the Warrior+Scout, the overpowered Archers/Mages 
 would be balanced out. The heroes are just as unbalanced as the classes too, any melee hero feels 
 underpowered, a health regeneration of some kind would have helped. It's sad when a Mage hero can 
 slaughter a group of enemies with little effort but Aragorn or the Witchking get knocked down again 
 and again trying to get to melee range. (Why aren't heroes, especially melee ones, immune to knockdowns?) 
 It's even more sad when a hero dies in 1 hit to a Scout's backstab, proof that little thought went 
 into the balance or PvP coding of this game. But any hero that can heal is far overpowered (aka 
 Mage heroes) The maps add to it, on most maps one side has a real advantage over the other, be 
 it because of the superior hero, having that Troll/Ent right at the start, or blending in with 
 the map better. The demo players will know what I'm talking about, with midget hobbit archers on 
 the shire that have just as much health as a tall Orc (and the sniper ridge for that matter you 
 have to run all the way around to access)
  
  There are plenty of other annoyances in the game I could mention that shouldn't make it to release. 
 Too many knockdown effects (which is just anything that hurts you) means you'll spend half your 
 time in the game simply getting back up. Sometimes you'll get knocked around before you can do 
 so, or get killed on the ground. The melee classes really should be more resistant to these things, 
 but they aren't. Why is a plated Warrior just as easy to knock over as an unarmored Mage? I already 
 mentioned the real lack of animations, making Human warriors, Elf warriors, and Orc warriors perform 
 the same exact style of combat. They could have least made 2 different sets (one for each side) , 
 but they couldn't even do that. (And why do Orc warriors run like they crapped their pants? Who's 
 brilliant idea was that?)
  
  One of the few best things about this game is the smooth frame rate, I've even some of the best 
 games bog at some point under pressure. (Specifically Fable 2 in CO OP) Conquest's will never lagg, 
 it doesn't matter how many things are going on. Note that I'm not able to test 4 player co op (I 
 only have 2 controllers) , but seeing as how the game runs flawlessly smooth from start to finish 
 already, I doubt it'd lagg much (if any) either. But this comes at a price, as there's no blood 
 of any kind and bodies disappear almost instantly, making the game feel more like a simulation 
 than actual combat. They really wanted this to be a "Teen" rated game, but trust me when I say 
 "Mature" gets much higher ratings, being more realistic, so they basically hurt themselves there. 
 I mean, lets be real, if I get stepped on by a troll, don't you expect my character to get smashed 
 into a bloody pancake? Don't you expect my character to explode when I die from a grenade to the 
 face?
  
  It's hard to recommend this game when it offers barely more multiplayer than its own demo does. (No 
 extra settings at all, just maps, non-worthwhile game modes, and missing features that were promised, 
 etc) The campaign is great, but quite short and over all simply worth renting, not buying. If you 
 really plan a future with this game, you better have no problem with repetitive combat animations 
 and constant mindless button mashing, and I hope you have the money laying around to dump a full 
 price 60$ on this clearly unfinished package when there are other much better games to do so on 
 that are actually finished. (Check the Gamespot's top 10 games of 2008 if you are browsing, although 
 their list is bogus, anything on it is still of more value than this) To those of us that have 
 been ripped buying this, maybe they'll finish the game with downloadable content, one can only 
 hope. We want more animations, the missing gameplay modes and bigg battles we were promised, along 
 with the much needed balance changes and combat tweaks. There's plenty of potential to be had here, 
 lets hope they don't waste it.
  
  Single player:
  (Experience) B (Good)
  Presentation:
  (Video/Audio) B (Good)
  Performance: A (Great)
  Multiplayer: F (Fail) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goatheadman1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:41 am PT
Review:  Lord of the Rings: Conquest is many things, and what I mean by that is that it frequesntly strays 
 off far from what it set out to be, a LotR version of BattleFront 1&2. Sometimes it feels like 
 Dynasty Warriors (mainly in the campain) and believe it or not, not to many people like that game 
 including me. But when your not playing the campain is when LotR: C really shines, but I recomend 
 play online for the most fun... because the AI isnt very sharp and they never use the Oliphants 
 or the Catapults, wich makes the game get old and stail really fast, the only thing i've seen them 
 use are the horses and the dog looking things that remind me of horses, and there really stupid 
 when riding, they ride the horse at its slowest speed and dont attack enimes until they get knocked 
 off. Well enough with the problems, The coolest part of the game is that you can be every single 
 charcactor that was in the movies and they all have differences.
  
  Heres some PROS and CONS
  PROS-The game never gets old, sometimes big battles, Scout PWNZ, alota 
 things to interact with
  Cons-Cheap ways to die, dumb AI, only 16 player battles (not campain) , unoriginal voice actors 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ISargin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 12:03 am PT
Review:  i bought this game due to my overwhelmed hype from the demo , which i thought was amazing.
  
  at the end of the day , this game is truely an accomplishment.
  
  this game , for one , 
 is clearly designed for multiplayer , but the single player campaign is enough to hold you off 
 for a little bit.
  
  the single player campaign is pretty straight forward. you can play as the good side (basic following 
 of the movies starting with helms deep) or the bad side
  
  the bad side is rather interesting . it takes place as if frodo didnt destroy the ring , and a 
 nasgul got a hold of it , and evil starts to take over middle-earth. its pretty fun.
  
  its about 6 hours with a friend .
  
  the multiplayer online is truly and accomplishment . the 
 four main classes are alot more balanced than they were in the demo .
  
  i will say that the hero team deathmatch (similar to assault in battlefront 2 if you remember) 
 is a really clunky mess . you cant really have fun with it , it is a cool idea though.
  
  anyway . you get a variety of stuff to do. four classes to choose from (scout , warrior , mage 
 , and archer ) all with unique abilities . and also stuff such as balrogs , trolls , and ents to 
 become .as well as some hero characters.
  
  the graphics for this game are tremendous , the character models at time do seem to need some work 
 , but the environment puts you right in middle-earth.
  
  the game sometimes doesnt feel right with certain combat tactics , but still plays very well most 
 of the time.
  
  All in all though , i had higher hopes for this game than what i got. but its still pretty damn 
 good.
  
  
  Game Rating: 7.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THX-1137
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Playing The Lord of the Rings Conquest is very similar to Star Wars Battlefront, just without guns. 
 With only a slight graphical update from Battlefronts sequel, Conquest seems to almost look good, 
 but then doesn't really get there. With Howard Shore's amazing score, Hugo Weaving's little dialogues, 
 and the clips from The Lord of the Rings , the game does immerse you into Tolkien's universe. But 
 the game really doesn't do the franchise justice. Again, the game is enjoyable, if repetitive, 
 and fans of the books/movies and the Star Wars Battlefront games will feel a home. But really, 
 it could have been so much better. The classes could have been far more balanced, glitches could 
 have been fixed, and the whole repetitive nature of the game could have been sidestepped. So, the 
 bottom line is it should be played if you like any of Pandemics previous games or Tolkien's works, 
 just maybe rent it or wait until the price drops (you won't have to wait long) - check Circuit 
 City...
  
  Gameplay - lots of button-mashing, and repetitive, unbalanced 7
  Graphics - far away looks good, not so good closer up 6
  Multiplayer - like SW Battlefront, 9
 
  Story - two different campaigns, but short 8.5
  
  Overall - 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moralez13
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 17, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is bad, seriously bad; and i know i can be quite picky about the games i play, but i had 
 really high hopes for this one, at lest in keeping up with the book, or the movies. First of all 
 the difficulty is aggravating: friendly NPCs work against you, add to that orcs, constantly spawning 
 in 10s or 5s, and you get frustrating battles that have nothing in common with being epic. Honestly, 
 i liked previous games like "The Two Towers" and especially "The return of the King" a lot better, 
 they were very well made, and fighting was fluid and unique to each character. Plus what happened 
 to the sprays of black blood orcs had in those games, i really loved it, i know they were trying 
 to cut down on the visuals to keep this game internet friendly, but come on! Characters have really 
 disgusting voices, why won't they rather shut up, annoying costrato Frodo, and Gandalf who seems 
 to have something stuck up his rectum: "I am GANDALF"- what the hell is this!? I didn't expect 
 much from Legolas, but they ruined his voice too, and his lines are ridiculous- "This is one dangerous 
 elf!". Anyways, i watched all the movies in a few days before buying this game, you know, just 
 to harden the impact, but damn, was that a bad idea! I lost all the respect for the characters, 
 and the game itself was shorter than two movies in gameplay! Visuals are bad, controls are bad, voices 
 suck, gameplay is short, battles are unepic and frustrating, character models suck big time.
  Don't buy this game, should you play a demo the game is far worse than that!
  PS: The sounds that 
 bows make in the game is nothing like in the movie, so it sucks too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Cakeness
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I loved the game, but story was too short and there was no real feel to go back to it.
  The idea of the campaigns being good and bad was good, but how the bad was constructed was a bit 
 jammy, using random clips from the movies.
  It was fun mashing through enemy after enemy i guess, but they are a bit stupid and missing a head 
 shot on one was like throwing a stone and missing the floor :d!
  The campaigns were also short, and easily done on easy setting.
  
  The main focus of the game 
 is the multiplayer were the skills you learn in single player are tested.
  It is set up through a number of game modes:
  Conquest; capture points on the battlefield to 
 gain points, at the same the opposing team is doing the same.
  Team Deathmatch; Killing enemy players
  Hero Team Deathmatch; Same as team deathmatch but using 
 stronger characters with modified abilities
  
  and more like capture the flag type game modes
  
  
  the classes are quite well balanced but 
 it can annoy you when classes start to seriously abuse their strengths or your team all pick warriors 
 because they have flame swords, YAY!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtad09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a long time for someone to make a Lord of the Rings game that really captured 
 the epic style of battle in the movies. This one really tried, but it isn't quite there. I would 
 have loved to have seen more aggressive A. I. characters and a lot more enemies coming at me during 
 battles like Helm's Deep. I loved the Battlefront series and I always thought that it would be 
 a good game play style for a Lord of the Rings game. It is, and I think this is deffinitely a step 
 towards the truly amazing game that the Lord of the Rings story deserves. For the time being I 
 am enjoying this game, and i can't wait to see if it will be followed up with an improved sequel. 
 I think that developers took a good chance on this one, and I am calling it a success. This game 
 offers great replay value in its immersive single player and co-op campaign, and it has a very 
 good online multiplayer mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pop_can
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I'll just get the bad stuff out of the way first, if you have seen the lord of the rings movies, 
 then there is nothing new for you story-wise, except the "Rise of Sauron" story wich ads a twist 
 onto the Lord of the Rings series. The graphics aren't as good as most big-budjet games, but the 
 framerate doesn't drop and everything is nice to look at. There are a few cheap ways to die but 
 they are not entirely game-braking. The single player story isn't as hard as people say, but can 
 get a little annoying in some places. The A. I. isn't the s
  
  now that that is out of the way, here is the good stuff:
  If you miss Star Wars Battlefront's 
 epic battles set across the famous scenes of the movies, then look no further than LotR: Conquest. 
 The battles are all set in places were anyone who has seen the movies will recognize. From Helms 
 Deep to the Gates of Mordor and even to the Shire, its pretty much all there. The battles are epic 
 and you are able to take control of all the major hero's and villians of the movies, including 
 Oliphants, trolls, and Ents. This game is really enjoyable and the "Rise of Sauron" campaign is 
 a blast. Who doesn't want to destroy the Shire as a Balrog anyway? If anything, give this game 
 a rent. Its just plain fun.
  
  I would review the multiplayer but my internet sucks and I can't really connect so I have no idea 
 how the online multiplayer is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojobaker15
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  I've been looking forward to this game for a while and am very pleased with the results. Lord of 
 the Rings: Conquest, is an action packed game. It is similar to the Starwars Battlefront series 
 in which you take over other teams command posts. You're constantly fighting and this game is very 
 quickly paced, which makes it very fun.
  
  The graphics may not be amazing, but the concept of the game is great. The story and campaigns 
 are very immersive. Going through both the good and then the evil campaigns should be a joy to 
 all.
  
  Also, this game comes with great multiplayer. For just playing on one Xbox you can do a 2 player 
 co-op campaign, or you can go up to 4 players in the Instant action. I've not played on live yet 
 so I do not know what it is like yet.
  
  For any Lord of the Rings fan, or just a fan of great button mashing fighting, THIS is the game 
 for you. However, if you are not to sure about it, might want to make sure to rent it first as 
 it may regret buying it if you do. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: John-Smiths
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I will admit, before I bought this game my hopes were rather high. The idea of the game sounded 
 exciting, especially since none other had this good an idea. I know that the old games on the PS2 
 were sought of the first, but like all movie-inspired games, there were about as entertainging 
 as Rap music. The very idea of being able to play as ANY hero sounded perfect, but then I bought 
 the game....
  
  As I expected and feared, you were never able to play as ANY hero when you WANTED to! The designers, 
 like Battlefront 2 did allow you play as a hero, but only when the game let you, and of course 
 only let you choose one of them! WHY!? If I want to be able to play as Sauron or the Witch-King 
 on any level, I expect that from the game, not to be told when and what level they could be used 
 on! 
  
  I know that not many would view this game as hard, and I'm not saying that it was hard in the typical 
 style of not being able to finish a level. What I mean is that you have to work for a long time 
 on some levels doing incredibly repetitive task to then play as a hero you firstly don't want OR 
 really want i. e. SAURON, and then to have them killed within minutes of being bloody chosen, and 
 then of course being unable to re-use them!!!!!! WHY!!! I did not pay 40 for a game to be treated 
 like a child, punished for enjoying myself!!!
  
  The graphics are passable, in that I mean when the game gets really chaotic you can't see how poorly 
 this game looks, especially the level designs. Heroes are okay, but could have been done so much 
 better! Why is that the 360 can run a game like GTA4, and then EA to design a game so much worse 
 looking!
  
  In the name of good sense don't waste your money. If you would like a game which would last a long 
 time don't buy this, I finished both campaigns today, when I bought it!? If anybody in the future 
 designs a LOTR game, DO NOT make it any similar to this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AVALANX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game and would say the idea is great but could have been executed better, although 
 the idea alone is enough to make a good game.
  
  To start off, the games graphics are disappointing; Rating: 6.0 
  the graphics just remind me 
 to much of what you would find on the last generation of console games. So if graphics are very 
 important to you (in this case it should not be) this game you won't enjoy.
  
  Things start getting better when it comes to audio; Rating: 9.8
  The music from the LOTR film 
 series brilliant and create the perfect atmosphere for the game. Technically the in-game sounds 
 are also very good and always sound quite realistic.
  
  Then finally the gameplay, which is the key factor; Rating 9.0
  The gameplay is thankfully good, 
 even with a slight 'button mashing' feel to it, the control and orientation is good.
  
  So with good gameplay, good atmosphere and of course the LOTR story/theme the only problems with 
 the game would be depth/technical detail, lacklustre graphics and the occasional feeling of a button 
 smasher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThronedFlame21
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  I love the LOTR and this game is a great simulator for the movie. It has a great single player 
 that really makes it feel like you are part of a battle, especially the later levels. the four 
 player split screen is awesome (on 2 player split for coop campaign though) The heros are fun to 
 use, although they can be killed too easy (they are able to be instant killed by scouts, which 
 need to be taken out) . all the classes seem balanced, and all are fun to use. the controls take 
 a while to get used to, but eventually you will be cleaving or @$$ with no problem. The multiplayer 
 is only 8v8, but i am hoping for the ability to add bots eventually. there are also a few issues 
 like if you are playing 3 player split screen, the bottom right screen is too dark or too bright 
 to see what happening on the screen. so basically if they let us put more bots on and fix a few 
 small glitch issues, the game will be as good as SW battlefront imo. if you are a fan of LOTR or 
 medieval fighting this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EllesarSmith
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  Ok, obviously if you're a LOTR fan, this game satisfied you in ways you didn't know existed. First 
 off, the evil campaign...*shudders with delight. Hugo Weaving did an excellent job and the in between 
 movies are surprisingly epic. Also, calling the elves Sindarin Warriors... let's just say that 
 I explode with glee upon seeing the level of dedication to the source material present (which left 
 my pondering the level of extreme loss due to the suspension of the White Council... sigh...)
  
  If you don't love LOTR (fools of Tooks) , you will find the "single player" mode to mean co-op 
 in disguise for many of the situations you are put in would be much easier with a friend. I also 
 found that many situations favored the archer class which led to a certain amount of repetition. 
 Also, they REAAAALLY could have used a fifth class just to add that little bit of spice. Heroes 
 are great and not overpowered (expect perhaps Legolas...) . Multiplayer is pure ecstasy but beware 
 for many hours will pass by unnoticed. Yes people whore trolls and ents but they aren't unstoppable. 
 In the end, it provides a challenge for more experienced players to stop noobs in action.
  
  Overall, I liked it very much. Advice for Conquest 2 (hint hint hint hint) :
  - Stop yelling 
 at me to do the objective. I got it the first twelve times.
  - Add another race specific class (beserkers for Isengard, dwarves for men, yadda yadda) to add 
 a little spice to the complete equality of the game
  -More costumes for the individual troops (why not throw in dwarves and goblins)
  -Oh and don't 
 let trolls and ents re-heal. Just give them a high defense but otherwise make them suffer like 
 everyone else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mithrixx
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:13 am PT
Review:  I had a blast with this game. Spells looked cool, story line was flawless, graphics were somehow 
 impressive, and controlling the bad side characters was awesome. MP was very good too. I mean it 
 wasn't perfect, but it was good enough for me to have fun. All that with bearing in mind that I 
 am a huge LORT fan, but I don't think people who want to play just for gameplay are going to have 
 much fun.
  
  LOTR: conquest, on the other hand, was bit lame when it comes to combat style. Lots of button mashing, 
 some hero character are too wimpy, and there was occasional texture breakup. The classes were designed 
 very well, but there is one class that I wouldn't use at all during single player campaign, that 
 is the rogue.
  
  My conclusion is: this game is worth buying for LOTR fans, and huge disappointment for all who 
 are looking for a good game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JASAEric
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:15 am PT
Review:  If you liked Star wars battlefront 1 and 2, you will most likely like this one also. As I'm sure 
 most people are aware, it plays very much the same, but the addition of the ents, trolls, and oliphants 
 make it a definant improvemant over the battlefronts. 
  
  The button mashing complaint was a lame excuse to find fault with the game. Every game in the world 
 is button mashing in the sense that you press buttons untill the other guy falls down, this game 
 is even less then a typical button masher as you do combos rather then just pull RT constantly 
 (well, except for the archer)
  
  The campaigns aren't that bad in solo either. Sure it's a little harder, but, once again, that's 
 to be expected when you play alone (can anyone think of a game that gets harder in co op?)
  
  It's not perfect, of course. For example, the scout is virtually unplayable in SP because the 
 AI knows where you are, even while invisable, and will just kill you. Your AI allies aren't that 
 useful and you will probably end up doing the whole mission by yourself, which can be difficult, 
 yet still possible (fixed by playing co op) . In MP hero's tend to get assassinated soon after they 
 enter, making them pretty much useless. The warrior is also underpowered compared to the other 
 three, sure, once he gets anything in a combo its basicly game over, but archers can deal long 
 ranged instant kills with headshots, wizards are highly versatile with their healing, defensive 
 shield, fire wall, and lightning, and scouts can turn invisable and any opponent, as well as having 
 their own combo (while not as powerful as the warriors) .
  
  
  If you don't like the battlefront games, or don't like LOTR, skip this one, but in my opinion it 
 is well worth the $60.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: riastar15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 9:02 pm PT
Review:  i got the game today and i am not a real big fan of lord of the rings but this is just a terrific 
 game its just right. if you are a fan of the battlefront series you would like this. Gamespot you 
 are so evil for giving this game a 6.5 its more like 9.5!!! its that fun the heroes are extremely 
 fun to use, combos look crazily over the top. Each class has there on ability so if you don't like 
 like melee you could go for a mage and heal the team or use lighting attacks on enemy's or you 
 can be like a rouge and be a scout who can use cloak and give a one hit kill by using the back 
 stab :D being evil is really fun as well but the best thing is the mutiplayer its very good and 
 its a nice way to use strategy against your opponents. another good thing about the game is big 
 battles and nice area's to fight though you could take on 20 orcs with a warrior its really awesome!!! 
 there is so much to do on this game and it will keep you on your xbox/ps3/PC for months. i give 
 it a 9.5
  
  ps. when i went to get the game most of the game stores sold out of lord of the rings conquest. 
 i got the last one at a place named game so we all expect a lot of players online/mutiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowsgomoo62
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:39 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the demo, I didn't know what to expect other than it was supposed to be the 
 LOTR equivalent of Star Wars: Battlefront. After playing the demo, I liked what I had played. It 
 felt like a more direct battlefront, with all attacks packing a punch. The maps are varied and 
 combat is satisfying which I can't complain about. It's also cool in the campaigns how they show 
 clips from LOTR to tell the story. The heroes also don't feel overpowered like in Battlefront and 
 are fun to play when you can. I also like how you get lives instead of reinforcements during the 
 campaign; it was annoying in Battlefront to lose because your teammate's were terrible. From right 
 there I'd review the game a good 9.5. It starts to fail because of a few things. First of all, 
 both teams have the exact same classes, so it doesn't feel as varied as I would like. Second, the 
 capturing system isn't balanced during campaign. For you to capture a spot, ALL enemies must be 
 out of the area. If any come into the radius, the capturing process stops. Now this isn't the same 
 way it works for the enemies. If and when the enemies come in and swarm the area the objective 
 requires you to defend, it is near impossible if you don't have any other teammates to help you 
 fight them off. I spent so much time on Minas Tirith and the Black Gate levels trying over and 
 over the defend sections. The other minor annoyance is the dragons... they swoop down out of nowhere 
 and 1 hit you. This gets old fast when it happens over and over. Overall though, I still think 
 this is a really great game with just a few minor problems. It's better than the demo and definitely 
 a thrill. 8.5*10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niknik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This game dost its roll of immersing you in the L. O. T. R. world better then any L. O. T. R. game out 
 there. the music straight from the film with the GREAT voice acting and the intense battles make 
 it a must for any fan of the movies and L. O. T. R.'s in general. the learning curve is a bit on the 
 high side but its well worth it. new players can walk away from games with more then there share 
 of kills, but becoming skilled in the game calls forth more then promising results. with a score 
 system based on more then just kills the top player is 100% of the time the guy doing the most 
 to put your team in front, thus making the hero rewarded to them well-deserved.
  even if your not hottest fighter, having a quick wit and knowing the battlefield and which locations 
 to cap will put you ahead of the pack. being rewarded with a Hero requires more then just killing 
 in this game, you actually need to capture territories as it is the primary way to achieve a high 
 score. some faults still do persist in the game. mages are very over powered if in the right hands. 
 the games classes are balanced with the "rock, paper, scissors" aspect of some games but the mages 
 ability to heal himself puts him ahead in drawn out fights 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legolas95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  LotR Conquest delivers a epic campaign and pretty good multiplayer. Its a nice hack n' slash trip 
 away from all the fps that come out. It features the same thing Battle-Front did, w/ lots of units 
 on the field and an unnamed warrior to chop thro them all.
  
  The Campaign is probably the best part of this game, w/ lots of units on the field (don't have an 
 estimate) but probably somewhere under 90. You play as a Archer, who has 3 types of special arrows, 
 a Mage whos a wizard character and has many powers, but functions like a 3ps. Theres 2 melee classes, 
 a scout and a warrior. In the campaign you play thro 9 levels of big battles from the movie w/ 
 the usual gaming twist. In the levels you usually play as 1 of the 4 classes and then eventually 
 thro the level you will get to play as 1 or 2 heros.
  
  It also has the classic Battlefront instant action, which lets you play on a certian map as a typical 
 battle. 
  
  The multiplayer is a blast, but it only holds 16 players on places seen in the campaign. There 
 are no bots accompaning you here. There are a few different modes here, such as Conquest, Team 
 Deathmatch, Hero Team Deathmatch, & Capture the Ring. Unforunately no unlockables or upgrades are 
 avalable here.
  
  My opinion on this game, as you can tell buy the rating, high. But not so for everyone. If your 
 interested in this, rent it 1st, and you may love it, or like some other ppl dislike it.
  Gameplay: 8.6
  Graphics: 7.4
  Sound: 6.8
  Replay value: High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyek_1230
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I have been slacking. I have written many reviews but this is my first 
 one in over a year. I am always honest, and never lie about the games that I play...
  
  THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SLIGHT SPOILERS! But it's a LOTR game afterall, so if you know anything 
 of the story then you know what all happens anyway...
  
  Ok... The Lord of the Rings: Conquest. The idea was amazing, and ironically enough when I played 
 Star Wars Battlefront II those years ago I actually came up with a LOTR-style game idea of the 
 same mechanics. Well after I played this game, I realized that my idea was a lot better than what 
 EA has just released.
  
  Like I said, the idea is amazing. Star Wars Battlefront gameplay mechanics mixed into the LOTR 
 world and battles. When I heard this hype, I was excited beyond belief. I am afterall, a big LOTR 
 fan. But the game has only been out for 1 day so far and I feel sick that I actually spent $63 
 on it.
  
  The Lord of the Rings: Conquest transports you into the major battles fought against Sauron during 
 the Third Age of Middle-Earth. With the exception of Helm's Deep, all of the other battlefields 
 are from the third part of the trilogy. The battlefields are impressive, but the graphics are only 
 average. 
  
  When you are thrust into these battles, you can select one of four classes of soldiers to spawn 
 at a point on the field with (exactly like Battlefront) . There's a warrior, who uses a sword in 
 close combat. There's an archer, with which you can shoot down your opponents from affair but they 
 have no close combat technique at all. There's a mage, which can shoot lightning, fire, and heal 
 themselves along with allies. And they can also use their staff for close combat, which probably 
 makes the mage the jack-of-all-trades of the four classes. And then there's a scout, which I'll 
 be honest I never even touched. You can go invisible and stealth kill enemies, like a ninja. Unless 
 he is in stealth mode, he is weak and has no powerful attacks whatsoever. Therefore I declared 
 the scout a waste of time and lives.
  
  There is a "live" basis to the battlefields. If your current class dies, you will respawn at the 
 checkpoint and be able to choose another class to fight with (minus 1 life) . You start each battle 
 with 3 lives, and as you complete objectives you gain more lives for that battle. The only way 
 to lose a battle is if you lose all your lives or you fail to complete a required objective in 
 so and so time.
  
  In my opinion, the coolest part of the entire game is being able to play as "Heroes" when you meet 
 certain conditions in a battle. These "Heroes" include the ones we all know- Aragorn, Legolas, 
 Gimli, Gandalf, and many others. "Heroes" are far more powerful than the four regular classes you 
 can choose normally, and when you start as a Hero, you can usually finish that particular battle 
 with no problems.
  
  It is a button-mash game you could say. Some people may disagree, but I mean come on. You press 
 X, X, X, Y, Y, and B to do a complete combo, and that's about all I ever did, because that's about 
 all that is able to defeat enemies that aren't "grunts." So if that's not called button-mashing, 
 then define button-mashing for me please.
  
  One of the greatest things about this game is the soundtrack. Howard Shore's masterpiece score 
 plays during the battles, and I actually turned down the sound to everything else so I could just 
 relax and button-mash to the great music that was playing at that point.
  
  Despite the amazing idea that you may imagine right now, all of the above that I just said is actually 
 under-lived. It's overhyped. You will get bored with all of that stuff within the second battle, 
 I gaurantee you. Because nothing ever changes. You start out every battle usually having to capture 
 an area no more than 10 feet away from where you first spawn. the objectives are bland and repetitive. 
 It's was just a pure dissapointment. 
  
  The major cause of why I am sick that I spent $63 on this game is because it's only been out for 
 1 whole day and I have already done EVERYTHING that can be done. I beat the 'Good" Campiagn in 
 maybe a total of 2 hours last night, thus unlocking Sauron's Campaign. I thought, 'Hmmm, that will 
 be interesting." Well, today I beat Sauron's Campaign in under 2 hours! You can complete the battles 
 in 5-10 minutes! And the "Good" Campaign contains 8 battles. Sauron's Campaign only included 7, 
 I believe. So what's the point...
  
  Another thing I enjoyed out of this game so far, is it portrays the battles in a lot more depth 
 than the movies did. But this was not enough to call it an amazing game. The battle maps are little, 
 and you usually end up going around it in circles. Look at how huge Minas Tirith was! Or even Pellenor 
 Fields! Why couldn't it have been a free-roam style game around all of the area! Oh well....
  
  A frustrating point of the game I experienced often if how much you can die and how much it 
 can impact a certain event taking place at that time. It can take an average of 8-12 hits to kill 
 your soldier, but I have experienced a lot of cheap 1-hit kills that I never even saw coming and 
 all they did was leave me saying 'WTF!?" And if you are being charged with defending a certain 
 area, well even as your dead and have to respawn, the enemies still overrun the area. That happened 
 to me a lot, especially during Minas Tirith's defense. 
  
  You would think that engaging in the epic battles like Helm's Deep and The Black Gate would be 
 an absolute thrill. But all in all, there are only maybe 15-20 enemies on screen at any given time. 
 You see hundreds of soldiers in the "backgrounds" of the game, but you can't access them and they 
 might as well be an illusion.
  
  And even though Sauron's Campaign was interesting as hell, seeing as it produced a "What If" scenario, 
 it was all just a big disappointment.
  
  The multiplayer was average, simply because if's you against a whole bunch of people in free-for-all 
 or team matches. There are no tedious objectives to fulfill, thus giving you a bit more freedom. 
 But you will die like every 5 seconds...
  
  I will say once more, THIS GAME IS ONLY FOR LOTR FANS. If you know nothing of LOTR and pick this 
 game up, I feel sorry for you. Probably just because I am a LOTR fan, I gave it a 5.0. It probably 
 should be a 4 or so. It's a very average and dissapointing hack'n'slash that didn't even manage 
 to be a good hack'n'slash. If that makes any sense...
  
  OVERALL....
  
  CONCEPT --- It's Lord of the Rings meets Star Wars Battlefront. Or so they said.
  
  GRAPHICS --- 
 Average if even that. It's pretty, but blurry backgrounds and enemies that are shown that you can't 
 get to. Closed off areas... It just could have been better.
  
  SOUND --- The game's strongpoint. Way to go Howard Shore for making a beautiful sound score for 
 this amazing trilogy.
  
  PLAYABILITY --- Simple button-mashing mechanics, and frustrating points in every battle. 
  
 
  ENTERTAINMENT --- For LOTR fans only. 'Nuff said.
  
  REPLAY VALUE --- Low, maybe even Very Low
  
  Sorry for the lengthy review, but I only want to 
 say everything I can think of about the games that I play. Thanks.
  
  --- Tyek1230
  (Jared Langston)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxMidgetxxJ
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  First off I have to say I liked Return of the King better then this game even if there was no online. 
 The parry system the level ups, unlockable attacks and combos. Its jsut fun and makes you want 
 to play it to unlock everything for all the characters. But this you just play a war that feels 
 like a little skirmish nonetheless you'll play the 16 good and evil levels for 8 hoours er so and 
 its mildy entertaining. While the multiplayer is where this game shines without it this game would 
 be pointless in getting.
  
  You can use 4 classes. Scout, Bowman, Sword, Mage. You probably already know all the classes so 
 I'll skip that part. Anyways there are 4 modes and all are really fun to play. If you want to pay 
 the multiplayer to get rewards and be the highest level like in Cod 4 well you don't. You don't 
 get any armors or anything but if you just play for fun it really is a blast.
  
  If your a Lord of The Rings fan you'll be upset tho. the epic battles feel like epic fails with 
 no use of the film in the battles and lack of enemys and ure partners fighting but still the castles 
 and the detail on the floor look great. The animations don't look anything like lord of the rings. 
 In LOTR you would never stab kick and stab or do a triple spinning move. 
  
  Yet I still enjoy it for what it is. Its worth renting if you dont play online but if you do play 
 online get some friends to add on to the fun and it'll be worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HanSolo10
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:52 am PT
Review:  I have been playing the demo and I am a big LOTR fan. I wish that EA kept the controls set up from 
 the "Two Towers" and "Return of the King" games for the PS2 that were made after the movies and 
 allowed you to play most of the great battles. In particular, the "parry" button was cool because 
 you were able to use it to block enemies attacks and then counter with a great combo! Using the 
 parry button makes you feel like you are really involved in a sword fight and timing is used which 
 also makes you feel like there is some skill involved. From what I've seen the old games also had 
 more combos to offer that you were able to upgrade which also included great finishing moves that 
 you can use if an enemy goes down, but would otherwise get back up. I was also surprised that from 
 what I've seen, the Orcs from the old games actually look better than these ones although the trolls 
 and elephants and others characters do look good in this game. It also seems that you can only 
 play as a hero character like Legolas or Aragorn in segments of the game or once you earn the right 
 to use them in each battle instead of being able to use them from the beginning all the way through. 
 Those are my major issues but on the positive side, the game let's you rewrite what happened and 
 allows you to play as evil or good. I also like that you can play as an Ent, troll, ballrog, and 
 nasgule "ring wraith". This game does play just like "star wars Battlefront 2", and is good and 
 bad in the ways I explained. I recommend playing the demo before making a decision on purchasing 
 the game. The combos are a bit repetitive and there is a block button but it doesn't work as well 
 as the parry button from previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobdow
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 11:51 am PT
Review:  Star Wars Battlefront 2 was a great game and with a Lord of the Ring skin on it, it's even better. 
 The combat is somewhat button mashie but it's still enjoyable. The classes are all fun to play 
 as and have cool abilities. The heroes are awesome to play as. The character models look good and 
 have excellent animations but the textures are severely lacking. The campaign length is a little 
 short but the excellent story makes up for it. It is nice to be able to play as the good and evil 
 sides in the campaign. The movie clips and the evil ending are especially good. On the online multiplayer 
 it's easy to find just the game for you and join. There are several game types and lots of enjoyment 
 can be gotten out of each. taken as a whole it is a good game that is worth your money. I give 
 it an 8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:46 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, without a doubt this is one of the best LoTR games that I have played in 
 a while. The one big thing that I like about it is it has the feel of Battlefront. Obviously, because 
 it is made from the same developers. It's all in the Lord of the Ring universe. I played the demo 
 whenever I could. It's a lot of fun, it does have some issues but they are quite minor. Like the 
 review said some of the situations are to see whoever can smash the button first. Some of the classes 
 I do not like. I noticed that I had more fun with the Archer class then I did with any of the others 
 classes.
  
  Regarding from the review I am not sure if I am going to spend the money to get the game or not. 
 But, I did have a lot of fun on the demo. There is nothing better then being a troll, and smashing 
 the people around you with a big club. :)
  
  
  I would certainly look into the game. It's a game that should be bought if you are a fan of the 
 movies, and the game. Also, the other thing that I really liked was the soundtrack. It's simply 
 amazing. Makes you feel like you are right there in the game its so awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shad0wlurK
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:51 am PT
Review:  I'm a big Lord of the Rings fan. No I don't have a Sting replica on my wall, but I've read the 
 books several times and seen the movies an unhealthy amount and played the crap out of the old 
 The Two Towers and Return of the King hack and slash games that were on the previous gen systems. 
 
  
  There are some minor details that can be picked apart about this game, don't get me wrong. At times 
 it does get repetitive, the graphicsh, while pretty awesome, won't win awards but seem to at least 
 have good frame rates. The enemy AI does tend to post a Wanted: Dead or Dead picture up of you 
 for the other bots to follow. The multiplayer is decent, not the best in the world, but there's 
 a lot of different modes for you to chose from and pretty easy to find something you like. 
  
  Those would be my main complaints, but for me the positives far outweigh the negatives. The 
 game FEELS epic, you feel a sense of urgency and brutally hack your way through throngs of evil. 
 The Howard Shore score really pushes you along and gives it that "omg I'm playing through the movie" 
 feeling. The graphics are better then I thought they'd be, if you have time to stop and enjoy some 
 of the views you'll see some pretty awesome battle going on around you and even some decent vistas 
 on the horizon. I think the combat is pretty fair for the most part, at times you feel like you 
 are godly and others you start feeling overwhelmed but with practice, something few like to do 
 with games anymore, situations quickly become managable and you do have a sense of achievement 
 after you get past a particularly tough stage. The variation between classes and the prospect of 
 mastering them all adds to replayability and fun in general. There are so many different scenerios 
 that make it exciting, one minute yer a common grunt with a sword, next you're Aragorn wielding 
 Narsil and obliterating foes with your massive special move that sends a flood of undead spirits 
 smashing through the enemy's ranks. There are the various other heros to play, each unique and 
 fun. The Ents and Balrog are just plan sick in destruction and how much fun they are. And then 
 there's the whole flip side to getting to play through the Evil Campaign in the "Rise of Sauron". 
 It's a "what if Frodo failed" scenerio and lets you be all the evil "heroes" and beings and murder 
 your way through the game. There's even an achievement for killing 300 hobbits in one sitting while 
 sacking the Shire. And in the way of achievements, they are actually broke down pretty well, you 
 get plenty for just beating each level and a few more for the end levels of each campaign, certain 
 ones for killing with X clas or X man mobs with one life etc etc, and the MP ones really reward 
 you for doing a good job as I saw quite a few that are 50 pointers.
  
  Bottom line, if you like hack and slash games it's decent. If you like combative MP games that 
 aren't your standard Call of Duty'esque games, it's really good. If you love Lord of the Rings 
 and want to hold on to that rush you get everytime you hear the Howard Shore theme music and then 
 amplify it by getting to slaughter your way through hordes of enemies like a true hero of Tolkien's 
 world, then this is a must buy for you. Hope others have as much fun with it as me and good gaming 
 to you friends! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cal16
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game aside from the frustration you'll find while playing both online and off. This game offers 
 a lot of awesome modes to play. For anyone who enjoyed the battlefront games preferably battle 
 front 2. You'll be happy to know that Hero team death match is back (formally known as assault) . 
 The maps like the battlefront maps, are very reminiscent to those of the movies. The game play 
 is highly addictive. The single player is very fun as well. 
  
  One of the things that this game offers that had surprised not only me but a bunch of my friends 
 was that it offered online co-op through both the evil and good campaign. 360 owners will enjoy 
 getting 25GP achievements for completing each campaign mission. The achievements in this game are 
 not frustratingly hard nor incredibly easy to get. This game is a definite buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowser453
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this nice and short. If you liked the play style of the Star Wars: Battlefront 
 series then you'll most certainly like this. The number one complaint I hear about this game is 
 that it is too hard to win. In other words, according to them, the problem with this game is that 
 they suck. But don't take my word for it. There's a free demo for it online. The demo is just the 
 tutorial and multiplayer, but it'll give you the jist of the game. The multiplayer part of the 
 demo consists of one game mode (conquest, which is a point based control point) and two maps, Minas 
 Tirith and The Shire. You play as one of four classes consisting of the Warrior, the Scout, the 
 Archer, and The Mage. In the demo there are a few unbalances but they fixed all that I've noticed 
 on the full game. So go out there and have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scoopztb07
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me start off by saying I love Lord of the Rings and Star Wars Battlefront. So combining 
 Battlefront with Lord of the Rings sounded like a great idea. But, unfortunately EA has done what 
 they always do to LOTR games that look like they are going to be good. First the game is short. 
 Most of the other problems are like the graphics. The graphics aren't to impressive for a Xbox 
 360 or PS3 game. Though the battlefields make up for the character models. Minas Tirith and others 
 look pretty good and capture the feel of a large scale battle. The Ents look funny though. The 
 combat tends to get a little repeative after the first few battles. The heroes are good and bad. 
 Sauron is kinda of a wuss, but the balrog and ents are freakin awesome. Overall I do like this 
 game I just wish that EA could get past the sub-par games and make a really awesome one. This is 
 kind of a rehash of Battlefront with swords and bow and arrows. I would wait until the price goes 
 down before buy it. Great rental though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7jack
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  If you've managed to access this review chances are you have a considerable interest in the lord 
 of the rings series or movies. This game is amazing, some reviews say it lacks depth, but tell 
 me, how do u add depth to an online team based game that has well balanced classes? you plan tactics 
 with your team, this is not an rpg. Highly reccomended if you want a fresh online experience outside 
 of fps or rts, and this game has a lot of sentimental value if your a fan of the series to any 
 degree.
  
  As far as the gameplay mechanics go, the classes at first glance may seem a little unbalanced as 
 individuals but when you treat all the players on your team as a unit like any sport, they complement 
 each other in various scenarios and provide a lot of balance to the gameplay. Consider football 
 for instance, is it cheap for a punter to be able to kick the ball 10x further than other players? 
 and isn't it cheap the quarter back can throw with precision accuracy? what about blockers? is 
 it fair they are heavy and stronger? 
  
  You must consider this game as a whole.
  
  The graphics are amazing, especially the environments, sometimes it feels a little out dated, but 
 only for brief segments, but the environments always hold up well especially maps like upper minis 
 tirith, upper and lower.
  
  Excellent game, download the demo, get the game, have a blast! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
